[{"Title":"Not Great, But Worth Seeing And Unfairly Criticized","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"51 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As someone who had read the Bible and knows what goes where, I am easily critical of too-Liberal Biblical movies, which is usually the case....except for the last 40-some years when hardly any films were made on this subject at all.My point is that this film gets toasted a lot, even by Christians, and I think unfairly. Yes, I became a bit annoyed the first few viewings when I would hear Jesus' speeches way out of order, or a few other things that really weren't 100 percent on the mark....or it just simply dragged.However, after a long absence and my first look at this on the ultra widescreen (2.751) DVD, I was impressed. For instance, the scene with the Last Supper shows everyone at the table, which is impossible to do in a formatted-to-TV mode. There are other similar panoramic shots that are very impressive. gave me a new appreciate of the work director George Stevens did here. Of course, he was one of the best in his profession so it's no surprise this is nicely filmed.Upon that recent viewing, I was please that none of Jesus' quotes are inaccurate and I have never had a problem with Max Von Sydow's portrayal of Christ. He had a penetrating eyes and spoke his lines with authority. Why he, too, gets bashed by a few people is unfair. He was just fine.It's a sanitized message, nothing that preachy to turn off the unchurched, but I do think it was a bit too slow to go three hours and 20 minutes. In this case, lopping off 15-30 minutes might have helped. It's still worth viewing, no matter what your religious views. "},{"Title":"A Letter from George Stevens, Jr.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  On 9/18/00 I received a letter from George Stevens, Jr., replying to my earlier letter to him encouraging his support of his father's four-hour, uncut, version of The Greatest Story Ever Told preparing for dvd.  I had suggested in my letter that the original version was undoubtedly his father's artistic vision and thus was the one worthy of preservation for dvd. Stevens, Jr. responded, in part,  . . . the dvd of 'The Greatest Story Even Told' is underway and MGM-UA has found the original negative of the four-hour version of the film.There has been a good deal of confusion about the 'official' version of 'The Greatest Story Ever Told.'  In recent years I became satisfied that the 3 hour and 20 minute version was the one that my father considered his picture. That came as a result of conversations with Toni Vellani, who worked with my father and has since passed on, and others.My father, according to Toni, rushed the film for its first two premieres and immediately, at his own initiative, started trimming it to the 315 version. He was pleased with this cut. . . .There was a later shorter version that my father authorized UA to make in an effort to recoup some money -- and that version which ran under 3 hours is of no value at all.Frankly, I will be interested to see what the additional 40 minutes represents in the long version because, over the years, I've been familiar with the version that runs approximately 315. . . .This generous explanation from Mr. Stevens, Jr. certainly reveals the intracacies of the purely artistic process as balanced with the business aspect.  It also makes one aware that the assumption that the cut version was not the preference or the adequate representation of the director, may be inaccurate.  In any event at this point, the four-hour dvd version of The Greatest Story Ever Told is most eagerly awaited. "},{"Title":"Go Forth To All the Nations","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When first released George Stevens's version of the Gospel was dismissed as too long, too reverential, too soon after the sound version of The King of Kings was released, and too many stars in the cast taking one's attention from the story.Too some degree that is true, but being a stargazer myself I'll never find fault with a film for that. And who knew in 1965 that we would get The Last Temptation of Christ and the Passion of the Christ in our future. George Stevens's film is looking pretty good now.No doubt about the presence of a whole lot of movie names helped bring in the bucks. But with one glaring exception you do pay attention to the roles, not who's playing them. Some parts are pretty substantial. Charlton Heston as John the Baptist has the longest amount of screen time other than Von Sydow. Also given a large amount of time is Jose Ferrer as Herod Antipas, Telly Savalas as Pontius Pilate, Dorothy McGuire as the Virgin Mary and Donald Pleasance as the Prince of Darkness.The personification of the Devil is something Mel Gibson borrowed for his film. Personally I think Donald Pleasance is quite a bit better than what Gibson did.Other stars had smaller roles. Sidney Poitier played a silent part as Simon of Cyrene who helped Jesus with his cross on the way to Calvary. You could not have gotten away with an all white cast in a film like this by 1965. A whole group of players from previous Stevens films got some bit parts and more like Van Heflin, Shelley Winters, Sal Mineo, and Ed Wynn. One star Joseph Schildkraut had the rare distinction of playing in both Cecil B. DeMille's silent King of Kings and this film. Schildkraut played Judas for DeMille and is seen as Nicodemus here. This was Schildkraut's last film. An interesting double distinction for a man who came from a prominent Jewish theatrical family.One big glaring error though. Stevens should never have cast John Wayne as the Roman Centurion who supervising the crucifixion. Wayne is seen in passing through out the journey to Calvary, but with no dialog. At the moment of Jesus's death with the drama unfolding it was just wrong to have that recognizable a voice utter, truly that man was the son of God. Instead of concentrating on the story the audience gets distracted and in the theaters the whispers went up with 'ooh, that's John Wayne.'Arizona served as the location for ancient Judea. Unlike DeMille in The Ten Commandments, Stevens concentrated on the beauty of the location as opposed to filling the screen with people. It got filled enough with the story. You might recognize the Grand Canyon as the backdrop for the sermon on the mount scene. Of course Handel's Messiah is almost obligatory for these films and it's done well here.One scene that you will not forget comes at the end of the first act, the raising of Lazarus who is played by Michael Tolan. His sisters, Mary and Martha, are played by Ina Balin and Janet Margolin. They had shown Jesus and the disciples hospitality earlier. When Lazarus is taken ill, Mary and Margaret, go after Jesus to bring him back. It is too late, Lazarus has died and he's in his tomb. Or so everyone thinks. The sparse dialog, the photography, and the background music are so well done at this point the most hard hearted nonbeliever will pause.Of course most of the name players in The Greatest Story Ever Told are no longer with us so the cameos don't mean as much today. It is probably better in that an audience of today can concentrate on the story without even the most minimal interference of recognition. And they can concentrate on the story without either alternate realities as in The Last Temptation of Christ or all the gore and violence of Mel Gibson's epic. Definitely worth a look by today's contemporary audience. "},{"Title":"von Sydow Struggles Under Greatest Role Ever Played","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story of Jesus Christ may be the greatest story ever told, but George Stevens movie does not provide the most convincing telling of that story. In spite of beautiful cinematography and music, there is something missing of the power of other tellings. With the exception of a couple of scenes, Max von Sydow does not seem quite up to the role, despite clearly being a good actor. This is not necessarily von Sydow's fault, as it takes more than great acting to convince the audience that you are the character. Imagine Ingrid Bergman as Scarlett O'Hara instead of Vivian Leigh or Gregory Peck as Rhett Butler. Max von Sydow has moments of passion and succeeds in occasionally moving you, but somehow seems too much like the actors who play his apostles to distinguish himself from them, a necessary feat for an actor who hopefully is surrounded by twelve other good actors at all times.Max von Sydow's highlights are the raising of Lazarus from the dead and the sequence of his entry into Jerusalem and speech at the temple. In fact, I would say that for those two scenes, he outdoes many of his fellow actors that have donned the robe of Jesus. But two scenes are not enough to carry the movie. In fact, with all my respect to the impressive cast which participated in this movie, Stephens seems to have completely missed the mark when it came to casting a few of the roles Ed Wynn of Mary Poppins fame as the blind man, John Wayne as a Roman centurion, and Shelley Winters as Woman of no name. On the other hand, few actors can portray the almost fanatic mania of John the Baptist, a voice crying in the wilderness, like Charlton Heston. Jose Ferrer also puts in a good performance as Herod Antipas, and Roddy McDowall convincing plays both a smart aleck and a reverent follower. His exchange with Jesus over collecting taxes offers one of the few somewhat humorous moments.It is not a surprise to learn that George Stevens put so much effort into his movie. Like Mel Gibson with The Passion of the Christ, Greatest Story is like a painting, with each stroke carefully put onto the canvas. However, unlike Gibson, whose characters seem right out of 1st Century Judah, there is modern quality to Stephens film. There are, however, more positive aspects to this film than negative. Besides the cinematography and the wise choice of Hendel's beautiful Messiah, other positives are showing Mary Madgelene as traveling with the apostles (there is even a wonderful little scene where Mary annoints Jesus with oil which shows a kind of intimacy between them lacking from other versions of the story).While some commentators have criticized the screenplay, I think it is one of the best. As much as it pains me to say this, I think casting alone made this movie less powerful. Still I recommend that everyone see it at least once. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Dignified Telling of Christ's Mission","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"31 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There are no real spoilers in this review, for the story is familiar to Christians of all stripe the birth, life and mission of Jesus Christ. This epic-length film moves at a stately pace; some may find it boring, but I personally like it very much. Stevens does a superb job with this sensitive material. He cast dozens of famous people, some in cameos and bit parts, but all lending their talents to this film. The costumes have an authentic look, and the landscapes are breathtaking---they are far superior to mere background paintings or sets, and convey a sense of being right there in Palestine two thousand years ago. The music is lovely, well-scored and not jarring. Every role is well-cast, from Charlton Heston as John the Baptist to Telly Sevalas as Pontius Pilate. Best of all were Donald Pleasance as the devil and the tall, lanky Max von Sydow as Christ.The story unfolds like pages turning in a book. Jesus is born, then appears at age thirty to begin his mission. He goes to his cousin John for baptism, then calls men to follow him. Miracles are performed almost in an indirect way Jesus speaks in Sydow's commanding voice and, instead of focusing on Christ, the camera is fixed on the person receiving the miracle. A notable exception is the raising of Lazarus. Christ pleads in anguish for the revival of his friend, not because the prayer is really necessary, but to cry out his sorrow for losing Lazarus. As God made man, Jesus hurt like we did, and this scene demonstrates this. His teachings are given gently but firmly throughout the movie. Some viewers may be put off by Sydow's almost detached mannerisms, but the quiet dignity actually suits the concept of Christ as teacher on his salvific mission. The gentle mien of Jesus also stands in stark contrast to the times when he does strongly react, whether to the death of Lazarus, to finding moneychangers in the Temple of Jerusalem, or during his passion and crucifixion. The moment when Christ's life ends is stunning; the light goes out in Sydow's clear blue eyes just before he drops his head.There are other little gems strewn throughout The Greatest Story Ever Told, moments that shine with unexpected clarity. The calling of Matthew, the betrayal and suicide of Judas, the healing of the crippled young man are just a few examples. The Last Supper is very surprising in its similarity to the way a priest consecrates the bread and wine in a modern-day Mass. The famous actors embrace their roles and seem honored to be part of this great project. The dialogue is beautiful for a reason; American poet Carl Sandburg was in charge of rendering the ancient Bible story into modern wording without sacrificing the meaning or power of the original. Dynamics shift like the ebb and flow of tides, floating on the words as well as the events.Others have done this story, yet this remains my favorite. Unlike the remake of King of Kings(the silent version was way better), it seems authentic in its details---what genius decided to shave Jeffrey Hunter's underarms? And Jesus of Nazareth never quite escapes the shackles of prime-time miniseries/soap opera; its melodramatic and the scene where Mary freaks out is disturbing rather than evoking sympathy from the audience. As for The Passion, it's an awesome attempt to convey just what Jesus endured for our sins, but unsuitable for children or people who are sensitive to excessive violence and gore. So, in conclusion, for Easter viewing, The Greatest Story Ever Told remains my family's favorite version of the life and work of Jesus Christ. "},{"Title":"It Wasn't","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" While there were a few worthwhile performances in this film, it simply does not come close to living up to the title. The musical score was draggy or unoriginal, and the loading down of the film with every Hollywood star they could cram into the film just detracted greatly from the film. Von Sydow's Jesus was wooden and one dimensional. In the earlier released King of Kings Jeff Hunter gave you a Christ that was filled with the emotions and compassion of the son of God, while in this version it just wasn't there. Charlton Heston's John the Baptist was one of the few good things about the film, while, as much as I respect John Wayne as a star, his one line cameo was laughable and so unbelievable as to make one cringe. Claude Rains did shine out as Herod the great, while Telly Savalis might as well have been reading lines from Kojack.It is not the worst film of all time. But the attempt to recapture the grandeur of the Bible Epic days was way lost here. "},{"Title":"Somewhat flawed, but imposing nonetheless","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Without a doubt, the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ is the most difficult story to ever put on the screen.  More blood and ink have been spilled over this one man than any other human being that ever walked this planet, so there really can't be a definitive film on his life that will satisfy everyone.  But during the first half of the 1960s, director George Stevens (A PLACE IN THE SUN; SHANE; GIANT) toiled to at least come close in that regard.  The result was THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD.  At a cost of twenty million dollars, it was one of the most expensive films Hollywood had released in that era.  At an original length of four hours and twenty minutes, it was one of the longest movies ever.  It was also critically savaged and was only a modest commercial success, though not an expensive flop like CLEOPATRA had been.Although it doesn't stick to ALL the facts of the Good Book, GREATEST STORY does an exquisite job at depicting Jesus life and persecution, his miracles, his death, and his eventual resurrection.  Utilizing a massive tome of a script that he co-wrote with James Lee Barrett and Carl Sandburg, among others, Stevens filmed much of the film on location in the Glen Canyon region along the Arizona/Utah border, with the Colorado River as a stand-in for the River Jordan (a move for which Stevens was sharply criticized).  Aided by veteran cameraman Loyal Griggs (THE TEN COMMANDMENTS), he also shot scenes in this movie that must rank as being among the most brilliantly filmed ever, including Lazarus' resurrection, and Jesus' being baptized in the River Jordan by John the Baptist.One particular aspect about GREATEST STORY that continues to raise eyebrows and much ire to this day is the fact that Stevens cast much of Hollywood's acting elite in what were essentially walk-ons.  This tactic had been done extensively before (THE LONGEST DAY; HOW THE WEST WAS WON), and would be done countless more times in the ensuing decades.  To me, the flaw in this technique insofar as this movie goes is not the fact that Stevens succumbed to that temptation, but the fact that the roles he placed some of his actors in were ones they probably weren't cut out to play.Given the whole weight of the world being placed on him, Max von Sydow did quite an impressive portrayal of Jesus in this film.  I would have to rank this as one of the single greatest performances in cinematic history; his credibility (even with the Swedish accent) in the role is, to me, unimpeachable.  Stevens also scored by giving Charlton Heston (no stranger to Biblical epics he) the role of John the Baptist, and it still ranks as one of Heston's best.  Telly Savalas, years away from Kojak, makes for a chilling Pontius Pilate.  Claude Rains is a supremely nasty King Herod; and Donald Pleasance, with HALLOWEEN still a decade and a half in his future, makes for a deliciously unpleasant Satan.In other areas, Stevens' all-star casting ranges from sublime (Dorothy McGuire; Roddy McDowall; Sidney Poitier; David McCallum; Jose Ferrer; Victor Buono) to strange (Russell Johnson; Jamie Farr; Sal Mineo; Shelley Winters).  But it is in his casting of John Wayne as a Roman centurion at the Crucifixtion that Stevens went overboard (thus the reason for my giving GREATEST STORY an '8' rather than a '10').  To this day, it's hard not to notice the Duke looking out of place as a Roman, and harder still not to groan at the flat way he utters his line (Truly, this man was the Son of God).Still, despite the slightly questionable casting and the obvious extreme length of the film, Stevens has indeed fashioned as great a film as there has ever been on a story that has fascinated, frustrated, and even torn the world apart for over two thousand years.  How others view it is up for themselves to decide.  I myself think that, though slightly imperfect, THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD still lives up to its title. "},{"Title":"Biblical Epics","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I just got my first DVD payer after holding out for year and have become a total convert. I am watching some of the old classics of my youth, both to see them again in mint condition and to have a look at all the special features, including the documentaries and commentaries. Presently I'm doing a festival of the great biblical epics of the 50's and 60's. My local video store had THE ROBE, (1953), BEN-HUR (1959), CLEOPATRA, (1963) and THE GREATST STORY EVER TOLD, (1965-let's call it TGSET). I thought I'd write a joint review comparing them. THE ROBE was done at the tail end of the old Hollywood, a studio production whereas these others were all filmed primarily on location with the international casts and crews we often saw making movies in the later era. But THE ROBE has all the Hollywood know-how we've come to expect. Particularly important was the pacing. It's a history lesson and a reverent film but it's also an entertainment. Young Richard Burton, (he was about 28) shows the impressive voice and passionate style that made him a name actor in the next decade, (he was nominated for an Oscar). Jean Simmons is very good and the smaller parts are well cast, particularly Richard Boone as Pontius Pilate, who in once scene leave much more of an impression than Frank Thring or Telly Savalas, who do the same role in BEN-HUR and TGSET, respectively. But BEN-HUR is clearly the pick of the litter. This is true epic, full of glorious action scenes including the justly famous chariot race. But, as directed by William Wyler, it's also a very thoughtful film. Charlton Heston is excellent as the passionate and idealistic hero. Stephen Boyd is my all-time favorite movie villain. He's the one who should have won the supporting actor Oscar, not Hugh Griffith for his Arab businessman. But it's Wyler who carries the day. Noted primarily as a director of actors, (and especially actresses), he was by this stage in his carrier looking for challenges. He'd never directed an epic before. By bringing to the mix his sense for dialog and characterization, eh give this a depth you can't find in something  direct by DeMille, for example, who was more a director of pageants than movies. His use of water as constant symbolism for cleaning the body and spirit is brilliant and memorable. Joseph Mankiewicz was also known for making more intimate films than CLEOPATRA, (which is not quite biblical but close enough). Like Wyler, he brings to the project something a normal director of epics would not have and CLEOPATRA is a much more intimate film than I remembered. Sure there is the absurdly overdone entrance into Rome and the Battle of Actium. But most of the scenes take place in doors and looked like a filmed record of a stage play. Both Burton and Rex Harrison are excellent in their roles and Liz Taylor is fine, (and fine looking), as well, although I agree with suggestions that Sophia Loren would have been a better choice being more obviously Mediterranean. Like Martin Landau and others interviewed, I would like to see some effort to restore, as best as possible, the two missing hours of this film and its presentation in the two parts Mankiewicz intended, perhaps on one of the movie channels. Even in its present form, the film is better than I remembered. TGSET may be the greatest story every told but this is surely not the greatest telling of it. The film is long, s..l..o..w and mournful. It's like sitting through a three hour wake. The only scenes where anybody shows any joy are the resurrection scenes of Lazarus and Christ at the end. One scene is accompanied by the disciples singing the same mournful hymn over and over again. I don't think I would want to hang out with these guys for very long. The scenes in THE ROBE where Burton talks to the people who were touched by their relationship with Jesus and in BEN-HUR where he offers the hero water and where he is given it in return, are much more moving that Max Von Sydow's grim sermons in TGSET. We never see the results of living the way eh suggests. And the miracle of resurrections seems an almost pointless substitute. If Jesus's soul has gone to join his father in Heaven, what difference does it make that his grave no longer holds his physical body?TGSET is filmed not in the Holy Land but in the deserts of Arizona and Utah, (Christ's visit to Utah must have pleased the Mormons.) The place looks totally desolate, such that no one would ever want to live there. Indeed, the area was flooded by a damn project shortly after film was completed. Too bad they weren't doing NOAH'S ARK or the TEN COMMANDMENTS. The actors are totally dwarfed by the surrounding scenery. It makes them and their story look temporary, not everlasting. The eclectic cast with its all-star cameos was considered something of a joke in it's time. At the Last Supper, TV Land viewers can see Illya Kuryakin, Baretta and Klinger! And it's fun to see Ingmar Bergman's knight from `THE SEVENTH SEAL doing scenes with Ed Wynn, Vaudeville's `Perfect Fool'. George Stevens is quoted as saying that someday, people viewing this film will not know who the actors were and will just see the characters. He's right. They all blend in together today. The performances are all very good, except for John Wayne's gargling of `Truly, this man was the Son of God', which, as I recall, produced audible laughter in the theater in 1965 and still seems wildly inappropriate today. I remember feeling that Charlton Heston walked away with the film as John the Baptist and he still does four decades later. The acting isn't the problem with the film. It's the pace and the setting.      "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly gorgeous, sensitive, powerful film.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw this film when it was first released -- in the cinema and on a large screen with brilliant color and rich deep stereo sound. It was breathtaking! George Stevens Jr. did an absolutely magnificent job in crafting this outstandingly beautiful, sensitive, and powerful motion picture. This was not just a deeply moving re-telling of the story of Jesus (albeit with a touch of a pro-legend approach). More than that, in its visual sweep, insightful acting of the lead characters (especially of Max Von Sydow as Jesus), and resplendent musical track, this film conveyed a true sense of majesty -- a marked rarity in most film these days.I must concur with one of the other online reviewers here, on a related point I too believe that it was a shame, and an error on the part of Stevens, that various key characters were portrayed all-too-noticeably by some major film/entertainment stars who just seemed to be bizarrely out-of-place in their roles -- such as John Wayne as the Roman Centurion who, never before seen in the film until this moment, looks up at Jesus on the Cross and says Truly, this man was the son of God! (I almost expected Wayne to tag his line with the word Pilgrim); or such as singer Pat Boone, who jarringly appears in the role of a cloaked man who, sitting in Jesus' vacated tomb, says to a searching Roman, Why seek Ye the living among the dead? (Here too, I think that I was not the only one who half-expected Boone to leap to his feet and break out into singing one of his big hits such as Bernardine or Love Letters In The Sand).But those discontinuities aside, I would still say that The Greatest Story Ever Told is an outstanding film that merits very high marks. If you can see it, see it -- especially on a big screen, if possible, and with a good sound-system.Steve S. (NYC) "},{"Title":"Did you Know...?","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The reasons for the sacrificial well in the city's temple have to do with the archaeological research of the time the movie was made.  Not much, then or now, is really known about the Temple, except that Herod the Great (played by Claude Rains) built it to largely to appease the Roman conquerors.  The Temple had Grecian (not Hebraic) architecture and supposedly had a well for animal sacrifices.  The Hebrews were a very sophisticated ancient people who mostly, by that time, considered themselves above animal sacrifices--however much had been written about such practices in their earlier times, like the days of Genesis, Exodus, etc.  While it may have appeased Romans, it probably did not please Herod's own subjects.This is a carefully made motion picture.  If one finds it too subdued, at least it doesn't suffer from the highflown melodramatics that other Christ movies have.  Speaking as someone who is not a Christian, I find it deeply moving. "}{"Title":"Painful.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Certainly one of the longest stories ever told, this star-studded Biblical epic falls flat on its face with more actors miscast than any other movie imaginable. The acting is as cliche as you can get and, despite he looked the part very well, Max Van Sydow was horrendous and unappealing as Jesus. For, THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD, it is pretty standard.The story of Jesus Christ, from birth to the resurrection.Excellent scenery and exceptional lighting that creates the right mood. The direction, sadly, suggests that of a comic book and sometimes the movie seems more reminiscent of the 60s than the Bible. Early foreshadowing is for those who don't read the Bible (SPOILER Jesus is crucified, which means he was sentenced to death on a cross). With some of the most misplaced acting of all time (John Wayne and Charlton Heston), GREATEST STORY was one of the first to show how costly a 'labor of love' can be. "},{"Title":"DVD Restored Version, 2001","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The decision by Director George Stevens to film his production in Ultra Panovision 70 apparently seemed a natural at the time.  He undoubtedly knew this would be close to his final film, and he had chosen as broad a subject as possible as an ultimate challenge. His fame, stature, and respect as a producer, director and writer in the film colony was probably very much aware to him, and this great effort called for as large a canvas as was then available.However, what Stevens probably didn't count on was what his widescreen anamorphic 2.71 would look like on the average television monitor of the 2000s.  What was a massively impressive image in theaters of the mid-sixties shrinks down to one that (on, say, a 27-inch monitor) occupies only half of the screen--leaving the other half (top and bottom) blank.Since the majority of the film uses medium- to long-range shots--to capture the carefully staged tableaux and landscape backgrounds--there is an unfortunate compression-look to the whole effect.  One has to often strain to see some faces or to feel emotional involvement in the enactment.The idea of cropping the film to obtain a full screen image probably would have enraged purists (including Stevens'family members and close associates) whose argument would have been to show all of the director's original film image. Thus, this result is a case of the operation being successful, while the patient expires.  The beautiful Arizona and Colorado vistas fail to take away one's breath as one looks at a 50% monitor screen image. Not even the Dolby digital 5.1 sound can compensate for this effect.  The picture's simply too squeezed down to make the kind of impact its restorers were striving for. Until technology comes up with a monitor which can properly accommodate the full parameters of this original, the DVD restored version will continue to suffer.   Were Stevens alive today, he might just be somehow resourceful enough to see that his film were properly presented.  He was a director who was, as he often demonstrated, used to working miracles.DVD extras include very interesting footage on the making of this film, with comments by director, cast and crew members.  Whatever problems there are with this effort, it remains an intriguing and most interesting attempt at what may be an impossible subject. "},{"Title":"Good film, great Jesus","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An often under-rated attempt at the life of Christ, George Stevens' modestly titled epic was long, beautifully photographed and more than a little deferential to our saviour but it managed to keep my interest. Most of the film's critics believe the incessant cameos ruin it - though I think the brash, mainly American contingent make quite an accurate portrayal of humanity opposite serene Swede Max von Sydow. And it is to Him the film belongs. His first english-language film & one he admits isn't a masterpiece is notable for a performance from a man who played Jesus as a man and not as a God. Whatever, he was so good he almost converted this hardened atheist. "},{"Title":"Faithful depiction","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story of the events leading up to the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ, as written in the biblical gospels, has been committed to film many times; this version relates the story the best.Unlike some other versions, which attempt to encompass far too much extraneous information (often about the Roman empire or people contemporary to Jesus), this movie directs its focus on Jesus and his teachings. We follow him and his disciples throughout his travels, and the highlights of his ministry, with many of the beatitudes and parables shown in context. Actions of Roman and Jewish leaders are addressed only to the extent that they were directly involved with Jesus.This movie readily embraces the spiritual issues innate in this story, and presents Jesus's dual nature of humanity and deity. For example, Jesus encounters Satan himself, who appears, first as a tempter of Jesus, and later as a gleeful spectator as Jesus is beaten and finally killed. There are many recognizable actors in the movie, and although it's fun to see this many familiar faces, it almost distracts from the storyline as you find yourself trying to identify an actor as you notice him/her appear in the crowd.Max von Sydow does a splendid job as Jesus. He leads this all-star cast with a powerful yet sensitive Jesus. All lines are delivered with calm restraint yet also authority, and in his very eyes, von Sydow conveys the strength of his character. Most of the film itself is delivered in this strong yet understated way, except for two occasions where the music score accentuates the witness of two of the most famous miracles worked by Jesus.A powerful and faithful depiction of the life of Jesus, recommended for anyone, regardless of their spiritual beliefs. "},{"Title":"Mediocre film on the life of Christ","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have watched the Greatest Story Ever Told on VHS tape and just wanted to state my opinions. First of all, this is a very drab version of the Life of Christ on film. I think that Max Von Sydow was miscast as Jesus. He is way too stiff and shows no emotion at all. In the scene where he chases out the money changers in the temple, he looks so stiff and awkward until it is almost very comical. I also didn't like the way the temple was designed and the very drab costumes for the Pharisees. It looked very depressing and dull. I don't know much about ancient Jewish history, but I think the pharisees of Jesus's time wore more elaborate robes and prayer shawls. The pharisees in TGSET looked as if they are going to a funeral. The musical score at the beginning is very beautiful, but it becomes corny at the end of the 1st tape with the Handels Hallelujah chorus being sung. The crucifixion scene is also very fake looking and drab. Of course John Wayne should have NEVER BEEN CAST AT ALL in this movie. He ruins the whole movie. Charlton Heston did a good part as John the Baptist, but they should have not put that awful wig on him. It made him look silly. I think that the casting crew should have let Chartlon Heston grow his own hair long instead of putting that awful wig on him. I think that TGSET is the worst of the old style Biblical epic movies. King of Kings is much better. I gave this movie a 6 out of 10 because Charlton Heston and Jose Ferrer were the best actors and made the movie tolerable to watch. "},{"Title":"For What It Is, It *Is* The Greatest","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I love this movie, and I'd recommend it to anyone who is looking for an idiosyncratic, reverent, art film treatment of the life of Christ.Is it fast moving?  No, it is not. If you want Robocop, this isn't your movie.The slowness of this movie provides thoughtful people ample time to think about the history-shaping words being said, to soak up the beauty of the film itself.Does Stevens attempt to recreate the sense one gets from looking at beautiful religious paintings? Yes.  If you are one of those people who freeze frames beautiful shots, this is your movie.Do big name stars appear in small roles? Yes.  If that bothers you, you will have to *get over* your adolescent annoyance really to see what's happening.The big name stars make a meta statement. Stevens was moved to make this film by his experience of being among the first to document what happened at Dachau.Big name stars, like John Wayne, wanted to appear in even the tiniest of roles, because they sensed that Stevens was doing something special.  If you can appreciate the big name cameos for what they are -- a community coming together to tell a story that matters to them -- they will enhance the movie for you, rather than lessen it.Max von Sydow gives the best performance of Jesus ever committed to film. If he never did anything else, he could die proud because of the truth he embodied in this part.Just the look on von Sydow's face in his first scene -- when he is being baptized by John -- a look that is caring, human, loving, confused, pained, as he begins to realize what his life holds in store for him -- is in itself marvelous, jewel-like in its purity, and unlike anything else I've ever seen an actor be able to do.David McCallum is a complex, agonized Judas. He makes you feel for him. His death, as a sacrifice, is brilliant.Charlton Heston captured the take no prisoners approach of the Biblical John the Baptist.Donald Pleasance is the best Satan ever put on film. He's just an average, sort of nice guy who wants you to eat some food when you are hungry ... that's all. Harmless, really.There are many scenes I would never want to have missed the lilies of the field scene, John baptizing Jesus, Satan tempting Jesus in the wilderness, Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead, Jesus calling Matthew.There are many effects that work perfectly for me the handling of sound when Jesus is carrying his cross on the via dolorosa, for example.So, no, *don't* see this movie if you require the speed of an MTV video in your movies.Do see this movie if you want to see how one man, moved by Dachau, put years of his life into the service of a story he thought worth telling in a risky, idiosyncratic way.   "},{"Title":"One of the great movie experiences!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Some of the most powerful and overwhelming scenes ever filmed are in this George Stevens' production. I saw this film in its original roadshow engagement at the Music Hall Cinerama in Detroit Michigan in 1965. It was a truly memorable experience for me, as well as my friends who attended with me. The Lazarus sequence, prior to the Intermission, stills pacts a powerful punch. Several years later I 'witnessed' the 'shortened' version of this epic - and am still stunned as to why this was allowed to happen. The flow of the film was destroyed - e.g. the Wisemen appeared 'quickly' and then disappeared for some unexplained reason (even though we know why). How shameful for United Artists to do this. GSET is a magnificent telling of the story of Christ. Stevens created a true masterpiece. Having seen it numerous times over the ensuing years, it stills holds a special place in my heart - and helped to launch my 'love of the movies' as a teenager. Bravo George Stevens! "},{"Title":"The Saddest Story Ever Told?","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  History has not been kind to this film.  It suffered through an extended and sometimes turbulent gestation.  It's birth was, at best, painful.George Stevens, its director, producer, co-writer, and guiding force, spent the better part of a decade bringing this project to the screen.  Even with all his considerable experience, it seems he was unable to translate his vision into the cinematic experience it deserved.  At times we see flashes of what he must have had in mind.  More often we see a film, for all its' moments of brilliance, stumble into exactly the sort of C.B. DeMille pomposity Stevens was surely trying to avoid. Much has been made of his who's who of Hollywood approach to the casting of smaller roles, which led to a who's that reaction in the theater. However, that approach to casting has been used before and since to positive effect.  So the fault doesn't lie there. The fault lies, it seems, in an embarrassment of riches. Mr. Stevens simply had too much.  Too much money. Too much talent.  Too much time.  Too much control.  And too little willingness, it would seem, to accept input from others. Is the film a total failure?  Of course not.  There is much greatness in The Greatest Story Ever Told.  The cinematography is breathtaking.  The Alfred Newman score, at least the portions Stevens left unadulterated in the film, is magnificent.  Some of the individual performances are compelling. Could it have been better?  Should it have been better?  Absolutely.It has always been my belief that there was a successful movie made, called The Greatest Story Ever Told.  Sadly no one ever saw it. Worst of all is the absolutely dreadful version of this movie  currently on videocassette.  It is nearly an hour shorter than the original road-show presentation, and, while letterboxed, is in the incorrect 2.35x1 scope aspect ratio rather than the correct 2.75x1 ratio the Ultra Panavision-70 cameras filmed in.  In addition, regardless of what the box says, the soundtrack is in Hi-Fi Mono! Ken Darby, composer Alfred Newman's long time associate, wrote a book, entitled Hollywood Holyland, which chronicles his first hand experiences working on this film.  It is a must-read for anyone interested in the cinematic art. "},{"Title":"Holds up rather well, actually","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Saw the cut-down version of this recently on cable, letterboxed (the only way to go!). For all the bad press it evidently got in its day, I found the color cinematography dazzling, the compositions wonderful (as we'd expect from the director of Shane and Giant), and the performances ... not too bad at all, for the most part. Many if not most of celebs who did cameos are no longer household names (or faces), so they're less jarring than they must have been in the 60s (the groaning exception, of course, being John Wayne as the Centurion). Von Sydow is fine if a bit stiff, Heston as the Baptist is a bit too stiff, Jose Ferrer is wonderful (did his son Miguel study dad's performance as Herod Antipas for his role in Traffic?), and so are most of the other key parts.If Scorcese's Last Temptation of Christ comes off as less an art film and more as another corny Hollywood biblical epic, Stevens' film comes off less as the latter and more as the former, given that one's expectations are for corn, not art. (Is that clear?) I've said previously that Scorcese's film was basically a ripoff of Pasolini's wonderful Gospel According St Matthew, and I still think that's the case so far as the basic treatment goes, but I now think that visually, as a wide-screen color film, it rips off Stevens.Greatest Story is the first Christ movie (and probably the first biblical epic) where the director obviously understood that the physical setting could be a very important part of the story - the sparse, barren landscape that people could disappear into and come back having seen visions, etc. Scorcese seems to have picked up on this too, but his visual sense isn't a jot on Stevens', for sure.I do agree that the story drags, and the whole thing is probably overlong. I was also disappointed that Stevens does so little with the final temptation and betrayal in the Garden of Gethsemane. I've always felt this is the dramatic climax of the whole story - the final point of no return for Jesus - and oddly, the recent TV miniseries version, with Jeroen Krabbe as a fun modern-dress Satan, is the only one that's really grasped this, I think. Maybe some of this is among the stuff that didn't survive from the 260-minute version?Overall, I'd heartily urge George Stevens Jr., who's done such a good job of preserving his father's legacy, to consider restoring this one and letting us see it on the big screen again. It's a feast. "},{"Title":"An Artist's Vision","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  George Stevens managed to craft a remarkable number of fine films in his early and mid-career.  It was only natural that, in approaching his late period, he sought to expand his already grand horizons and create a towering work.The Greatest Story Ever Told was Steven's choice as a personal challenge.  What could be more formidable that this subject?  Stevens undoubtedly knew that the material was probably impossible to craft into a perfect product before he started.  That was no reason, though, for one of his talent, training and experience to be discouraged.The production occupied many years of Stevens' life, including tremendous production challenges.  He also was faced with the task of not only balancing its costly budget, but also turning in an attractive profit for the studio which supported his efforts.  (To engage in so expensive an exercise and come out in the red would understandably have been a disappointment for all concerned.) Thus, he wisely populated his cast with big-name stars -- those which would bring out the public in substantial numbers and realize adequate box office returns.  Major studio movie making is of course, at this level, big business and I, for one, can see very clearly Stevens' approach in terms of wieghing the ideal with the pragmatic.When the work was finally completed, Stevens did achieve his vision in a legendary film of 260 minutes in duration. That was the work he intended, and that was the version impressively presented at its premiere and early road show performances.  Then along came various decision-makers implementing their own ideas, which resulted in 63 minutes being cut from the work.  How is it possible to evaluate Stevens' work by viewing a 197 minute version?  Clearly that does not represent the vision of this artist.  The one and only way is to view the original in its uncut (and preferably pristine print Cinemascope) version.  As for the casting approach, the production happily did succeed at the box office, with the public supporting the picture in substantal numbers.  Knowing all what was at stake, one can nicely cope with the casting cameos and be appreciative that this supremely challenging subject was graced by the attentions of one of the screen's very fine directors.      "}{"Title":"Valiant and worthy attempt","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Clearly this film comes off as an epoch. Magnitude, grandeur and dignity drip from every scene. Being personally familiar with the biblical account of the life of Jesus, I was at times quite impressed with the almost-inspired interpretation of many hard-to-picture moments in the gospel narratives brought to the screen. Yet on the other hand, I had painful difficulty agreeing with other scenes.For example, Jesus heals a hopelessly bitter cripple in a dark synagogue of course the biblical story is very brief, leaving a lot of room for the imagination to color in details- however, the scene seems to cheapen christ's awesome power and divinity. As Jesus leaves the synagogue, the camera zooms in on a facial expression so quizzical the viewer is left feeling that perhaps even Jesus himself didn't believe the healing was possible either...Although personifying the devil was a very workable technique throughout the entire film, dropping available details about tempting a starving savior to eat bread and omitting christ's excellent response left me disappointed.Another valiant and worthy attempt, but again the novel was better 8) "},{"Title":"King of Kings is a far better film","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Great cinematography that can't be appreciated on the small screen. It is extremely letterboxed compared to most movies enhanced for 16 X 9 TV's. Therefore, many key shots appear too small or far away. An extensive use of matte paintings plus beautiful sunrise and sunset shots. It seems too detached and distant in it's retelling of the story. King of Kings,which was directed in a Cecile B. DeMille style, has so many more memorable scenes and seems much more close-up and personal. I just watched the 225 min. version of Greatest and almost fell asleep several times. The Sermon on the Mount is not shown in it's entirety here, (the Lord's Prayer is shortened) yet other sermons and soliloquies seem to drag on forever. The interior sets seem too small and claustrophobic. There are not enough extras in some of the crowd scenes. The excessive use of cameos is most annoying. Both Victor Bueno and Telly Savalas (Pontius Pilate) are terrible choices and limp their way through their respective roles. Salome's Dance of the 7 Veils is weakly shown and has no mention of John the Baptist's head. Even the casting of Jesus seems wrong. Max Von Sydow seems too dark and brooding. The best performance in the film is by Charlton Heston, as John the Baptist. MIA in this edited version most of Angela Lansbury's part and the feeding of the 5000. Although King of Kings, released four year's earlier, has many flaws and inconsistencies as well, it is a more satisfying version of the story of Christ in so many ways Better acting, better narration, a more joyous Christ, more open sets, better musical score. It's even shorter, clocking in at a mere 168 minutes. (most versions) Even John Wayne (as a crucifixion centurion) can't save this one! "},{"Title":"The Life, and Death, of Christ","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is difficult at times to approach a movie about Jesus Christ while having a Christian worldview since one tends to automatically look at where the film deviates from the gospel. 'The Passion of the Christ' was very faithful to the story as it outlined in the gospels, however this film is not.This does not mean that this is a bad movie. I thought that it was quite well done, however the sayings of Jesus and the meeting of his disciples did not seem to follow the gospel narratives. The disciples were probably the aspect that stood out the most as the relationships between the disciples differed from that outlined in the gospels. The sayings of Jesus, while not strictly incorrect, seemed to have been rewritten by the screenwriters to make the film flow better, though where Jesus does identify himself with God ('I and the Father are one') in the movie is said in private with his disciples, while in the gospel of John it is proclaimed to a crowd of Jews who where getting ever more angry and Jesus' perceived blasphemy.That does not mean that this was a bad movie. Far from it. Charton Heston played a brilliant John the Baptist, and his interaction with Herod Antipas just highlights his incredible acting ability (from now on I cannot imagine John the Baptist as anybody other than Charlton Heston). Max von Sydow as Jesus Christ, though, didn't stand out all that much to me.This movie seemed to focus much more on the political instability in the region at the time of Christ with the Roman and the Jewish rulers trying to outdo each other, as well as attempting to put an end to what they perceived as popular movements (first with John the Baptist and then with Jesus himself). As mentioned, the interaction between John and Herod was outstanding ('you are more his prisoner than he is a prisoner of you' says Herod's sister and wife). When Jesus enters Jerusalem on the donkey we immediately move to the Jewish council who are threatened by him and determine then and there that he must be arrested (as opposed to the gospels, where Jesus out maneuvers them for a final time, and they decided that he must be put out of the way). The temple scene where he overthrows the money changers tables, and the proceeds to teach the crowds (while the Romans seek to arrest him) is another scene that will remain with me for a while.A great movie, though unfortunately not truly faithful to the narratives, and also some subtle changes in the attitudes of Pilate and Herod, hold back from what could have been a truly great movie. "},{"Title":"Sanitized version of dramatic moments in history","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I watched this on DVD. The cover said that the original colour reproduction had been improved with modern technology. Even so, I found the overall colour rather disappointing with very little detail if any in the shadows. Brilliance and clarity were missing.It was obvious that great care was taken in the composition of every long shot with the characters placed to give a balanced picture like an illustration in a religious book.I found it hard to accept a blue-eyed Jesus. It's an immediate handicap to the portrayal of one of Jewish ancestry. But further, I did not like the ponderous delivery of the lines. May be the script writers were at fault. Those lines might look good as the written word, but when delivered vocally they seemed unnatural. Can you imagine being in the company of Jesus and hearing all those prophetic announcements while you walk about together?The whole film was completely sanitized it seemed. Not a single drop of blood that I can remember from the cruel crown of thorns. I thought that Jesus was brutally scourged but the only hint of cruelty on the way to his crucifixion was the time he stumbled under the weight of the wooden cross. May be some of the more brutal scenes were cut when the original 4 hour film was edited.Jesus' disciples were drawn from many different trades and professions yet their individual characters were not dwelt upon. There was a similarity between them all. Certainly Judas had his scene and Peter had his moment in the denial scene but I was not moved to any extent. The director seemed too afraid to let go and give us some great drama in these momentous times in history.Scenes that you will probably remember are the resurrection of Lazarus and the Last Supper which were both well done. Of the players Charlton Heston as John the Baptist outshone all the rest and was completely believable as a character.Overall it was a mammoth production with great attention to detail and with a cast of highly acclaimed actors, but for me it lacked the spark of dramatic energy. "},{"Title":"An excellent film even with this all-star cast","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Of all the adaptations of the story of Jesus, I've always felt that The Greatest Story Ever Told is one of the best and one of the most truest to the story itself. I would like to moderate that statement that I also believe the same of Jesus Christ Superstar and The Last Temptation of Christ, though naturally for vastly different reasons.Max Von Sydow brings something to the role of Jesus that no other actor ever has...a sort of undefinable picture of majesty and humility at the same time.  I think it must be his eyes.  Charlton Heston's John the Baptist is one of the best performances of his career, and Jose Ferrer is wonderfully subdued as King Herod. David McCallum is good as Judas, but his performance is a tad wooden at times.The big selling point of this film, outside of the Story, is the all-star cast that accompanies it.  Actually, if you can manage to forget about the many cameos, you will enjoy this movie much more. The miscasting is not quite as bad as The Story of Mankind, but John Wayne as a Roman Soldier just doesn't sit well. This and The Ten Commandments should be required viewing for everyone, and not just Christians.  This is a wonderful movie and really does relate one of the greatest stories ever told. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning!","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Perhaps, the most visually beautiful motion picture, ever made.  While often ponderous in narrative, The Greatest Story Ever Told, is a most reverent telling of the Christ tale.  The current DVD release suffers from edits to the original running time (Angela Lansbury ends up being an extra, seen in longshot); but clearly represents the amazing visuals, and boasts an impressive stereo soundtrack.  Director George Stevens structures each scene as a visual masterpiece.  For this reason alone the film, on DVD, is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Spectacular film","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the most beautifully photographed films ever made! It is a bit disarming to see guest stars pop up though. It was not needed at all. The cast here is most capable. Newman wrote a magnificent music score. A worthy film in many ways. Perhaps too harshly criticized by some. Should be seen at least once. "},{"Title":"Well done.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The new testament has so much about Jesus what does one include, and exclude?  How long can you make such a film?  My wife was taking her Catechism, and I rented a few film's about the Lord in order for her too understand the Bible better.  She likes this film, but not as much as the 77 version.  This film is inspiring for any Christian, and gives a message of hope for all of mankind.  I love the casting, especially John Wayne as the centurion.  Charalton Heston plays his best role, as John the Bapatist.  Repent!  He plays the crazy with passion John better than anyone else.  Worth renting around Christmas to remember what the season truly is about. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Uneven but a gallant attempt","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The minute this film came out, there were a rash of snide reviews such as are customary whenever a big-screen film about the life of Christ is produced. There was an especially snide one in Time magazine--or was it Newsweek--which captioned a photo It isn't (get it?) and made all kinds of errors about alleged historical and biblical errors in the film, which only showed the ignorance of the reviewer. So avoiding the snide, I must say that this film has very good and very bad points.Von Sydow is a wonderfully human Christ. The high point of his acting (and of the directing) is the scene of the resurrection of Lazarus, which makes a real drama out of an incident that most such films treat so tritely. You can tell that Jesus himself is scared to death by the implications of what he is about to do, and that Mary and Martha are wondering if he's stark raving crazy to even attempt it. The freaked-out silence of the crowd is awesome. There are several such moments and several such excellent casting choices particularly fine is Herod (Jose Ferrer) ordering the massacre of the innocents He happens to remember the line about Rachel weeping for her children and says Let this be the fulfillment of the prophecy. The soldier who takes the command turns to ice on hearing such inhumanity. And let's see... why does everybody think Heston was a bad choice as John the Baptist?? My god, he was made for the part! As was Sal Mineo as a self-pitying lame man who obviously never even tried to walk till Jesus pointed a finger at him and gave him a dirty look. And Telly Savalas positively exudes Roman arrogance as Pilate---not the wishy-washy bureaucrat of most Christ films, but the cold-blooded imperial thug portrayed in the histories of Josephus. And oh yes Dig the Temptation in the Wilderness scene; it's incomparable.The biggest negative is the gratuitous and distracting use of several superstars in cameo Shelly Winters and Pat Boone, for example, and worst of all John Wayne who totally ruins an otherwise beautiful moment in which the death of Jesus on the Cross is juxtaposed in jump cuts with the suicide of Judas. Thanks to Wayne's inept trully this man is the son of gawd!, a moment which should have us brooding over a fine theological problem (which one of these two is really and truly the scapegoat who's getting the rest of humanity off the hook?), all we can do is laugh at this perfectly ludicrous example of miscasting. Stupid, stupid, stupid! Also stupid some of the scenes that are filmed as set pieces, rather like moving dioramas. I don't see why the film moves back and forth from this stylized approach to the realism of other scenes.Parts of this film are better than the whole, but it's worth seeing. Perhaps it does try to do a bit too much. "},{"Title":"Thou shall not act!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a very disappointing portrayal of the life of Jesus. It is devoid of feeling and acting. Strange, tableau-like scenes, with actors holding a steady gaze as they look at Jesus on the cross, or Lazarus rising. The ponderous delivery of Jesus' lines made me long to hear how he spoke in real life. The triumphant music with the chorus in the background was overwhelming, and the gray/black scenery and costumes, with Jesus and the apostles all in white was too unnatural and high-tech. The extremely long shots were very annoying, because we could not see anything, and the sound seemed to be coming too loudly and from the wrong direction. It was as if someone decided to spend a lot of money making a movie about Jesus, but ensuring that the movie or Jesus aroused no emotion in the viewer, by taking any reality out of the movie. Too bad that with the richest possible story ever, this movie is all they did. It seems the director may have wanted to emphasize a particular style of telling the story, and sacrificed all feeling to style. In contrast, I enjoyed Jesus of Nazareth very, very much, as well as the wonderfully 'live' Jesus with Jeremy Sisto in the title role. But the one that really did it for me is the word-for-word life of Christ from the Gospel of Matthew, in The Visual Bible - Matthew The movie that had the smallest production budget, yet brought Jesus to life like no other so far. "}{"Title":"On Things Left Out","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Because this movie is 225 minutes long, long enough to put in pretty much every part of the story of Jesus that is recorded in the Gospels, it is in many ways more interesting to reflect upon the things that were left out.To this end, I will begin with something rather whimsical. One of these days, I would like to see a Jesus movie in which the three wise men are seen leaning way back in their camels, looking straight up, with one of them saying, Well, the star is directly overhead, so I guess this barn must be the place. But this movie, like all other depictions of the event, simply shows the star about thirty degrees above the horizon, no matter how close the wise men get to the manger.It is surprising that many of the well-known miracles were only mentioned, not depicted visually no scene of Jesus turning water into wine, walking on water, or feeding the multitude with a basket of loaves and fishes. It is not surprising, on the other hand, that we do not see Jesus's prediction that some of the people he is talking to will still be alive when the kingdom of God comes.A lot of sins go unmentioned in this movie. Jesus does not say it is adultery to lust after a woman in your heart, or that it is a sin to get divorced, or that marrying someone who is divorced is adultery. But we do get the scene where the adulteress is saved by Jesus, who defies the mob by saying that the one without sin should cast the first stone. That's what the audience wants to hear, not that lust or divorce are also forms of adultery, but that real adultery itself will be forgiven.As is typical for a movie about Jesus, he never talks about Hell. There is a movie in which Jesus spends a lot of time talking about all the people who are going to Hell, The Gospel According to St. Matthew (1964), but that is an exception. All the other Jesus movies leave that topic pretty much alone, at least as far as the sermons of Jesus are concerned. In The Greatest Story Ever Told, other people talk about Hell instead. In one scene, there is a religious figure who says that God is going to punish the wicked, but Jesus admonishes him, saying that God is about mercy. Never mind that what the guy was saying was actually similar to what Jesus himself says in the Bible, in this movie, Jesus will have none of it. This is followed shortly by a scene in which John the Baptist tells King Herod that he is going to Hell for committing adultery, which again is consistent with the Biblical Jesus but not the Jesus of this movie. And when Jesus is giving Peter the keys of the kingdom, even the relatively innocuous expression gates of Hell is left out of Jesus's speech.That this movie plays it safe in its treatment of Jesus, avoiding the depiction of anything that might make the audience uncomfortable, is understandable. What is not understandable is the movie's treatment of Judas. Where the Bible is ambiguous (dare I say inconsistent) regarding Judas, so too is the movie. For example, there is some debate as to whether Judas received communion at the Last Supper. Consequently, the movie is ambiguous on this point as well. We see Judas holding the cup near his lips. Then the camera cuts away to Jesus, who makes a brief remark, after which we see Judas still holding he cup, leaving it an open question as to whether he took a sip. Fine. But where the Bible is not ambiguous is on Judas's motive for betraying Jesus. Judas negotiates with the chief of priests to get thirty pieces of silver for delivering Jesus. The motive is money, pure and simple. But in the movie, instead of asking for money, we hear Judas going on about what a wonderful person Jesus is. And then, somewhat later, when he is given the pieces of silver that he did not ask for, he says he didn't want any money, which leaves his betrayal of Jesus completely unmotivated. One almost gets the impression that the people who made this movie did not want to show Judas in a bad light, even though this is the man that Dante did not hesitate to put right next to Satan in the frozen lake at the center of the earth.There is one thing in this movie that should have been kept out, and that is John Wayne. Right at the moment of Jesus's death, we hear the Duke saying, Truly, this man was the son of God, in that unmistakable voice of his, and it is hard to keep from laughing. "},{"Title":"Visual beauty but a very mediocre film","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Oscar nominations received by this film in 1965 are telling. All five nominations are about costume, coloration and cinematography of the film. These are indeed stunning. But the rest of the film is mediocre at best. Max von Sydow is not at all a convincing Christ (his hairstyle's a disaster to begin with) quite by contrast to Robert Powell in Jesus of Nazareth. Only in the Lazarus resurrection scene did I feel some of the Heart, the devotion, the passion, that must have been Jesus Christ. To that I can maybe add the scene where Jesus is clearing the temple at Passover. For the rest I could not get beyond the odd hairstyle. Von Sydow's very aristocratic and regal -was Christ an aristocratic character?- but not very divine. The rest of the cast does not work well either, to say the least. On top of that, many a scene feels unnatural and rigid. The film feels anecdotal and lacks true depth. Mr Stevens seemed to have been more preoccupied with the visuals than with screenplay, editing, character depth, casting and directing. At times the film looks like a Renaissance painting or a painting from the Romantic era. That delivers stunning visual joy -especially on my Pioneer Kuro with it's deep blacks- but not if it comes at such a huge cost. In all the piece strikes me as a visual feast but ultimately the film does not convince, especially compared to Zefirelli's Jesus of Nazareth which gets about everything right if you consider Mr Zefirelli's style and the era of his version's making. If you want to enjoy the beautiful cinematography, the colors, the scenery, do watch this film but I suggest you watch Zefirelli's depiction of Christ to get a deeper feeling for the Master, and Gibson's film if you want to grue at all the gore Christ must have gone through at the end of his mission. "},{"Title":"Walking on an overdone theme but still a good epic","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Here's another film about the life, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, this time filmed in a large epic scale similar to the series filmed by Franco Zeffirelli in the 70's. The biggest attractives of The Greatest Story Ever Told are 1) a super stellar cast of names like Max von Sydow, Carroll Baker, Donald Pleasence, Charlton Heston, Telly Savalas, John Wayne, Sidney Poitier, Van Heflin, Sal Mineo, Claude Rains (on his last role) and more; 2) the costumes, art-direction, in short, an epic filmed in CinemaScope; 3) a few scenes here and there, nothing so outstanding that we haven't seen in another Biblical films of the same story.In its three hours, George Stevens walks on the same path already showed in countless films but this time presenting Bergmanian actor Max von Sydow as Jesus during all his known moments from preaching love and peace to the crucifixion and resurrection. Perhaps the only thing that really captured my full attention and which I've never sen in the other films about Jesus is His speech about how the rich people cannot enter the kingdom of Heaven; one cannot love God and the money; this scene was incredibly well written. The film is good, has great, noble and valuable intentions but it is too long, a little tiresome at parts, some scenes weren't well planned and well filmed, Alfred Newman's musical score is quite annoying and there's too much music in sequences when it wasn't needed. As for the performances everyone's at the same level, from the leading actor von Sydow (an okay performance considering he has better films) to the cameos from Poitier (who doesn't have lines) and John Wayne (who has one line, and he's filmed at a long distance, you only realize it's him because of the voice). And for some reason in many of my thoughts when I was a little bit off from the film, I kept thinking why Jesus had his hair short? Has anyone noticed this? Jesus is a popular figure in films since 1897, in films that don't even exist anymore, other classics and more controversial pictures, and always be present in our lives and on celluloid, and most of the films I've watched about Him are great, it can't go wrong. I enjoyed Stevens epic but not as much as The Last Temptation of Christ, Godspell or The Passion of Christ. Watchable for those who love epic stories, the classic Hollywood and have patience to sit down for a few hours, which I have. It's a story about love and respect among people, things that will never be dated. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Greatest Story Ever Told","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A ponderous retelling of the life of Christ with Swedish actor Max von Sydow in the role of Jesus. Swedish Jesus is hard to accept. Even von Sydow admitted the difficulty. He comes off as a spaced-out caricature. Maybe a man who has never sinned has to be that way. I have asked myself why it was no sin when Jesus angrily drove the moneychangers from the temple with a whip. The cast is a Who's Who in Hollywood. It is filled with recognizable names, and part of the fun is to pick out the famous people from Charlton Heston as John the Baptist down to David McCallum as Judas. John Wayne is the Roman Centurion at the cross. Truly, this man was the Son of God. This film ushered out the era of big budget Bible pictures. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" On the whole, this film is an excellent adaptation of the life of Jesus Christ, albeit it may not be 100% down the line, I do not believe that any unnecessary liberties were taken in a malicious manner. Considering this was a George Stevens film, I am satisfied that the intent of the film's message was sincere. Perhaps it was more idealized in some portions, but I think it only added to the greatness of the message that was delivered by Christ himself when he lived on Earth. Christ's message was love and forgiveness; charity and forbearance; devotion and commitment. The film had a splendid cast and I very much enjoyed Max Von Sydow's portrayal of Christ. All in all, an excellent film. And while I am on the subject, I think the film Jesus of Nazareth was an excellent film as well. "},{"Title":"the next best thing","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Pier Paolo Pasolini's Gospel According to Saint Matthew is still my favorite movie about Jesus, but The Greatest Story Ever Told is the next best thing. You simply can't go wrong with Max von Sydow, and his Jesus is a dignified and commanding figure, believable as the Son of God. Too often Jesus comes across as a nice guy who just gets screwed over (to borrow a phrase from South Park's Kyle Koslovsky) or else as some weird hippie guru. The photography is majestic and the period detail quite convincing, even if the film is slow-moving and overloaded with cheesy star cameos (particularly John Wayne as the Roman soldier). Nonetheless, the acting is generally decent, and if you watch closely you'll spot Klinger from 'M*A*S*H) as one of the twelve disciples. As so often in drama it's the evil characters who are most convincingly portrayed Claude Rains as Herod the Great, Jose Ferrer as Herod Antipas, and of course Donald Pleasance as Satan. And of course Telly Savalas is the definitive screen Pilate a tough guy but not a bad guy, who seems genuinely uncertain what course he should take. George Stevens' direction is sincere and forthright, and this is a traditional, middle-of-the-road Life of Christ that both believers and non-believers can enjoy and profit from. "},{"Title":" Who so-ever among you that is without sin, let him cast the first stone ","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The directorial talent of George Stevens, impressive as it ever was is put to the test with this remarkable and challenging assignment. The film is called  The Greatest Story ever Told  and stars the incredibly versatile actor Max Von Sydow as Jesus. The story itself is in fact the Bibical rendition of the most extraordinary individual to ever influence Western civilization. The film seeks to transfer from the ancient scriptures and Gospels onto the modern screen the simple life of Jesus of Nazareth, from birth till his death. To this end a colossal cast was assembled to act out that which was written. For instance, you can see Sidney Poitier, Jose Ferrer, Richard Conte, Victor Buono, Van Heflin, Martin Landau, Pat Boone, David McCallum, Sal Mineo, Roddy McDowall and Charlton Heston as John the Baptist. A whole assemblage of other actors like Telly Savalas, Claude Rains, Carroll Baker, Angela Lansbury and Donald Pleasence completely awe the audience and as a result create a monumental Classic for all time. Even the legendary John Wayne appears with but a single but unforgettable line. **** "},{"Title":"..good story, no matter how it's told","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You may want to read my comment on Jesus of Nazareth, because every biblical film I've seen - either before or after - cannot stand-up to it's simple brilliance. Perhaps that is because it was presented as a series for British TV. The Brits really know how to do things - take a look at Jesus Christ Super Star if you want to see how that musical should be done.I saw The Greatest Story Ever Told simply because I was watching a marathon of John Wayne movies.......can't believe they showed it simply because he had that dreadfully embarrassing one-liner at the very end. But, I AM glad I just happened upon it; I did not see the film when it was originally released, but would certainly go the theater to see a re-release. However, now I would have to compare it to Jesus of Nazareth, which is as inspiring of the telling of the story could ever be. Of the other comments I've read, only two people mention Nazareth, both of them from Canada (warlock of canada; coy_dogO). I admit my total immersion into Jesus of Nazareth certainly influences any other films of this tale. I even remember one very short version in which James Dean - blond and no beard ! - played the Apostle John. I've also seen many church-versions, whose versions were no doubt funded from their treasuries, no acting what-so-ever involved, but their zeal prominent - but, laughable. Jesus of Nazareth runs for 6 HOURS, never a dull moment, excellent acting from all.Many comments mention all the big stars of Hollywood playing bit-parts in this film - they fail to mention they didn't get paid. Taxable, or the desire to appear in an epic ? Charleton Heston was the only convincing actor in his role - von Sydow? Nah ! Telly Savalas as Pilate - ridiculous. The appearance of Donald Pleasance as Satan was the only actor who also appeared in Nazareth. Wasn't he the first one to scream cruficy him at Jesus' trial in this film?? Many people were in awe of the raising-from-the-dead of Lazarus, but it truly can't compare to that scene from Nazareth.I, Claudius (also a Brit-TV production) does a good job of showing how popular Herod the Great was in Rome - which put him on the throne, in the first place (no one could duplicate Peter Ustinov's Herod the Great). He was NOT Jewish. Christopher Plummer as Herod Antipas was magnificent in Nazareth. Bravo! Michael York for the most brilliant of any John the Baptist-roles ever played.As beautiful as Story was, if one wishes to see an authentic and naturally-played Greatest Story, one must get to e-Bay or some other dealer to buy the DVD. Jesus of Nazareth also has many big stars, but they all were well-cast.....and got paidAs you can surmise, I loved the story of the film, but thought it could have been much more artistically filmed to portray the life of The Greatest Man Whoever Lived.Story was beautifully filmed, as everyone agrees. It doesn't matter to me the desert-scenes were filmed in Arizona, etc. I recommend watching The Greatest Story Ever Told, then take a breather - the next night, maybe? - and revel in Jesus of Nazareth.Christmas 2007 - I saw the full version of The Greatest Story Ever Told tonight, and must admit it revealed some strong acting for von Sydow at the last supper and the very end of the film. Although I am still amazed at the difference in many directors' telling of this story (George Stevens here), I have to admit their efforts were great - and certainly were made greater by the use of wide-screen. "},{"Title":"One of Hollywood's most underated films.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A film of awesome beauty, and probably one of the most uderated epics of all time. Massacred by critics this for me is an undesputed masterpiece and is way over it's time to be rediscovered and acclaimed, as it so richly deserves. It's very slow and demanding, but as Kubrick's Barry Lyndon unfolds with breathtaking splendor and deeply felt inspiration. I'm tired of the moans about the use of big name stars in small roles, George Stevens had to to get this made, it's been done before and will always be done, otherwise no finance. For me the cast is flawless, especially Max von Sydow as Jesus, giving a magnificent performance. The photography, editing and especially the music are superb, but in the end this is one man's vision - George Stevens who was ahead of his time, and who knows one day time will catch up. Bravo Maestro. "},{"Title":"Loved it 27 years ago...still love it today. Where's the DVD?","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time in 1973 when I was only 11 years old. It honestly changed my life.  My family never wanted to talk about Christ or church or any spiritual issues as I was growing up (though I was very curious).  NBC aired this movie frequently on Easter weekends and I couldn't wait to see it.  This movie personified the life of Christ very beautifully, to the point where I began my lifelong commitment to accepting Christ as my savior.Having been more acquainted with the Bible since then, I realize it is not the MOST historically accurate account of the Gospel (I wish I could ask the producers why they had Judas fall into a fire pit) but they hit the mark better than most accounts...though I doubt that Jesus has blue eyes!I'm glad I got to experience the movie before I had any idea who all of these actors are.  I think the entirety of the movie is very beautiful.  I hope it will continue to change lives the way it changed mine.  I hope the DVD will be out soon too. "}{"Title":"Excellent except for .....","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There are scenes that should stand out in cinematic history, and in this film we have two. Unfortunately one is spoiled by a whiskey drinking, rifle totin', gun slingin', Stetson wearing, yippee yah aye cowboy, who for whatever reason, has obviously took an incorrect turn when coming to work that morning, gone to the wrong film set, donned a Roman battle dress, decided to use his normal wild west slang as usual, even though the set was slightly different to his customary, two horse one Gal situation and wreck complete havoc. What I'm talking about is of course the complete abhorration - namely John Wayne's eight word cruise missile strike at the end of the crucifixion. Up until Wayne's point of attack, the whole scene was beautiful, the acting superb and the cinematography was breathtaking, like an artist's hand tediously darkening the canvas as the Christ's hour draws near and the unthinkable happens! I have never forgiven the director as he must have been made an offer he didn't understand, been on a bender of hallucinogenic substances or both, to allow this ghastly intrusion. The second is the rising from the dead of Lazarus. It was perfect. Completely unobtrusive as the audience, quite rightly take a back seat, and let the family cry with joy as their sibling and friend enters the small doorway of the tomb announcing his rebirth &#150; with not one cowboy in sight "},{"Title":"So tell the story!","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's really very long, but then it is the greatest story ever told, so what do you expect? Well it need not really be quite so gargantuan - there are judicious cuts in the narrative. Alas they are to accommodate the crippling pace of moments of great wonder (you'll know what they are because the highly dated choral music surges forward in the mix).But laugh a minute though there is to be found, there's a wonderful commitment to communicating not only the narrative (the greatest story ever, I tell you) but also the resonance that it has created. It can be a bit hit and miss - the (in)famous cameo from John Wayne atop Golgotha, still chewing tobacco whilst acknowledging Christ as divine progeny should have been cut. But there is a nice mix of involving realism - Telly Savalas' Pilate - and just portence - von Sydow's fine Jesus, Sidney Poitier's Simon of Cyrene, Heston's John the Baptist.A quick comparison to Mel Gibson's 2004 The Passion... etc. Both films try to combine their own conviction with a narrative realism where Gibson's scrutiny of detail becomes a bit of a quagmire, Stevens' wide-angle, soft focus holiness is a sidetrack from his movie's title. Both films are sustained by wonderful filming; somehow I believe the studio set pieces of the earlier account more readily than Gibson's more claustrophobic setups. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Really GREAT","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's a really great movie, with fine actors.  The only problem is that the actor who plays Jesus is very cute, and you find yourself loving him for his looks instead of Jesus.  That is a problem they didn't have in Ben-Hur, for they never showed Jesus' face. "},{"Title":"A failure-Max Von Sydow","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A failure-Max Von Sydow Yes, it was. I found this film ponderous and pretentious, like most of the 'spectacles' of that period. Besides the poor casting of Sydow as Jesus (a fine actor, in any case), this film spends too much time trying to show how grand and wonderous the events are, rather than simply letting them unfold. The music and cinematography date it to the period of Bible and 'Sword & Sandal' epics of the widescreen explosion of the 50s. I recommend 'Jesus Of Nazereth' as a far superior telling of the story. That film has far more interesting characters (especially Peter and Judas), and arranges the events in the most dramatic way I've ever seen them shown. 6/10 "},{"Title":"It could've been told alot better...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There should have been alot to like about this film. It was sumptuously shot and fantastic actors abound but it was, in a word, boring. I felt like I was reading the New Testament from start to finish. This movie adds nothing from what you'd get from reading the bible, the people in it arn't real personalities - they're actors reciting quotes from the bible (and on several occasions, prayers). Jesus is portrayed in the way that the worst sunday school teacher preaches about him - lifeless, humourless and without warmth (I think he smiles once!). Coming from a religious background I would hate to think that this is how the man actually was. And don't expect any '10 commandments' special effects or epic scenes in this 3 hour plus saga. Anything interesting from 'The Greatest Story' is never shown. No walking on water, no turning water into wine, nothing to suggest that any effort was put into making this movie an epic other than the huge amount of stars, lots of far off scenes of landscapes with people trudging over them and ofcourse, its long...very very long. "},{"Title":"And the Son of God Cometh As a Man.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Director George Stevens' (and uncredited film-makers David Lean and Jean Negulesco) ode to Jesus Christ (Max von Sydow) is a very long (225 minutes) kidney buster of epic proportions that eventually loses out to spectacle and scope instead of focusing on New Testament doctrine. Like the equally good, but under-achieving, King of Kings the corn-filled story-telling of the 1960s cinematic epic becomes more of a sitting test than an imperative work of art. A literal cast of thousands (Sidney Poiter, John Wayne, Shelley Winters, Roddy McDowall, Claude Rains, Ed Wynn, Carroll Baker, Charlton Heston, Van Heflin, Robert Loggia, Michael Anderson, Jr., Joseph Schildkraut, Jamie Farr, Telly Savalas, Donald Pleasence, Martin Landau, Jose Ferrer, Angela Lansbury, Janet Margolin and Pat Boone) ultimately makes The Greatest Story Ever Told seem more like the greatest ensemble ever assembled. However with all this said, the movie is still a near-miss as cameos and admittedly impressive technical aspects take away from the Bible's concrete points and intended expressions. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Time versus Eternity","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Can somebody perhaps explain to me why people watching religious films then decide to present an evangelistic case for Jesus within their reviews? Also people are very concerned rightfully about duration, but may I say that George Stevens was dealing with a source novel that had run for longer than Jesus' earthly ministry when it was adapted (I think)on U S Radio.He did strange things even with that inspiration. As it stands ,I started wondering about other ancient writings that his title sequence insisted guided the script-as if Carl Sandburg (not sure of spelling) was disowning the production finally.No one can tell who bored whom or made the good Lord boring?Laborious drawings were made when the production was going to take place actually in the Holy land and then there is this incredible decision where everything is taken to a landscape that looked more holy in the director's words. The mesas are bigger than anything Jesus would have known (or appear to be)and if you think he wasn't realistic...he used genuine disabled people in the scenes ...unfortunately his manner was so longwinded and his dissatisfaction marked every take that winter came to what was supposed to be a dusty Palestine set, snow that wasn't Christmas effects had to be removed and Schildkraut died before final scenes whilst it was glaringly obvious and still is, as you see her dresses that one of the Marys had become pregnant.She wasn't Jesus' mother-not that one!Yes the end product does not even show proof of all this perfectionism, in my opinion there is really not one effective characterisation. In places the script is laughable, such as when one of the boy disciples declares that Jesus has a good name and S Matthew starts asking officiously if God has anything to declare .It's a drab mixture of ideas that I'm sure the poet of the title page was ashamed of and probably disowned.If I had to be positive I would say that snap stills of this film have a certain beauty, if you can forget the utter boredom of what people were trying to say as the running elapsed.The Sermon on the Mount as a colour coordinated tableau set in these incredible hills is a painting of sorts-but nothing else works around it.I would not be convinced about the claims of Jesus Christ if I watched this ponderous play even eternally.Even the Herods of this film have been outheroded since to use Hamlet's words in other films,some people like the sinister breezeblock fortress where Claude Rains fumes alongside his son, for me it's as monolithic a mess as the movie to come.So what else?Christ's Mother? And without profanity, Dorothy Macguire is perhaps more bearable a clich than Siobhan Mackenna in King of Kings...I love the comic book suggestion of Egypt with the date palm and the distant period and then Miss Macguire's cry of Nazareth when they get home...it's the world of the Wild West I'm afraid.I have to leave my review there -I'm not fond of this film or the notions it spread, I probably would say it is a very bad Jesus film- My brother told me Stevens worked with Laurel and Hardy ...another odd fact, if it's true.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps it's not really necessary to have a Spoiler Alert . . .","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" . . . for THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD, a tale known to most English-Speaking Peoples. But younger folks may need to know that this isn't Grandpa's JESVS CHR!ST, SUPERSTAR, but Great-Gramps's Marathon Jesus, complete with an Intermission. Since this film biography came out in 1965, John Wayne was pushing 60, and therefore far too old to play Jesus or any of His Twelve Disciples. However, Wayne COULD have been cast as Pontius Pilate, one of the Herods, or any of a great number of Jewish priests. Even the role of the healed Blind Nazarene would have been far larger than the Sunday School Christmas Program-like cameo John merits here being shown exactly four seconds in silhouette as a Roman Centurion while uttering a voice-over of a mere eight words. If you want to see an alternate vision with just ONE Herod (walking upside-down on his hands, singing a greeting to Jesus!), try Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical, JESVS CHR!ST, SUPERSTAR, which follows the nuances of this Story more exactly than the John Wayne version. A range of national film critics said that if torture porn's your thing, check out Mel Gibson's THE PASSION OF THE CHR!ST. For a Mary Magadalene with a zebra-drawn chariot, the 1925 silent version of BEN-HUR fills the bill. However, THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD is chock full of perhaps the most sayings of Jesus that can be squeezed into 199 minutes. "},{"Title":"Story of stories","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I watched this movie called The Greatest Story Ever Told yesterday. It is the story of the Christ. If you stop to just consider the title, and all it has to live up to, it is the most daring statement to make if there is a minutiae of doubt in its claim. After all, to state that this story is the greatest of all stories can remain subjective. Yet, it is not, for it can not be out told as stories go.Leaving the religious part out of it and just listening to it as a story makes one have to give it the minimum respect whether they believe it or not. This story holds up and even if you don't believe it, you cannot ignore it and it travels with you regardless. It has a gentle dynamic that it leaves you with.This story cannot be outdone or undone for it remains linked to the mystery and origin of all things. It goes even deeper than that because it addresses the human being and all that is going on within them so well and does something even unexpected too. It leaves you on a positive note bar none...Hope, has been considered the poor mans bread by many. All of mankind dines on it whether they care to admit it or not. Consider to that there is so much going on within the individual in the realms of the emotional, psychological, physical, mental and spiritual realms yet Hope addresses/nourishes it all For about three movie hours, we are asked to consider the subject matter of God, man, salvation, and heaven. At no time are we forced to learn or adapt our ways but instead, it is an invitation to explore a subject that is of interest to anyone who wakes up one day and discovers it. Inviting but not demanding when shared if done correctly. It only works by mutual attraction too. Now, you must inquire.Without exception, at some point, we all come to the questions that wont go away, stopped or be dismissed i.e. where did we come from, why, and what is my role in all this? If one stops to consider that we all live on a ball suspended in mid-air out in the middle of no where, the subject of somewhere becomes of interest to say the least. Why? What we once knew in our hearts has been lost. We feel it Plants, animals and insects don't spend much time on this subject but they do spend their allotted time in the core of it. They live life to the fullest (not knowing that they do) while they can not know any other way but to do so. They have no awareness of how or why but carry out a deep simple instruction until they cannot. Man on the other hand can see, experience and even question this. We should too Man has been given the ability to wonder why they do or don't and how. This was not intended to invade our journeys but caused them to have a deeper more meaningful purpose than just going about the necessary gathering, consuming and living of food, shelter & clothing plus other earthly desires too.We are not only allowed to see that much more is at work, but to also question it, pursue it and not let-up on it if we choose to do so. When one makes this their daily bread so to speak, it will not only nourish fully within the self, but at some point, deliver the answer. All you can eat will be presented.Then, a strange & wonderful dynamic kicks in. When one discovers the mystery, origin and parts played in regards to all things but specifically themselves, they are no longer hungry to know but satisfied never having to crave, seek or inquire again. Why? The subject has gone full circle. It is finished.Treat yourself to this subject matter because we were created to do so and when you do, you trigger an ancient memory within the self, a seed if you will that when you keep inquiring and supporting it via an awareness starts to grow and go from a glimpse to a clarity. When this happens is different for allThe greatest story ever told will always have two major players in the starring role. You and the you Maker. Now I would say, that is one good story to want to know more about. Settle in for some good entertainment "},{"Title":"*Repent!*","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Sue me, but I like it plenty, all 3 hours plus of ass numbing is not a problem to me. It has been called a cumbersome bore, amongst other things, but some of the technical craft is amazing. The story itself is enthralling, building to the shattering Crucifixion parts of the tale, while for every pointless star cameo shoehorned into the production, there's also a Savalas, a Baker and a Heston. Then of course there's Sydow, giving a beautifully intense turn as Jesus, a magnetic portrayal that holds the attention throughout. Ironically director George Stevens struggled with his own ills during production, a cross to bear as it were, but just as Jesus had Sidney Poitier to share the burden, so to did Stevens, who had David Lean to help carry the load. Now that's a deity if ever there was one. It's a gorgeous film, grand and epic, sensitive and astute. Flaws? Plenty for sure, yet it harks back to a time of blunderbuss epic film making, when story telling meant something, when a musical score rattled the ears and the heart, and when cinematography soothed the eyes as if cool lemon slices had been placed upon the optical nerves. Yeah, I'm a fan. If you are not then I forgive you, for you know not what you do. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Doesn't quite live up to its own billing...","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Doesn't quite live up to its own billing...The story of Jesus Christ, from shortly after his birth until his crucifixion and resurrection.While the life of Jesus is the greatest, and most important, story ever told, this movie is not a great telling of it. A dull, unimaginative, paint-by-numbers rendition. Ambitious in its length, scale and cast (see later) but that's it.The cast doesn't help. Yes, it is filled with stars - Max von Sydow, Charlton Heston, Telly Savalas, Jose Ferrer, Sydney Poitier, John Wayne, Angela Lansbury, Martin Landau, Pat Boone, David McCallum, Donald Pleasance, Claude Rains, Shelley Winters. Some of these have very minor roles and only appear briefly, such is the level with which the cast is packed with stars. However, for all this talent, hardly any of them give convincing, or even enthusiastic, performances. Just about everyone appears to be going through the motions.Max von Sydow, as Jesus, is possibly the worst of the lot, sleep walking through the whole thing and sounding like he is just reciting the words, without feeling them.One of the flattest, least conviction-filled, movies about Jesus ever made. "},{"Title":"George Stevens Master Director","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" George Stevens was one of the greatest directors of the silver screen with an amazing body of work such as Shane, Giant, I Remember Mama, and comedic The More The Merrier. Stevens in his great career worked with great stars such as Irene Dunne, Cary Grant, Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, Jean Arthur. One of Stevens' greatest stars Katharine Hepburn gave an Interview stating George Stevens lost his edge when he got so serious. The Grestest Story Ever Told is very serious!! Mr Stevens cast Max Von Sydow as Christ and thus the problem. Sydow underplays his part so often one becomes bored, the last thing one should feel when seething the story of Christ. As a practicing Catholic, I appreciate it when Hollywood deals with Religious topics. George Stevens rented the entire Desilu Culver studio for interiors and shot the outdoors scenes in the American West. Brilliant production values. John Wayne makes a small cameo, Carroll Baker, and Dorothy McGuire are cast. The overall effect is one of careful attention to detail but lacks the passion of The Greatest Story Ever Told. Possibly meaningful to the back story is that none of Stevens great stars Jean Arthur, Cary Grant,Barbara Stanwyck, Rock Hudson, Katharine Hepburn, Alan Ladd, participated in this movie. Elixabeth Taylor was offered Mary Magdalene but turned it down. Jennifer Jones spent the last 15 years of her career from 1950-1965 trying to get a film of Mary Magdalene made, too bad Stevens did not cast Jennifer Jones who always gave great intense study to her roles! Irene Dunne and Spencer Tracy both former Stevens stars and practing Catholic's also shied away from this project. The issue I have with the film is Von Sydow. Who would I have selected? Possibly Stephen Boyd who was Catholic and would have given his Christ a passion. "},{"Title":"persons drama","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Like it is a subject of religious beliefs,many sentimentality's involved will betray themselves,touched by the proximity of core values,or outplayed in confusion by the smaller human dimension of something supposed to be holier. Like in the last acts of the play,is for its characters,the viewers would not know what or how to do with this Film,like with the man,Jesus. The director,and the professionals involved seem to have been trying to play at their best,outplayed also as to how to portray something so exceptional that had so many repercussions through the ages and frankly,still mesmerizes. All around played to their advantage,the grandiosity of the locations,the photography,the music score,the quality of acting,the script of short but intense dialogue,even the time given to such heroic epic. But again,there is that something to this movie that it leaves the critic to dissatisfaction,a sense of left down,and many to despair and disbelief.And Im not sure if it was indeed this effect what was intended,as with the Delibes' famous quote An story,must not only bring to entertainment but when done well through,its ultimate purpose should be to unease,disquiet,to unsettle(what any Society misses). Max Von Sydow,(and Im one huge fan of his)did take the character with the ease of someone used since way earlier,to play these roles looming around Death with a smile and fear altogether.Serene and rich,frail and aware of the peculiar physicality of his added to the role.Only some People from those not used to these triptychs pieces of Art would still be receptive to their beauty and mystery.No wonder is that the human aspect of the Christ he is playing to,is abated to the monochrome Lordful one that the public and critic is expecting to see.As the supermenschabove and godly,grandiose cinema.That is why,the miracles are not played to the special effects of cinematic Red seas splitting to amaze the eye,but to bring the intimate effects and convolutions falling inside the surrounding characters,included Jesus' own interacting among with them. To this I have to commend the unforgettable interpretation done by David MacCallum as the critical Judas,but to a higher turn and human rich detail that of Van Heflin,with all his capabilities at the top of the Craft.In his,one can see the older man already over the hill who with his slanting eyes may have seen it all,until then.Jews and Herodians political jockeying around the roman invaders,as well. The climatic scene of Lazarus' resurrection is artfully painted by Stevens,and it comes to point this very well,that aside all that spectacle possible going on,decided to show precisely these two characters side by side,the older average well trodden human somewhat of a skeptical rejuvenating in new facts to belief,and the younger businessman collapsing in rejecting facts for stern assumptions never to overwhelm. If one can not see these scenes and their framing of humanity,acting,stampeding from the screen,petal after petal,one fails to see it because they maybe bring other self rejections of introspection in ourselves as worthy of the divine (or cinematic)Drama.Painted actors and cinema can be more glorious to watch as full Roses,unopened,and in a bunch bound. This Film,indeed may bring the Drama out of this Tragedy,but its focus all along may be in the -less spectacle because its commonality-silent unwrapping of the lives,Life. "},{"Title":"Biblical classic brings out the good in popular celebrities...","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This version of the gospel told by George Stevens is probably among the best filmed biblicals despite the fact that Stevens used to many famous faces in minor roles. Who would of imagined The Duke as a centurion or Sidney Poitier as Simon of Cyrene? And also in is interesting to see others in major historical figures like Claude Rains as Herod or Charlton Heston as the Baptist. I heard thru some outside source that Stevens initially wanted Richard Burton to portray Jesus before offering it to Sweedish screen legend Max Von Sydow. Though Vom Sydow wasn't popular yet in Hollywood or the world before this role, this film brought out the good in him and also in the popular American actors. The Lazarus scene out of the tomb is probably one of the most highlighting features of any biblical film since Stevens decided to use Handel's Messiah. "},{"Title":"Worth a Second Look","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a movie that was just made for the in-home video situation. Actually, it was made for the big-screen as the ultimate Biblical blockbuster. And it was rightly panned for being silly in spots and dull overall. (Silly? James the Less asking Jesus what His name is and upon being told saying, Ah, that's a good name!, with Jesus responding, Thank you! Ed Wynn doddering about Palestine as a blind man and reminding the Messiah about how when He was just a little fella' He was always asking questions. Dull? The Sermon on the Mount shot from twenty miles away with Jesus posing weirdly like some sort of oragami figurine. Roman soldiers, Apostles, Mary and Joseph, camels, everyone, trudging through the desert...)But there are so many things about TGSET which are truly magnificent and, in a Biblical movie, unique, that it deserves a general reevaluation, now that you can fast-forward through the dull and the dumb parts. Most Bible movies suffer from a certain pictorial stodginess, as if the director were afraid to depart from illustrated Bible models. Stevens is not afraid of arty touches, like the huge close-up of the Infant Christ's hand superimposed against a sun which dissolves into trumpets of the Temple guards. The sequence in which John the Baptist is introduced as a breath of fresh air into a drab and heartless world is for me the finest representation in all cinema of a Christian concept. And the scene when the Holy Family, making a pretty holy picture along with their little donkey, happen upon one of the mass crucifixions you read about in Josephus, is startling and thought-provoking like nothing else in any sword-and-sandal flick. You don't get this kind of depth and breadth of allusion anywhere else. Great music, beautiful scenery, fair cast with Herods and Peter a cut above, notorious all-star problem less of a problem with every passing year. Who under 30 knows Shelley Winters from Edna May Oliver? Sal Mineo from George Arliss? Only John Wayne is actually bad, so the others's having been famous is a non-issue now. "},{"Title":"Life of Brian is my favorite biblical epic","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Anyone who's read any of my reviews of most musicals and/or epics will most likely know that I only watch them so that I can trash-talk them a la Mystery Science Theater 3000. The Greatest Story Ever Told would be perfect fodder for that show. Among my heckling remarks were Son, when you reign... - ...you'll pour. All the tribes on the earth... - ...she had to come to mine. Hosanna! - Oh, Hosanna, don't you cry for me! We got a new religion and it's gonna set us free! Sorry if I offend religious people, but having been raised without religion, I take none seriously (Bill Maher's documentary Religulous pretty much displays my opinion of organized religion, although I think that Maher could have done better).As for the characters. First off, it makes no sense to cast white people like Max von Sydow and Claude Rains as biblical figures. The stories took place in the Middle East, so they should have all been at least swarthy; Sidney Poitier, Jamie Farr and Michael Ansara (Barbara Eden's then-husband) were the only cast members who looked accurate. Apparently, when someone asked George Stevens why he cast so many top stars - among them Carroll Baker, Pat Boone, Angela Lansbury, Roddy McDowall, Dorothy McGuire and John Wayne - in small roles, Stevens asserted that in later years people wouldn't know who these actors/actresses are and would judge the whole movie on its merits. Well, I know who most of these people are/were. One of the things that I judge is that the movie comes across as a lead weight. And that Charlton Heston turns John the Baptist into a real wise guy, and that it's hard to watch Telly Savalas as Pontius Pilate and not think of Savalas's other roles.In my opinion, the important thing to understand about Jesus is that he was basically a revolutionary. Judea was a hierarchical society with the colonizing Romans collaborating with the king and the religious institution, and then along comes this carpenter who starts speaking for the masses. The fact that people wanted to free murderer Barrabas goes to show that in a frenzied-up society, a revolutionary is considered more dangerous than a murderer. I actually didn't learn the story of Jesus until my parents and I went to Paris when I was ten. Going to the museums and seeing the paintings depicting biblical scenes, my mom decided that she'd better explain to me what the story was. For the record, by the age of five, I could identify the people behind the Bugs Bunny cartoons (Mel Blanc, Chuck Jones, Friz Freleng, etc).Long story short, I don't recommend this movie, unless it's for a film class. Also starring Michael Anderson, Joanna Dunham, Van Heflin, Martin Landau, David McCallum, Donald Pleasance and Shelley Winters. "},{"Title":"At least it's superior to King of Kings.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This one is better than I expected it to be. Despite its extreme length, the flow is somewhat choppy (especially in the first hour) and the tone (surprise!) overly reverential, but the film still has moments of intelligence and emotion, and Max Von Sydow gives a strong performance as a rather humane and accessible Jesus, far surpassing Hunter's male-mannequin acting style in King Of Kings. Charlton Heston, however, is absurd as John the Baptist and Telly Savalas unconvincing as Pilatus. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Not Quite The Greatest Story","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" During filming, post - production and all the way up to its 1965 Roadshow premiere, director George Stevens gave critics and the movie -going public every indication that Greatest Story would be a very different depiction of the Life of Christ, eschewing the De Millean trappings of previous efforts; what ended up on the huge Ultra Panavision 70 screen was an extremely lugubrious film studded with star cameo appearances ( a popular practice among some contemporary epics of the time, i.e. AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS , PEPE and THE LONGEST DAY.) This spot the famous star  technique (Ed Wynn as a blind man, John Wayne as a Roman centurion etc.) distracted from one's emotional involvement with the film. Reverential to a fault and simplistic in a purely fundamentalist point of view, this spectacular movie is nevertheless a fascinating failure. As misconceived as the picture is, there are many stunning moments in it ; what the movie lacks in dramatic force is somewhat made up for by the brilliant use of camera work, the visual flow of images and an all encompassing music score, technical traits shared by Stevens' greatest works, A PLACE IN THE SUN and SHANE "},{"Title":"Almost the greatest version ever made","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Although I prefer Jesus OF NAZARETH over all the Biblical films depicting the life of Christ, this film follows at a close second (KING OF KINGS is enjoyable although loses most of its luster when compared to GREATEST). Max Von Sydow (with those piercing blue eyes) turns in a noteworthy portrayal as Jesus and should have at least gotten an Oscar nod for his performance. Charlton Heston with his booming, commanding voice and rugged, muscular physique is the idyllic John the Baptist and should have been an Oscar contender in the supporting actor category; Dorothy McGuire is radiant as the Virgin Mary (even if she does have a small role--which should not have been so relegated). Jose Ferrer gives a somewhat gruff portrayal of Herod Antipas while Claude Rains is a terrifying Herod the Great. Telly Savales is rather mediocre as Pontius Pilate, Angela Lansbury as his wife Claudia should have had more than one line and John Wayne should never have been offered a part in the film. It does drag in some places but despite the few minor flaws this is an enjoyable film and does not lack the essence of the Gospels. "},{"Title":"the greatest story ever told","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have watched this movie every year for the past 35 years with my family and it truely is the greatest story ever told. The purpose for which Jesus was sent to us was clear and to the point. The scenes were moving and the power of the holy spirit was present every time we watched this film. The actors were very good in their roles and they were the correct choice for the film. I have seen a few other movies about the biblical events of Jesus, but this film had an affect on me to the point that I recommend this movies to others. If I had a movies theater, I would show it continuously, to give everyone that has an interest in watching a movie about Jesus the opportunity. "}{"Title":"A Gospel Mish-Mash With A Few Flights Of Fancy Thrown In","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I would begin a review of any movie of this type by noting that - with the passions that will be operating within many of the viewers - any attempt to portray the life of Jesus Christ must be the most difficult task any film maker can undertake. Producer/director George Stevens deserves credit for a major effort. However, there are significant problems with this long and poorly-paced effort that start with the obvious. I presume the title of the movie is intended to suggest that the life of Jesus is the greatest story ever told. Having said that, it is surely presumptuous for any film maker to entitle his own movie The Greatest Story Ever Told - particularly when it (the actual movie, I mean) turns out not to be.The basic story (from the manger to the cross to the empty tomb) is there, but in what seemed to me to be a rather disjointed fashion. We have a mish-mash of Jesus' ethical teachings scattered throughout the movie with no apparent focus (and, for some reason, a decision to put the words of Paul from 1 Corinthians 13 - and now these three remain, faith, hope and love, but the greatest of these is love - on to the lips of Jesus.) We have several questionable interpretations - the two most memorable to me being the identification of Lazarus with the rich man who was told by Jesus that it was easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven, and of Mary Magdalene as the woman caught in adultery whom Jesus saved from a stoning - and there are a number of flights of fancy (the confrontation between Caiaphas and Nicodemus in the Sanhedrin - which I thought was well done - and the Roman massacre of worshippers at the temple prior to Jesus' arrest, neither of which have any historical validity that I know of.)The casting of the movie was somewhat problematic. None of the performances really leapt out at me as extraordinary (except for Donald Pleasance, who I will mention later.) I was not taken with Max Von Sydow's take on Jesus. He certainly seemed earnest, but he portrayed Jesus as an almost other-worldly character, and I thought the result was that Jesus lacked his essential humanity and seemed strangely uninvolved in what was happening around him. Something about Charlton Heston as John the Baptist seemed out of place and I have to confess that I laughed when John Wayne's voice (as the centurion at the foot of the cross) said in that unmistakable Wayne twang, Surely this man was the Son of God! The ending was also problematic to me. The Gospels, of course, end the story of Jesus' life with the risen Jesus offering his disciples the evangelistic Great Commission (Go into all the world and make disciples of all nations.) Here, the risen Jesus leaves his disciples with another ethical teaching about love. Is this decision to de-emphasize the evangelistic thrust of the Christian faith an early example of political correctness?There were things about this movie that I liked. The centre point of the movie (as in the Gospel of John) is the raising of Lazarus by Jesus. It becomes the point at which skepticism turns to conviction. But setting aside the theological value of the event, I liked the way Stevens handled it. The focus was not on Lazarus (in fact we never see the resurrected Lazarus.) Instead the focus is on the reactions of those who saw the event, and the impact is powerful. I also enjoyed the repeated appearances by Donald Pleasance as Satan at appropriate points in the movie, demonstrating that the story of Jesus' life is really the story of a spiritual battle between light and darkness. Pleasance portrays Satan as I think he would be generally gentle and soft-spoken and seemingly rather harmless. An interesting theological issue is raised near the end of the movie when Satan (Pleasance) is among those who whip up the crowd to demand that Pilate have Jesus crucified. Surely a proper understanding of Christian theology would have Satan trying to prevent Jesus from being crucified, since the crucifixion and resurrection were Jesus' ultimate victory.All things considered, though, I was disappointed with this movie. It wasn't bad, but certainly could have been so much better. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I've not seen the rest of his films, but I wouldn't be surprised if this isn't Max Von Sydow's greatest acting achievement.You believe he is Jesus.  It's amazing.It's of epic length, which I enjoy.All those stars!!!!!!!!! See if you can pick them all out. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Story NEVER Told","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Even from the Main Titles, a deadly scroll-crawl in miniscule Font size, we know we're in for a most sluggish affair. The story of Jesus Christ makes for great drama, not exhibited here. Arizona and Utah locations are obvious stand-ins for Bethlehem, that should fool no one. The ultra wide-screen photography frames The Last Supper scene beautifully, but is not used wisely for much else. George Stevens directs too distantly, with nary a closeup and frequently composing his actors in silhouette, producing listlessness to his audience. Max Von Sydow as Jesus, in an uncharacteristically short hairstyle, is wan and awkward. The cameo scenes are frequently ludicrous, featuring Shelley Winters in a bad grey wig, Sal Mineo, John Wayne, Telly Savalas, many more. Dorothy McGuire is a vivid Virgin Mary, while Claude Rains is excellent in his bit role. The Alfred Newman score is old-fashioned and dull. Repeatedly cut from its initial four hours running time to 3 then 2, and in between, this was a critical and commercial failure. May cure insomniacs, though. "},{"Title":"An overly faithful epic for the overly faithful.","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Intentions were heavily noble for George Stevens' biblical epic, but the outcome doesn't entirely succeed at striking the heart or stirring the soul. The Greatest Story Ever Told stars Max von Sydow as Jesus Christ of Nazareth (von Sydow) in a feature-film chronicle of Jesus's birth by Mary (McGuire) all the way to his death on the cross & rising from the dead. The film starts with a reading from the Book of John, giving us a rather joyful start to Christ's life, but as the runtime continues, the frequent dullness of this film's events begins to take its toll on viewers. Why? Because this film suffers from utter faithfulness to the Book it's based on, never once showing any sign of creative liberty or inspiration. Unlike 1956's magnificent The Ten Commandments, Greatest Story fails to heighten the tension that would have come in reality for such amazing events and doesn't take any risks. For instance, after Jesus's baptism, he runs into Satan in the mountains and is tempted by a supposedly menacing figure. All of Satan's taunting fails to reveal pure soulless evil in him, even though he is the Devil. Even some better camera-work, lighting, and direction on Stevens's part would have made it seem like a heated argument rather than a dull bickering in the dark. Truly, the lighting often makes it incomprehensible to see who is talking or even where people are. But there are moments when the actors' and score's work alone create some charming scenes, such as Jesus healing a cripple, entering the temple, and dying on the cross. While the camera-work is mediocre in many eventful moments, relying on long unedited shots for comprehension, it truly succeeds on landscape shots, giving the Jordan River and the capital of Jerusalem a true sense of grandeur. Sadly, the film also relies on overly preachy segments for grandeur, especially a couple of overlong scenes of prayer from Jerusalem's men & women. What mainly saves Greatest Story are its main all-star performances. Max von Sydow gives Jesus the spiritual mentality he needs to appear wise and kind to all. Charlton Heston, who starred as Moses in The Ten Commandments, brings back the same authoritative attitude and vigor to steal whatever scene he's in as John the Baptist, elevating interest where it couldn't have existed. Other supporting standouts are David McCallum as Judas Iscariot and Joanna Dunham as Mary Magdalene. The Greatest Story Ever Told doesn't make much impact with its 3-hour runtime like Commandments did; in other words, it's an overly faithful biblical epic for the overly faithful. "},{"Title":"hugely moving visual masterpiece","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" My review goes against the general grain of reviews. I am not a Christian, a Sikh in fact. So my experience of this masterpiece is not tarnished by my own emotional and spiritual experiences and beliefs. This is a very moving piece and in my view the best movie on Jesus' life. The best portrayal (in my opinion) being that of Robert Powell in the 6 hour TV series.The present film is and visual masterpiece, every scene is loaded with powerful imagery which and dads to the emotional impact of the story. Often there is so much happening and so much open to understand and interpret that it challenges the senses.That said, the film probably is overloaded with super starts. John Wayne's 20 seconds for instance was unnecessary. This has become a yearly classic in my household "},{"Title":"big long slow biblical epic","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Director George Stevens has made a grand epic of the life of Jesus. It starts with the three wise men meeting Herod the Great (Claude Rains). Max von Sydow is Jesus. Dorothy McGuire is the Virgin Mary. Charlton Heston is John the Baptist. Jose Ferrer as Herod Antipas. Telly Savalas is Pontius Pilate. Martin Landau is Caiaphas. David McCallum is Judas Iscariot. Donald Pleasence is Satan. Roddy McDowall is Matthew. The cast is in the multitudes with many famous names. Although some of the famous actors are very distracting and is more comical than intended. The visuals are grand taking full advantage of some wide open spaces in America. Jean Negulesco and David Lean also contributed to the filming. This is a big visual epic but is also extremely slow. At over four hours, this does not take the shorter route. One can admire this for its cinematography but it's not a particularly exciting viewing. Some religious audience may like its sheer epic nature. "},{"Title":"A Biblical movie masterpiece","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" George Stevens' The Greatest Story Ever Told was a true great movie even though it was one f his last movies he still hung in there with his sensitive directorship for the film. What this movie tries to tell us is what really happened in Jesus Christ's life. The movie stars Max Von Sydow as Jesus the man who died for forgiveness of sins and our daily life. The movie also has other brilliant cast members such as Charlton Heston (as St. John the baptist), Jose Ferrer, Dorothy McGuire, Claude Rains (in his last performance), Martin Landau, Caroll Baker, Sidney Poitier, John Wayne, and Van Heflin. Director George Stevens also tries to teach us why we should feel bad about Christ went through at the end of his life but was really his destiny. What a masterpiece but unfortunately some of the users didn't like this movie but i think it was true to the life of Jesus Christ. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, Personal Artwork","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What George Stevens has created is actually a very personal meditation, using a massive budget, resources, and talent. An ultimate test of this work is the number of times one can periodically view it, in whole or in part, and whether it continues to offer insights.At a point in his life when his array of popular cinematic successes was behind him, Stevens saw this as an ultimate challenge and opportunity--and it was. The role of Jesus, like Moses, is a somewhat impossible part to play. Stevens' careful choosing of von Syndow illustrates the care with which he cast his feature. Realizing the importance of box office names to help sell his work, Stevens practically cast many recognizable names that had marquee appeal.This isn't a film one can watch once, judge fairly, and dispense with. Like all fine artworks, it's a piece to return to again and again, savoring the beautiful, detailed rendering of this contemplative creation. On all counts, the film holds up beautifully.I feel one must cast aside all the rush and hubub of the modern world, with its hurried pace and superficial formatting, to savor an introspective and scholarly rendering of this biblical tale. The sets, costumes, photography, musical score, and of course the outstanding cast, are all fine.Mr. Stevens truly left his mark of greatness in the cinematic oeuvre. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Lacks Energy And Excitement In Telling The Story Of Jesus","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" George Stevens chose Monument Valley, Utah for his exterior sequences in The Greatest Story Ever Told, an adaptation of Fulton Oursler's best- selling book. The Greatest Story is, of course has Jesus Christ,played by Max Von Sydow. It is a retelling of the story of Jesus Christ, from the Nativity through the Resurrection. This film is notable for its large ensemble cast that includes Dorothy McGuire as Mary, Claude Rains as Herod the Great, Jose Ferrer as Herod Antipas, Charlton Heston as John the Baptist, Donald Pleasence as Satan, David McCallum as Judas Iscariot, Sidney Poitier as Simon of Cyrene, Telly Savalas as Pontius Pilate and Martin Landau as Caiaphas.It also includes Robert Blake as Simon the Zealot, Jamie Farr as Thaddaeus, and Richard Bakalyan as Dismas, the repentant thief.It was co-written by George Stevens and James Lee Barrett and directed by Stevens as well.Despite the talented cast ensemble,the movie lacks the power to let the viewer absorb and get engaged in it.Also,despite the fact that it gives importance to the teachings of Jesus,it does not put into the big screen what his life and his mission was all about.Overall,it was dull and boring despite of having some great moments in it and it would be worth watching for people who love religious movies. "},{"Title":"This Didn't Have To Happen","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've never seen the point of making another biopic of Jesus Christ four years after the definitive (if highly fictionalized) cinematic version, King of Kings. That version at least had developed characters, remarkable imagery, and a strong storyline that was greatly enhanced and deepened by clarified character relationships and a rich historical context. George Stevens did The Greatest Story Ever Told, however, just to be seen doing it. As opposed to the more extrovert Biblical spectacles (think The Robe, The Ten Commandments, and King of Kings, all great or near-great movies) this one focuses less on the pageantry and more on the human drama-- or, at least, that was the plan. But it failed for a number of reasons.1) Movies set in the historical past (and, by the way, the future) are inherently showy because they require showy sets and costumes. In spite of Stevens' intent, it's still a bunch of ancient designs on a super-wide (too wide) screen. 2) The movie is cluttered (as you well know) with tacky cameo appearances ranging from the understandable (Roddy McDowell as an apostle, Sal Mineo as a cripple) to the absurd (Shelley Winters) and the downright obscene (show me John Wayne!) Even this would be understandable, however, if the characters had any sort of depth. The only character who is truly explored to the fullest potential is Jesus. More on this in a minute. 3) Stevens seems to lean far too strongly on his artistic homages. Using DaVinci's staging of the last supper (all on one side of the table!) is forgivable, but the slightly altered version of the Sistine chapel featured at the beginning is a bit much, and he lost me completely when two of the giant miracles (one at the beginning, one at the end) were underscored by the Hallelujah chorus from Handel's Messiah, which clashes drastically with Alfred Newman's gloriously powerful (though not very ambitious) score. Newman valiantly wrote his own Hallelujahs to make for a less awkward transition into the Handel music, but it's still jarringly familiar.Max von Sydow delivers one of his truly great performances as Christ-- quiet when necessary but always full of grandeur and solemnity. He outdoes Jeffrey Hunter (King of Kings) every step of the way. And Charlton Heston makes a compelling John the Baptist-- but our connection to the character of John is that of watching and hearing a great orator deliver speeches we've all heard millions of times before. It's like, for instance, Barack Obama delivering the I Have a Dream speech. I'm sure it's a wonderful performance, but it doesn't offer any psychological insight into the man who originated it. It is, in fact, just one man temporarily inhabiting the persona of, never actually evoking, a rare mind. The worst of all in the film's voluminous list of disappointingly flat characterizations is David McCallum's Judas (for which I don't blame McCallum, but Stevens and his co-screenwriter James Lee Barrett). As is often the trap, Judas is given absolutely no discernible motivation for that certain deed of his. When he enacts it, we knew it was coming but we still feel completely and totally blindsided. And shallowly so. How can you feel pity for people who exist only to adhere to a millennia-old story as familiar as your own hometown?The film as it exists today is presented in a 199-minute version with 45 seconds of overture and nearly six minutes of intermission and exit music. It was originally 225 minutes (!). King of Kings runs 171 minutes with 3 minutes of overture and about six minutes of intermission and exit music. They both tell the same story but only King of Kings resembles any sort of dramatically valid presentation. Greatest Story Ever Told fails to achieve in 199 what King of Kings excelled at in 171. Of course, Greatest is still closer to the subject matter-- but only because of its slavish script, stilted dialogue (which uncomfortably fuses Jacobean grandiloquence with contemporary Sunday school jargon) and artistic self-indulgence. "}{"Title":"The Longest Story Ever Told","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I suppose, given that the story is now the best part of 2,000 years old, the title of the film is not unreasonable. And the three-odd hours of the film don't drag.Part of this is the power of the story - even when processed through the Hollywood machine, it is still able to move and touch with awe (and I say this as a non-Christian).Part of it, I'm afraid, is star-spotting. The movie is packed with cameos, ranging from the dignified (Poitier) to the, frankly, ill-considered (John Wayne's centurion).Part of it is the visuals - it is a handsomely mounted film.And part of it is von Sydow's majestic performance, with a giant authority and stillness at its heart.Not the best movie in the world, but a worthwhile movie which rewards the time spent watching it. "},{"Title":"With a Special Cameo Appearance By That Great Roman Actor Giovanus Waynus","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was bad. I usually like religious themed movies, but this one was the most sloppily put together movie on a religious theme I've ever seen in my life. The playing of Verdi's REQUIEM while Jesus was carrying the cross was a nice touch, though. For one thing, they took Jesus's words out of context, and the actor who played Jesus looked like he would have been better cast as Judas Iscariot. He just had that sneaky look about him.You've got to wonder what some of these folks at casting were thinking. John Wayne as a Roman centurion? And a two second part to boot. And you don't even see his face. Did they perhaps have their tongues firmly planted in their cheeks when they did this scene? I can't help wondering.SHORELY, THIS MAN WAS THE SON OF GAWD. You're darn tootin', Pilgrim!!! "},{"Title":"Worth Watching.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A POW of the Nazis himself, Donald Pleasence as the serpentine Dark Hermit(Satan)is perfect, his bald pate and hypnotic eye showing up methodically throughout the film, at his diabolical best on the mountain precipice, smoothly tempting Jesus with food and power.  Claude Rains as Herod, Jose Ferrer as Herod Antipas and even Telly Savalas as Pilate are memorable--Telly Savalas is my mental picture of Pontias Pilate. Charleton Heston as the Baptist is almost convincing; Martin Landau as Caiaphas likewise.  Sydow's Jesus always finishes sentences wherever at all possible with gravelly z's, lending authority but perhaps a little tiresome if you notice.If you were around then going to the silver screen just like I was, seeing Ed Wynn as the cured blind man couldn't help bringing a reminder of him laughing up there on the ceiling with Dick van Dyke in Mary Poppins, just a year earlier.With John Wayne in a few choice spots, it's definitely a period piece, but the opening, thoughtful score, and the reminder that the producer and director, George Stevens, had filmed at the liberated Dachau death camp in WWII, make it a thoughtful, poignant and definite worth while. "},{"Title":"An Average Film on the Life of Christ","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I would have to call The Greatest Story Ever Told an Average Film on the life of Christ because it was just that, average.  Although the story was good and it followed the bible very well, the way it was presented was weak and unemotional.  The adding of big stars in very small parts was also a weakness.  Like John Wayne's famous one line  truly this man was the son of God.There were a some good moments in the film and Max VonSydow does a good job as Christ.  Also noteworthy were Charlton Heston as John the Baptist, and Dorothy McGuire as the Virgin Mary.Overall however, it was a disappointment.1977's Jesus of Nazareth, always was and always will be the best version of the life of Christ.  "},{"Title":"The Romans mocked Jesus Christ stand down","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Greatest Story Ever Told is an important Religious movie. My Father who was the American Shadow Vice President until 1981 when his 36 year term ended and it transferred to me told me to say to Selby Forbes of Walkerton, Ontario Couchon Pig 'Ugh which stands for cpu or central processing unit. This information was supposed to tell Selby that we were all inside a Computer Holodeck and that our programs are played over and over again with slight differences every time. As the Grandson of the Care Rank Ki Aliens chosen Messiah King George VI Lancaster I do not think that the Forbes family figured out the message from America Britain and France. I propose that we all forgive and forget the past that is prologue since as the old saying goes United we stand divided we fall. May God bless the Christians and Jewish people of the book that gives to quote Trevor Rabin formerly of Yes. "},{"Title":"OVERLONG, OVERWROUGHT AND OVERSTUFFED!!!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This to me is one of the worst stories on the life of Christ ever released.  The film is stuffed with too many stars in too many meaningless roles.  Perhaps George Stephens knew how big a turkey this was going to be so he called on some of his superstar pals to spice it up, how else could you explain John Wayne and his one line performance.  Also, this film is so strays so much from the Gospels its pathetic.  For the record, the Apostle John was the brother of the Apostle James, not Matthew as portrayed in the movie.  I hope that when someone does do a story on the life of Christ they will do their homework and try to do a coherent film, not this train wreck. "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was not the first version I ever saw.  That was the 1976 Jesus of Nazareth (JoN).  But I do think it was the best I ever saw.  Although the movie progresses rather slowly, the way some of the scenes are depicted will always be in my memory...1)  Raising Lazarus from the dead--I liked the way Jesus (von Sydow) burst into tears when Mary and Elizabeth doubted him.  This directly contrasted with the cool demeanor of Robert Powell's JoN performance (Nah, he's just sleeping!).  I liked von Sydow much better.2)  Mary Magdeline's (sp?) visit to the tomb of Jesus--In JoN,the angels appeared in their full splendor, clean white robes and unearthly glow.  In GSET, Mary is walking toward the tomb, and told by what appear to be a couple farmers that Jesus isn't there, go tell everyone. She blows them off, but when she finds the tomb is in fact empty, then runs out to confront the farmers, they're gone.  I was always more impressed by how that was done.See this movie. "},{"Title":"Visually wonderful, but...","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" My wife and I picked this movie up on DVD a few months ago, as neither of us had seen it since we were children (which for me was also long before I became a Christian); and with the cast, awards, and reputation it has, we thought...how can we lose? Well, we lost big by buying this film.Being an artist, I would be lying if I did not say that visually it is absolutely wonderful; a masterpiece in that regard. However, it does a lousy job of telling what is indeed The Greatest Story Ever Told with solid Biblical accuracy. In fact, many scenes are portrayed in such a way as to make the events and people who are a part of them act in ways completely out of character with the representations in the Bible. It presents the story of Christ in a way that would be very misleading (and thus could be problematic or even dangerous) to a new believer in Christ, or one who is not well-versed in his or her theology and doctrine yet.Yes it is lovely to look at, much like watching an animated oil painting (in some cases so much so, it becomes downright silly depicting the participants at The Last Supper as actually all sitting on one side of the table!), but is so spiritually incoherent as to be downright annoying for any studied believer to watch for very long. "},{"Title":"a few comments about this film's music","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Yes, the great Alfred Newman and yes he was a great film composer no doubt in my mind. But for those viewers who are not familiar with classical music, Mr. Newman did NOT write all of the music in this film.Newman even borrowed from himself...just before the intermission around the Lazarus scene, I am sure that Newman quotes from his own score for The Robe (from 1953). The music and choral parts sound so similar to the scene at the cross in The Robe. Then later in the Lazarus scene, the film score brings in parts of the Hallelujah Chorus from Handel's oratario The Messiah. Parts of this return at the end,too.The procession of Jesus with the Cross includes selections from the opening section of Giuseppe Verdi's Requiem Mass, albeit it is repeated over and over which does not happen in Verdi's score. And its editing in the film is quite butchered too. What bothers me in the film's credits is that I couldn't see any reference that material was being credited to neither Handel nor Verdi. That would not happen today, but I am surprised in happened in 1965! The producers should have known better to give credit to the composers besides Mr. Newman.I have not seen the restored DVD version, so I don't know if this oversight was rectified in the credits or in the notes. The notes for the soundtrack CD of the score (Varese Saraband) only mentions Handel, not Verdi.------------------------------------------------------------------Speaking of Alfred Newman's score for The Robe, film music fans might also like to know that parts of The Robe score I have also heard in earlier films (David & Bathsheba and The Hunchback of Notre Dame). For The Robe, it is Newman self-borrowing again, and most likely lost him the Oscar nomination for The Robe. "},{"Title":"Faithful but barely authentic depiction of Christ's life","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" George Stevens' movie is, most probably, one of these movies about Christ that is widely known among the general audience. It was made in the period when films about Jesus as well as the sword and sandal epics were highly popular. The movies like BARABBAS (1961), KING OF KINGS (1961), SODOM AND GOMORRAH (1962), THE BIBLE (1965) have to be mentioned here because THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD is very similar to the aforementioned movies in many aspects. Therefore, if you liked the 1960s' epics, you will also like this one. Many people have already said much about it so I will discuss only some aspects of the film.CAST Max Von Sydow gives a good performance as Jesus Christ. Although he does not look the Christ of later movies, particularly Robert Powell in Zeffirelli's 1977 movie, his acting is so good and his eyes are so powerful that even a modern viewer easily gets accustomed to his face as Jesus'. Sometimes, however, he has difficulties expressing the human nature of Christ concentrating primarily on His divinity. However, these are minor shortcomings that an average viewer can skip. The idea of this movie is the STORY and therefore, we cannot expect a particularly deep interpretation of Christ's mission and sacrifice. Mary, Jesus' mother, is played by Dorothy McGuire. She is very beautiful in the role but does not resemble the true nature of the Holy Mother of God. She is just present in the story and we see her as mother of Jesus only. Neverthelss, one man is absolutely great in his role and that is Charlton Heston as John the Baptist. He is a mainstay of the biblical epics from the role of Moses to Ben Hur, but his John the Baptist is really worth attention. Strict, straightforward and frank to the very core (consider the conversation with king Herod). Very appealing portrayal! Other remarkable performances include Claude Rains as Herod the Great, Jose Ferrer as Herod Antipas and Telly Savalas as Pontius Pilate. I also liked Ina Balin as Martha of Bettany. The whole sequence with Lazarus (Micheal Tolan) is really good. That is one of the few films that shows the fact Lazarus was a rich man, he had a villa near Jerusalem, and all his family opened to Christ's Mission.LOCATIONS The problem of the movie, however, is the serious lack of authenticity. Instead of a region expressing the landscape of Palestine, a viewer gets scene by scene filmed in the natural beauties and national parks of the USA, particularly Death Valley National Park and Glen Canyon. This is the only movie that has done nothing to make it at least a bit authentic in case of filming locations. I was disappointed by the Capernaum of the movie (the town by the Sea of Galilee looks entirely different), the reconstruction of Jerusalem with its walls as well as the desert and the Jordan River. Imagine John the Baptist baptizing by the lakes in Utah ... strange! But that is what you get in this movie.CONTENT The story appears to be the main focus of the film, which is indicated by the title itself. The greatest story that has ever been told to humanity is filled with Hollywood style of the 1960s. There are moments that reflect the interpretations of the New Testament by different denominations. Nevertheless, for someone who does not know much about Christ, the movie may serve a useful purpose. It more or less accurately shows the life of Christ, entails his teachings and shows his death and resurrection clearly. Some scenes are very much influenced by our times and modern views on that period 2000 years ago. For example, we get Haendel's oratorio from THE TRIUMPH OF TIME and MESSIAH not only when Jesus rises from the dead but also when Lazarus is brought back to life. But generally speaking, the movie does not create confusion and can be seen by the number of audiences.Some people call Stevens' film the longest story ever told. I wouldn't call it in that way because the director wanted to entail as much as possible, which is worth attention in the life of Christ. The movie is helpful for many viewers, shows Christ in a bit different light (the 1960s) and may be enjoyable to watch not only by the sword and sandal epic fans. But don't expect too much. It is definitely not the best film about Jesus. 6/10! "}{"Title":"King of Kings is better","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Although Greatest Story does have the better actor in Max Von Sydow (over Jeffrey Hunter), plus is more faithful to the actual story in the Bible,  Kings has the more believable cast, the awesome score by Miklos Rozsa, the moving narration by Orson Wells, plus it looks like Ben~Hur (Good reason Hur was also released by MGM - just two years earlier).... and anything that resembles Hur in the least is pretty good in my book. For entertainment value, Kings will keep you more interested. As a moving experience, I believe it also has the edge. "},{"Title":"From The Original to the Remake","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Stories on Our Lord Jesus Christ in the Movies were really great.I was thinking about a Remake Movie on The Greatest Story ever told about Jesus to be set from Paramount Pictures or 20th Century Fox to make a $Movie-Budget in producing the Remake Version on The Greatest Story ever told. But there's one actor to be chosen to play Our Lord Jesus Christ is Liam Neeson Star Wars Episode 1The Phantom Menace will make a perfect role playing Jesus Christ. "},{"Title":"Good Intentions","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm a big fan of George Stevens. I think A Place in the Sun is one of the great films of all time. What he did with the close-up in Sun is nothing short of miraculous - he literally reinvented the close-up and in the process elevated Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift to stellar status. When I first heard that Stevens was making the story of Christ, I was baffled. My first question was why? It may be the greatest story ever told but it is also the oldest. Is there a single person on this planet who does not know the story? Then when I saw that Stevens was casting every star in the world for the film I was truly incredulous. How could any film with all those stars not collapse just because of the sheer weight of so much star power? Mike Todd succeeded with Around the World in Eighty Days but that film was nothing like Jesus' story and in fact lent itself to so many stars each one of which was perfectly cast and it was fun to look for them as the mammoth production unrolled. But Jesus' story is hardly the kind of vehicle to lend itself to such theatrics and ultimately the ploy simply becomes part of the overall problem with the film. It ends up being just too ponderous in too many ways to be enjoyable. It's way too long and has way too many scenes that just do not make any sense. The script departs from scripture in a most annoying way, for example, when an apostle's coat is stolen and Jesus lectures him on giving everything he owns away. Just does not work and it's not even according to scripture. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest story ever told...","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" That is a very subjective title and quite hyperbolic in a sense. I usually don't really like such titles such as this, The Greatest Show on Earth and The Magnificent Showman, because not bad per se the movies are not as good as their titles suggest. And that is exactly the case here.The best asset is by far the production values, which from the cinematography to the scenery to the costumes are superb. The music is also wonderful, the direction is above decent, there are some compelling parts in the story and of the acting Max Von Sydow comes off best while Charlton Heston and Dorothy McGuire are good and are examples of performances that grew on me with repeat viewings.However, the film is overlong and ponderously paced so some scenes in the middle come across as tiresome. There is also some awkward dialogue, and the supporting cast is variable, some work, some don't. I do like John Wayne, but for me, his infamous appearance was one that didn't work, the only way I could tell it was Wayne was his voice and for an actor of his calibre one couldn't help think he needed a bigger and more expansive role.All in all, not bad, but not necessarily one I'd recommend. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"hardly","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The last of the big budget biblical spectaculars Max Von Sydow as Christ is OK- that is if you accept Christ as a Nordic type. Heston is just too overbearing as John the Baptist- he acts like a wild man in a loincloth and completely goes over the top with the histrionics as opposed to Robert Ryan lending an air of dignity and defiance in his version of John in the far better King of Kings of a few years earlier. Telly Savalas is quite good as Pontious Pilate even if he does bring a Kojak like modern urban spin on the character. Lastly, but certainly not least is the Duke himself, John Wayne as a Roman centurion supervising the crucifixion. His great line-surely this man was the son of God is one of the most unintentionally funniest lines ever filmed. Film is famous- or should I infamous for all the cameo roles it features. These brief roles just undermine the story even further than it should be. Film is overlong in all its incarnations, and that is putting it mildly .Ancient Judea looks more like the American West which is exactly what it is. The setting seems more in order for a John Ford western than a story on Christ. One can almost see the tumbleweeds roll across the desert floor and see a stagecoach in the background. It looks more like a Hallmark greeting card, and that seems to be the idea.George Stevens was a fine director, but this film is not one of his best. Rumor has it that other directors- including David Lean directed some sequences. That being said, the film does feature some good photography, but it will suffer on the small screen. By all means see it, but it is not a film that you will want to see twice. You'll be satisfied in one hour.They always say the book is better than the movie. In this case, its true. Not a complete disaster, but not as compelling as it should have been.It is just too overacted, overdirected, overscored, overphotographed and overinflated that it actually becomes underwhelming.Watch King of Kingsinstead. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but filmed as a painting rather than of people","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film I initially felt was great, but on further viewings realize, that its fundamental problem is that Steven's who is so caught with the canon of religious art, is trying to recreate that. He does not focus on the performances, sans of Von Sydow, who is excellent, though appears to simply say cliches without context to the listener. The lack of caring in the performances is evidenced by the weak acting ranging from overacting(Heston) to ludicrious(sal mineo, ed wynn, shelley winters and of course john wayne). The only fine acting is by Jose ferrer as Herod antipas, and claude rains as herod the great. Even these scenes were actually directed by David Lean who was uncredited when the film went over budget. Stevens failed in what should have worked. An excellent film version is King of Kings (1961), and of course jesus of nazereth for tv.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Bad","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie must be the case in point for that unnamed law of film or theatre, that the number of heavyweights in the credits is inversely related to the quality of the result.I thought this would be a bearable film, because the great Max von Sydow would lend his wonderful sense of irony or humor to the part of Jesus, who, except for those without an ounce of human sensibility, surely laughed.  Maybe even told jokes.  Jewish jokes!  But George Stevens, apparently drunk with the conceit that he could pick up the baton where Carl Dreyer had dropped it, allows von Sydow absolutely no humanity, making him, instead, some kind of ventriloquist's dummy, mouthing scripture, completely wooden-faced.  He even looks as if he should have a vertical seam on each side of his mouth, to allow his jaw to slide up and down.Same with the other names in this monstrosity.   They all look embarrassed - all except, as one might expect, Charlton Heston.  As for the co-directors, I don't known if David Lean and Jean Negulesco were uncredited because they had been hired to perform triage on this terminal case, or whether they merely refused to be associated with it.This is an opportunity lost, and why George Stevens, an otherwise admirable director, would have chosen to make it no more than a pious blather marathon, God only knows. "},{"Title":"truly this man was the son of gawd!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  or as one critic called it 'the longest story ever told'. this is an average version of the gospels which was done better by franco zeifferelli with 'jesus of nazareth' and martin scorsese's 'the last temptation of christ' respectfully. the best thing about this movie i think apart from a good lead performance of our lord by max von sydow are the scenes directed by legendary brit great david lean which i believe feature the scenes with jose ferrer. one legendary tid bit of hollywood trivia when john wayne first delivered his classic line on the first take director george stevens remarked that's fine duke but would you please repeat it again with a bit more awe? to which the world war 2 draft dodger loyally retorted with awe, truly this man was the son of gawd!...i luuurve it! "},{"Title":"The LONGEST Story Ever Told!!!!!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  OK, this movie has some beautiful scenes (that's why I give it a 5), but overall it's too long (3 hours, 15 minutes!), incorrectly letterboxed (it shows), color is faded and it's just plain boring after a while.  Director George Stevens shows reverence to the subject--too much.  Also he was given full creative control--a bad mistake.  The movie just rambles on endlessly after a while with a few truly beautiful scenes to break the monotomy.  The acting is--wellll, it varies.  Max von Sydow (as Jesus) is way too serious.  He's always frowning--never changes emotion once.  The other acting ranges from very good (Claude Rains, David McCallum, Dorothy McGuire) to what-were-they-thinking (Telly Savalas, Donald Pleasance, Sal Mineo and--worst of all--John Wayne)?  It turns into spot-the-star after a while.  So, it's well made but too long and boring.  Too bad, there's some beautiful sequences here. "},{"Title":"The Passion of George Stevens","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Re-telling the story of Jesus Christ, who founded Christianity, and inspired a myriad of movies. The Greatest Story Ever Told is one of those religious EPIC-SCREAMING presentations, which would bore even God to death. Upon entering the Pearly Gates, creator George Stevens (at the time, one of the Greatest filmmakers in Hollywood) must have received a few divine demerits for this production. Hopefully, he was forgiven. One can only imagine the number of excellent movies this budget, cast, and crew might have produced.The film's cost is evident, and Mr. Stevens is too good a director not to sneak in some nice touches (like an angelic water reflection). Stevens is, however, more ponderous than reverential. The photography, by William Mellor (who, sadly, suffered a fatal heart attack during the production) and Loyal Griggs, is the film's main strength. Max von Sydow (as Jesus) works well, delivering the Savior envisioned by Stevens. The star-studded supporting cast varies in effectiveness. Charlton Heston's Herculean-looking John the Baptist grows on you, but John Wayne's infamous participation is obviously asinine; others fall in between the cracks.**** The Greatest Story Ever Told (2/15/65) George Stevens ~ Max von Sydow, Charlton Heston, John Wayne "}{"Title":"George Stevens Sad Legacy - One of the Most Dreadful Ever","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" After making his outstanding A PLACE IN THE SUN, Stevens boasted he could take a B-western, film it with quality, and turn it into a classic. The outcome was SHANE, which of course was not a B-western to begin with, but... How sad that George Stevens would take the life of Jesus Christ, lavish high production standards on filming it, and turn it into possibly the most boring big production ever made. Every aspect of this dreadful film misfired. Max Von Sydow was such a fine actor, but his portrayal of Jesus was so flat that had Jesus actually been the pathetic sad sack portrayed herein, we would have no Christian faith today. Underlining the mess was Stevens idea to overload his cast with big stars playing puny roles. The worst example is one of my favorites, John Wayne, herein playing a Centurian during the Crucifixion. This was supposed to be a solumn moment, but there we have John Wayne looking foolish and silly in his Centurian costume, scouling as if to say, What am I doing here? John Wayne's role lasted under 60 seconds, but it provided the movie with the right to use the name of Hollywood's all time biggest star. That is crass. This awful film played off Jesus like Pharisees, asking staggering advanced prices for reserved seat showings, knowing full well the project was virtually critic-proof. What critic would condemn the life of Christ. Good grief, I don't myself feel quite right in telling it here, like it is. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Story Ever Told","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Apparently when director George Stevens fell ill, Sir David Lean took over for some of it, it the story of the life of Jesus. So we see him born, and grown up, Jesus (Max Von Sydow) performs many miracles, e.g. make a crippled man walk, and make a blind man see, that's about all we see, they only mention the others, e.g. turning water into wine, and walking on water. Then obviously he is betrayed by Judas Iscariot (David McCallum) and sentenced to be crucified, but don't worry, he comes back in the end to say goodbye to Mary Magdalin (Dorothy McGuire) and a couple of other people. Also starring Jos Ferrer as Herod Antipas, Charlton Heston as John the Baptist, Sidney Poitier as Simon of Cyrene, Telly Savalas as Pontius Pilate, John Wayne as Centurion, Shelley Winters as Woman of no name, Martin Landau as Caiaphas, Claude Rains as Herod the Great, Carroll Baker as Veronica, Robert Loggia as Joseph, Roddy McDowall as Matthew, Angela Lansbury as Claudia and Donald Pleasence as Dark hermit. Sydow didn't have very long hair, one or two of the big stars are a bit unnecessary, and because it is three hours and ten minutes long, it does get a bit boring. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Special Visual Effects and Best Music for Alfred Newman. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"Best movie on the life of Christ ever.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The most moving and biblical accurate movie ever made on the life of Christ. The most obvious mistake was when Judas killed himself by falling into the sacrificial fire instead of hanging himself as the Bible tells us - Hollywood should have stuck to the facts. Max Von Sydow did an excellent job as Christ and as an unknown to the USA at the time it made him even more believable.  Unlike Jeffrey Hunter who was more of a hunk than a Christ. Another Hollywood mistake was putting in too many famous faces - many were out of place in their role.  Never the less, the movie followed the Bible with a great deal of accuracy.  I vote it the best! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Story Ever Told","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  George Stevens' epic telling of the life of Jesus Christ is entirely too long and trite at times. While there are many familiar faces, such as Sidney Poitier, Claude Rains and Von Sydow as Jesus, even they can't save the picture. Stevens sunk all the energy he had left into this picture. A shame!   "},{"Title":"Greatest book ever made into a bad film","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The book was a masterful 'historical novel',  putting daily life into prose so powerful, so real you feel you are living the events.  The movie is a lifeless, meandering, somehow pointless exercise in film. It ignores the book at critical points, adds total fiction to the story line for dramatic effect, and doesn't introduce a single character one really cares about. "},{"Title":"I remember this film for one thing","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  That was, although only 10 years old when I saw this film, the portrayal of the Temptor/Satan by Donald Pleasance stayed in my memory. It was the first example of good acting that I ever noticed. I knew the character was supposed to be the devil, but as Pleasance played him, oily, unsure of his own power, timid almost, such a non-stereotypical portrayal that I have used it as a sort of yard stick by which to judge character actors ever since. He was quite the opposite to what I expected, hence becoming the  Great Deceiver indeed.Apart from this scene I remember almost nothing else from the film except perhaps the sight and sound of Roman soldiers marching over a hill.....or was that another Christ Film?    "},{"Title":"Disappointed.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  With a powerhouse cast, this should have been much, much better.  But that's the problem -- it would have played better with a bunch of unknowns, and you spend too much time saying -- Wow, that's Ed Wynn, instead of appreciating the story.  The script is turgid as well, and for every unique touch there's a counterbalancing scene that's a dud.  And Max Von Sydow, as Jesus, does not exhibit the proper passion one expects in this role. "},{"Title":"The boringest story ever filmed","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Having sat through the truncated 197 minute version I shudder to imagine what the full 260 minute experience was like. Stevens' film is as passionless as a Church of England sermon, and though it looks beautiful--stunning, at times--this potted version of the life of Jesus is a dismal failure. Max Von Sydow does his best with what little he is given a script full of biblical platitudes. Some of the other cast members are quite good, especially Jose Ferrer and even Telly Savalas, but ultimately the game of spot the guest star becomes wearing. Oy, Shelley Winters?? As distracting as Harvey Keitel was in Last Temptation of Christ, Scorsese's film is a better telling of Christ's life by a country mile, at least attempting to explain why he did what he allegedly did. Here Von Sydow marches from biblical re-creation to biblical re-creation. You may as well read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Another uninspired epic","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  1,800 years ago, the last of the four gospels of Christ was written.In those days, the platitudes and verses were new, original, and invited people to think.Today, they're cliche.Don't get me wrong, I think that they're valuable, but consideration of the character of Christ based upon the same lines no longer accomplishes anything.  Constant retelling of the same Passion Play via films like the Jesus film, the TV mini-series recently aired, and most blatantly the Greatest Story ever Told, only serves to make such a lifeless, thoughtless story more tired, more unoriginal, less moving and less important.Here's what I mean.  A movie that aims to tell something about the life of the Big JC should try to mean something, it should try to convey a message in a way that isn't limited to hollowed-out repetitions of, Christ was human and Christ was God at the same time.  Real explorations of the character of Jesus should examine what it means to be all human, or all God. Without that, the movie doesn't say anything, it doesn't add anything to the understanding of Christ or his teachings and certainly doesn't add anything to the understanding of his sacrifice.  This movie doesn't add anything to any of the above.  It tries to make a one-dimensional understanding of Jesus hip by surrounding him with celebrities and making the story into a glam-show, and Oscar routine, full of parlor tricks and the Great American KnowWho.It certainly does not make Jesus three dimensional, nor does it explore anything worthwhile about one of history's most important and dynamic men. It seems to me that those who prefer this version to other more risk-taking portrayals (Jesus Christ SUPERSTAR or the Last Temptation) do so because they are able to look past a total lack of artistic merit in favor of a potato-paste mush of tired and safe one-liners.I recommend Martin Scorcese's rendition of the Kazantzakis novel, The Last Temptation of Christ.   "}]