[{"Title":"Lemmon's most underrated role","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now I've read most of the comments on this film and while I might agree with some of the more specific comments regarding the looser and less plausible plot in the last third of the film and that Natalie Wood might have been more of a contribution and less of a distraction, these are moot points. The film is funny, enjoyable and a great tribute to the heyday of silent villains and heroes in a way that doesn't overdo it. Curtis' flashing smile, Wynn's turn-of-the-century mechanic character, the harried and frazzled O'Connell as Goodbody, and especially Falk's on-again, off-again sycophant/lackey/nobody's fool Max are memorable and fun. But as much as I like the main movie, my fave bits are the early scenes in which Professor Fate, always in black and macabre emblems, tries to outdo the stunts of the gleaming white, perfect and popular Great Lesile Gallant III.  The stunts are fun, witty and totally unbelieveable. The plane pickup, the rocket train, the garishly painted torpedo with a  mawkishly wonderful gramaphone speaker on top are priceless Victorian images of a time that we all imagine existed but never really did. Lemmon is a gem as Fate, right from the great use of his eyes under thick brows and black hat, to the spooky house in his own Munster's décor to the crème de la crème, the Hannibal Twin 8 race car. That car is a masterpiece of mechanical and artistic design. I wonder where it is now. Even the sound it generates in the film, that sinister and harmonious hum are perfect for Fate's élan.What I've never understood is why I never heard more of Lemmon's comments on this film. It had to be fun to make and work with Curtis, but the role of Fate is so underrated. You never see it mentioned in Biography or any anthologies of Lemmon's work. I still roll in peals of laughter at his dizzy 'Let's see the Great Leslie try THAT one on for size...' as he passes out in the mud. Or when Max breaks off the moustache in the freezing storm, and all you see is Fate's astonished look of shock followed by a sideways glare that could cut glass. The last part of the film, the entire Prince Hapnik and Potsdorf sequences are less than helpful, and they really aren't needed, despite a record pie fight, but it does serve to give Lemmon another role, diametrically different from Fate. Again he uses his eyes and his voice to great effect. `Baron Rolf von SHTUPP!!'(Any relation to Lilly von Shtupp in Blazing Saddles?) With perfect timing. I mean it. Try it some time and you'll never match that unique panache which Lemmon displayed. All in all, a wonderful and fun film. No deep message, just good turn-of-the-century atmosphere, great gags and lively dialogue. Enjoy, and don't take it too seriously. After all, it's not PEARL HARBOR, is it? **** our of **** for me.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Epic Comedy","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"51 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World was the first comedy to get the epic film treatment, The Great Race is in my opinion the best epic comedy.  It's just a much funnier film with so many laughs in its first half that the more serious part dealing with the palace intrigues and the straight sword fight acts more as a breather for the viewer before it revs up again with the funniest pie fight of all time and the smashing (literally) finale.  Jack Lemmon shows why he was probably the most versatile comic actor of the 50-60s next to Peter Sellers (this is a long ways from the Lemmon of The Apartment or Irma La Douce!).  Peter Falk, a decade before Columbo is hysterical too, while Natalie Wood never looked more sexy (except for the last part of Gypsy) than she does here.They don't make this kind of simple comedy devoid of crudity any longer.  That's what makes a film like The Great Race something to keep coming back to and enjoying again and again.  "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies of all time.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"47 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I cannot believe that The Great Race did not make it on AFI's 100 Funniest Movies list (well, actually I CAN believe it, since those lists seem very messed up to me). In fact, it has not gotten nearly as much recognition as it deserves. It is simply one of the funniest movies I have ever seen! The whole cast shines (especially Lemmon, who should have won an Oscar for Best Scene Stealer). Besides the great slapstick, there are a million subtle details that you don't notice unless you are really paying attention. This is why the movie is still great after several viewings each time you watch it, you are bound to catch some little joke you didn't see before.Everything about this movie cracks me up. The contrast in character between Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon is just great, the chemistry between the different characters is great, the movie parodies are great, the sets are great, the slapstick is great, and the dialogue is great. Even the MUSIC is funny... every time that goofy theme music for Professor Fate starts playing, I start laughing.If you haven't seen this, I highly suggest you rent it. Yes, it is long, but it is one of the few comedies I have seen that keeps up the laughs consistently... it never sags or has dull moments. It is downright hilarious from start to finish.And to top it all off, it has some very cool cars. "},{"Title":"Worthy of modern restoration and DVD issue.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the classic opening credit sequence just before where we are transported back to the days of the Magic lamp slide projection shows, we are given a hint of what is to come when a tribute salute  For Mr Laurel & Mr Hardy  appears on the screen. Yes this movie does owe something to the slapstick routines of those two gentlemen yet it has a life of it's own which in many ways far surpasses slapstick. For those people who can only see the sight gags then this movie will only provide mild appeal. Look deeper and appreciate the marvellous comedic talents of  Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, Peter Falk, Keenan Wynn and Natalie Wood.Comedy is always a thing of personal taste. I suspect that there will be those who will rave about how wonderful The Great Race is while others will call it a waste of time and money. There will be few in the middle ground. I fall into the rave category. To me this movie is sheer FUN.The visuals are splendid and awesomly huge. The costumes fabulous and the location settings vast. Everything is over the top, yet there is still room for small subtleties and in-jokes. The actors have a ball. Jack Lemmon just sneaks in as the best scene stealer but the able cast hold their own too. The Great Race just cries out for a restoration job and a release on DVD - please !   "},{"Title":"Some Like It Custard","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon, memorably paired in Some Like It Hot, tried it again in The Great Race. Natalie Wood was a reluctant addition, with a new biography of this actress repeating her displeasure with the film and its director. Peter Falk, not yet Columbo, rounded out a globetrotting quartet chasing first prize in the 1908 New York to Paris automobile race.Much has been made of how the script's Prisoner of Zenda subplot slows the action. Yet these scenes shot in Salzburg have contributed several zingers to the stock of movie quotes floating around in general circulation. Someone must have liked the Potzdorf episode, as More brandy! and Drat!I never mix my pies! remain among Jack Lemmon's most cited lines.Surviving participants in the real-life 1908 competition did not care for this trashing of their personal history. I loved it on its first release way back when, and it remains a pleasant (if long) watch on cable TV and home video. "},{"Title":"the best of everything!!!","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The best pie fight,bar room brawl,sword fight,comedic love story...wackiest villain...Saddened it's not mentioned as one of the greatest comedies ever or even mentioned as one of Jack Lemons greatest comedic roles.I'm guilty of quoting movie lines when the time is right and often quote from this movie. Brandy,Brandy...,now you're using sex as a weapon..,RISE AND SHINE?,..now if you were the mens fencing champion...NOW CAN I GET ME SOME FIGHTN' ROOM! I can't believe Tony Curtis was a second choice to play The Great Leslie.His all American do-gooder mentality is nauseatingly funny. Natalie Wood is beautiful and plays the ultimate suffragette. Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk are a fun duo as Leslies villainous rivals and truly set the tempo of the slapstick.Only Blake Edwards could have pulled off such an epic comedy.Who cares if the the drive around the world does'nt make sense.This movie is a true blue farce in every sense,nothing more and nothing less. Perfect casting and screenplay and the writers should be commended. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic Comfort Viewing","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" THE GREAT RACE may not be a masterpiece--but it is a perfect choice for a cold and rainy night stylish, frothy, and often flatly hilarious, it makes for comfort viewing at its best.One of the movie's several charms is that it draws heavily from Victorian clichés that still linger in the public mind, gives them a gentle comic spin, and then drops them into the tale of an early 1900s auto race from New York to Paris by way of Siberia. Add to this a heap of favorite character actors, a big budget, flamboyant period costumes, and the biggest pie fight ever filmed, and you have a movie where there is always something to enjoy on the screen.The great thing about THE GREAT RACE are the performances, which are very broad but endowed with a sly humor. The comedy accolades here go to Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk as the notorious Dr. Fate and his bumbling sidekick Max--wonderful bits of acting that will have you hooting with laughter in every scene--and Dorothy Provine scores memorably in a cameo as Lily Olay, the bombshell singer who presides over the most rootin'-tootin' saloon this side of the Pecos.But every one, from Tony Curtis and the lovely Natalie Wood down to such cameo performers as Vivian Vance, get in plenty of comic chops as the film drifts from one outrageous episode to another suffragettes crowding a newspaper, the biggest western brawl imaginable, polar bears, explosions, daredevil antics, and a subplot lifted from THE PRISONER OF ZENDA agreeably crowd in upon each other. True, the film does seem over-long and may drag a bit in spots, but it never drags for very long, and it's all in good fun--and the production values and memorable score easily tide over the bare spots. Lots of fun.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"The Great Race Is A Great Comedy","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is director Blake Edwards salute to the early days of films. It is quite long, but worth the time to see this masterpiece, and appropriate for all ages. Its basically the good guy vs the bad guy and the heroine theme but the roles are mixed up in a wonderful way to where each main character is both at different times. I love Maggie DuBois(Natalie Wood) the most because she is such a strong intelligent woman, and yet beautiful and sexy. She would do anything to stay in the race, and did. Professor Fate and Max are not Laural and Hardy but evoke their comedy team spirit strongly. They are the ones that make the bumbling mistakes that make them more human than the perfect Leslie(Tony Curtis). The prince is a silly compliment to Professor Fate, both brilliantly played by Jack Lemmon. Also worth seeing is Vivian Vance as the wife of the newspaper owner, and Larry Storch as the gunfighter. I really liked the submarine, rocket sled, pedaled air balloon, and the vintage cars. Visually, this movie is a work of art, and the music is perfect. The score features Henry Mancini's The Sweetheart Tree. Yes, there's lust, love and romance here too. This is the quintessential epic comedy of the 60's. "},{"Title":"Greatest pie fight on the silver screen","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Great Race is a marvelously entertaining cartoon of a movie. Everyone is a broad character and slapstick abounds. The actors are great and the comedy is lively. If it has a fault, it's that it is a bit longer than necessary. However, it never slows down too much to make you lose interest.Jack Lemmon steals the show as the deliciously despicable Professor Fate. Lemmon brings melodramtic greatness to what would normally be the Terry Thomas role (and I love Terry Thomas). His partner in crime is Peter Falk, as the harried, but loyal Max. Together, they make this film great.Tony Curtis is the perfect true-blue hero, even if that becomes a bit obnoxious. He's so great that you just can't wait for Prof. Fate to get one up on him.Natalie Wood gets a bit annoying, too, as Maggie Dubois. Her strident proclamations about equality start to get on your nerves fairly rapidly. She's not quite intrepid enough for Nellie Bly, and not quite smart enough for Gloria Steinum. She has some good comedic moments, though.The film is episodic in nature and a bit uneven, but there a great moments throughout. Scenes to look for The early daredevil rivalry between the Great Leslie and Prof. Fate, the saloon brawl in Borracho, the Prisoner of Zenda send-up, and the pie fight.Hollywood doesn't make great slapstick farces like this anymore. Humor now revolves around groin injuries and stupid one-liners and catch phrases. We don't see great character pieces anymore. It's a shame as these kinds of movies hold up well; especially as family fare.The DVD is pretty bare-bones. It would have been nice to have some commentary from Blake Edwards and Tony Curtis. Warner Brothers has but out some pretty substandard DVD packages, this one included. Still, it's worth the price just to watch the movie. "},{"Title":"For Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I wish I could answer this - THE GREAT RACE and THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN IN THEIR FLYING MACHINES both came out in 1965. It would be interesting to know who came up first with the idea of the car and/or the airplane film. Fortunately, aside from some brief cross-referenced scenes, THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN remained bound to the sky as THE GREAT RACE was bound to the earth.In 1907 the world's first really great automobile race occurred the Peking to Paris road race. It was such a success that it was hoped that a similar long race would be tried soon after. The result was the 1908 New York to Paris road race, which is the factual basis of THE GREAT RACE. It was won by a Thomas Flyabout, which had an appearance very much like the car driven by the Great Leslie. The cars in the 1908 race were to drive from New York City to Seattle, Washington, then get shipped by steamer to Vladivostok, and then to transverse the Russian Empire, Europe, and finally reach Paris. So keep in mind, there was no use of icebergs as in the film.Blake Edwards always has enjoyed playing around in his comedies and musicals with images from the times of the story. For example, in THOROUGHLY MODERN MILLY one of the two male leads wears eyeglasses, and (to see his girlfriend) climbs the side of an office building - in short (as the story takes place in the 1920s) he is imitating Harold Lloyd in SAFETY LAST. He dedicates this film to Laurel and Hardy, although it is set before the 1920s. In THE GREAT RACE he uses the forgotten 1908 race to build upon many different social events of the day like the suffragette movement that involves Natalie Wood (as the Nellie Bly like reporter Maggie) and her friend Vivian Vance as the wife (and temporary successor) of husband Arthur O'Connor a newspaper editor. There is also the final days of the American frontier, as seen in the sequences involving the town of Borracho and Tony Curtis' confrontation with Larry Storch over Dorothy Provine. There is (finally) the unsettled state of Balkan Europe, wherein the plot of Anthony Hope's THE PRISONER OF ZENDA is lampooned, concluding with a pie fight.The film marked the reunion of Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon after their first pairing in SOME LIKE IT HOT, but Lemmon's character there was not as comically sinister as Professor Fate is here. Fate is totally captivated by his own ego. He certainly has engineering ability, but he is incapable of being friendly (when he is about to test out a rocket device early in the film his picture is being taken - some kids are touching the rocket, and he angrily yells at them to go away). He also is stuck with having the faithful but totally inept assistant Max (Peter Falk - who comes close to stealing the film) who constantly is pushing the wrong buttons on Fate's machines, with disastrous effects. And he is constantly trounced by the handsome, accessible, Frank Merriwell like Great Leslie (Curtis) who is far better organized, and a hell of a deal luckier. Not that Leslie is without flaws. A man of the Edwardian period, he does not think woman are fully the equal of men. Notice that Leslie's most fair minded complement to Maggie is that her choice of a Stanley Steamer for the race was the wrong car. It is, he says, meant for picnics and Sunday drives. But, he adds, her success in getting it across half of the U.S. before the boiler gave out was quite an accomplishment...and she should be proud. The self-satisfaction is annoying as Maggie shows. I might add that in the period of the film, Stanley Steamers won several races - steam engines can build up tremendous amounts of power but they have to be replenished more frequently than gasoline engines.Besides the four leads (five if you count the under-used Keenan Wynn) the performances of Storch and Provine were good (Provine being allowed a lively dance hall tune - He Shouldn'ta, Hadn'ta, Oughtn'ta Swung On Me!, with Storch being unable to get the right amount of room he needs to cut loose on Curtis without falling on his face. Wood (like Provine) was given a nice tune - the charming, Sweetheart Tree. And in the Balkan section, besides a second role for Lemmon, the conspirators George Macready and Ross Martin make the most of the Ruritania story - and demonstrate their own flair comedy (a rarity for Macready). For Martin it is particularly welcome, as his last appearance under Edwards' direction was as the evil criminal in EXPERIMENT IN TERROR three years earlier. While Baron Von Stuppe (what a name - possibly a cousin to Lily Von Stuppe (Madeleine Kahn) in BLAZING SADDLES) is a villain, he is shown to be confused sometimes - see Wood threaten him with President Theodore Roosevelt's wrath, and start singing the Star Spangled Banner. Martin doesn't know what to do with this female nut. "}{"Title":"the best of the best","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Many other comments here on the excellence of this movie, so I'll just add my 2 cents worth. No one has mentioned the greatest oneliner ever filmed. On the iceberg Pro. Fate tells Leslie that they are sinking. Leslie tells Fate to be quiet, there is no point alarming the others trapped with them. Fate mutters Oh I'll keep it to myself alright. Until the water reaches my lower lip and then I'm gonna mention it to SOMEbody. Trivia. Natalie wanted nothing to do with Tony Curtis and insisted that her new husband Robert Wagner be given the part of the Great Leslie. The producers insisted they had to have a big name. Curtis and Lemmon had teamed up before and Curtis got the part. Wood was furious. The weather halted filming in Salzburg raining day after day while the film went spectacularly over budget. The producers fired Edwards twice and once had him arrested for trespassing when he returned to the set. Eventually, they realized that he would have to finish the movie. There was no traditional cast party after the filming was done. Supposedly when the topic was brought up, Edwards said. What shall we do for entertainment? Watch Tony kill Natalie, or watch Natalie kill Tony? The movie bombed at the box office. It was very long and audiences couldn't sit through 243 minutes despite an intermission. Terrible cut versions showed on TV before the days of VCRs. They used to start with the start of the race, skipping all the prior rivalry between Fate and Leslie, squeeze in 40-50 commercials and still finish the entire movie in 130 minutes. People today can't make it through a 30 minute episode of The Simsons so I'm not surprised that they think it is too long. There were probably 250 other memorable classic lines. Anyone in my extended family would instantly recognize the reference to them, including my nephew, Max. Fate I'd like to see the Great Leslie try THAT on for size Max Hey, Professor! Fate Max... We're Car #5. Leslie I have... champagne. M. Dubois And another thing! (kicks wildly) Hezakiah All right Lady, let's go Fate; Kids, kids, Stupid Kids. Fate But I don't want to BE the guest of honor Fate Push the button, Max Texas Jack Now give me some fightin' room Fate Lily's his girl Lily But Jack honey, he's the guest of honor. Max But there's a Polar bear in our car. The Baron Von Shtupp I have a boat waiting Max & the Prof. We won! I WON! We won! I WON! "},{"Title":" I won't say a word about our sinking.  Until it reaches my lower lip, then I'm mentioning it to somebody! ","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a movie which when first shown in 1965 drew audience cheers from the very beginning and continues to draw enthusiastic praise when given special showing on college and University campuses. The reason is due perhaps that all the character roles were hand picked and each actor fitted their part like a glove. The story is based on the numerous fads, college stunts and mechanical record challenges of the early 1900s. In this story we have an automobile race which will start in New York and end up in Paris, France. The duel battle is reminiscent of the old vaudeville plays involving a Canadian Mountie and his old Nemesis Snidely Wipelash. Here we have our hero, The Great Leslie (Gallent III) played by Tony Curtis challenged by Prof. Fate (Jack Lemmon) to a very long race. As with early films each lead has a sidekick. Peter Falk is Max and Keenan Wynn is Hezekiah. To give it a modern era setting (1900s) Arthur O'Connel plays Henry Goodbody a Newspaper Editor interested in keep tabs on the contestants in their round the word race. Natalie Wood plays suffragette Maggie Dubois who aspires to be the first woman reporter for the Sentinental. The movie contains all the earmarks of a Classic out of the old school of comedy and thus is sympathetically dedicated to the great comedy duo of the early movie era, Laural and Hardy. To further add enjoyment throughout the film there are added Hollywood stars like Larry Storch, Ross Martin, Denver Pyle and Roy Jenson. A great film for any audience in any era. Excellent movie fare and a genuine Classic!. **** "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favorite Film","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some say this movie is too long. For me, it's not long enough. I wish it crossed the three hour mark just to stick it in the eye of all the movie's detractors about the movie's length.When they've crossed the finish line in Paris, I feel very happy being through such an enjoyable and hilarious adventure, but at the same time, I also feel sad that it's now over. Clearly the movie left it open-ended for a possible sequel after Professor Fate, feeling he had received a hollow victory, challenges the Great Leslie to another race -- Paris to New York. It's too bad this sequel never materialized.This movie is without doubt, my all-time favorite movie -- and I like a lot of movies! The reason I say this is my favorite is that it stands up to viewing after viewing after viewing and it has never lost my interest. If anything, it has grown even more to be my favorite since I can recite so many of its wonderful, classic lines before they're said -- sort of like fans do in the cult favorite The Rocky Horror Picture Show.The cast was perfect. I cannot imagine ANYONE else in these roles. Just as there is only one actor that IS Superman, Christopher Reeve, and only one actress that IS Wonder Woman, Lynda Carter, so too can no other actors and actresses, other than those cast in The Great Race, be imagined in these classic roles. Every single actor and actress in the movie delivered his performance spot-on! I enjoyed every minute of the movie.I think The Great Race is a true classic. The sets and locations are wonderful -- a visual feast! From the opening scene with that beautiful red, white and blue hot-air balloon, to the Wild West locations of the American Southwest, to Potzdorf's Prince Hapnik's sumptuous palace and grounds and Baron von Stuppe's menacing castle where he sword-fights Leslie, and finally to the streets of Paris -- all great visuals one will always remember, long after the movie is over.The costumes too, are a visual feast -- superb and sumptuous! One can really tell that they poured a lot of money into the costumes. It really shows that they definitely got their money's worth as to what ended up on the screen. The costumes of the Potzdorf nobles there at the Royal Ball when they waltz, is simply amazing. The uniforms of Potzdorf's guards too, look great. Let's not forget the great costumes back in Boracho -- from those sexy dancing showgirls in the saloon, singing It looks to me like a big night tonight, big night tonight. When the old cat's away, all the mice want to play! And it looks like a big night tonight! to Lilly Olay's sexy, form-fitted, yellow, satin dress as she sings, He Shouldn't A Hadn't A Oughtn't A Swang on Me (my favorite song in the movie. Thank you Johnny Mercer for your awesome lyrics in this song!) to all the rest of the town's residents in their authentic-looking and well-tailored Western outfits.The film clearly had masters in the arts and science of cinematography, production design, costume design, stunts and the great Henry Mancini for the movie's great and unforgettable score. It's a shame that this movie was not recognized at Oscar time, for its great achievements in all these categories.The Great Race is one very under-appreciated movie. It has the BEST pie fight scene in cinematic history; it has the BEST barroom brawl scene in cinematic history; it has one of the BEST sword-fighting scenes in cinematic history, and yet it never gets mentioned or alluded to in today's pop culture or even to be hailed by film critics as one of the greatest film comedies of all time. I am very disappointed by this. It is truly an overlooked masterpiece and perhaps someday, it may get the true recognition and respect it deserves. "},{"Title":"The Great Blake Edwards","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I grew up on this film. It is one of those rare motion pictures that actually contains the screen warmer with music (Believe it or not so does Walt Disney's THE BLACK HOLE) and an intermission. Well Blake Edwards is known for lengthy films. The comic genius of the cast and the special effects are hysterical alone and if you like those Warner Brothers sound effects you would hear on those Bugs Bunny cartoons well you're in for a surprise as they are shamelessly used. So content and technical workmanship set The Great Race apart from most comedies of the genre. Not the mention the Technicolor! The lines are extremely quotable. Take an afternoon off to watch this one, it WILL grow on you too! "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this movie as a kid. I remember laughing until my sides hurt, and I thought this had to be one of the greatest comedies ever made. The movie starts with the Great Leslie, a dashing, young daredevil at the turn of the century. Leslie wants to sponsor an car company by holding a race from New York to Paris. However, his rival, Professor Fate, has been waiting to show up Leslie for a long time. When he hears about the race he enters with a car of his own twisted design. In addition, a strong-willed suffragette named Maggie DuBois enters the race to prove she can be a good reporter.From the minute the starting pistol fires, hilarity ensues...There are so many great things about this movie. For starters, the movie features an all-star cast. Tony Curtis plays the Great Leslie. Comedic legend Jack Lemmon plays the hilarious Professor Fate. I love his villain look in the movie. It makes him look even funnier than he already is. Hollywood sweetheart Natalie Wood plays Maggie. Wood's performance gave Maggie an attitude that made things interesting for her costars. Future-Colombo star, Peter Falk, starred as Fate's bubbling sidekick. But for me, the best thing about the movie was the humor. Not only does this movie boast hilarious antics from all of its stars, and the largest and funniest pie fight and bar fight ever filmed, it also produced some of the funniest lines I've ever heard in any movie, including one that my family quotes all the timePush the button, Max.This movie is one of my favorite comedies of all time. I would recommend this movie for movie lovers of all ages.So, who wins? You'll just have to see it to find out. "},{"Title":"Push the Play Button, Max!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is quite simply a side-splitter.  If you can watch this movie without laughing, then you need to have your head examined.  That or you might be going deaf and blind.  From the suffragette who handcuffs herself to the door of the men's room to the royal food fight that breaks out after the coronation, there's just nothing this movie won't do to make you chuckle.It's all good clean fun- well, except for the pie filling that drenches Natalie Wood, who is in her underwear but not exactly alluring covered in whipped cream and mashed cake.  Tony Curtis is great as the hero dressed all in white who manages to remain immaculate in the midst of the craziest situations.  Jack Lemmon is hysterical in all of his parts, especially when he comes face to face with himself.  I think I like him best as the too-maniacal-to-be-believed Prof. Fate, with his crazy and disastrous schemes, reminiscent of Wile E. Coyote.  His sidekick, Max, chips in some of the funniest lines of the film, while always being a patient helper in the Professor's villanous plans, through thick and thin.So, as Dr. Fate says, Push the Button, Max!  Specifically, the Play button, and WATCH THIS MOVIE!!  Definitely a 10. "},{"Title":"Absolute must-see which should have had a sequel!","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am only 23, but having older parents, I grew up watching the likes of The Great Race etc. This has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen, and as soon as I knew it was available on DVD, I had to buy it! Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon as Mr Nice Guy and his evil nemesis have been casted perfectly. There are no other actors I can think of that could play these parts as well as they do. The whole movie is exhilarating, because there are so many funny and challenging milestones that keep the viewer hooked, and as soon as one is over, the next begins. Although The Great Race is a long movie, the ending (although satisfying) still keeps you wanting more, which prompts you to crave the sequel that was never made. "},{"Title":"They Just Don't Make 'em Like This anymore!","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Once upon a time, in the days before talentless actors commanded millions of dollars per film fiasco, they made big budget pictures with a cast of thousands. The Great Race is a classic example.This movie is a ride on the Hilarity Express, from the opening credits to the closing scene. You laugh so hard, and so long, at every scene that you're actually glad to take a breather during Natalie Wood's love song The Sweetheart Tree, just so your ribs have a chance to stop hurting! The large ensemble cast is packed with a glorious list of award winning actors well able to carry any movie alone. Together, they produce a potent mix of frivolity and timeless innuendo. These are truly the screen giants, not only of their time, but arguably of ALL time.Tony Curtis as The Great Leslie, our hero, all in white, is just the right mixture of gentlemanly elegance, knightly chivalry, and the period's chauvinistic disregard of the weaker sex. He's the perfect foil for Wood's Maggie DuBois, a modern woman reporter. She smokes, she cusses, she punches! Leslie is at once fascinated, repulsed, and astounded by her. When circumstances throw them together during the race, sparks fly but the heat sizzles. It is plain to see why these two were the box office hotties of their day.Now, no good story can have a glorious hero without a contrastingly evil villain, right? And Jack Lemmon, as the utterly detestable Professor Fate, is at his comedic pinnacle. (Max! Maaaaax!) Fate is all baddie and Lemmon joyously takes the role over the top. From the moment we first see him, secretly building the earliest urban assault vehicle on record, the amazing Hannibal 8, to every cheating, sabotaging, dastardly stunt he pulls, Fate is the villain we love to hate! Peter Falk is perfect as poor Max, the Professor's idiot henchman. I swear, the adorable cluelessness of Falk's immortal Columbo was born here, in this role. Unlike Columbo, however, Max never gets it, never ever figures it out. Which makes him all the funnier.These four people alone would make for a funny film. Now, add to that an around the world tour which includes London, Paris, Rome, and the Arctic Circle, the largest pie fight ever recorded on film (something like 2500 pies were used!), pub brawls, kidnapped royalty (watch Lemmon here in a dual role as Fate and the besotted kidnapped prince. You will CRY with laughter!), smashes, crashes, explosions, escapes, a blockbuster supporting cast including Arthur O'Connell, Blake Edwards, Marvin Kaplan, Ross Martin, Dorothy Provine, Larry Storch, Vivian Vance, Keenan Wynn, a host of of cameos that will delight movie buffs, and its easy to see how Hollywood legends are born.I don't care if YOU weren't born when this picture was made (1965). You will never truly know what movie comedy is all about if you go through life without seeing this film! In fact, DON'T rent it! Just go ahead and BUY it, because once you see it, there is no way you will not want to own it forever.This movie is loaded with classic quotes destined to become a part of your own tag line collection. For example I guarantee you, after seeing this film, the next time you see a Pug, you will at least THINK, if not say outright I HATE YOU! Get off of the bed! This is a movie that never gets stale, no matter how many times you see it. Now on DVD, it will last forever, a true example of the timeless magic of Hollywood! "},{"Title":"Trivia - those unnecessary cuts","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A couple of points that I don't think have been coveredOne review mentioned this film's chequered career on TV. This is one of several classic spectaculars with special cinema first road runs that have suffered evisceration since their original cinema release in the name of schedules which programmers once saw as their priorities. It's a festering sore that goes back many years particularly where ITV was concerned. With the development of DVDs this hated practice has been ameliorated somewhat with many cuts having been replaced (and even extras been added). One of the earliest victims was Karloff's Frankenstein & the notorious drowning of Maria,the young child.In my mind the most ludicrous was the case of It's A Mad....World where nearly 40mins was lost to TV & DVD - very significant because many of its famous comic cast were listed but never seen, though briefly. There was a restoration a couple of years back but where is it? S Pacific lost about 20mins and remains so. Even a restoration of Wayne's The Alamo still loses nearly 15mins. We expect to be able to still watch the full versions.... Now in the case of The Great Race how many have seen the full version with the amusing Bouncing Ball singalong sequence about 20mins from the end after that great Mancini theme The Sweetheart Tree is sung by Natalie Wood on the river bank as she strums her guitar? Tony Curtis pauses his shaving to listen. It has been missing ever since the original release(supposedly in Cinerama). Last year (I forget the channel) I was staggered to happen by accident to catch the full version. Today I watched another rerun on Channel 5 and this sequence was still missing. So the full version does exist out there - somewhere. Natalie Wood on a couple of occasions is seen to be swimming in a pool emerging displaying her ravishing figure. It must have taken some persuasion from Blake Edwards because of her deadly fear of water - the story goes that this arose when in an early film she was the victim of a trick by the director to have her plunged into an icy stream. Of course her drowning in 1981 during the filming of Brainstorm (still controversial today)was all the more horrifying because of its irony. "},{"Title":"Excellent, fun movie.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. I was fortunate to see it when it was first released and on a genuine big screen ( not multi-theater size ). Great fun , from a more innocent time in movie making. It does seem to be a love it or hate it movie with no in-between. Fine comedy performances from all of the cast with Jack Lemmon in outstanding form , ably assisted by Peter Falk. Enormous sumptuous visuals , great music score and the biggest pie fight I have ever seen. Natalie wood seems to have a new outfit for every scene. If you spot the video rent it but it does lose something on a small T.V screen. "}{"Title":"An all time classic!","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was born in 1965 when this movie was first released, perhaps that is one of the reasons I am bonded to it, but it has everything a movie should have Comedy, action, drama, romance, gadgets, cars, swordfights, pie fights, dopplegangers, clichés, and more! This is one of my all time favorite movies and will watch it over and over. It has a special place in my memories of growing up in Ohio, and often remember Saturdays on UHF 43 the promos and ads for this movie. The shear genius of this cast, the perfect acting preformed by Lemmon. (I remember asking my Mom if Jack Lemmon always had a mustache).I always rooted for Fate to win, even thou he never did. Even his eventual win at the end was bitter sweet, and even he didn't expect it (as he is used to failing). I loved the adventures they had on the way to Paris and would have loved to seen a Great Race 2 for the return to New York. I can't imagine a remake of this film, but expect it eventually as Hollywood is running out of ideas. Who could play Leslie or Fate today? "},{"Title":"Oh Please...Lighten Up!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No disrespect to the previous summary...but for the love of MIKE!!! This person does not get it........... The Great Race is a wonderful parody of silent film comedies...even further back than that...to the old time style of theater where the audience boo-ed the villain and cheered the hero! Watching this film is like watching a great Bugs Bunny cartoon, only with very famous live-actors!  It's a HOOT!!!!! The frame of mind you need to have is just relax and have a great time with The Great Race. This is one of the greats!  "},{"Title":"Stan and Ollie would have approved.","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Blake Edwards teams Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis for the second and last time in one of the funniest films ever brought to the screen. While The Great Race will never attain the status that Some Like It Hot has received it is still a very funny film in its own right.Tony Curtis borrows his white costume from Alec Guinness in The Man With the White Suit as the dashing hero, the Great Leslie. Remember that was the fabric that repelled EVERYTHING. It sure is the only explanation why through out the entire movie, Curtis never gets a hint of a smudge on his clothing. In fact he remains calm and unruffled during all trials and tribulations associated with the race.The Great Race is about precisely that, an automobile race from New York to Paris during the Theodore Roosevelt era. Natalie Wood as crusading reporter in the Nellie Bly tradition has used the suffragette movement to blackmail editor Arthur O'Connell into having the newspaper enter a car of its own which she will drive. Wood also shows she had a great comic flair herself.But the film really belongs to Jack Lemmon. Lemmon lampoons all the Snidely Whiplash traditions of classic villainy in one monstrously good performance as Professor Fate. His plans always go awry, due in no small measure to his assistant Max played by Peter Falk. Lemmon and Falk look like they are having just as good a time as the audience is. The Great Race touches on many other films, a saloon fight like the one in Dodge City, a saloon gal in the tradition of Marlene Dietrich in Dorothy Provine, and a whole section devoted to a take off on The Prisoner of Zenda which climaxes in a Mack Sennett pie fight. The laughs are plenty and they come on strong.The film is dedicated by Blake Edwards to Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy. Stan Laurel had died that year. I think both of them would have approved. "},{"Title":"In Retrospect-Still Glad I Risked a Court Martial to See It","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Great Race, a delightful parody of silent film, is still one of my favorite epic comedies.  The adventures of Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon, Natalie Wood and Peter Falk as they compete in the early twentieth century to win a New York to Paris auto race always make me laugh.  And has any other film even approached the firing in rapid salvoes of 2,357 pies in the biggest food fight in cinematic history? I don't think so.The Great Race came out just as I entered the Army in 1965.  I wanted to see the movie but Uncle Sam had more urgent need for my time, quite a bit of it.  May 1966  as a young second lieutenant I was shipped to Fort Lewis, Washington to await my first air trip across the Pacific.  Flights, all charter (the famous Northwest Orient Red Tails), left frequently but irregularly each day and orders were clear and specific  do not venture from the small area to which you were bivouacked. Wait for your name to be announced.  Missing a flight would be a court martial offense.Someone had the post newspaper and I saw that The Great Race was playing but inquiry disclosed the nearest theater was two miles away on the sprawling Army base.  I decided to walk there.  My companions were aghast - they couldn't believe I'd risk a court martial to see a movie. No one would go with me.I remember the afternoon well.  It was sunny and warm, nice weather for an often cloudy and drizzle-soaked region.  The price of admission was twenty-five cents, popcorn and a soda another two bits.  I enjoyed every minute of the movie and walked back to my area with a big smile on my face.  Five minutes after getting there my name was called on the P.A. system and within a half-hour I was on a bus to nearby McCord AFB for a long flight. A close call!I showed the film to my teenage kid tonight and told him how I first managed to see it.  He thinks I was nuts as they did some of the guys who were on the same flight.A long film, the pace keeps up nicely and it's easy to surrender to the non-stop zaniness.  Jack Lemmon is at his comedic best as Professor Fate, a man who would never easily do something right if he could  stoop to evil machinations.  Natalie Wood is charming and Tony Curtis's deadpan delivery evokes memories of the days of the silents.  Peter Falk - pre-Columbo - is an effective foil to Lemmon.One of my all-time favorite movie songs is The Sweetheart Tree by Henry Mancini.  I hadn't heard in years before tonight and it brought back a flood of memories. It's a lovely song.If you've never seen The Great Race, do so.  It's now available in an excellent DVD transfer.9/10.  "},{"Title":"And what a race!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't give enough kudos to this very funny film. My only criticism is that Jack Lemmon started on a high level and had nowhere to go. His constant yelling finally got on my nerves.Other than that it's s delight and filled with shtik. Curtis, Wood, Lemmon and Falk carry the load without faltering.Everyone else is great with a special mention to Larry Storch Ah need some fightin' room!A true timless classic and don't forget the cars. "},{"Title":"Better As Spectacle Than Comedy","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Great Race has been described as live action cartoon, and that is when it's comedy is at it's most appealing. In the opening minutes Prof fate and Max (Lemmon and Falk)endure cartoonish falls, crashes and explosions, and the comparison to old WB cartoons is apt. Then we get into the plot , and as soon as the racers hit the American west, machinations of the characters take over and the slapstick falters. By the time the story reaches the mythical kingdom of Potsdorf (or something), the plot is dragging the film down badly. It mostly limps home from there. The thing that makes the film watchable is the spectacle, faux early 20th century costuming, stunt work and attention to detail, all of which are outstanding. This is one of the better looking comedies you will ever see, with bright colors everywhere and confident and elaborate staging.It almost doesn't matter that it's not really very funny. "},{"Title":"Great Race","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this as a mature teenager, probably played it again when i showed the movies at NC State U in the 60s & saw it again about 3 years ago. I still remember Jack Lemmond calling MMMMMAAAAAAAAAAAAAAXXXXXXXXXX in so many scenes. The movie as a whole may be only a 6 to those who do not love movies, & the late Tony Curtis did a good job, but Lemmond & Peter Falk had the plum parts & delivered such great performances, not only funny but believable in the movie sort of way. Around the World in 80 Days (1956)may have started this genre, in which a race theme of some kind starred many Hollywood names in cameo roles. It's a Mad,Mad,Mad,Mad World (1963) may have been the best produced of the this genre but I believe The Great Race to be the funniest. The same year The Great Race came out also saw Those Magnificent Men in their Flying Machines, an air race flick but not as hilarious. I will try to see it again Sun night on TCM & will still laugh even if I watch with a more critical eye! "},{"Title":"The Great Sprint","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Great Race will hold up forever thanks to its colourful production design and the unique, cheerful atmosphere created by the actors in the middle-ground. In a day and age of films staged in big close-up with bluster, it's refreshing to re-visit an old favourite that derives its strength from an organic spirit within. The staging may be there but it compliments the actors, who look as wonderful and are equal to the excellent preparation.So strong are these two facets of the film in creating its lively atmosphere that it seems devoid of any external presence - fitting since the camera infrequently moves, which could serve as a lesson to filmmakers today. If you prepare your material thoroughly and know the actors' strengths, you only need to roll the camera. If a chemistry is created, the viewer will automatically respond to this. It's easy for director Edwards, who has Lemmon, Falk, Curtis and Natalie Wood on board, each given a platform to shine without running riot and upsetting the dynamics. All the performances are a refined mix of abandon and professionalism and align effortlessly with the sumptuous background to sustain the rhythm, even during quieter, slower scenes like the second sword fight.The slapstick mayhem is unleashed at the right moments, like the best of Buster Keaton's films. These moments are not disruptive, but stand out accordingly. The snow storm and polar bear incident was especially delightful, with all four stars sharing the space collectively and evoking the ingrained spirit that is so enjoyable throughout. Only the ballroom brawl and pie fight come close to self-indulgence and override the balance momentarily. But even in these noisier passages, the camera remains steady, keeping our eye on the activity and making it as fun and fluid as possible.9/10. Despite its episodic structure, The Great Race never feels disjointed or loses sight of the finishing line. Its many pleasures are showcased in a relaxed way, creating an illusion that there is always something bigger in store. By the end, i wasn't exhausted, but felt that the film had given enough, even if the climax wasn't as wild as i hoped it would be. "},{"Title":"Greatest comedy film ever","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To my mind, The Great Race is the most underrated comedy in the history of film.I first viewed it in a London, Leicester Square theatre and it remains the only film I have seen in my life where an audience actually applauded at the end of a film.It's plot construction far exceeds any of its contemporaries,'It's a Mad Mad World' genre of the day. Our children see good versus bad in a simplistic manner that spans time. The credits see boos and hisses now generated in Lazy Town and previously Star Wars - this is entertainment at the max.My attachment to the film, based on Goon Show memories, is the seriously serious sword fight between Leslie and the Baron (as good as any Errol Flynn), to be ended by the Baron saying, I have a boat waiting, shot of man in moat in rowing boat - the Baron jumps from window and goes straight through the boat. Surely the best build up to a farcical result ever.I find it strange that none of the principal actors have ever mentioned their association with this film when interview, I believe, milestone in comedy - including Mike Parkinson interviews.For design, portrayal, scope, production and acting I reckon this is the best comedy ever. I thank the team and especially the producer who, remember, went on to produce the Pink Panther series.Steve Hammond "},{"Title":"successfully frivolous","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of those movies from my childhood that I recently revisited on DVD. It seems to me to have stood the test of time very well, especially with regard to many of the matte shots, which are remarkable.This is a completely frivolous movie, and anyone approaching it looking for anything else is bound to be disappointed. It is, inevitably given the story, episodic; it definitely flags in places, and undoubtedly might have had greater success if it had been pruned. But I caught it on TV some years ago and discovered that one of its most charming irrelevancies - Natalie Wood singing Mancini and Mercer's The Sweetheart Tree - had disappeared, presumably so that the whole film could fit into the schedules. Not including it also makes a nonsense of Mancini's superb score, which uses the song as one of its principal themes. The 2001 DVD restores the song, which is very gratifying.The film is dominated by the relationship between Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk. They are, individually and together, outrageously hammy, as are the sight gags associated with them. The brio with which they attack this material is a joy to behold, and they represent the best possible reason to watch the movie. Curtis and Wood manage to stand up in the Lemmon/Falk whirlwind, and somehow survive intact. The comic interludes provided by Arthur O'Connell, Vivian Vance and Marvin Kaplin shouldn't be overlooked they have some very funny dialogue.The other stars of the film are the cars driven by Lemmon and Curtis, and the astonishing wardrobe provided for Natalie Wood by Edith Head.I think the dedicatees of the film, Mr Laurel and Mr Hardy, would have been pleased with the efforts of all concerned. "}{"Title":"A Remarkable Comedy inspired the classic cartoon Wacky Races","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This wonderful comedy was directed by the talented Blake Edwards the same man who bought to us,Breakfast at Tiffanys,Days of Wine and Roses,The Pink Panther,The Party,Victor/Victoria,10.The plot a race between New York and Paris in the beginning of the century covered by the first female reporter played beautifully by the lovely Natalie Wood,others are the good guy,Tony Curtis and Dr. Fate with Jack Lemmon always giving a great performance.In supporting cast you count with Peter Falk,Dorothy Provine,Keenan Wynn,Ross Martin,Vivian Vance,Arthur O'Connell.The Song the Sweetheart Tree was nominated for an Academy award and the movie won best Sound Effects with Tregoweth Brown. The movie pays a tribute to Laurel and Hardy mainly in the characters of prof Fate and Max (Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk).In my opinion this movie is perfect for a saturday matinee because is charming,well acted,fun and also inspired Hanna Barbera hit cartoon the Wacky Races. "},{"Title":"goodcleanfun","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A big-budget, big name comedy, and a classic example of the villain being more fun (and more interesting) than the hero as Jack Lemmon controls the screen as the black-clad Professor Fate, ably assisted by Max (pre-Columbo Peter Falk); they team to sabotage the competition on a race to Paris, but cannot keep down sturdy Tony Curtis, joined by the radiant Natalie Wood and a rare nice-guy turn by Keenan Wynn.  Recommended; better than similar 'Magnificen Men/Flying Machines' Press the button, Max!!  "},{"Title":"Push the button Max!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Marvelous romp!A classic I've loved since the first time I saw this one in the real movie theatre when it was first released. And I've waited for years to meet people who would admit to loving this movie-and now I am so surprised at just *who* is a fan-intellectuals, serious 'cinephiles'! Wow!It's amazing how they fit in almost every, single movie cliche in this movie! It's fun just to count them! And it *is* a fun movie-I rank it miles ahead of that other 60s favourite that's always mentioned alongside-It's a Mad, Mad... The music is great! (Listen to how many traditional patriotic songs are in the Great Leslie medley!) The acting is fun-and appropriate-though Jack Lemmon is more then appropriate-he's superb! (You almost find yourself cheering on the Evil Professor Fate as much as the Great Leslie.) And I love the look in Ross Martin's eyes when he realizes that this is one duel in which he's met his match! Add in the scenery and the cars and you have a classic.Let's hope this one gets the restoration treatment it so richly deserves! "},{"Title":"my number 2 movie","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was 5 years old, I had an accident with my bike that kept me to my bed/the couch for about 2 weeks, after being hospitalized for another 2 weeks. No school, no playing outside, just the T.V. and me. About a month before the accident my parents taped a movie called The Great Race, and one day I decided to watch it. In those 2 weeks on the couch I watched it about twice a day, and fell absolutely in love with it. The great slapstick humor, the evil but likeable Professor Fate, the slick and dislikeable Great Leslie, the pie-throwing, fantastic old automobiles, it had me rolling on the floor every time. That accident occurred 16 years ago, but still that movie is one of my favorites. It has me still rolling on the floor with laughter. Any movie which can do that after 16 years and after ... phew... 100, 200 (?) views deserves a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Fun for all ages!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that is great fun for everybody at any age.  I can remember seeing it for the first time at about age 7 or 8, and the slapstick humor only gets better each time I see it.  This is a wonderful, funny movie that is great family viewing.  In a modern era when colorful words and sex scenes prevail in all genres of film, it is refreshing to watch a simple, funny movie that derives its humor without the use of such techniques.  Although it is a bit silly at times, I highly recommend all adults watch it at least once with their own children, nieces, nephews, etc. - it's equally enjoying to see how young people react to the film!  "},{"Title":"Just great fun. One of my all time favorites.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the way comedies should be made. Well done by all the cast.  It's good clean fun at it's best. And the ladies will love Natalie Wood's wardrobe. This is the kind of movie that will lift your spirits. The pie fight is the highlight of the picture.  I would have loved being involved in that part of the film. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards at his Best","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Blake Edwards has made funnier movies, but this carefully-crafted, uncompromising comedy epic is his best work. Its gently rambling pace perfectly complements the period it evokes the innocent early years of the 20th century and, of course, when movies themselves were beginning.This movie also the point at which Tony Curtis was in his top form.  Six years earlier in Some Like it Hot, Jack Lemmon stole every scene he shared with Curtis, but here Curtis more than holds his own, impersonating a perfected version of his Tony Curtis persona, but not overdoing it as he was so often to do later.  He even pulls off some good-natured swordplay in the Prisoner of Zenda section near the end of the film, homage to all those swashbucklers he did in the Fifties.The Great Race is a perfect entertainment. And, of course, it has the greatest pie fight ever filmed. "},{"Title":"The Great Race","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Often funny, but mostly strained comedy about an automobile race set in the early 1900's. Comic sequences played as an homage to Laurel and Hardy, most notably a barroom brawl and a fabulous pie throwing climax. Lemmon and Falk are outstanding as devious partners trying to win the race from dashing Curtis and a beautiful reporter, Wood. Runs entirely too long and after the first hour, most of the laughs are gone. There is excellent sound effects, which won an Oscar and a lovely musical score by Henry Mancini.  "},{"Title":"The Great Waste","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A box office success in it's day, The Great Race is brassy and long-winded, nearly 2 hours and 40 minutes long. And though it centers around a a car race, the film drags because the race lacks excitement, and the characters are annoying. You don't care who wins. The only thing you'll root for is for the race to finish. Natalie Wood is lovely though embarrassing as she and Tony Curtis shout at each other while Lemon plays a one-note, dastardly villain as written. Some of the nostalgic trimmings are nice, but I prefer It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World(63)which also featured Dorothy Provine because at least it had momentum. Blake Edwards directed without the charm or inventiveness he displayed in Breakfast at Tiffany's and Victor/Victoria. A live-action cartoon, The Great Race can't sustain its elaboration and length. The 3 leads have demonstrated comic ability elsewhere Lemon and Curtis in Some Like It Hot(59) and Natalie Wood in Bob&Carol&Ted&Alice(69). "},{"Title":"Sentimental favourite","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unfortunately , The Great Race has been on television SO many times over the years it's become a bit of bore but I'll never forget the pleasure it gave me as a kid when I first saw it on the silver screen . Jack Lemmon scared the living daylights out of me and had me in stitches simultaneously. I've deliberately avoided watching it on the small screen over the years in the hope that it might , eventually , make it back into a local Revival cinema . It remains a strong sentimental favourite .  "}{"Title":"Lemmon,Curtis,Wood ,Wynn & Falk race for the gold and for great Laughs!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many have unfairly knockedMr.Blake EdwardsThe Great Raceas an unfunny slapstick comedy.But it's a film that is full of wonderful sigh gags,funny pratfalls and some hilarious farce worthy of The Three Stoogesand the famous comedy team.Whose names grace the opening of this filmMr.Laurel & Mr.Hardy.The story opens withThe Great Leslie(Mr.Curtis)showing off his athletic and dardevil skills at several fairs.Yet? His efforts are almost being thwarted and even mocked by that arrogant and jellious,ego tripping mainaicProf.Fate(Lemmon).A crazed,incompetant scientist/inventor.Who wants to prove that he's a better daredevil and talent that Leslie.It's seem thatThe Professorwill get his chance.When he takes up his opponent's offer to race against Leslie'scar from NYC to Paris,France.Working with his equally idiotic hencemanMax Mean(Pete Falk).Prof.Fate(Lemmon)create a car that can do anything..At least everything that is wrong. As it shoots off cannon balls at the wrong time and it's unable to keep the two villians warm in the Alaskian cold.In the intrem..A Newspaper PublisherMr.Goodbody(Arthur O'Connell)is manipulated to hire a tough,fast talking young suffergetteMaggie DuBois(Natile Wood)as a reporter to cover the race.She tries to get an interview with the contestants.But she meets with rejection in the worst way from Curtis and she nearly gets herself killed by Lemmon and Falk's dogs and their crazy invention's cannon.Nevertheless..She enters the race and before long our troup of zany competitors are in for the ride of their lives.Mr.Lemmon and Mr.Falk are hilarious as the two bumbling villians.Whose ineptitude at villiany and using crazy inventions make them the funniest comedic heavies since Stan and Ollie.Ms.Wood's is perfect as the tough,no nonsense but beautiful and flirtacious would be reporter and femminist.Who tries to get her story ,gives Mr.Curtis a flirtacious wink.But she doesn't accept his charms,until the end of the flick.Keenan Wynn is also engaging as Mr.Curtis'aide.And they're are also some funny cameos from Art O'Connell,Marv Kaplan,Vivian Vance,Ross Martin,Hal Smith, and two performers that I've metThe Late Denver Pyle(as the Sheriff of Boracho)and Larry Storch asDirty Texas Jack.There's even a pie fight that is truely funny and a scene..where Poor Ms.Wood is caught in her undies by an enemy officer after a swim.The Great Raceis an unappreciated film comedy that deserves another look.Hopefully? Fans of truely funny slapstick comedy will watch it and see it's real potential for laughs?  "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful, light comedy with an underrated double performance by the great Jack Lemmon as the delightfully wicked Professor Fate and the hapless but sweet drunken Crown Prince...Ably assisted by Peter Falk as Fate's long-suffering assistant Max.  They form a terrific comedy duo, their joint performances a great tribute to the slapstick comedies of early film. It's quite right that this film is dedicated to Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy.Tony Curtis (a better actor than some here have suggested, if you've seen his dramatic work) is perfect as the heroic and always white-suited, sparkling-toothed Great Leslie and Natalie Wood is charming and fun as intrepid reporter Madeleine DuBois.  Keenan Wynn gives fine support as Leslie's right-hand man, the equally long-suffering Hezekiah. "},{"Title":"The Great Farce","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the funniest comedies of all time.  Lemmon, Curtis and Wood all look like they had a very enjoyable time making this film and it shows.  Also, the sexual tension between Leslie and Maggie was perfect as it showed how women were beginning to assert themselves in that time.  But, the real winners here were Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk and Professor Fate and Max.  Fate would always have the perfect scheme to finally beat Leslie, but it was always up to Max to screw it up in the end.  Too bad they don't make films like this anymore.Also, take a look at the cartoon the Wacky Races.  That show was definitely inspired by this film. "},{"Title":"Rollicking Good Fun!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had forgotten how good this movie is. Tony Curtis is delightful, Jack Lemmon is fiendish and Natalie Wood is delicious! There could be better ways to spend two and a half hours, but not many of them involve the TV. See for a good laugh or two...thousand. And the cars! Oh My! "},{"Title":"Light-hearted, enjoyable movie","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first few times I saw The Great Race, I thought it was too silly to be enjoyable.  But after recent viewings I now have a fondness for this movie. It grows on you after awhile.  The story is light-hearted and meant strictly for fun. "},{"Title":"One of my all tome fav movies!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I LOVE this movie. The pie scene alone is one of the best scenes in movie history. Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, and Natalie Wood have great chemistry with one another. Its a great movie that is full of humor and heart. I reccomend this to anyone looking for a great, fun, humorous movie. I hate to give the plot away because I believe that watching the movie and seeing it without any prior knowledge is half the fun. ITS A GREAT MOVIE!!!!!! "},{"Title":"what a movie was before the big 3","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  if you have seen this movie you may not entirely agree with this comment.  but until very recently, this was my favorite movie of all time.  not only is it a terrific and adventurous tale, it succeeds without the so called  requirements for movies of today.  no foul language, no sex, no violence.  isn't that different, yes a movie can be great entertainment without these things brought to extreme presence in the movie.  i heartly suggest this to anyone who likes to be entertained, you will find it great fun!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is no lie  I have seen The Great Race over 500 times and I find myself laughing harder every time I re-watch it.Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis plays rival in the first ever New York to Paris road race in the early days of auto travel.  Throw in Natalie Wood as a sufferagette, Keenen Wynn as Curtis's right hand man, and Peter Falk, who almost steals the movie, as Lemmon's right hand man and you've got a great comedy.Throw in Blake Edwards as director and you've got a classic.There are so many moments in this film that it must be viewed to be believed.  Car chases, pie fights, swordplay, romance, drama, and belly laughs abound.Push the button, Max! "},{"Title":"A very entertaining movie for the entire family.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was so good when I was young, I wrote to KTLA Channel 5 in Los Angeles and asked them when they planned on airing it next.  They responded with a nice letter and the date and time.  If you want a funny, entertaining movie that family members of any age can enjoy, this is the movie. "},{"Title":"Everyone's A Critic/The Kids Today Don't Get It!!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw the Great Race was in 1971 on late night television, as a child I watched this movie and was never bored, as opposed to the crappy teen comedies that are out today, you can't compare movies like this to the dredge of movies that have no substanceThe Great Race is a movie that exudes style and period detail, it has many great performances from all involved, I will watch this movie over and over until the day I die and I put it up there with very fond memoriesI truly pity the reviewers who can't enjoy a Tony Curtis, Natalie Wood, Jack Lemmon movie when they were in their peakA Truly wonderful experience (****) out of (****) "}{"Title":"Fun Fest For the Full Family","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In a way it's too bad Charlton Heston turned down the lead role. He's an under-appreciated comedic actor, and brought a bundle of laughs to the role of Marc Antony in Julius Caesar. As it is, Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon, and Peter Falk handle the job well enough. I ought to add Hank Mancini's name to that list of contributors because his deliberately overblown score is an integral part of the work. Natalie Wood is gorgeous but doesn't add much to the fun.I never figured out exactly what a family movie was. I was always afraid it would turn out to be something like The Flintstones. But this is pretty good. Both kids and adults may appreciate the humor. The kids will like the simpler stuff. They'll be able to tell when it's simple because there is usually a lot of noise and running around on screen to cue them. There is also the sort of quiet simple humor found in Laurel and Hardy, as when Falk accidentally pours a can of paint on Lemmon, who in turn deliberately pours another can down the front of Falk's trousers while the latter stands there impassively. Things frequently blow up. They fall from the air and crash noisly into a pool of pig excrement. There is a collossal and pointless pie fight. People are chased screaming by polar bears. (Look, Mom, they're in a rocket sled and it's flying and they don't even know it yet!!!!) There is one of those monumental saloon fights in which a bottle smashes the mirror behind the bar, a body is thrown headlong down a lengthy table, a balcony collapses, a piano collapses, a solid bar collapses, a staircase collapses, a house collapses, the saloon collapses, the world collapses, and nobody even gets a bloody nose. They'll love it.Thoughtful adults, on the other hand, will be more likely to appreciate the more subtle points made by the film, such as Natalie Wood emerging from a swim wearing nothing more than a diaphanous teddy, almost transparent. The kids might not know what a suffragette is but their seniors might find their attitude amusing. (The movie was released in 1965, shortly before we lost our sense of humor where such issues are involved.) When Falk wakes up covered with snow and hung over from too much champagne the night before and mutters, It's big. Too big -- the head, the kids might not get it but the adults might. Adults may know that Natalie Wood's Russian was learned in childhood. (When she first speaks to the Russians I think she says, How are you?) They may remember what a great team Curtis and Lemmon made in Some Like It Hot. They may get the nudge behind personal names like Lilly O'Lay and Baron von Schtupp, and General Kuhster, and behind place names like Boracho and Grommet, which is a small stitched circular eyelet in a canvas sail and is of an indelicate appearance. The last adventurous episode takes place in Pottsdorf, a Ruritanian capital, and involves the substitution of Lemmon for the lookalike king. Kids will enjoy the excitement of the swordfight between Ross Martin and Curtis, and adults may enjoy it too as a deliberate spoof of the climactic scene of The Prisoner of Zenda. It is, by the way, one of the most finely choreographed duels I've seen on screen, at least the equal of the brawl between Basil Rathbone and Tyrone Power in The Mark of Zorro, which is saying a lot. Martin and Curtis switch from light foils to heavy sabres half-way through, and they switch from one correct posture to the next as they do so. The movements too are flashier than those used in real bouts but they look good, even with Curtis somewhat overdoing the advancements. At the end, Martin, like Douglas Fairbanks Jr. and James Mason before him, throws his weapon at the hero and does a swan dive out of the castle window. I have a boat waiting for me, is Martin's exit line -- and he really DOES have a boat waiting for him.The movie's quite a bit of fun. Have the entire family watch it on the same set. That way the family members get to spend quality time with each other, clustered around the luminous orb. "},{"Title":"Loved it as a child; not so much now.","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I used to enjoy this comedic caper as a kid, but now I find it far less appealing, the broad humour and juvenile slapstick no longer hitting the spot; I guess I really have become more mature as I've gotten older (despite what some people might think). The live-action predecessor to Wacky Races, The Great Race stars Tony Curtis as dashing daredevil The Great Leslie, who proposes an epic automobile race from New York to Paris. Also taking part in the challenge, Leslie's arch rival Professor Fate (Jack Lemmon) and his co-pilot Maximilian Meen (Peter Falk), and sexy suffragette Maggie Dubois (Natalie Wood).160 minutes of silly sight gags and over-the-top farce, with Lemmon as the Dick Dastardly-style villain whose plans always backfire, this film really tries the patience, especially when it turns into a Prisoner of Zenda-style adventure in the final act. Lemmon is particularly hard to take in his dual role as Professor Fate and drunken Crown Prince Frederick Hoepnick. Wood has a sexy scene where she emerges soaking wet from a lake, and, towards the end of the film, there is a huge cake fight in a Parisian patisserie, with the actress, dressed in corset, stockings and suspenders, getting covered from head to foot in cream I suppose there is something to appeal to the grown-up me after all.When I was young, I would have rated this an 8/10; now it would struggle to get a 4. I'll be generous and split the difference for IMDb&#x97;6/10. "},{"Title":"Natalie Wood Plastered In Cream Pies!","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Great Race (1965) Dir Blake Edwards / Cast Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon, Natalie Wood, Peter Falk, Keenan Wynn Hilarious slapstick tribute with cartoon inspiration. It is an event of the sexes as women are becoming more dominate in society. The race is from New York to Paris with two competing factors. Director Blake Edwards brilliantly visualizes the humour showcasing several genres overdone in episodic structure. This is his followup to his success with The Pink Panther although the much different Breakfast at Tiffany's remains his comic masterpiece. Tony Curtis plays the Great Leslie, stunt person and ladies man with a gleam in his eye. Jack Lemmon is hilarious in duo roles. He plays the devious Professor Fate who stops at nothing to defame Leslie. He also hilariously portrays Prince Hapnick whom Fate bears a striking resemblance. Natalie Wood is ravishing in her pursuit to become the first woman reporter. Peter Falk plays Fate's loyal sidekick. Keenan Wynn plays Leslie's loyal mechanic who is fooled by Wood yet has ways of regaining his position. There are several set pieces worth noting including an overplayed saloon fight, a lengthy pie fight, and an Arctic sequence where both competing factors spend considerable time on a block of ice. The result is exquisite visual fun lavishing in the comedies and cartoons of yesteryear. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"An instant classic film!!","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is a perfect classic! Straight from the impeccable A-list cast! Natalie Wood was great in this film! And of course Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon fit their roles perfectly also! This is just the type of film that I love! A big road trip adventure movie, with a great cast, humor, and well written along with a good story line. The costumes are fantastic too, I'm sure it was tough to gather all those different costumes, for all the different settings in the movie, especially for 1965, they did do a great job though! This movie is just pure fun!! Very fun, adventurous, funny, well acted, well done. The sets are very pretty and elaborate looking. The bottom line is this movie is just so enjoyable and fun to watch! I 100% suggest the great race (1965) 10/10! Some people don't even know it exists, and it's really a shame, because it's better than some movies that come out today. "},{"Title":"Edwards Tries Too Hard for Far Too Long","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Blake Edwards dedicated The Great Race to Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy, a high standard to set for a comedy. One factor Mr. Edwards forgot, however, was that Laurel and Hardy comedies were low budget and relatively short, and brevity and comedy go hand in hand. Epic comedies with epic lengths, such as It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World,' Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines, and The Great Race may have funny moments, but they cannot sustain the laughs throughout their excessive running times. These films were all produced during the 1960's, when big budget roadshow movies were in vogue; overtures, intermissions, and exit music were essential to charge higher prices for reserved seats. Thus, many modest film concepts were inflated to justify special engagements.The Great Race has a lot going for it, however. The charming opening titles mimic lantern slides from the silent era, and the classic cars and flying machines are a delight. The cast is also first rate. Jack Lemmon is Professor Fate, the dastardly Snidley Whiplash of the film, a sneering, mustached villain pitted against Tony Curtis as the Great Leslie, always immaculately clad in white, with teeth and eyes that occasionally gleam. Natalie Wood plays Maggie Dubois, a suffragette who manages to change from one dazzling costume and outlandish hat to another, no matter what her predicament. The stylish costuming also provides running jokes, not only with Wood's eye-popping outfits, but with Curtis's impossibly-white clothes that never get soiled. Although Lemmon is occasionally over-the-top in his dual role as Fate and as a Ruritanian prince, both Curtis and Wood do quite nicely. At times, like the film, Lemmon tries too hard, especially as the Crown Prince. Composer Henry Mancini tries a bit too hard as well; while The Sweetheart Tree is a nice song, by the closing credits, the audience has heard it one time too many.The concept of a New York to Paris automobile race, similar to the plane race in Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines, released the same year, provides lots of opportunity for comedy. However, the plot veers off into a The Prisoner of Zenda subplot that only dilutes the action and provides Lemmon with an excuse to overact. Pie fights and barroom brawls can be funny in the hands of such talents as Laurel and Hardy, but Edwards, obviously blessed with an astronomical budget, attempts to stage the biggest barroom brawl and the biggest pie fight ever. Like Stanley Kramer did with It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, Edwards tries too hard, and more becomes less. Despite excessive length, The Great Race has enough to merit a look; the sum of its parts is greater than the whole. If the budget had been slashed and the footage tightly trimmed to essentials, Edwards's fond look at silent comedy might have been the total winner he envisioned and merit the dedication to Laurel and Hardy. "},{"Title":"Chuckles galore.","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As I've rewatched this movie a few times I have come to appreciate it even more. Epic, yet episodic, and much more entertaining than the similar yet staid Around the World in 80 Days. The extras budget alone on this must have been enormous! Granted, there isn't a lot of actual racing shown but the encounters along the way are memorable. The longer version is an event for an evening, one that includes the Overture, Entr'acte, and Exit Music. Also best seen in hi-definition.The humor can be variously described as madcap, slapstick, cartoony, but rarely subtle. Still, even if there are only a few belly-laugh moments, this picture is loaded with elements that can make one chuckle throughout.The photography and location work is beautiful, the actors perfect for their roles (although Natalie Wood hams up the cartoony factor by quite a bit - nevertheless, she is quite lovely to look at.) Jack Lemmon as Professor Fate is one of the all-time best screen villains ever.The longer version is an event for an evening, one that includes the Overture, Entr'acte, and Exit Music. Also best seen in hi-definition. Funny, I never once thought of Lemmon and Curtis having also been together in that other famous comedy until someone mentioned it to me. I like this one so much more. "},{"Title":"A Big Budget Comedy That Sparkles","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some of the hottest stars of 1965 combine to produce a wonderful, comedic adventure movie in the tradition of Around the World in Eighty Days and It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. Jack Lemmon is at his very best as Professor Fate, who tries to stop the irrepressible Tony Curtis (he of the sparkling teeth, the ultimate goody-two-shoes). Throw in Natalie Wood and a lot of incredible cliffhanging events, good versus evil, and you have an adventure that surpasses the aforementioned pair of movies. In this one the chemistry is excellent. While it is ridiculously outrageous, we are quickly taken into the realm of the film and it never lets up for a minute. It hearkens to the classic melodrama. At times I thought that while the sixties were one of the most explosive times in history, the movie industry was pretty sterile, especially when it came to the comedy. This one needs to be seen. "},{"Title":"Wacky Races","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes villains can be even more fascinating characters than the heroes. Which is kinda strange because they should be people we shouldn't even like since they do things that are amoral or break ethical boundaries. It could be because at some points we can easily emphasize with certain feelings they have or simply they have more persona than the hero or simply more of a life. This is another one of my favorite comedies and I think is also under the radar and a bit forgotten.In a way the film sort of parodies on the notion of the good guy and bad guy motif. The plot is ridiculous feels but that's part of what makes it funny because this film is sort of a live action cartoon. It was a long movie but just as fast as the cars go, the pacing goes by so fast and constantly moves I hardly noticed.The production value was good it was shot in a bunch of location which makes it all the better which means no cheating with any effects. I really like the race sequences and stunts which were all real cars and all real driving. There is a bit of action like a sword fight which is probably on of my favorite one on one battles because of the length of time and the different foils and techniques used.The locations they all go to all pretty much play like a live action Mad Magazine comic. Like in that magazine each of the snafus they get into are random and completely ridiculous, it's almost like for a moment these characters have just jumped into another movie. From a western, Prisoner of Zelda dilemma, an epic pie battle, it's just crazy you have to see to believe.I simply like the characters. Tony Curtis is great as Lesile whom is so perfect it's nauseating, he's pretty much a parody on our amount of expectations on what we want our protagonists to be which is to be all so perfect. Lesile is that in spades all so perfect, yet all so dull, simply because this protagonist has that fundamental problem of having a lifestyle but no real life.Natalie Wood is great and hot as Maggie Dubois whom is almost a Lois Lane like reporter that is just so determined by all means to get her point across. And I just love how high she is on her feminist beliefs, which makes her all the more funny because of the double standard to some of them which she is consciously not entirely aware of. It's funny how she delivers grief or unintentional grief toward both sides of the spectrum. Though the only bad thing in the film for me, would be who she falls for in the end, I kind which it was Professor Fate she fell for since he's more interesting and would of made more sense. But then again that might have deterred the villain quality for Fate unless she converted to being a villain, so I can't complain too much about that.But of course the main attraction is Professor Fate played brilliantly by Jack Lemon. This character is my favorite role from him, he's literally a live action cartoon villain. He looks like Snide Whiplash from the cartoon Duddley Do Right with that mustache and wardrobe. he was also a partial inspiration to villain Dr. Horrible in the web mini series Dr. Horrible's Sing Along Blog.He's character is pretty much a blowhole but a fun one that just simply wants to beat or kill Lesile by any means necessary. It's just funny how much he just puts it out there, not even bothering to keep himself undercover even though logically that is what villains should do, at the rate of exposure it's surprising that he's hasn't been arrested yet.I even like his back and forth with his flunky played by one of my favorite actors Peter Falk and yes for the record I'm a Columbo fan; his character himself is hilarious because of how dumb he really is, but a little touching because of how loyal he is to Fate and is probably the Fate's only friend.It's just funny how many tricks he's trying to pull to sabotage and beat Lesile in the race almost more than those power ups you'd get in the Mario Kart video games. But just like Wille Coyte's schemes in the Road Runner cartoons they don't work.But he's interesting not just in persona but you can sort of emphasize with him a bit. As he's a person you can easily see he's simply a person that doesn't have all the break in life and is really trying hard to have a piece of the good life. Which is part of why he hates Lesile so much because Lesile is a person that practically has all those breaks in life, without even trying. It's sort of like with us where some of us have to work hard or exercise a painful amount of patience to get what we want, while there are some in a higher class that have things handed to them and not always appreciated it. Yeah, I know it hardly seems fair, but this all the more made me on Prof Fate's side and made us want him to win, despite not entirely deserving it (he is playing dirty after all).The Great Race goes the distance.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"So, who really won the race?  The real race?","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Other reviews have good information about the plot and acting in The Great Race. So, my comments will cover some things that I didn't see in reviews. Blake Edwards used a lot of past events in this movie &#x96; from Hollywood and elsewhere, to lampoon those events and some topics of the times. He used the real Great Race of 1908 as his overall comedy vehicle (a pun by coincidence?). The real event probably had very little comedy for the participants. Although when one reads the details of the finish, it seems obvious that at least one entry tried some shenanigans. The race was a big deal in its time, and we have some interesting artifacts from that event, which I'll mention later. I'm sure some similarities with the movie will be obvious here, as well as some scenes that may have been inspired by the real race. The real race was sponsored by the New York Times and Le Matin of Paris. Six cars were entered in the race from four countries. France had three entries and one car each came from the U.S., Italy and Germany. The race was to cover 22,000 miles. The best of roads at the time were poor by today's standards, and most places had no roads at all. Wherever possible, the cars straddled and followed railroad tracks. Where there were no tacks, the cars drove cross country. The original plan was to drive the entire distance by crossing the frozen Bering Strait between Alaska and Russia. But it was changed to ferry the cars from Seattle to Valdez, AK. Then, when the leading car arrived there, the Alaskan conditions were so bad that it was impossible to proceed further by land. So, from Valdez, the race went by ship to Japan, then by ferry across the Sea of Japan to Vladivostok, Siberia.So, who won? The U.S. entry, the Thomas Flyer, driven by George Schuster, was the first to cross the U.S., and it entered Paris on July 30 &#x96; 169 days after starting. The German Protos had arrived in Paris four days earlier, but was penalized 30 days because it didn't go to Alaska. The Italian Züst was the only other car to finish the race. It arrived in Paris on September 17. None of the three French entries made it past Vladivostok. The cars had teams of three or four men, and some of the men were replaced along the route. George Schuster was the only American to go the entire route. When the Americans returned to the U.S., they had a heroes welcome and ticker-tape parade in New York City. Now for the artifacts. The winning Thomas Flyer and the race trophy are in the National Automobile Museum in Reno, NV. The trophy is a large pyramid made out of marble from the four nations that had cars competing. I saw these and many cars and other items when I spent a day in the museum in 1997. This world-class museum was begun with 175 of the nearly 1,400 automobiles of the William Harrah auto collection. The museum opened in 1989 and ranks among the top five automobile museums in the U.S., and in the top 16 in the world. That's according to AutoWeek magazine. The Great Race cost $12 million to produce over five months. It was then the most expensive comedy ever made. This globe-trotting farce didn't go quite as far as Around the World in 80 Days, but it sure is a close second. It was filmed in Vienna and Salzburg, Austria; Paris, France; Frankfort, KY; the Oregon coast; and in locales and studios up and down California. Before the big race begins in the movie, we get some hilarious comedy warm-ups. We see a number of individual performances by The Great Leslie (Tony Curtis) and Professor Fate (Jack Lemmon). Kennan Wynn and Peter Falk play their sidekicks, Hezekiah Sturdy and Maximilian Meen. These hilarious scenes have some goofy gimmicks and interesting inventions. Fate is a great &#x96; if diabolical inventor. We have scenes with a bicycle- powered dirigible, a railroad track rocket, a mini-submarine and a land and water mobile torpedo. Other adventurous scenes add to the humor, with Fate's attempt to beat Leslie by trying to cause Leslie's stunts to fail. The hijinks continue during the race. I had to pause my DVD when I laughed so long at this exchange. General Kuhster The Great Leslie has escaped. Prof. Fate Escaped? General With a small friar. Fate Leslie escaped with a chicken? General No, you idiot, with a friar. A monk. A priest.Henry Mancini's music for this film is excellent. The ominous theme each time Fate comes on the scene prepares us for some sort of hijinks that are sure to make us laugh. Jack Lemmon is riotously funny in his double performance in this film. He and Falk make an unbeatable comedy pair. I can see that match up as Blake's tribute to Laurel and Hardy. Lemmon should have been nominated for an Oscar that year. His role was much funnier, and much more demanding, than that played by Lee Marvin who won the best actor Oscar for Cat Ballou. The Great Race won the Oscar for best effects and sound effects. It received four other nominations in one of those years that had many great films. This is a wonderful madcap comedy adventure that will delight the whole family. "},{"Title":"Comedy as it's no longer made","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Are grand slapstick films like this even made any longer? It seems even the children's comedies nowadays are vulgar and cynical. Not that I'm saying vulgar and cynical can't be entertaining, but it would be nice if there was still room for fare like The Great Race (1965), one of the breeziest comedy spectacles ever made. It's no exaggeration when I say that this is a film that will make you feel like a kid again.The plot itself is like a Saturday morning cartoon of old a daredevil named the Great Leslie (Tony Curtis) is partaking in an automobile race from New York to Paris, joined by his lackey Hezekiah (Keenan Wynn) and the reporter Miss Maggie DuBois (Natalie Wood). On the journey, he has to contend with his mustache-twirling rival Professor Fate (Jack Lemmon) and his minion Max (Peter Falk), both willing to do anything to make sure they beat Leslie. The film is episodic, covering their misadventures across the globe.Though It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (1963) is what comes to mind when people think of the short-lived genre of epic comedy, The Great Race is far superior due to focusing on five main characters and running at twenty minutes under three hours. Unlike the earlier film, this one knows when to give you a breather before delivering another volley of gags. The look of the movie itself is easy on the eyes, colorful and warm. The costumes are the stuff of cartoons Leslie is always in an immaculately white suit and cap, Fate is head to toe in black, and Miss DuBois' outfits (which are wont to change even within the same scene!) come in every color on the rainbow.All the players are great, but the one everyone always remembers is Jack Lemmon's outrageous mustachioed villain, Professor Fate. He leaves much more of an impression then the film's white clad hero, but then again, don't the bad guys usually do? You can tell Lemmon is having the time of his life and consequently, so do we.A perfect film for a rainy day. "}{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An international road race centres around white-clad goodie The Great Leslie and black-clad baddie Professor Fate.Appearing very soon after the similar Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines (the two films must have been in production at the same time, what a coincidence, eh?), The Great Race is to my mind the more enjoyable movie.Tony Curtis' Leslie has just enough twinkle (in Curtis' performance, as well as animated) to avoid being insufferable, and Jack Lemmon's Professor Fate, clearly the inspiration for Wacky Races' Dick Dastardly, is hysterical (Peter Falk as henchman Maximilian is every bit as funny). Natalie Wood was never more gorgeous. Professor Fate's car is wonderful, the movie is packed full of gags and, as is well known, the film contains the best custard fight sequence of all time - never subsequently equalled - during the Prisoner Of Zenda spoof. "},{"Title":"A Great Cast in an Over-the-Top Comedy Classic","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I still like Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines better, and it's ironic that these 2 films came out with weeks of each other. Essentially, an Around the World in 80 Days throwback with a huge cast, some exotic locales to balance the obvious back-lot and studio sets, and the improbable premise of a race around the world, the hard way, from New York to Paris without crossing the English Channel or any oceans. My first complaint is that there aren't enough participants. It ends up being only The Great Lesley (Curtis) and Prof. Fate (Lemmon) who compete in 90% of the race. In Magnificent Men... it seems like more of a true race with several memorable racing entrants. That aside, it's a great romp for all with a very familiar plot that borrows from everything you have ever seen on film from Hal Roach Studio's pie throwing classics to The Prince and the Pauper (Jack Lemmon in a dual role). Also, it's just too darn long, clocking in at 245 in length. Is it funny? It sure is. It's a wonderful opportunity to see Natale Wood, Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon, Peter Falk, Ross Martin and several other stars at the height of their careers and (mostly) young. There are too many cameo stars in the cast to even try to mention everyone; except to say that Dorothy Provine's saloon song is almost better than the Oscar-winning Sweetheart Tree. There are several similar movies that I like better, but Natale Wood's performance is haunting. She looks terrific, but it's not her best role. Tony Curtis (bare chested of course) swashbuckles with Ross Martin in a duel to the death where no one dies. Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk make a great comedy team, but they are not Laurel and Hardy, to be sure. A Saturday afternoon guilty pleasure often run on TCM; fully restored and uncut! "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Liked the song. Funny movie. Loved the bridal costume near the end. Loved Leslie's white costuming, and all of Maggie's beautiful outfits. Vivian Vance's costuming was excellent. Dastardly Fate and crown prince both played by great actor Jack Lemmon. Remembering Lemmon and Curtis dressing and acting as women in Some Like It Hot (too bad Marilyn wasn't in this picture - The Great Race).Liked this movie in 1965, and still like it. Too bad the principals mainly deceased; not sure about Larry Storch - a friend of Curtis' from long time earlier. Don't think Storch principal here, but definitely a comedic force. "},{"Title":"A must see for all serious fans of Lemmon, Curtis, Falk, or Edwards","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A solid 8 rating from me. This is a must see to any fan of Edwards or any cast member.Sure it's long and drives off course a few times, but Lemmon and Falk hold it all together, and of course Wood and Curtis are eye candy for guys and gals. The sets are lavish, the kind you rarely see these days. The music by Henry Mancini is perfect, even the sort of stuck on love ballad.They don't make 'em like this anymore and it's just a shame. I have no idea why this movie isn't on more top lists for people.It's just good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Brilliant epic slapstick comedy.","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Blake Edwards brings his unique style of humour into this epic, hilarious slapstick comedy. Although it does have some brief dull spots, not unlike It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (Which it was obviously influenced by), the moments of comedy were brilliant. The film used lots of elaborate, expensive sight gags to phenomenal effect, with cartoony sound effects from sound effect pro Treg Brown, best known for his work on Looney Tunes cartoons. But the real scene stealer here is Jack Lemmon as the hilariously over-the-top Professor Fate. Professor Fate was just so silly and cartoonishly evil that one can't help but love him. Jack Lemmon said each of his lines with no indoor voice and tons of ham, and is probably among his greatest performances. Also memorable in this movie is Natalie Wood as a quirky, over-the-top feminist who never seems to stay in one outfit for more than a scene.Aside from the brilliant comedy, this is such a completely gorgeous production. It's beautiful period sets and costumes lets one become completely engrossed in the film's universe. I also really enjoyed the vibrant colours and beautiful cinematography.But like I said before, their are some dull spots. Some might see this as a good thing, as it lets the viewer breathe after some really wacky humour, others might see this as padding to make the film longer. I personally didn't mind, since their was enough eye candy on screen to keep me amused.I would recommend this movie to fans of Blake Edward, and anybody who enjoys slapstick comedy. "},{"Title":"It's Great, the title says so.","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Of Top-10 Film, this is one. Ms. Wood and Mr. Curtis. It's sublime chemistry with Blake Edwards' humorous Golden Era touch. The story is deep and the relief-team Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk is as enriching as any Villains, ever! The Soundtrack- though dated, still rings a familiar romantic listening- the Composer is quite famous. One of the Best 10 Films It deserves a Sequel.The Story evolves with complex detail Technology, Bravery, Rivalry. The Sufferage Movement of the Industrial-Renesiance plays into the Sexual Conflict of both the time-piece and the scientific-capacity of this generation of Hollywood.Perciverance, Resourcefulness, and the Where-Withall to circle the globe in a really-bitchin' car- and have the greatest Pie-Fight (and 2nd greatest Sword-Fight) in Cinematic History.I only wish I knew Ukrainian for some of the last of Act V. "},{"Title":"A roadshow comedy with a stylish, cartoony flair","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In many ways, THE GREAT RACE (1965) plays like a live action cartoon. At the heart of the film is the rivalry between daredevils Tony Curtis (always dressed in white) and Jack Lemmon (always dressed in black). Lemmon plays a villainous, Snidely Whiplash role, complete with mustache and top hat. There are some gags that could've come right out of a Roadrunner cartoon. (Things involving flying contraptions, torpedoes, tricked-out vehicles, explosives, and carefully plotted schemes.)The story takes place somewhere in the neighborhood of the early 1900s and follows Curtis and Lemmon as they embark on an automobile race westward around the globe, from New York to Paris. They are joined by Natalie Wood's feminist reporter (an emancipated woman), who manages to make trouble for both sides. The movie is a little like AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS, but without so many guest cameos. Blake Edwards (THE PINK PANTHER) directs, and brings his madcap comedy sensibilities.The film is pretty long (nearly 3 hours) and includes a musical overture, entr'acte, and exit music. The opening credits are pretty cool (done on illustrated title cards, in the style of old silent films). Some of the performances are over-the-top, and the narrative comes to a halt in the second half while the movie plays Prisoner of Zenda for half an hour.The movie doesn't always hit the mark, but it has many nice comedic touches and a great cast (featuring Peter Falk, Keenan Wynn, and Arthur O'Connell). It's nice to see Natalie Wood cut loose in a comedy like this, and Jack Lemmon's dastardly Professor Fate is a hoot. If you like AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS (1956) and IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD (1963), you should check out THE GREAT RACE.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Oscar worthy","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jack Lemmon is just wonderful in this. His totally over the top Professor Fate has to be seen to be enjoyed. It could have been awful but it is sublime. I have seen this movie countless times and it still makes my eyes water with laughter. Even Peter Falk (who I hate as Columbo) is terrific in this as Fate's sidekick, Max. Tony Curtis was never more dashing and handsome and along with the gorgeous Natalie Wood shows how great is his comic timing. I will never understand why The Great Race is not rated among the classics of film comedy. My friends and I can quote so many lines from it and we do and laugh like drains every time. I believe Lemmon should have won an Oscar for this film, though comedy performances do not often win, even though comedy is so much harder to pull off than drama. TGR was Blake Edwards finest moment in comedy thanks to Curtis and Lemmon , and oddly enough his best drama The Days of Wine and Roses also starred Lemmon in a completely different role. The supporting cast are all great too. "},{"Title":"Funny feel good comedy","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Great Race is the story of an automobile race from New York to Paris between The Great Leslie and Professor Fate with a reporter Maggie Dubois tagging along for a story and for romance.This is a wonderful, fun filled, feel good movie that has plenty of action, witty dialog, slapstick comedy and romance. There are icebergs, sword fights, cars, love, villains and heroes. What is not to like? Natalie Wood is gorgeous and lovable as the suffragette reporter Maggie Dubois. Tony Curtis is the dashing The Great Leslie, dressed in white as heroes should be, in contrast to the man in black-Jack Lemmon who is excellent as the dastardly Professor Fate, accompanied by his bumbling assistant Max (Peter Falk).This movie is way over the top, with great comedy, wonderful sets and costumes and great performances. Definitely worth a view or two. "},{"Title":"The Endless Race","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Blake Edwards has one of the most overblown reputations among critics and film buffs, and this lavishly produced, star and cameo studded, box office smash is long, loud and tedious. Seemingly inspired by the success of Kramer's It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (1963), The Great Race, 2 hours and 40 minutes long, is a seemingly endless series of elaborate set pieces populated by annoying characters lead by Curtis, Wood, Lemon and Falk who are one-note and overbearing. Since the outcome of the race doesn't matter, the race lacks any excitement and there's no one to root for. Edwards' films The Days of Wine and Roses, Experiment in Terror, Victor Victoria, S.O.B. and Ten are all over rated and Darling Lili like The Great Race is almost impossible to underrate. Breakfast at Tiffany's is probably his best film even though the final third of that movie turns to sentimentality. "}{"Title":"Worth it just to see Jack Lemmon's Professor Fate & the delectable Natalie Wood","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Summary line says it all. While Tony Curtiss is supposed to be the hero, IMHO, Jack Lemmon effortlessly steals the show with his zany portrayal of a mad cap, conniving professor. Both Keenan Wynn & Peter Falk are a delight as the long-suffering side kicks and you can almost see the Peter Falk mannerisms take shape for his subsequent portrayal of Columbo.Natalie Wood's role itself is a bit of a lightweight one, but that was true of a lot of the period movies, but who cares! When she looks as luscious as a Boston Creme Pie, all you want to do is eat her up, lightweight or otherwise. Too bad, they don't come like that anymore. Sigh! "},{"Title":"Brandy!  Ma,  Ra,  Ra  Ra!","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the spotlight of the 60s, as a comedy, this is hard to miss. The Great Race does draw out the most in both Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis as opposing each other as the snob vs the slob.Running well over two hours and a half, Blake Edwards manages to cram as many jokes possible into this remarkable film called, The Great Race. The Great Leslie is a dare devil that accepts the challenge of a race against Professor Fate played by the brilliant comedian, Jack Lemmon that goes from New York City, to Paris.This is one of those comedies that can help you put the smile back on your face.Styles of acting start out as very cartoon-like for Professor Fate and his assistant, Max. This levitates to a more crazy/dumb style of a villain created that is hard not to like by audiences who enjoy explosions, kicks, falling and everything else in between.I've been watching this since I was a kid, and every time I watch it, it never fails to be funny. "},{"Title":"A comedy that cartoon fans will love","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is truly a great film. As a dedication to Mr Laural and Mr Hardy, this film contains just about every visual gag you can think of.In this Blake Edwards directed comedy, Tony Curtis plays The Great Leslie who plans to set up an automobile race from New York to Paris. But unfortunately, his rival Professor Fate (played brilliantly by Jack Lemmon) wants in as well.From the start of the race, it already gets funny. There's so many great gags that you could count them. There's also great performances from Natalie Wood as Maggie, and Peter Falk (before he became Columbo) as Fate's sidekick Max. Of course, the thing I love about this movie is the sound effects. Being a cartoon fan, the sound effects are brilliantly done by Treg Brown, who won the film its only Oscar.If you want a laugh-out-loud comedy with some of the funniest gags, and quite possibly the biggest pie fight ever made (I'm serious!), this is the movie to see! "},{"Title":"Rise and Shine, YOU rise...you shine","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorites. Good vs Evil in a simple, entertaining, colorful film with a catchy soundtrack. I recall first seeing it on TV when I was a kid, and (I am not afraid to admit) that I had my first 'crush' on Natalie Wood. It has come full circle recently showing my kids the movie and they loved it also. I even catch them humming the music every now and then. It's just a simple good, family style movie you just don't see out there anymore. A great cast, besides Curtis, Lemmon, and Falk, you've got character roles by the likes of Larry Storch (F-Troop)and Ross Martin (Wild Wild West) just to name a couple. Jack Lemmon is great in his multiple roles....if you haven't seen it, I highly recommend it. Get out the popcorn and round up the family. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun...","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Much more fun than the critics of the day would lead one to believe. In the early 1900s, Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon and Natalie Wood compete in a race between New York and Paris using the then new fangled automobile. Chaos ensues. Curtis plays straight-man to the shenanigans of both Lemmon and Wood. As a Black Bart type, Lemmon is a hoot and as a militant suffragette, Wood has never been lovelier. Director Blake Edwards creates a rollicking farce that holds a multitude of pleasures, not the least of which is the undeniable chemistry between not only Curtis and Wood, but between Curtis and Lemmon. They prove that their teaming in SOME LIKE IT HOT was no fluke. The various set pieces include a pie fight, a wild west saloon fight, as well as many ill-advised attempts by Lemmon to sideline Curtis. The supporting cast is very colorful and includes Peter Falk as Lemmon's hapless assistant, Larry Storch as an unlikely town menace, Arthur O'Connell, Marvin Kaplan, a cigarette-smoking Vivian Vance, and, in a very sexy musical number, Dorothy Provine. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie of All Time!","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At least my funniest movie of all time. This Blake Edwards classic only gets better with age. Comic performances by the villain, Jack Lemmon, the villain's henchman, Peter Falk, and the hero, Tony Curtis, are hilarious. Mr. Curtis' performance is made funnier by the fact that he delivers the funniest lines with the straightest face. Natalie Wood is beautiful as the heroine/love interest, Keenan Wynn as the hero's loyal sidekick, and wonderful supporting performances by Arthur O'Connell, Vivian Vance and Marvin Kaplan. Watch for actors Dorothy Provine, Larry Storch, Ross Martin, Denver Pyle and Hal Smith, in scenes not to be forgotten. The direction by Blake Edwards, as well as his writing, with Arthur Ross, the slapstick comedy, the sight gags and the cinematography are outstanding. I fall down laughing every time I see this movie. I saw it first in a movie theater in the sixties, soon after it's release, and have loved it ever since. It's a gas! "},{"Title":"Liveliness and gusto","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Great Race is a good-looking,feasting and spectacularly festive movie, made with liveliness and taste.Its pace is flawless.This luscious movie benefits a lot from its luminaries (Lemmon and the lucent Mrs. Wood).It has all the means it needsMancini's apt score,a bright bit part for Mrs. Dorothy Provine ,and Mrs. Wood was a fair comedy actress;she brings merriment and sprightly charm . Moreover,her keen, quick mirth seasons every scene she's in. Mrs. Wood was so lively and amusing.I would like her relation with Professor Fate (after she is kidnapped by him) was deepened and detailed .The movie is right in concentrating upon only 5 participants in the race,leaving aside all rubbish characters.Even so,it has more than enough comical substance for its length.The crazy Professor Fate gnashes savagely his teeth and grins.Lemmon puts a drop of madness in many of his (great) roles.This is a midsummer role for Lemmon.He was lusty,energetic,agile,he dressed very loudly.The Great Race is a movie for those who luxuriate on choice movies.It was a well-inspired idea to make a movie that uses simultaneously (1) a purely mechanical comic;(2)and very creative,large-hearted actors .The contrast is charming.IMDb says it should run for 160 min .The version I saw and recorded is a 140' one. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Race","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of my top ten all-time favorites. I first saw The Great Race in a theater, luckily. The costumes, music, writing, cinematography, sets, props, the cars and special effects are all top-caliber, the very highest level of Hollywood craftsmen-ship. Every episode of this movie sticks in the mind long after. This is a true comedy epic any family could watch. I don't understand the negative comments about the film or the performers, especially Natalie Wood, who is, as one reviewer wrote, delicious. Hollywood could never remake The Great Race and I hope they never do. It would be a disaster. It has to be seen properly wide screen and a clean print are a must, not the beat to hell pan and scan TV version. "},{"Title":"Great non-stop fun!","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I wish I had discovered this movie earlier! I haven't laughed that much during a movie since a long time. The movie was extremely fun and entertaining. The humor is slapstick/cartoon like. It was like watching one of those old Hannah-Barbera cartoons. The comical sequences were constructed extremely well and the timing by director Blake Edwards was brilliant! I laughed and smiled my way through this movie.The story and the situations in this movie are just crazy! It's typical Blake Edwards like and the humor in it can be compared to his early Pink Panther movies. There are some unforgettable comical moments and situations. The movie features a great stereotypical Western Saloon fight in which everyone fights everyone and it also features a great good old fashioned pie fight. 2 fine examples of some hilarious and memorable comical sequences. The movie is truly supported by the highly fun musical score by Henry Mancini.The movie has an absolutely amazing cast. Tony Curtis is a perfect leading man and Jack Lemmon is highly entertaining as the stereotypical 'villain'. Lemmon plays a double-role in this movie, besides Professor Fate he also plays Prince Hapnik. I had never seen him playing a character(s) like this in a movie. It is extremely over-the-top of course but it's highly fun to watch and he seemed to had lots of fun playing in this movie. His dumb stereotypical henchman is played by Peter Falk, before he got fame for playing Lt. Columbo. Natalie Wood is also enjoyable in her role.Only thing that too bad about this movie is that it's too long. The movie is like two and an halve hours long. It's not that the movie ever gets boring or tiresome after a while. It's just that some of the events in the movie feel stretched out and are perhaps a bit overdone. They could and should had reduced the movie to keep it more consistent.If you like silly cartoon-like humor or are a fan of the Pink Panther movie's, than this is an absolute must see! As a matter fact, everyone should just simply watch this movie! It's highly entertaining and fun!9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Luminous, Stylish, and Hilarious; Blake Edwards' Masterpiece of Mirth","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For more than two hours, The Great Race parodies the form of race films; it is the longest of all rallies, the most extended of all contests. Its theme is a surprising one for a comedy, the need for realism, regardless of what goals one chooses or the means one adopts to reach them. The storyline tells of a great challenge to early automakers and their intrepid cross-country drivers. Adventurer The Great Leslie proposes the event to a group of men at a motorcar company; and they get a great New York newspaper to sponsor the rally. Of course, the Leslie Special, built to his specifications, is supposed to win, thereby proving the superiority of their product. Many others, including rival daredevil Professor Fate, enter the contest also. It is a road rally, with the contestants starting in New York amidst a tremendous crowd and driving--to Paris, France...There are several kickers in the mix, of course. Maggie Dubois, intrepid and ambitious girl reporter and suffragette gets the editor of the New York Sentinel, the sponsoring paper, to enter her in the race as both reporter and contestant. Professor Fate and his henchman Max plan to sabotage any contestant who threatens their chances. And there are the vicissitudes of the weather, the places they must visit, the need to keep finding gas, Maggie's own underhanded schemes and hidden agenda, the governments of the places they must obtain help from and the vagaries of road, trail and accident, the need for spare parts and the racers' contentious personalities. Major problems develop in Borracho, a western town, the crossing to Asia, Russia, the principality of Pottsdorf and Paris itself. And the ending itself is inconclusive, since Fate wins but only because Leslie, falling in love with Maggie after a film-long battle of the sexes, lets him do so. Fate immediately refuses to accept the winner's prize that way--and loudly and publicly challenges .the couple to another race--Paris--to New York...As the racers depart on the second contest, we are treated by director Blake Edwards to another of Fate's tricks...before our eyes the Eiffel Tower is dynamited and sinks into a heap of rubble; as certain as Fate is untrustworthy, the second race--unfortunately never filmed--promised to be filled with nefarious acts and exciting adventures also. Director Blake Edwards and Arthur A. Ross produced the screenplay, as a tribute to Laurel and Hardy; cinematography was supplied by Russell Harlan. Henry Mancini's music is heard behind costumes by Don Feld, gowns by Edith Head, very fine art direction and production design supplied by Fernando Carrere and George James Hopkins' wonderful set decorations. Everything about this very stylish production is luminous and very well-done; and it is a difficult realization on film because of the indoor, outdoor, foreign, multiplicitous and turn-of-the-century scenes involved. As Leslie, Tony Curtis is professional and likable. Jack Lemmon's Professor Fate is one of his finest screen roles. Others in the cast are also outstanding, included Natalie Wood as Maggie, Arthur O'Connell as the Sentinel's editor, Marvin Kaplan as his assistant, George Macready in Pottsdorf, Hal Smith, Dorothy Provine and Larry Storch in Borracho, Keenan Wynn as Leslie's assistant Hezekiah, and Ross Martin, superb as the villain in Pottsdorf. This is a sunny, enjoyable adventure with an element of farcical fantasy about it that makes it look to me a fable come to life. Only a handful of films have this much style, fun and genial satire in them; and none I find more visually interesting nor beautiful than The Great Race. It is also a story filled with laughs and interesting dialogue as well. "}{"Title":"Oh, to participate in this race!","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes, it's good to think that certain movies have no purpose except to be funny. The Great Race is one such movie. You know how in Dr. Strangelove, the characters' names describe who they are? Well, in this movie, it's even more exaggerated. Set in 1908, Tony Curtis plays eternally kind stuntman Leslie Gallant III, Jack Lemmon plays the dastardly Professor Fate, Natalie Wood plays photographer Maggie DuBois, Peter Falk plays Fate's assistant Max Meen, and Keenan Wynn plays Gallant's assistant Hezekiah Sturdy.Think that all sounds crazy? Well, that's just the tip of the iceberg. After Fate and Gallant try to best each other in some stunts (with the latter always doing better, of course), Gallant proposes a New-York-to-Paris race, and so Fate and Maggie enlist. Throughout the race, a series of wacky things happen a brawl in an old western town, an unwanted trip across the Bering Sea, and a pie fight.When I first saw The Great Race when I was eight, the only cast member whom I recognized was Dorothy Provine, as a singer in the old western town - I had previously seen her in It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World; in the process of watching the movie, I learned the names Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon, Natalie Wood and Peter Falk (Falk also starred in IAMMMMW, but he didn't appear until very late in the movie, so I hadn't picked up on it). Now, when I look at The Great Race cast, it's almost hard for me to believe that it also stars Ethel Mertz, Artemus Gordon, Gen. Batguano, Col. Agarn (from F Troop) and Otis (from The Andy Griffith Show). Whoa...It's pure hilarity from start (one of Fate's dirty tricks) to finish (the French are probably glad that this isn't a true story). "},{"Title":"Happy 40th Anniversary, Great Leslie & Co!","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I agree with whoever said that The Great Race is worthy of a special re-release and restoration! Long over due! I was just watching it (again!) tonight-and I still laughed and cheered just like I did the first time-in the summer of 1965! Yes! This summer marks the 40th anniversary of it's initial U.S. release! Not only has this movie inspired people to go into film (one person I know)-it inspired a cross country antique auto rally called-The Great Race! This year is the 23rd running. Nearly everyone on the race is a fan of the movie-they quote lines to each other from time to time even!A couple of years ago, one of the guys bought the Leslie Special, restored it and showed it along with one of the Hannibal 8s at the finish-Good Grief-that car is gorgeous! You half expected stars to flash from it's head lamps like they did from Tony Curtis's eyes! Everyone-on July first-rent it, buy it, play your copy if you have one-invite friends and give this movie a birthday bash! I know I will! "},{"Title":"One of the best slap stick comedies ever...","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can always default to The Great Race, and it never disappoints. Well-edited and superbly acted, The Great Race blends three story-lines into a hilarious movie that never has a dull moment. Jack Lemmon is outstanding as Professor Fate---I can't imagine anyone else playing the role. Tony Curtis is perfect, and Natalie Wood has never looked or been better. Supported by Keenan Wynne and Peter Falk as assistants and sidekicks, the movie steadily progresses from the preparations for the race, the race itself, some crazy sidebars, and then the great finale. Wedged in is one of the best pie fights Hollywood has ever produced. Lemmon's character actually has sympathetic elements that he plays on very well, and it all is packaged and delivered nicely with fine cinematography and location shots. Family safe and just the right length, it is an excellent choice. "},{"Title":"Still funny after all these years","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm old enough to have seen this movie when it first came out, so I'm entitled to be a little curmudgeonly when I watch contemporary moron comedies and wonder where Hollywood went wrong.  This one has elegance (not merely visual, although this and The Pink Panther are probably the two most beautiful slapstick comedies ever made), intelligence, sophistication and lots of laughs.  All the performances are first-rate (Lemmon and Falk made a wonderful team), and although the film runs out of steam in the last twenty minutes or so (and it's a LONG movie - I remember it having an intermission, in the days when long movies had intermissions), it's still more authentically funny than more than a handful of comedies that have been made since the end of the '60's. "},{"Title":"Good fun no brains required","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film when it first came out and it made me laugh then. Of course, I'm a bit older now, but still enjoy it now, but for different reasons.It plain old slapstick comedy with a great cast. It's based on a true story, but is made in comic book format; no-death/blood violence, pie fights, pug dogs, and Otto-Mobiles.And also watch for the tribute to A Prisoner of Zenda, with a twist.I guarantee that after you see this you will never meet another person in your life named Max, and not hear Jack Lemon's wailing of Peter Falk's name (Maaaaxxxxxxxxx!)Turn it on, disengage brain, and have a good time. Let the kids watch too. Mindless fun for ALL ages. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the '60s star-studded caper films.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Blake Edwards dedicated The Great Race to Laurel & Hardy, but it's actually kin to films like Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines and It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. It's a sprawling, funny, slapstick film with unusually high production values and very funny performances by Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis and Peter Falk. Natalie Wood is delicious, as usual. Its epic length (it has an intermission) and sweeping worldwide scope makes it a great babysitter even for young teens. My kids wore out the VHS version twice, and I waited to order it on DVD for several years. There is no better example of 60's caper humor, and even adults will find it to be a great way to spend a few hours with the family. (Bit of trivia Jack Lemmon's famous cannon-carrying car, The Hannibal 8, still exists at the Petersen auto museum in Los Angeles.)  "},{"Title":"How great movies used to be made.  No spoilers.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When you watch this film and find yourself laughing and marvelling at the beautiful look of it and the sense that the cast themselves are having a great time , it is with a pang of loss that you realise what modern films are often missing. How fortunate I now find myself to have been treated to real filmmaking over the years before computer graphics ( good as they are today ) took the place of real props and sets. I am fortunate also to have seen this film in it's original release and so can still remember my delight in it as a child. No swearing/cursing no jaded/cynical jokes .. just pure fun.Hollywood these days seems to long for these types of film as witnessed by the endless 'remakes' of older films but usually the remakes fall short of the original. Perhaps this is because of the heavy reliance these days on 'special effects' or 'blockbuster explosions etc etc' has meant modern filmmakers have lost the focus of what makes good cinema. Of course new rare gems do surface these days occasionaly above the B grade pulp but they are becoming increasingly rare ( not to ignore the fact of course that there were plenty of B grade offerings from the past also ).Treat yourself and see this film. Unfortunately STILL only available on VHS. Even so the film still looks great with beautiful cinematography and wonderful costumes. The look and feel of the film is perfect thanks to Blake Edwards and his team. A great cast - Jack Lemmon steals the show with two roles ( Professor Fate/Prince Hapnick ) but Tony Curtis gives a fine performance as Leslie in perhaps a slightly more difficult role as part comic/part straight man. Natalie Wood looks beautiful and must have spent most of her time changing the myriad costumes she wears. Peter Faulk as always is terrific - I can't imagine anyone else playing the 'Max' character. Keenan Wynn and a bevy of great character actors fill out the fine ensemble/supporting cast. A big rollercoaster fun ride with perhaps the biggest pie-fight ever filmed. I wait for wide-screen DVD release - enjoy. "},{"Title":"For Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Imagine if this film were done today. The effects would all be cg-includeing the stunts. There would most likely be some toilet humor injected into the shenannigans of Professor Fate and instead of period music we would get a rap peice or two.Blake Edwards wisely dedicated the film to two great comedians and stuck to the period with great flavor. While it is a bit labored in some spots, there is much to reccomenmend The pie fight, the bar room brawl and the sword fight (with a great payoff for the late Ross Martin)all make nice set peices; Professor Fate's daredevil attempts to one-up The Great Leslie and the wonderfull chemistry between Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk. "},{"Title":"Terrific comedy","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great slapstick farce in which we get to see Peter Falk in his pre-Columbo days as well as Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, and Natalie Wood as the main characters.  Falk (Max) is the goofy sidekick of the evil Professor Fate (Lemmon), always clad in black, who rivals the dashing, always-dressed-in-white Great Leslie (Curtis) as a stuntman/daredevil and ultimately in the Great Race (by autos) from New York to Paris.  The other contestant is Maggie DuBois (Natalie Wood), a suffragette with a mission who is seeking to outdo Leslie while maintaining sexual tensions with him. There are other contestants, but they are knocked out at the beginning by the sabotage of Fate, who then realizes at the last minute, while driving, that the last number among the cars he sabotages is his own, but he later regains the road.  However, Maggie's car breaks down for good, showing that her judgment in entering the race was emotional, not rational, according to Leslie.  She finishes the race alternating as a passenger (for various amusing reasons) with Fate and Leslie.The movie is very entertaining, and has one of the keys to me  never a dull moment.  There are various crashes from the air and sea (by Fate only, of course), a western brawl in a large theater/bar setting,  a later second, synchronous comic role for Lemmon, a great pie fight, and a syrupy finish. What I do not get is that some people dislike the pie fight, not pie fight haters, but ones who like them but say this one is not good--on the contrary, its great.  Miss DuBois's overdone competitive female personality (with all the double standards) is annoying at times, but this is a comedy and it fits in well.  Perhaps Lemmon's persona is sometimes a little too silly, more appealing to kids than adults, but it is still overall very funny.  And also appealing to iconoclasts.  Oh, yes, and I started this comment with Max (Peter Falk) -- he's great.  See this movie, by all means! "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites...","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  with a cast that could not be equaled today for any amount of money.  I saw this film on cable one night two weeks ago; and it reminded me so much of how I love this kind of comedy, I went out and bought it the very next day.  There is nothing like old-fashioned ,slap-stick comedy to raise your spirits, and this movie has it all from the moustachioed villain dressed in black with the totally incompetent henchman, to the hero who never seems to get dirty, and a sexy, independent love interest dedicated to women's rights.  A wonderful musical score punctuates the fights, pie-throwing, and cross-country hi-jinx that makes this film the tribute to Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy it was intended to be.  I loved every second of this film, and I intend to watch it over and over for a very long time to come. "}{"Title":"This film deserves a DVD release and more!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps one of the most sought after films on DVD, this would have to be it. I enjoy watching this film, and I would purchase this on DVD if it was available.  Extras on the DVD would be great as well.  Original trailer, outtakes, possible extra footage if it exists.  This would become a great selling DVD if released.  If you have never seen the film, check it out! It has a lot of great characters, comedy, scenery, vintage automobiles, and more!  This film easily rates a 10 or more.Great Race fan "},{"Title":"See It For Lemmon","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't have the patience, or the bladder, for many of the roadshow-spectacles of the 60s. There's something obscene about not just the profligate wasting of money, but the very concept of 2 1/2 & 3-hour comedies.  And THE GREAT RACE shares many of these defects. The big-bigger-biggest aesthetic is completely at odds with what great comedy is all about; too many of the gags here fall flatter than a pancake as a result. Precision timing is tossed to the wayside so that we can get an eyeful of the money being spent at every opportunity the opening dedication to Laurel & Hardy may be well-meant, but the 150 minutes that follow make such sentiments ring hollow when you consider the combined budget of EVERY short and feature Stan & Ollie made is less than what this white elephant cost to produce. Still, it's not all velvet curtains and Busby Berkeley pie fights. The late Jack Lemmon, nicely abetted by Peter Falk, makes THE GREAT RACE worth investing in a beaded suit-cushion to sit through. His dual turn as Professor Fate and the Prince of Potsdorf is deliriously, enthrallingly over the top. Rarely did Lemmon throw caution to the wind like this; you'll wish he did it more often after watching him release his deranged comic muse out of its cage. Subtle it ain't, but that's the joy of it. And as soon as the plot extricates itself from his crazed grip to return to Tony Curtis and Natalie Wood, you'll appreciate his scenery-chewing twice as much. Rarely mentioned when cineastes gather to collate the Jack Lemmon canon, THE GREAT RACE is nevertheless his finest comic turn; it's only due to Lemmon and Falk that you can refer to this overlong mess as a comedy at all. Put on a pot of strong coffee, pop this into the VCR and savor his shameless slapstick. "},{"Title":"A Tribute to Mr Lemmon","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was shown on cable one day after Jack Lemmon died. In my opinion his funniest and most fun role. He stole every scene he was in. Up you idiot up, Push the button Max and of course 730 in the morning, YOU RISE AND SHINE will always bring a smile to fans of this movie. A wonderful race picture with the good guy, the bad guy, their sidekicks and the heroine. Pie fights, bar fights, a Prisoner of Zenda takeoff and wonderful vintage cars. It has Blake Edward's signature all over it. If you haven't seen this movie for a while and need a laugh, see this one and remember that great actor we just lost. Of course 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The late Jack lemmon at his comic best","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I write this because the great Jack Lemmon died last night. The great race is very very funny,the old style slapstick goes over well, Jack Lemmon as Fate was a genius in casting,what other major star would take the role of comic relief to Tony Curtis. 7 OUT OF 10 I only have one thing left to say about the great race MAX!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"As easy as pie, and as funny, too.","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only thing that seems worthy of addition to the thousands of words in the previous comments is that this film is worth seeing for the pie-fight alone. That sequence stands without peers as the greatest piece of slapstick comedy in a movie of the 1960s. "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy of it's type.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Easily the greatest comedy of it's type, and the father of all those road trip flicks. It is criminal that this movie was left out of the top 100 when Tootsie got inclusion.There are few movies that you can watch again and again and just seem to laugh even more every time. Lemon is a completely different person in this movie, it is like the Coyote and the Road Runner often, a lot of it is that sort of comedy, the impactingly creative script may never be matched, it is just like a blockbuster of a adventure/comedy in the same way Raiders Of The Lost Ark is a blockbuster of action/adventure. With half a decades worth of memorable and hilarious quotes this flick just hits the mark and stands tall in any generation. A DVD release is less than it deserves. The Great Leslie is a growing dare-devil success, achieving record stunts, his competition or wannabe competition is Professor Fate who bungles every attempt at his own success and at foiling Leslies making himself look bad and Leslie look better. Leslie is now wishing to go to the next level and achieve a feat of less skill and more of stamina and endurance, he proposes an car race form New York to Paris, he will also show off a purpose built automobile in doing so which is named after him, The Leslie Special. Enterring in the Race also is Ms Maggie Dubua, a female rights activist and reporter wishing to make a statement for women by winning and also to report on the progress of the race. Also joining him is Professor Fate in a black gadget mobile with a magic button that handles, a cannon, an elevation structure, an probe on the front that heats up to ford through snow and lots more. That huge chunk of story is less than a quarter of what is to come.In all honesty this is a crowning acheivment and redefines hilarious. Wether you are a film buff, comedy fan or just film watcher this is a not to be missed flick.10/10 "},{"Title":"One Of My All Time Favorites","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was five years old when this movie previewed and since then I've seen it just about every time they've shown it on TV.  It is filled with so much talent and beloved characters and actors. This movie played on my Wedding Day and as I got ready for my big day, I laughed, sang and it was the perfect start to such a perfect day.  "},{"Title":"For Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can you _not_ like a film with that kind of dedication?On those rare occasions when I feel down, I only have to whistle a few bars of Henry Mancini's bouncy Pie-in-the-Face Polka to brighten up again. I can't help but start giggling when I think of this hilarious music (yes, the _music_ is funny) running beneath the Greatest Pie Fight Ever Filmed. Peter Falk's entrance (Hey, Pro-FESS-uh!) where he is flattened by a dozen simultaneous pie impacts is one of those priceless moments of cinema; I laugh out loud every time I see it.But the Great Pie Fight is only one aspect of the charm of The Great Race. Jack Lemmon's dual performances as the dastardly Professor Fate and bumbling, drunken but good-natured Prince Hapnick (what a great king he'll make for Potsdorf) are masterful and a joy to watch. And I have to say I'm glad Charlton Heston didn't get cast as the Great Leslie but that the part went to easygoing Tony Curtis--he underplays the showoff, glitter-toothed Leslie just the right amount to counterpoint Lemmon's over-the-top Fate. Natalie Wood plays the perfect liberated woman-before-her-time--you know she and Leslie are in love when they finally have that knock-down and drag-out verbal battle on the home stretch to Paris (I love Keenan Wynn's expression as he sits suffering through this for hundreds of kiloneters). And, of course, Peter Falk redefined the standard of the bumbling sidekick with his portrayal of Max--for whom disaster is always only a button-push away.Blake Edwards created a real gem here. Besides the major comic scenes, it's got so many little send-ups of movie cliches (the Baron accidently diving through the bottom of his getaway rowboat; Fate and Max crashing into the same farmer's property over-and-over; Leslie untouched by pies until the very end--when Wood finally nails him with a _white_ pie) that any film buff will find themselves tittering through the whole movie.DVD makers out there, The Great Race deserves a proper restoration to wide-screen, digitized glory! Let's see it on the shelves soon! "},{"Title":"An excellent example of a race-type film.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of my favourite films, and a good example of the race-type film. A film with a good script but keeps the jokes to a reasonable length. The editing of the fight scenes in the bar and custard pie fights is first rate.Other race-type films just don't seem so funny compared to the Great Race. "},{"Title":"Wicked","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was with my cousin.  We had nothing to do and had for some reason rented this movie.  When I saw it I thought it was terrible.  Prof. Fate practically made me and my cousin almoust give up on reality (We ended up calling him mr Evil)  But two days later we were still talking about the movie.  We both hated it when we saw it but we ended up talking about it for one entire night, there are a few movies who has that effect.  Like the Rocky Horror Picture Show where I ended up laughing much more when I talked about it with my friends.  The movie can't be explained in words you have to see it, and see it together with someone so you can talk about it afterwards. "}{"Title":"One of the top ten comedies of all time","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I can watch over and over again.Natalie Wood was never more beautiful.  Jack Lemmon and Peter Faulk were as hilarious as Laurel and Hardy.  I even liked Tony Curtis' part as the dashing Leslie.  The cinematography and music were superb! "},{"Title":"The greatest pie fight ever put on film","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of Blake Edwards funniest films.  it also contains the greatest pie fight ever put on film.  Stirling performances by everyone with Natalie Woods looking her loveliest.  Tony Curtis sending himself up was superb.  Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk were hilarious. "},{"Title":"A terrific movie in every aspect!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You can't fault this movie. Jack Lemmon is perfect as Professor Fate, Tony Curtis as the hero, and all the others are equally fitting. From the music to the one-liners, you'll have a hard time not watching this more than once.  "},{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A great comedy which was much imitated but never bettered. I first saw this film in the last 60's as a young child. In those days (pre video and only one TV station) movies got re-released constantly so it was possible for films to have a theater life of several years. Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon are as good here as they were in SOME LIKE IT HOT, but it's Peter Falk as Prof. Fate's dim-witted side-kick Max who steals the show. His entry into the middle of a huge pie fight is still one of the funniest moments in movie history. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a love story surrounded by humor that is indeed absurd at times but---it is meant to be so.  A wonderful movie to show young people who want to know how one can be entertained without carnage and a heavy emphasis on sex.  A must see if you have not.  "},{"Title":"A big, funny film!","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At the time it was made, in 1965, The Great Race was the most expensive comedy film ever produced.  And it shows, too!  This film is gorgeous to look at.  Tony Curtis is dashing, Natalie Wood is beautiful and so very sexy, and Jack Lemmon is stupendous playing the dastardly Professor Fate and the very inebriated Prince Hapnik. (Lemmon should have won an Academy Award for this film!)  Also, Henry Mancini's musical score is a delight.  Bravo, Blake Edwards!  "},{"Title":"Comic Book?","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is more of a comic book than anything else but thanks to the brilliance of Blake Edwards, Curtis, and Lemmon it works to perfection. Lemmon as Prince Hapnik is NOT to be missed.  In my opinion only Mad World surpasses it in the genre.  "},{"Title":"Auto race pits forces of Good and Evil.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Professor Fate (Lemmon) uses every dirty trick in the book to try to derail auto race competitor Curtis.Especially funny is the brawl in which Larry Storch asks Can I get some fightin' room? "},{"Title":"A wonderful screwball comedy","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are many great comedic moments in this movie; however two stand out for me possibly the wildest bar room brawl ever and THE best pie and pastry fight ever filmed. Add a great cast and an enchanting Henry Mancini score featuring the beautiful Sweetheart Tree and the result is a true classic.  "},{"Title":"Greatest comedy ever !","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Just 14 years old, -My first 70mm, -my first cinema stereophonic experience (turning around by applause / booh's from balcony during slide titles), -my first Blake Edwards, -my first Jack Lemmon, -my first Nathalie Wood (never lovelier...). -Could it end up anything but an all-time favourite. Seen it and shown it hundreds of times, -and by the way that single 70mm print for danish first-run in early 1966, still exists at Danish Film Museum, a little faded, lots of performances behind it, but still fair - still a wonderful film. Ask them to play Sweetheart Tree in church, when I'm gone, please... Mancini score great great.  Professor Fate's car, The Hannibal 8 also excist -in danish auto museum !! "}{"Title":"A comedy classic!","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The more I watch this film, the more I'm impressed by how absolutely perfect the timing is. Gags follow the classic formula Tell them what you're going to do; do it; tell them you did it. At a budget of around $13 million, this was the most expensive comedy ever made at the time, and all the money shows up on screen. Lavish sets, costumes and a great cast makes this a must see whenever it's shown. "},{"Title":"A Top Ten Favorite","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has always been one of my all-time favorites.  This movie has  everything including the great Jack Lemmon.  This movie is also a favorite  of my husband.  This was one of our something in common items when we  were getting to know each other prior to dating.  In fact, The Sweetheart  Tree was played by a harpist during our wedding ceremony and we danced to  it for our first song at the reception.  We know and quote all the lines by  heart. "},{"Title":"Excessive, expensive, but undeniably shrewd and funny...","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Blake Edwards' tribute to silent-era slapstick, a live-action cartoon about a turn-of-the-century auto race, is full of wild gags, pratfalls and fast talk. The film really engages the viewer in its hammy mix of comedic elements and the cast is very game. The autos and locations are wonderful, but the film runs too long and the Prisoner of Zenda send-up in the last act (with Jack Lemmon in a dual role) is a little bit wearing. Tony Curtis, his teeth sparkling like a matinée god, is in fine, enunciating form but ends up playing straight man to Jack Lemmon (at his most wily), Natalie Wood (sharp as a whip playing a fast-thinking suffragette), Peter Falk (as Lemmon's sidekick), and even Keenan Wynn (wonderfully smooth, especially in the prison sequence with Wood). Barroom brawls, pie-fights, and a hair-raising fencing sequence aside, the relationships between the principles becomes surprisingly three-dimensional and the movie is extremely smart and well-written, if not compact. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Great movie for all ages!","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Saw this movie when I was just a kid living in a small town. To this day it still is very funny and loaded with pranks from Professor Fate (Jack Lemmon). The Great Leslie, (Tony Curtis) still gives you the sly wink with the flash of the teeth. Natalie Wood is fantastic! Even the special effects of the Eiffel Tower crashing were pretty good for the day. I enjoyed the scenes with Wood, Lemmon, Falk and Curtis gigging each other while defrosting over the Arctic Circle. Wonderful! Many stars in this film have passed on, but not in spirit. Not many movies were made with so many tongues in cheeks! One of the best pie fights ever to be filmed. This is one that can't be beat and hopefully will be enjoyed by all for years to come. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedic movies ever","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the classics for me - Blake Edwards at his best, before he got a bit formulaic with the (still wonderful) Pink Panther movies. The cast is absolutely *perfect*. This is quite possibly my favorite Jack Lemmon role, right up there with Some Like It Hot. Tony Curtis parodies himself wonderfully, Natalie Wood is funnily over-the-top as the love interest who can actually carry her own most of the time, Peter Falk does Peter Falk, so do Larry Storch and Ross Martin respectively, and it just keeps going. The dialogue is occasionally and unexpectedly outside-the-box, so it's never formulaic even though it obviously draws its inspiration from 'It's a Mad...World type movies. There's several tributes to other movies found here and there - you can tell that this was made by someone who loved movies. All in all, one of the defining comedy movies for me. Rah, oh rah. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, with Lemmon providing most of the juice.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What makes The Great Race easily the best of several grand-scale slapstick comedies to come out in the mid-'60's is a generally good cast and several excellent comedy set-pieces. While Tony Curtis could, and often did, come off as pretentious in a lot of his dramatic films, he always was a good light comedian. He proved this in Some Like It Hot, Goodbye, Charlie, the underrated Don't Make Waves, and here. He gives his role as The Great Leslie just the right touch of self-mockery that would have been missing had Charlton Heston, the original choice, been cast in the role. His every gesture, every word, seems to say, Now, don't take any of this foolishness seriously. I'm not. Leading lady Natalie Wood, on the other hand, comes off as just too overdone to be funny. When the right director held her various mannerisms in check, she could deliver a solid performance, as in arguably her best film, Splendor in the Grass. But here, an indulgent Blake Edwards allows her to let loose with the usual over-the-top histrionics that got her voted Worst Actress of the Year by the Harvard Lampoon on several occasions.But the one man who makes this film really worth watching is Jack Lemmon, in the role of comic villain Professor Fate. He is hilarious, obviously having a good time with the broad slapstick required for the role. He and Peter Falk, as his assistant, Max, play off each other in a manner bringing to mind many of the great comedy teams of the silent era. And, if anything, he's even funnier in a dual role as a drunken, foppish prince in the last third of the film. Things tend to slacken up when he's not there, but, when he is, he always leaves you wanting more.Blake Edwards'direction is easy and breezy, almost making you forget the 150 minute running time. And Henry Mancini's music (including the Oscar-nominated song The Sweetheart Tree) is appropriately upbeat throughout.In short, while The Great Race is far from the greatest comedy ever made, it IS funny, often very funny, and you definitely won't be wasting your time seeing it. "},{"Title":"Wacky Races Was Better","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie came out scarcely one month after Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines, so it would unfair to say absolutely that The Great Race was a complete rip-off on Flying Machines. I will say that the two movies share a great deal of jokes, plot devices, and even some dialog. For all I know Flying Machines could have stolen them from The Great Race. In any event, the jokes are funnier in Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines. The Great Race is about two rival daredevils, The Amazing Leslie (Tony Curtis) and Professor Fate (Jack Lemmon), who engage in an auto race from New York to Paris. Allegedly, this movie suffered huge delays and budget over-runs due to heavy partying by the cast and crew. Judging from the condition which Tony Curtis is in throughout most of the movie, I can believe it. He often stares blearily at the camera in a pose meant to be dashing, but which instead comes off as vaguely hung-over, and he reads his lines with all the verve and skill of a third-grader reciting from a history text-book.Natalie Wood stated that she was not pleased with her performance in this movie, and I'd say she was justified. Her character is grating, and too frenetic.Jack Lemmon is actually pretty good as Professor Fate, the villain of the piece. He portrays a stereotypically cartoony bad-guy, but he does it well, and you can tell that he is having fun with the part. The only problem is that the rest of the movie is so flat and lifeless, he never gets any situations to react to that are as fun as his character.Another movie that The Great Race borrows heavily from is Around the World in Eighty Days, using the automobile race as an excuse to show a variety of exotic locations (filmed in glorious Panavision), and trot out special guest stars. The trouble is, Blake Edwards, as director, fails to capture anything special in the exotic locales, and the guest stars also fall well short of the mark. To put things in perspective, one of the guest stars in Larry Storch. When one of your big guns in Agarn, from F-Troop, your production is in trouble.Its not really a bad movie, its just a poorly acted movie that isn't nearly as funny as it thinks it is. Its definitely a distant second to Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines. Hanna-Barbera based their short-lived cartoon Wacky Races on this movie. The cartoon was more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Can we get nostalgic for nostalgia?","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm giving this film extra points because I have such fond memories of it; but the reader should be aware that this is over-rating it as a film.The bad news it is way overlong; Edwards always was a terribly self-indulgent parodist, even on the Peter Gunn show; the big pie fight is excruciatingly mishandled; Curtis and Lemmon were told to ham it up and they do, and this gets painful sometimes; the story is silly and the finale unsatisfying.The good news Natalie Wood is beautiful and unforgettable and does marvelous. The camera work makes the sound-stage exteriors come alive, without ever hiding the fact that they are in a sound-stage (they're intended to look phony). The story does have an oddly epic feel to it which is why it remains watchable despite its length and occasionally unfunny sequences.The film is of course really of the 1960s genre camp. Nobody's ever adequately explained the appearance of this genre; the silent films Blake is spoofing here were brilliantly spoofed in their own day by much brighter comic minds like Keaton and Chaplin, so it's not clear why anybody in the '60s thought they needed to be spoofed again. After all, The Perils of Pauline is from the same era that gave us Von Stroheim's brutally realistic Greed; did movie-makers of the '60s really think they were so much more mature and sophisticated than Eric Von Stroheim? If not, then why pretend that the silent film era was somehow an age of innocence that we had gone beyond? '60s camp is, in the last analysis, a collective monument to generational arrogance, nothing more; but I suppose, since this arrogance is a recurring problem in Modern culture, we need reminders that one generation's arrogance is another's fodder for parody. "},{"Title":"The Great Mish-Mash.","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Directed by Blake Edwards THE GREAT RACE is a comic movie that is interesting & entertaining but makes little or no sense whatsoever. The car race ostensibly sets out from Paris to New York but manages to meander just about everywhere including somewhere near the South Pole where a polar bear jumps into a car. Along the way we encounter Cossack soldiers, a monastery & God knows what else, (but not a nunnery!) There are some very entertaining cameo appearances the best of which, for my money, was Dorothy Provine playing saloon singer Lily Olay singing a song called, They Shouldn'ta Hadn'ta Ought'na Swang On Me. The movie is chock-full of slapstick humour & towards the end features a multi-coloured custard pie fight in which the number of people involved & the number of custard pies thrown in people's faces is absolutely astounding. The main characters are played by Jack Lemmon & his sidekick Peter Falk (aka Columbo),Tony Curtis & Natalie Wood. Jack Lemmon was always great to watch & the other three principal stars are also excellent. As I say it is definitely worth watching but this is altogether a crazy movie. "},{"Title":"The magnificent race","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis team up once again in what should had been one of the great slapstick comedies of all times but it becomes an overindulgent, overlong mess. Well it does have a massive pie fight near the end.The film came out a few weeks after the similar themed Those Magnificent Men in their Flying Machines. Having watched both recently, the Magnificent Men has stood the test of time better.Director Blake Edwards is inspired by Laurel & Hardy which clearly shows in the comical scrapes that Jack Lemmon and his side kick Peter Falk get into.Lemmon and Curtis are daredevils although Lemmon is the dastardly kind and Curtis is the dashing heroic one. They compete in a New York to Paris car race which Lemmon is hell bent to disrupt by nobbling his rivals. Natalie Wood takes part as a suffragette reporter who competes as well as covering the race for a newspaper and is the romantic interest for Curtis.The film starts as a promising farce. There is a sequence involving Tony Curtis free falling before he opens a parachute which I swear was later borrowed by the James Bond producers. Its all very wacky races, there is even a Penelope Pitstop but it just goes on and on including a subplot involving a doppleganger that looks like Lemmon who is a crown Prince of a European principality.I think Blake Edwards decided to end it all in a giant pie fight but then remembered that he had a race to finish in Paris so on and on the film goes.Wood's Suffragette feminist character actually gets to be grating and holds the picture up. Curtis is a little too subdued, one of the reasons the film's release was delayed was because the production schedule overran. Too much partying by the cast and crew and its reflected in some of the acting. Lemmon gets to play two roles but his Professor Fate cackled too much for my liking but he and Falk blend wonderfully.The film would had been a classic if 40 minutes was shaved off the running time. "}{"Title":"Dr. Fate vs. The Great Leslie... Ready, Set, Go!","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Watch out! If you don't like slapstick and over-the-top acting, then turn back now! Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, and Natalie Wood headline this crazy film, that just gets better as it goes along.Blake Edwards co-wrote this tale of what you might call cartoonish characters brought to life and their race from New York to Paris. (But not the short way; the other way.) The only complaint I have is that the first 30 to 40 minutes consists solely of Dr. Fate and his elaborate schemes to either kill the Great Leslie or destroy his cars, only to have his schemes blow up in his own face and thus results in harm to himself and to his assistant, Peter Falk. In that way, Lemmon and Curtis resemble Wile E. Coyote vs. the road runner. It seems to be kind of one-note with each failure when you knew Dr. Fate wouldn't succeed.And, also, Dr. Fate's constant scowls and bad mood does get a bit old as the movie goes on, but an added treat is Jack as another character in the movie, of which he almost better at and more believable, too.But, on the whole, this is one of those movies you should sit back and enjoy, especially Natalie's constant wardrobe changes that are unexplainable. This also has the best pie-throwing scenes you are ever to see in a movie, bar none.The Great Race, indeed. Watch out, Paris! "},{"Title":"The Lame Race","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The title car race is from New York to Paris in this never-ending comedy. This film has some funny scenes. Unfortunately, the funny scenes take up about 30 seconds of the film while this lame film drones on for about 13 hours or so. It is so drawn out that it is painful to watch. There is no rhyme or reason to the plot. It's just an endless series of scenes strung together. As the race drags on, one has to keep asking Are we there yet? Everything is done to an excess in an attempt to make this into the most epic comedy ever. The re-teaming of Lemmon and Curtis from Some Like it Hot only serves to remind the viewer how bad this film is compared to that Billy Wilder classic. "},{"Title":"Blake Edwards' The Great Race is one of the finest comedy epics ever!","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After about 25 years of only seeing part of this hilarious epic comedy from Blake Edwards on TBS's Academy Award Theatre and having taped this unedited version on AMC about 15 years ago, I finally got to see the entirety of this just three hours ago and I've got to say I'm very glad I did! First off, Jack Lemmon (audience cue Boo! Hiss!) is excellent in playing both the villainous Prof. Fate and later on the lookalike Prince Hapnick (what a laugh he does!). As The Great Leslie, Tony Curtis (Yay!) provides the amusement of constantly shining his white teeth with Edwards' assistance of course. And then there's Natalie Wood who as reporter Maggie Dubois is frequently trying to one-up Leslie and others on her superiority concerning women's rights. Of the three, Lemmon comes off best as he's consistently funny throughout with great help from Peter Falk as inept assistant Max. Keenan Wynn as Leslie's right-hand man Hezekiah is less so but manages okay with what he's got. Other fine support come from Arthur O'Connell as Maggie's newspaper boss, Marvin Kaplan as his assistant, Vivian Vance as the wife of said boss, Hal Smith as a town mayor, Denver Pyle as the sheriff, Ross Martin as a fence/sword dueler with Leslie, Larry Storch as Texas Jack, and Dorothy Provine as singer Lily Olay. Screenwriter Arthur A. Ross (who's from my original hometown of Chicago, Ill.) provides great punchlines for the stars and Edwards constantly fills the screen with several visual touches, including the biggest pie fight ever, that bring to mind the great silent comedies of the early 20th century. In closing, while The Great Race is a little overlong, it's still entertaining enough from beginning to end and should provide enough enjoyment for the whole family. Oh, and how touching to print at the movie's beginning For Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy... "},{"Title":"slapstick at its very best","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" the great race has been one of my all time favorite movies of all time, there's comedy and adventure.and features some of the greatest actors of the 60's;jack lemmon,Natalie wood,tony Curtis,Keenan Wynn,peter Falk, and Arthur o'connell.its about a race from new york to Paris in the early 1900's.the good guy(tony Curtis)white suit,white car.his driver and friend(Keenan Wynn)the bad guy(jack lemmon)and his driver/sidekick (peter Falk)and a cigar smoking feminist reporter(Natalie wood)its a Blake Edwards movie so you know its funny,there's a wild west bar fight,a pie fight and some wild looking cars,i especially liked professor fates car called the Hannibal,its equipped with a cannon and all kinds of gadgets.Arthur o'connell plays Natalie woods boss the editor of the local newspaper.look for Larry storch(f-troop)George mcready,Vivian Vance and Ross martin in small roles.its a very well made comedy with some authentic race cars of the 1900's.when i first seen this on TV when i was a kid it was shown in two parts,this is a long movie,almost 3 hours.it wont bore you,jack lemmon steals most of the scenes as the whiskered professor fate.as well as the beautiful Natalie wood.i recommend this to anyone who enjoys slapstick comedy and racing cars from yesteryear.10 out of 10.awesome movie. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Film (and my family's)","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" How many times do you have to watch a movie to become bored with it? I have had the video of this movie for 25 years (at least) and still watch it and still laugh at it. The cast are superb, the book is superb and what can you say of the direction, other than the same, superb. I have also travelled in some of the areas where the Great race was filmed and it was great to see the use made of the superb scenery in Austria and France. As you can see I am hooked on the Great Race, so are my kids including the youngest (6), and I hope that they get as much pleasure from it as I still do. They don't make movies like that any more! "},{"Title":"Jules Verne Meets Mack Sennett","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" By 1965 the Hollywood Jules Verne genre was ready to be spoofed. In much the same way that a big-budget film series which once terrified millions of people ended up, 25 years later, in Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein, so the phenomenon that began with Disney's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and Best Picture winner Around the World in Eighty Days got to the point where it just couldn't be taken quite seriously anymore. So director Blake Edwards conceived an ingenious idea why not take the stalwart heroes and bumbling professors of classical Verne films and mix them thoroughly with the silent movie antics Mike Todd had only saluted? You'd include lots of improbable gadgets, of course, and a fantastic journey 'round the world. But you'd also turn some really first-rate comic talent loose on it&#151;people like Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk. Yes, it'd have to have submarines and rockets and hot air balloons. But it would also need blackout gags, and mustache twiddling villains, and the pie fight to end all pie fights. Jules Verne meets Mack Sennett in other words. And thus The Great Race was born&#151;dedicated, in its charming magic lantern prologue, to Mr. Laurel and Mr. Hardy. The set-up is simple enough the impossibly good-looking and excessively virtuous hero, The Great Leslie (Tony Curtis at his comic best) embarks on an around the world automobile race from New York westward to Paris (including a short jaunt over the frozen Bering Strait to Asia). Leslie's arch-rival, the black-hatted and entirely sympathetic megalomaniac Professor Fate, determines to thwart him at all costs and thereby affirm his own rather shaky sense of self-worth. Along the way there are madcap adventures in the Old West, on the Arctic Sea, on the steppes of Russia, and in the intrigue-ridden European Duchy of Potsdorf. Basically, it's Around the World in Eighty Days with the funny knob cranked all the way up. And many of us do find it extremely, extremely funny. The Great Race may not have been (as it was billed) the greatest comedy of all time but it is one of the greatest comedies of the Sixties and that's saying quite a bit. The principals are joined by Natalie Wood, who shows fine comic flair, and Keenan Wynn, as Leslie's faithful manservant Hezekiah. Composer Henry Mancini plays a vital part, too. The score for The Great Race is one of his very best and crucial to the success of the movie. Many people find the extended episode in Potsdorf&#151;a lengthy, clever spoof of The Prisoner of Zenda&#151;to be fatally overlong. I'm not one of them. In theaters, this nearly three hour comedy came with an intermission. Potsdorf opened the second half, and did so at just the moment when audiences had started craving a more substantial story to sink their teeth into. This section of the film also includes one of the greatest sword fights ever filmed&#151;a classic saber duel, played perfectly straight, between Tony Curtis and the late, great Ross Martin. If the movie does have a serious weakness, it's the finale. I don't see how it could have ended any differently myself, so I'm not one to be giving advice; but let's just say that the outcome of the race fails to completely satisfy&#133;Oddly enough, this film which signals the end of the original Fifties/Sixties Jules Verne craze managed to give birth to a whole little sub-genre of it's own&#151;a sub-genre of the sub-genre, I suppose. These were the multitudinous (and consistently inferior) Great Race imitators. They came by the dozens for the next five years or so everything from big screen spectacles like Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines, or How I Flew from London to Paris in 25 hours 11 minutes (1965), Jules Verne's Rocket to the Moon (1967), and Monte Carlo or Bust (1969) to TV spin-offs for kids; stuff like Wacky Races (1967) and The Perils of Penelope Pitstop (1970). But the original still retains a charm and panache that puts it in a class by itself. "},{"Title":"Purely Classic","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before you see this movie, let me warn you. If your favorite movies are starring Lindsay Lohan, Hillary Duff, or anyone else who's ever been on the cover of at least two magazines in one month, and if you don't know who The Marx Brothers or Laurel and Hardy are, chances are this movie isn't for you. Of course, I advise every one to watch it, and if you like it and still have no idea who anyone I've just said are, kudos to you you are one of the few people in this generation who can say that you do.I grew up in a very Marx Brother, My Fair Lady obsessed family, so I was luckily able to see this movie and enjoy it. The Great Race has really every genre in it--well, except Science Fiction, I suppose. And thriller.Okay, well, it has every good genre in it romance, action, comedy--especially comedy.The best thing about this film is definitely the humor style--as Iv'e said, very reminiscent of The Marx Brothers, something you don't normally--er, actually, something you NEVER see in today's movies. This movie really is everything today's movies lack.So, if I love it so much, why just a 9, not a 10? Simply put, my attention span is completely laughable, and this movie isn't exactly the shortest I've seen. However, though it may be long, every minute is of value. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so cool...Tony Curtis is awesome, I've always thought so. He's cute and funny, and an excellent actor. Every role that I've seen him play was done very well, especially this one and his role of Danny Wilde in the 1971 show 'The Persuaders'. He's excellent in comedy, and he really keeps you laughing!Jack Lemmon's character in this movie was funny too...he acts like a total moron, lol! Natalie Wood was cool, Peter Falk was cool...everyone was cool! This movie is so fun to watch, especially the pie fight at the end, so go rent it! Right now! LOL Believe me, you'll be glad you did, and you'll probably buy it, like I did! ;)  "},{"Title":"Fairly funny flick","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite its title, The Great Race isn't about a race, but a rivalry between two professional early twentieth century daredevils, the Great Leslie (good guy, always in white) and Professor Fate (bad guy, always in black).  The race is nothing more than a plot device along which Black Edwards and his writers string an epic series of homages to silent films, making it more an encyclopaedia of comedy.  This avoids the major pitfall of its successor, Monte Carlo or Bust, which focuses on a race and the races, thereby diffusing the interest in having too many characters.  All the racers in this movie are quickly disposed of until Leslie and Fate alone remain.The movie begins with a series of slapstick vignettes setting up the rivalry and introducing the characters.  The slapstick continues through the opening of the race. The the movie moves through a western spoof, a Perils of Pauline type adventure on an ice pack, and an amusing but fatally overlong send-up of the Prisoner of Zenda.  The pace picks up again for a conclusion that will keep you guessing until all parties cross the finish line.  In fact, by this time one has so much invested in Leslie and Fate it's too bad only one car can win.In between the slapstick interludes at the beginning and end, Edwards winds such diverse elements as a spoof of suffragettes and the largest pie fight ever filmed.The performances vary.  Tony Curtis (Leslie), never an actor of great range, plays his one-note character perfectly.  Jack Lemmon plays Fate on one note as well and quickly becomes annoying.  Lemmon's other role, the drunken prince of Carpathia, has some amusing touches but also soon wears out its welcome.  Natalie Wood is irrepressible throughout.  As Leslie's and Fate's sidekicks, Keenan Wynn and Peter Falk shine.  Falk comes close to stealing the picture, and has many of the movie's funniest lines and pieces of business.  Ross Martin, showing how repressed he was as Jim West's sidekick, does a superb job as a Ruritanian conspirator.  In the Western scene, old hands Denver Pyle and Hal Smith do fine comic turns, while Larry Storch's Texas Jack is so wonderful a character it's a shame he didn't get a whole movie to himself.The set-pieces also vary.  The quality is first-class, and the western scene movies with zip and polish and has a good laugh at the end on the train.  The Zenda send-up has highs and lows. The drifting ice scene, used mainly as a vehicle to foster the romance between Curtis and Wood, is stodgy and the arctic sea looks like just what it is -- a studio tank.  And when he directs a fencing scene worthy of Errol Flynn and Basil Rathbone between Leslie and Baron von Stuppe, Edwards appears momentarily to forgets he's doing a comedy.Overall, for a first-time viewer, there are more laughs than misfires.  Bear in mind this is no Airplane type movie where the gags keep coming.  Blake Edwards had just come off showing a deft touch at romantic comedy (The Pink Panther) and slapstick (A Shot in the Dark).  Perhaps he needed to bring in Peter Sellers in to liven up the dull moments.Rule of thumb  Keep your eye on Peter Falk.   "},{"Title":"a little bit uneven, but well worth the ride","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has lots of wonderful little moments--more than most movies I can think of right now. And, it is very well-made except for a few small lapses when it can become a little bit dopey (such as the pie fight near the end). But, all-in-all, it was also a really good time to watch. Silly and trivial, but still a very good time.Tony Curtis is perfectly cast. While he isn't my favorite actor, in this movie he is wonderful as the Great Leslie. He is super self-confident and very suave. But what I particularly liked were the couple times he looked towards the camera and his teeth sparkled. That was really funny and quite appropriate as he played a very old-fashioned type of hero---the type you might think you'd see in a silent melodrama.Jack Lemmon is probably the best part of the movie (aside when he played the annoying an over-the-top king--that was a bit grating). I loved his Professor Fate!! He was a lot like a cartoon character--Snidely Whiplash to be exact. In fact, if there had been a lot more scenes like there were at the beginning of the film, I would have been even happier--I loved watching him perform his evil stunts and have them end up very reminiscent of Wiley Coyote (he takes a beating and still SOMEHOW survives).Natalie Wood is fine as well as Peter Falk and Keenen Wynn, but all their performances are secondary to the two male leads. They try hard but you keep find yourself focusing on Curtis and Lemmon.The story itself is generally good and lots of fun. The beginning, as I already mentioned, is the best but the excellent pace continues through much of the movie. There is a bit of a lull later on, but not such that the film becomes boring.This is an excellent family film. Adults will enjoy it but the kids will no doubt laugh themselves silly at Professor Fate's stupid antics. Nice job! "}{"Title":"More Pies, More Pies!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is a classic in itself. though a bit of it was a showoff of tony curtis, nonetheless, it had me laughing from the beginning. the great race provides funny characters, classic comedy tactics, fun locations, nice cars, and the best damn pie fight i have EVER seen. let's here for for the great leslie!  "},{"Title":"This Great Race Races to Nowhere Very Quickly **1/2","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Inane farce with good intentions that completely go awry. Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis were reunited 6 years after this comedy smash, Some Like it Hot, the best comedy that was ever made.This silly film deals with an alleged race where Lemmon takes on the part literally of the devil with his sidekick Peter Falk, not even in rare form.Ditto for Keenan Wynn's role as Curtis's pal. Natalie Wood, next to Lemmon, is the best part of the film as an emancipated woman.Dorothy Provine is used as a dance hall queen as the two enemies race from N.Y. to Paris and encounter all kinds of adventures, even uniting them in one sequence.Nice to have seen Vivian Vance in a rare movie role, the wife of newspaper editor Arthur O'Connell.The film really goes awry when the two men join forces to counter-act a plot against a monarch, Lemmon's duplicate. Slapstick comedy follows. "},{"Title":"Earlier live action cartoon.","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Blake Edward's 'The Great Race' is a cartoonish live-action story about a race around the world. Good guys in white, a hotshot charmer known as 'The Great Leslie' (Tony Curtis) and his sentimental passenger, a journalist named Maggie DuBois (Natalie Wood), are challenged to a race against Professor Fate (Jack Lemmon), a mad scientist, and his bumbling assistant, Max Meen (Peter Falk), who are intent on cheating if it means wiping that smug smile off of the face of 'The Great Leslie.' Cartoony morals tells us that cheaters never win. In fact, they often fail miserably unless they agree to a truce with their adversary. 'The Great Race' may have well been the inspiration behind the Hanna Barbara cartoon, Wacky Races.The setting and costumes in this film are superb for it's day, giving it the feeling of such a cartoonish atmosphere and setting the stage for the kind of 'reality' these characters are put in. For example, in a race around the world, you can even float your car on a glacier to get where you're going. With such a cartoony atmosphere, you also have cartoon violence. The mad scientist and his assistant often fumble their plans to slow Leslie and Maggie down, but these plans always backfire such as bombs exploding when they're not suppposed to and the like.  It is a funny little film that is likely to be enjoyed by children, despite the period of the movie. (Set somewhere in the late 1800s or something, and made in the mid-60s). If they can get past their reluctance to watch anything but modern movies, they should enjoy this piece in large part because of the visuals and the slapstick humor. It is a good family film, and fans of Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk (the reason why I watched this movie) are definitly sure to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Like listening to someone rev an engine for 2 hours.","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With all due respect to people who's lives this film has touched---and to those who find it amusing from start to finish---you are all good people. Perhaps if I saw this movie when I was very young, I would also hold it dearly. But be warned, fair IMDb reader Some films do not age well, perhaps because they include lengthy obstacle scenes with no obstacles, careless portrayal of gender issues, painfully telegraphed twists, and unforgivable pacing. Distinctive elements such as Lemmon's screaming & the prince's laugh will be etched in horrific detail and driven into your skull through relentless, sobering repetition. If it is comedies you love, watch any Hollywood teen movie or sit-com and you will find more endearing, surprising archetypes. Watch any cartoon and you will find more insight, creativity and subtlety. As a spoof, we must be thankful that this film finally put 1000 clichés to rest, including the barechested swordfight. But that doesn't make it any less painful to watch.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous family movie; funny and a good ride","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a comic gem that is seldom remembered. It features the comic geniuses of Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk (of all people). You cannot help but laugh at their performances. They are reminiscent of the villains in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, but this movie is so much better, there is no comparison. Jack Lemmon as the Baron has to be seen to be believed. It is perhaps one of his greatest comic roles.Tony Curtis and Natalie Wood have a certain chemistry that never fails to entertain. You can tell they had great fun making this movie. After all, who wouldn't have a good time with this ridiculous but fun storyline? The pie fight is the greatest!! Haven't we all wanted to have a real pie fight? Finally, we get great guest appearances by Larry Storch, Dorothy Provine and Vivian Vance. This movie will make you smile. Watch it today!! "},{"Title":"Long Tribute To Slap Stick","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This Blake Edwards production is a long long tribute to slapstick. Jack Lemmon actually steals the show early on as Professor Fate, the bad guy who bumbles his way through the film trying to whip The Great Leslie (Tony Curtis). No matter how Fate tries, he can't seem to best Leslie.The the plot thickens as the Great Leslie sells the idea to a board that there should be an automobile race from New York to Paris. Of course Leslie & Fate must enter it. The race becomes a profound & drawn out affair. At times the film stalls with the romantic story & of course there is a food fight mixed in.Edwards product is a farce from start to finish but because of Lemmon's Fate, the film holds together somehow. This is not really must viewing, but if you watch it, you will be surprised how well an outrageous plot can hold together. My favorite Fate (Lemmon) cursing when he is in trouble to his assistant, Up You Idiot! "},{"Title":"Way Overlong & Silly.","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Blake Edwards directed this long farce about a professional daredevil(played by Tony Curtis as The Great Leslie) who decides, in order to promote automobile sales, to stage a New York to Paris road race. He is challenged and relentlessly pursued by arch-rival Professor Fate(played very broadly by Jack Lemmon) and his inept assistant Max(Peter Falk). The beautiful Natalie Wood plays feminist/suffragette Maggie Dubois, who uses her connection to the local newspaper to attach herself to Leslie, much to his consternation.Plot goes on far too long, but even worse, is seldom funny, since it labors for laughs by throwing in everything from a (literally) mustache-twirling villain, to an extended pie-throwing fight, among assorted car crashes and crazy plot developments.Good cast cannot save it. "},{"Title":"It's a Long, Long, Long, Long Comedy","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In 1908, dastardly black-clad Jack Lemmon (as Professor Fate) and terrific white-clad Tony Curtis (as The Great Leslie) go on an automobile race from New York City to Paris. Joining them for most of the journey are Natalie Wood (as Maggie Dubois) and Peter Falk (as Max). If you're new to these names, Curtis gets Wood and Lemmon gets Falk. Before finishing the race, Mr. Lemmon assumes a dual role and the movie spoofs The Prisoner of Zenda. This film is dedicated to Laurel and Hardy, who you can sample in The Music Box during this film's interludes (without missing much). In comedy, timing is essential; this film's excessive scope does not compliment the material. The catchy Sweetheart Tree theme was a minor hit for composer Henry Mancini.**** The Great Race (7/1/65) Blake Edwards ~ Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, Natalie Wood, Peter Falk "},{"Title":"Egad!!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" People seem to like this movie. Really??!! Well, comedy is very subjective, but still. There was nothing funny in this movie. Maybe a few moments that were amusing, but nothing clever, witty, or laugh inducing at all (for me).The obvious film this should be compared to is It's a Mad Mad Mad World, which I do find funny. Mad World is equally over the top, too long and often doesn't aim for anything more witty than things being smashed. But it does contain some good comedic performers. Not so with Great Race. Lemmon does a much better turn as the foppish prince than as the always yelling Prof. Fate, probably because the character isn't around long enough to overstay his welcome. Prof. Fate though gets tired after about 5 seconds. Natalie Wood is lovely, but comedy doesn't seem to be her thing, or at least broad comedy. Curtis is fine in his role, but isn't given much to do other than be a hero.There's only one person who shines in this film and that is Ross Martin. His Baron is played straight, never broad. His sword fighting scene with Curtis is easily the most engaging moment of the film and his exit is probably one of the 2 or 3 chuckles the movie got out of me. His pratfall is funny because all of behavior prior was sure-footed and precise. The Great Race was dedicated to Laurel & Hardy and seems to want to capture the spirit of their old classic short films. For clever slapstick comedy instead of watching The Great Race spend 30 minutes with the actual Laurel & Hardy in The Music Box and you will actually see something quite funny and still have 2 hours with which to watch some other quality comedy. Hell, if you want pie fights then stick to The Three Stooges.4 out of 10 for good production values and Ross Martin. "},{"Title":"The Great Waste Of Time","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At nearly three hours this confection of delirious overkill starts to grate on your nerves after about 10 minutes. When you realize just how many countries there are between New York and Paris (the race's path), and how many more pie fights, fist fights, sword fights, bar-room fights, ballroom scenes, blizzards, car breakdowns, yelling and over-acting there are left to endure, you feel a need to question why you decided to watch this film. Sure, there obviously was a large budget, an all-star cast and sumptuous sets and locations. But it is being hauled through this interminable barrage of above-mentioned obstacles and assaults that prevents this film from being an entertainment, and turns it into an endurement. "}{"Title":"Turned Out To Be One Long,  Ugly Race","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Only in the '60s did they make so many long movies of which a number of them were just plain stupid. When they were good, such as Lawrence of Arabia, The Great Escape or Dr. Zhivago, they were enduring classics but when they were bad.....well, they were something like this film!Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis went down the dumper with these comedies after peaking laugh-wise with Some Like It Hot in 1959. Lemmon and his Oil Can Harry look and laugh in this movie was NOT funny, just stupid. From the '60s on, two did a lot better with dramas, not these type of slapstick farces. The same is especially true for Natalie Wood, who demonstrates in this movie and in Sex And The Single Girl the year before that she could not handle comedy. Wood overacts so badly she's embarrassing to watch.This is a film with a nice premise but it didn't come off. Don't waste your time and be fooled by this all-star cast. Like the recent Preakness Stakes (2006), it's not a race you were happy you watched. Unlile the latter which only lasted two minutes, you have to suffer through 160 minutes of this! "},{"Title":"much, much less than the sum of its parts","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's so hard to give this film a bad review, and that's not just because I'm countering so many good reviews here. After all, there are many good things about this movie. The technicolor is beautiful, as is Natalie Wood; the costumes (by Edith Head) are fabulously exquisite; the score (by Henry Mancini) is magnificent; the bar fight, fencing, and pie fight choreography is not to be missed; it's perfectly clean, harmless fun, as many have pointed out; and, it features a great director and great actors. I am a fan of Tony Curtis's work, Peter Falk's work, Vivian Vance's work, and especially Blake Edwards's and Jack Lemmon's work. They have all done better than this movie.As I said, the style is great - but the substance leaves a lot to be desired. All the characters are one-dimensional stereotypes Curtis, the perfect prettyboy; Lemmon, the wacky villain who always gets it; Wood, the annoying feminist. There is absolutely nothing to them.Also, the film makes a pathetic attempt at social commentary on feminism. Natalie Wood keeps preaching women's independence - yet she is hardly capable of doing ANYTHING without the help of The Great Leslie or sometimes even Professor Fate. She crosses the line from extreme feminism to manipulative insanity. And look at the other feminists in this movie - the writers seem to think that all feminists do is march around with signs saying, We want jobs! over and over. And over. And over. I'm all for equal rights for women, but all the feminists in this movie happen to be insufferably annoying.I suppose I'm being too hard on the movie. After all, its tone is lighter; it doesn't TRY to get into character development or social commentary, it's just trying to be a harmless slapstick comedy. However, the movie even fails at that! You know all those Warner Bros. cartoon shorts? You know how amusing they are for the six or seven minutes they last? This movie is like a WB cartoon short, stretched out to TWO AND A HALF HOURS. Actually, I'm giving the movie TOO much credit - Wile E. Coyote and the Roadrunner do this same schtick much better. I have nothing against slapstick (I like silent comedies, Harpo Marx, the Pink Panther movies...) or overacting (I like Jim Carrey, Laurel and Hardy, Abbott and Costello, and The Producers), but this film just isn't funny.Wow. Now I actually feel ashamed for insulting this film. I think it's because the film is so innocently harmless. Well, if you know what to expect, you could still try this movie, and maybe you'll agree with most of the other commenters. I hope at least you like it more that I did. "},{"Title":"Very Dated","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm amazed this comedy is so highly rated because I found it very dated in its type of slapstick comedy . The first twenty minutes seem to be entirely composed of Jack Lemmon's villain standing behind some oh so obvious back projection trying to scupper the plans of Tony Curtis good guy . As the film progresses I became aware that Lemmon is best at giving subtle bitter sweet performances , not an over the top baddie so broadly written that even Laurel and Hardy would have complained about the amount of silly slapstick involved . Long before the movie had ended I was wondering what Lemmon was doing in this role I couldn't help noticing that many of the people heaping praise upon THE GREAT RACE were very young when they saw it on its original release in 1965 . This probably explains why they have a soft spot for it . I'm afraid that I have never been a fan of slapstick and never will be so I have very little kind words for a comedy whose main selling point is that it features the biggest custard pie fight in history  "},{"Title":"The Great Race","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From director Blake Edwards (The Pink Panther films) this is a great comedy, reuniting the stars of Some Like It Hot. Basically Professional daredevil and white-suited hero, The Great Leslie (Tony Curtis, like Peter Perfect) has a special car made to race from New York to Paris (westward across America, the Bering Straight and Russia) and help promote automobile sales. Leslie's arch-rival, the moustached and black-attired Professor Fate (Golden Globe nominated Jack Lemmon, like Dick Dastardly) with cohort Max (Columbo's Peter Falk, like Muttley, without wheezing snickering) vows to beat Leslie to the finish line in a car of Fate's own invention. The film was good, until I realised the length (20 minutes under 3 hours!), and they had to bring in a dragging thing with Fate fooling everyone to crown him a King, instead of the man who has a close resemblance, drunk Prince Hapnik (Lemmon, again). It does pick up again though with the pie fight, and Leslie loses on purpose, to Fate, to prove his love for companion Maggie DuBois (Natalie Wood). It is pretty much a live action cartoon, or episode of Wacky Races, with tributes to Laurel and Hardy. It won the Oscar for Best Sound Effects, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Song for The Sweetheart Tree (also nominated the Golden Globe) and Best Sound, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy and Best Original Score for Henry Mancini. Very good! "},{"Title":"Infantile humor.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Remember the things that made you laugh when you were five years old? If you're still able to laugh with those things, you will probably enjoy this movie. But it requires that ability. Its humor is infantile and some of the gags are so predictable that you can see them coming 20 seconds earlier. Curtis is clearly uncomfortable, Lemmon is just a cartoon and Wood's character is so annoying that you don't care how beautiful the actress is. Falk gives the only likable performance. The movie is also overlong. Take away the swordfight (a swordfight in a comedy??), Wood's romantic song and all those boring scenes with huge crowds (this is a BIG movie) and it would run 98 minutes, not 148. But it still wouldn't be very funny. "},{"Title":"Sometimes I wonder about Blake Edwards","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I find myself in emphatic agreement with every single one of the unfavourable comments, which is rare, even when I dislike a movie.  `Wood's character is so annoying that you don't care how beautiful the actress is,' someone says.  I remember reading that and thinking, `Yeah, right.'  But now I've seen her character, and - well I'll be buggered, it's true.It's not that `The Great Race' is entirely without merit.  It has a pretty good set of opening titles.  The score isn't bad.  (But even so ... although Henry Mancini was the perfect composer for all sorts of comedies, he isn't at his best here his scores for `The Pink Panther', `A Shot in the Dark', `Who is Killing the Great Chefs of Europe?' and `Without a Clue' all, in their different ways, contribute more in the way of mirth; and these were funnier films to begin with.)That's it, really.  Otherwise I can only see money - vast, vast sums of money - gushing down the drain.  Edwards has chosen a fantasy setting which would allow him to get away with anything at all.  The most fantastically crazy inventions would fit in nicely.  The most cunning, sparkling intrigue is the least we ought expect in exchange for the unreality.  Instead there's a tired collection of obvious gags.  There are those who detect zest somewhere in the script and the performances.  Maybe they have a sensory organ which I lack.The scene that sums it up for me is the one in which we see some urchins scrawling graffiti on Professor Fate's gates.  They move away and we see things like, `Fate is a fink.'  Fate is a FINK?  Is that really the best they could do? "},{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Curtis and Lemmon are rival daredevils in turn of the century America -- Curtis the Great Leslie is a golden boy who never loses, even when Lemmon and his crony (Falk) shoot oversized missiles at his balloons and boats.  When they enter an across-the-world motor race, Lemmon is sure to try to stop him; and so too, apparently, is Wood as a liberated reporter in the Rosalind Russell mode.  Keenan Wynn looks perfect as Curtis' faithful assistant, but he is largely wasted as straight-man to the unfunny Wood.  Lemmon is only sporadically funny in his way over-the-top villain performance (Falk gets more laughs than he does).  but the main problem is length -- it's MUCH too long.  The whole court intrigue plot that took up the last third of the movie should have been dumped before the cameras started rolling.  What with the mediocre Experiment in Terror and this movie, it seems like Blake Edwards was already losing his way at this point in his career, possibly losing the ability to criticize his own writing.  He would occasionally pop out good movies over the rest of his career, but mostly just kept making the same type of thing over and over again.   "},{"Title":"pathetic","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's nothing but a cheap rip-off of It's a mad, mad, mad, mad world, which is a masterpiece compared to this movie. This was directed by Blake Edwards and I've only seen two of his other movies which were operation petticoat and days of wine and roses, and i liked both of them. There was nothing funny in this movie, it has Tony Curtis wearing all white and his car is white and Jack Lemmon and Peter Falk both wear all black and have a black car. It deals with a race from New York to Paris and Natalie Wood is a reporter who is for woman's rights and wants to cover the story. There's another section in this movie which has something to do with all of them in a different country and Jack Lemmon being arrested and then being switched with a king or something and it's like it's from a totally different movie. There's another scene where you see Tony Curtis in a sword fight. The only good thing about the movie is Natalie Wood looks very good in this movie.  "}]