[{"Title":"Colossally silly","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Turn off the brain for this campy craziness. Ron Howard, in his Opie days, invents goo, which, when ingested, causes super growth. Beau Bridges leads a bunch of bad teens, Tommy Kirk (of Disney comedy fame) is the leader of some good teens, and you are the befuddled audience trying to believe what is transpiring on the screen.Natch the idiotic bad teens get a hold of the goo, and turn into colossal idiotic bad teens who take over a small town somewhere. Apparently, the presence of 30 foot hostile giants does not interest anyone outside of the town, so the townsfolk are left to fend for themselves. Of course, nobody in the town except the good teens bother to do anything about it.Once the giants appear, the action is limited, probably due to a lack of budget for special effects. The growth sequence is about all they really focused on, where they --oh, never mind. It's the highlight of the film, though, trust me. Progressively cheaper and cheaper effects parade their way through the story after that. My favorite is the scene where they try to tie up a giant Beau Bridges. You see two plastic poles (supposed to be his legs) being roped by the good teens. They then try to fasten the ropes with hot rods orbiting the surprised victim. Every once in a while, they show Beau making spasmodic and confused expressions in slow motion. By the way, whenever they show a character in slow-mo, you know it's one of the giants.The movie knows it's idiotic, and makes no effort to conceal it. Good for a laugh at how absurd it is. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie, but is it really a village?","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bert I. Gordon's Village of the Giants is a humorously poor version of the big thing make boom movies in which a small group (Maybe 6, hardly a full village) of teens take a formula that makes them grow really big, talk really slow, and move like they are dying one breath at a time.  It's all rather silly, and quite funny if you're up for this kind of movie.  Of course, it's not funny in the way Gordon intended.  Was it ever?Tommy Kirk, also of the classic Mars Needs Women is fooling around with his lady friend in the start of the film, when Ronny Howard (Still with a full head o' hair, and answering to the modest name Genius) creates a formula that makes things grow.  When the no-good drifter teens get their hands on it, they cause some real trouble, and it's up to Tommy and Ronny to stop the chaosy.  The best scene is the first in which the teens appear before the town.  They show up at an outdoor barbecue, and everyone is afraid, but really, not so afraid that they run away or anything, they just kind of look up and gasp a lot.  So then the giants are making threats, and Tommy, in a fit of rage and large hair, picks up a chair (That just happened to be sitting around outside in a park) and breaks it over the giants legs (They pretend, use your imagination).  He goes Ow! and then backfists Tommy who gets whalloped.  Very nicely done.The whole film takes place in a vacuum.  No one seems to be much surprised or worried by the giants ducks that show up out of nowhere in the Whiskey A Go-Go and start dancing.  They just kind of go along with it.  Nor is anyone interested in calling the government in when the teens take over the town.  They just sort of go with it.  And really when these giants move as slow as they do, why would anyone be afraid of them?  You can always outrun them, or if they try something, take two steps to the left.  Bert I. Gordon, if you'll pardon the expression, just wasn't thinking big enough in this movie to really deal with the consequences of his ideas.  The end is so banal and rather anti-climactic, especially for what is essentially a monster movie.All in all, Village of the Giants is low on logic, but high on some good laughs, most at its expense. "},{"Title":"Beach Party Meets The Amazing Colossal Man meets Wild in the Streets","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What do you get when you mix the children of famous Hollywood actors (Beau Bridges, Tisha Stirling and Tim Rooney), a couple of former child stars (Tommy Kirk and Johnny Crawford), a then current child star (Ron Ronny Howard) and a future one hit wonder (Toni Micky Basil) with a hack director (Burt I. Gordon).  You get one of the biggest camp classics in the history of film.  This film attempted to mix the then popular beach party flicks with the fading giant human pics.  Gordon must have really been desperate for a hit because he figured that if he couldn't get Lloyd Bridges, Ann Southern and Mickey Rooney he could at least get their children to play in one of his quickie drive-in movie features.  It's fun if you like camp, but as far as a great film, I'll stick with the films this mess rips off. "},{"Title":"The Silly Side Of A  Land Of Giants","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun! Fun! Fun! Great Casting! Great Music! Before this film, we had other Giant Movies, such as The Incredible Shrinking Man, but a recent YouTube viewing of Village Of The Giants has made me wonder if Village is the best of the lot. It has a sense of B-Grade fun that is hard to capture on film...without looking too stupid that is. The dance scene alone, with the little boy grabbing the giant girl, makes the film a winner. And note the music for the dance scene...brainwashing music! Story elements and character names (Genius) and Ron Howard were all shifted into a Land Of The Giants (1968,ABC) episode called...Genius At Work. However, LOTG played it out in a straight faced way that was demanded by producer Irwin Allen. You could say that LOTG is the best straight Giants show ever and Village is the best silly/sexy Giants show ever. Both have a place.Interestingly, probably like other corners of the world, in 1970s Australia, this film was replayed on network TV every year (at midday), but now it is gone from TV, thank god for the DVD release! Attention Hollywood Don't remake this film today, Village is a product of the 1960s, it is about the 1960s mentality and 1960s music, it would not fit in this century. "},{"Title":"Where All Good Teen Idols Go","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Village of the Giants based very loosely on H.G. Wells Food of the Gods is one of those classic cult films that gets worse and more enjoyable on repeated viewings. Later on Bert Gordon actually did make a straight version of the science fiction classic that was quite a bit better. But I'm sure a pile of money was made on this one at many drive-ins across the country.Sad to say that films like these are what happens to a lot of teen idols. Of the cast in this film only Beau Bridges and Ron Howard went on to careers of real substance. I'm willing to bet that both look back on this film and cringe.I think what Walt Disney did to Tommy Kirk was a disgrace, but typical of Hollywood in the pre-Stonewall days. Tommy might have had a substantial career had the gay 'scandal' never happened, who knows. Or this might have been where he would have wound up any way, maybe later on. There are too many variables to consider. I would point out that Johnny Crawford didn't fare any better than Tommy in his post Rifleman career and he had no scandal attached to him at this point.What this is about is six out of town teenagers, drunk and stupid, wind up in a small town where they take some 'goo' that child scientist Ronny Howard invents and grow to be some 15 to 20 feet tall. Led by Beau Bridges, they start running things until the town kids headed by Tommy Kirk and Johnny Crawford fight back and Ron Howard finds an antidote. Best shot of the film, Johnny Crawford hanging on for dear life to giant Joy Harmon's cleavage. Must have sent them rolling in the aisles back in the day. "},{"Title":"Good drive-in fare","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Goofy, fun mid 60s has goo in the plot and on the brain.  Teenagers go giant with a potion cooked up somehow by little Ron Howard.  These giants love to go-go in sexy harem outfits that somehow grow to fit them.  Tommy Kirk is, as usual, excellent and amusing -- I think he had real potention to become one of the best actors of his generation.  This movie is a bit too cheezy to be exciting or scary, but it's worth a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie,but not a good one.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't a bad movie,but it isn't a good one.Basicly,six kids become giants,take over a town and change back,that's it.Young Beau Bridges and half a dozen Sixties teenage heartthrobs fill the movie along with Ron Opie Howard and his father,Rance,as the deputy sheriff.Busty Joy Harmon should have become a break-out star from this movie,but instead vanished into obscurity.There's a wonderful close-up of the front of her sweater ripping open Incredible Hulk-style as she transforms. She says,I was big enough before. There's also a scene where she picks up a guy to hold him between her breasts;this scene appears on the cover art of some of the video covers.These scenes are the best reason for guys to see this movie,but girls won't appreciate it.I'd rent Attack of the Fifty-Foot Woman instead. I do like the movie for the scenes I described,but I really would like to find the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version in order to hear all the jokes they made. "},{"Title":"Tommy Kirk in another non-Disney Disney movie  - adjust your expectations accordingly","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As mentioned in the summary line, Village Of The Giants has many of the elements of the live action Disney comedies of the early 60's mildly bemused humor with a 'way out' attitude, safely toned down for the kiddies (The Barefoot Executive); teen gang dynamics romance, and dancing (The Monkey's Uncle); a magical chemical substance that breaks the laws of physics via cheesy process shots (Flubber); a juvenile genius (The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes) and even Tommy Kirk (ex-Mousketeer and juvenile lead from many of the old Disney movies, by then in exile from The Magic Kingdom). My guess is that Bert I. Gordon, who tried his hand at many different genres (including fantasy, horror, and film noir)(all badly) decided to make a Disney film - only slightly hipper (music by the Beau Brummels, blonds in bikinis, drug jokes, etc) racier by 60's standards) and campier.Village is intentionally camp and cheesy, all right. And it's even vaguely funny. Not ha-ha funny, but pothead funny - if you were stoned or drunk, you might get a mild chuckle out of the proceedings.In its favor, Giants features some pretty nice eye candy in the form of the blond girl members of the 'bad' teen gang that comes to town to make trouble for our wholesome, law abiding teen gang. (This is speaking as a male, of course). They're pretty hot, if you like the Pam Anderson platinum blond go-go dancer type. They also dance real good. And the Beau Brummels contribute a couple of nice, lively pop songs that are much rawer and funkier than anything you would hear in a Disney film from that time.Against practically everything else. Beau Bridges eventually matured into a fine actor, but the movie tries to peddle him as a cool guy and a teen idol, which is ridiculous given his mole-like, opaque features, constipated expression and pale, flabby body. He has great hair and complexion, and that's it. Poor Tommy Kirk tries his best to carry the film as the teen 'hero' of the town, but at this point in his career, it was basically over for him. As a result, he tries too way hard and the movie makes him such a goody two shoes that you can't help but cheer when giant Beau backhands him for a loop. The special effects range from barely acceptable (a couple nice shots of the giant kids gathered on a theater stage) to ludicrously bad (the giant mannequin legs that Tommy breaks a chair against). The screenplay is completely brain dead even as it tries to veer from heavy handed irony to action to comedy, managing to be none of those things...not even good camp. I don't want to pick on the supporting cast, though, because the screenplay called for cardboard cutouts to go through the motions and allows none of the 'minor' members of the cast any room for something as evocative as actual 'acting'. BTW, what was the deal with the red headed go-go dancer? Was it supposed to be sexy when she vibrates all over like a blender set on 'puree'? Was she supposed to be shaking her 'bippy'? It wasn't a go-go dance, it was a muscle control exhibition...! Wait, stop, take a breath. (Whoofa, whoofa, whoofa. OMMMMMmmmmmm...)OK, the movie is basically harmless. It's just really stupid, so stupid as to nullify even the 'camp' entertainment value. MST3K covered it in one of their later 'Sci-Fi' channel episodes, which is pretty funny. Go watch that one if you can, or don't. You won't be missing much. "},{"Title":"Giant cats, giant teens.. giant laughs..","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Interesting movie that I first saw on TNT a few years ago.  The writing and effects do leave a lot to be desired but this was actually a fun movie to watch if you don't try and take it too seriously.   Lots of laughs at some of the gags and moments that this movie takes. And the music.. oh brother. ha ha.While some of the giant animals like the dog, cat and ducks look really bad and you can tell that its like a split screen zoom up close effect thing they are going for , those type of scenes and moments could have really worked using todays technology.   The ideas for this movie were there and with a good script I really believe this would have been one of the best fantasy/sci fi/comedy spoof type movies made.  (Potentially) But unfortunately what we do get is giant cats that exit through the door never to be seen again, giant dogs that can't enter the room at all, giant wooden legs in the middle of a road as cheap built motorcycles circle around.  And Ron Howard in a role I'm sure he would rather soon forget he did.The plot itself was silly.  4 trouble making teens enter a town only to steal some growth formula invented by before mentioned Ron Howards character.  Lots of giant kids run loose and tell everyone they are in charge now. But all they seem to do is sit around a lot in a huge auditorium and eat.  Lots of sexual innuendo (including a breast ride on one of the giant female teens as she tries to dance with someone) and bad jokes like midgits at the end showing up hoping for some of the formula.Funny movie but if it was written well and even remade to todays effects could be a great movie all together.2 1/2 stars in my book.  Has a lot of potential and you have to take into effect when it was made.  "},{"Title":"More BIG micro props","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What did I not like about this movie?  Tommy Kirk in summerwear, a smug Beau Bridges, Ron Howard going the Bill Mumy route, and typical teens roaming free and checking the scene...he's so gone, Jasper!!Besides go-go dancing, booty shaking, and cleavageploitation, this one has some moments, but some parts just drag and stall.  See the plastic breasts gag and you just laugh seeing a guy hanging off of them!  The music is definitely dated, but has a neat psychedelic feel; probably the only thing going for it.  After awhile, I screamed in utter agony, Enough dancing already!  The sheriff, played by Joe Turkel, also appears as a blackmailing beatnik in BIG's Tormented!.  Why is it in his negotiation scene with Beau and the gang, his voice was noticeably faded out?  Great editing John Bushelman!!  I really wished Tommy fell into the water filled basement without turning the electricity OFF!  Hey, isn't the town square the same universal lot where they shot the town of Hill Valley from Back to the Future?  I recognized that clock tower!!  I'm going to have 10 buckets of mini-wings right now. "}{"Title":"Excellent Camp/Features Vintage Beau Brummels","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"      I first saw this great campy film 20 years ago on TV and its got a great mixture of INTENTIONAL camp, the beginnings of a pre-hippy teen rebelliousness (1965), and some great music from Beau Brummels.  The key to this film is not to take it seriously...the cast and crew didn't.  Genius (Ron Howard) invents GOO, a substance that turns rebel teens into giants who take over a village and the only hope is for Genius to find an antedote.  He does just in time and it all works out in the end.  But not before we get some giant ducks dancing to BBs live perfomance of Woman and other great pre-psychedelic background music.  It's a trippy comedy of it's era.  You can trash it, but then you miss the point.     Also don't miss those sexy giant teen girls; when they grow their bikinis pop off. "},{"Title":"Where Size Matters","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A groovy California partying crowd led by Beau Bridges (as Fred) crashes their car in a rainstorm. They turn up the radio, drink beer, and dance in the downpour. Then, they walk to nearby Hainesville for kicks. In the small town (containing no parents), Tommy Kirk (as Mike) is smooching with his girlfriend while her little brother Ronny Howard (as Genius) works in the basement accidentally mixing a Goo which makes you grow BIG. The family cat gets into the Goo and grows.Then, they give it to a couple of ducks, who become giant ducks, and quack up the local dance club...Meanwhile, Mr. Bridges' gang from the opening scene has arrived in time for a feast of giant duck meat. Then, they eat Goo and pop out of their clothes. Setting up shop in the local theater, Bridges and the gang decide to take over the town and make Mr. Kirk, his gum-chewing ex-Mouseketeer pal Johnny Crawford (as Horsey) and their friends servants. Kirk must save the town from the giant youth. Up for the task, Kirk turns out to be a resourceful and determined leader.The songs are pleasantly representative of the recording artists. Freddy Cannon (Little Bitty Corrine) and Mike Clifford (Marianne) were at the end of their record careers. The Beau Brummels (Woman / When it Comes to Your Love) were very popular in 1965, but none of the soundtrack songs hit. There were singers in the cast who do not perform; the biggest hits of two - Johnny Crawford with Cindy's Birthday (1962) and Toni Basil with Mickey (1982) - span 20 years.Village of the Giants easily qualifies as so bad it's good, and you may want to see it again immediately.Obviously a youth exploitation film for the time, it's like a Disney film with a dose of sex appeal. Everyone looks good, with bosomy Joy Harmon (as Merrie) most prominently going to the head of the pack; representative of cheap sexploitation is the scene with Mr. Crawford hanging onto her giant breasts. Most in the cast have family members who are also known; most recognizable (in my viewing) were Mickey's son Tim Rooney (as Pete) and Ryan's brother Kevin O'Neil (as Harry).***** Village of the Giants (10/20/65) Bert I. Gordon ~ Tommy Kirk, Beau Bridges, Johnny Crawford, Ron Howard "},{"Title":"More Like Village Of The Idiots","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you ever noticed in these movies that when something becomes available that turns things into giants that there's always some idiot, or in this case, a group of idiots that's willing to eat or drink it. Nothing happens by chance or accident, but always on purpose and always by the person or persons who use their brains the least. If I had this stuff and knew full well what it did, I think I'd be secretly dropping in the food of my favorite chicks just for the reaction factor; of course, I know I'd pay dearly later. Except for Joy Harmon and Toni Basil, none of these actresses are really all that attractive to tell the truth, and the guys seem to be nothing more than stereotypes the hero, the sidekick, the tough, the bully; none of the personalities are developed. In this movie, Beau Bridges and his entourage of friends (I can't really call them a gang) come to town and eventually discover that Ron Howard (Opie himself from The Andy Griffith Show) has accidentally created by chance a formula for giants. What does he do with it - he dares his friends to eat it, and they do! Right now,you know these kids are a few fries short of a happy meal. They take over the town just to rebel against the adults when you know they'd be fairly lousy parents themselves only to lose face and common sense in the end. The parents don't do anything so their kids have to get together and do something. The movie occurs in a vacuum with no trace of the outside world. The Paramount lot with the house from Bewitched and The Partridge Family is used in one attack scene and the courthouse lot at Universal from Back to the Future and Bruce Almighty appears at the end. The plot shifts between comedy and camp and special effects are okay and a bit dated, but not out-standing; yet overall, this movie has become its own cult movie in a way and has become a star-vehicle for fans of the busty and lovely Joy Harmon. Only Bridges and Howard are still working today. Even I enjoy this movie as a movie-fantasy about giants, but on its own merits, it is just plain boring. I give it 5 out of 10 stars. Nevertheless, I wouldn't mind seeing this movie remade today with Christina Ricci, Melissa Joan Hart, Britney Spears and Sara Michelle Gellar as the giantesses. "},{"Title":"Poorly directed, poor acting, low budget, but fun.","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want to watch a well made movie, this isn't it. 'Village of the Giants' seems to be a B movie that was intended to attract young kids and the teen audience of the early 1960s. What you will find here is a poorly directed, low budget, movie with bad acting, cheap special effects, and a plot that goes no where. You'll see a lot of bikini clad teenagers, go go dancing to some mild, early rock and roll music played by the Beau Brummels. The camera does show a lot of cleavage shots and wiggling butts that surely was and is one of the movies main attractions. This movie was most likely considered a little racy for it's day. Quite a bit of this movie brings up the anti authority, good teen versus bad teen issue. This is all very mild by today's standards. Actually this makes it humorous in today's world and it can be mildly entertaining if not taken too seriously. It is nice to see Ron Howard as a child actor in this movie playing the part of 'Genius'. You'll also find a couple of ex Mickey Mouse Club members in the cast. 'Village of the Giants' could be considered one of those 'it's so bad it's good' movies. You have to view this as a fun, but stupid movie and by no means look at it with a critical eye. Under the harsh light of criticism,'Village of the Giants' will disintegrate into the smallest piece of dust. "},{"Title":"Swinging on a Star","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Loosely...and I mean loosely based on H. G. Wells's The Food of the Gods, director/producer/writer Bert I. Gordon, Mr BIG himself, brings us a tale about a roving gang of teen thugs(nothing like today' s variation)who walk to a small town surrounded by a mudslide. In that town, a young genius, creatively named Genius works on varying experiments. One of these experiments when fed to a living thing causes the living thing to grow to tremendous proportions. We first see ducks, then a dog, and finally a tarantula. The gang takes the food of the Gods and gets big...and you can figure what happens for the most part after that. Highly unimaginative and lewd, Village of the Giants is really more concerned with showing beautiful scantily clad girls in tight polyester slacks and bikini tops grow to epic proportions. We see them literally bust out of their garments. They wear toga-like outfits, dance sensuously, bend over as much as possible to give the greatest vantage point to their cleavage, and so on. One giant girl even picks a small man up and has him hang from her top while she dances. The girls are all babes. Joy Harmon is stunning as is Tisha Sterling. But my gripe is...what's the point of presenting this as science fiction if all you really want to do is make this type of film? The acting ranges from OK(Ronny Howard is better than everyone else!), less than adequate(most of the gang including its leader Beau Bridges), to just bad(Tommy Kirk). Typical Bert Gordon special effects are here too. As mentioned by many other viewers, the music is really the best thing about the movie - well, next to Joy Harmon and Tisha Sterling and the other gang girls! "},{"Title":"Teen sci-fi does the Watusi in the mud!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Juvenile swingers get a dressing down after growing to gigantic heights. 20 years ago, our local TV channel 9 used to show this dreck every other month--and even as a kid, I wondered why everyone's reactions were sooo slooow (the drowsy actors seem as though they're underwater). Tommy Kirk (the only teenager with a receding hairline) attempts a 'Samson and Goliath' with cocky giant Beau Bridges (looking a might square, and struggling to hide his embarrassment), yet even the rocks which fly from his sling-shot are in slow-motion! It's possible to get a momentary kick from these tacky antics, but the ugliness of the entire concept is self-defeating. It's hard to laugh at something so utterly cringe-worthy. * from **** "},{"Title":"You hear that sound? It's H.G. Wells spinning in his grave!","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie opens with teenagers getting wild and crazy, after their car is stuck in the mud they all have a raindance and mudfight, with the girls shirts getting wet and dirty and sticking close to their torsos with no bras. It's all very odd because the rest of the movie is all very sober and hardly more than PG material. But it's still nice having it, of course.Ron Howard is this carbon copied boy ace just plainly named Genius who invents a stuff only referred to as Goo. This Goo can cause all living creatures to grow abnormally. First a cat becomes a cuddly monster. Fun fact It's the same scary cat used in 'Incredible Shrinking Man'. Next two duck becomes giant and are taken for a dance before they are killed and eaten at a barbecue! Unfortunately the before mentioned unruly teenagers end up stealing the Goo, and becomes giants to rule the village! Of course, these teenage giants are not exactly fascist delinquents. But they act a little rude and take up a lot of space. The rest of the movie is the good teenagers trying to overcome the giants, while Genius is working for an antidote, though all his experiments seems to turn into rubber bugs from a vending machine. Meanwhile the giants dance to a instrumental that Tarantino would use in 'Death Proof'. Are you familiar with Bert I. Gordon you should know what to expect from the special effects. The giant animals are mostly projections that the actors stand next to. The cat for instance is always seen looking through the door from another room. The giants however are much better, and there is some funny clothes popping when the are growing. Even a guy's close encounter with one of the girls bosom is shown! Good stuff.It should also be noted for fans of custom cars, that one of Ed Roth's creations, the Surfite, makes a notable cameo. "},{"Title":"See it for the Music","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, this IS a pretty awful movie; but, let's face it, it has some really terrific music, Joy Harmon and Tisha Stirling (Ann Southern's daughter). It's been awhile, so I don't recall whether or not it's Joy Harmon's nipple visible when her blouse pops. I believe that little beauty belongs to Stirling, quite a thrill to an adolescent boy back at the time when this movie was released (1965).  Harmon later left Hollywood to become a caterer (or run a bakery, I disremember) when she couldn't fine work after she refused to do nudity.  Anyway, Village also has quite a bit of goofy humor (some intentional).  If you buy or rent it, get the DVD, THEN you can listen to the music repeatedly without having to rewind. "},{"Title":"Pure Bert I.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're a fan of MST3K, you know what Bert I. Gordon can do, and how much it can hurt.  He likes to make things grow.  This movie is no exception ducks, cats, dogs, horny teenages, you name it.  A good movie to watch if you have a few hours to kill. "},{"Title":"A sniveling, constipated Beau Bridges! Yay!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"       This film opens with a group of presumably drugged out teens emerging from their rather badly wrecked automobile, only to dance around it maniacally and flop in the mud.  Before long, one of them gets the idea to go into town and make a little noise or some such rot, and the fun begins when they run into giant ducks in the local dance parlor.      These giants are the product of a goo accidentally created by a Opie-era Ronny Howard, who goes by the 'nickname' genius.      Amazingly, a sniveling Beau Bridges is the gangleader and they find the goo and dare each other to eat it, then halfheartedly try to run the town.      See the spineless Tommy Kirk bust a rigged chair on a giant fake leg!!      See Beau Bridges and the fairly hot Toni Basil and another hot girl traipse around in curtain-like toga-sarongs!      See director Bert I. Gordon make even more of an ass out of himself than ever and feel his ire as Mike and the bots tear him to shreds as usual!      Laugh along as Tom Servo wrestles with his aversion to the movie Willow, which he fantasizes was budding in young Ronny Howard's mind even then!      And through it all, thrill to the exhilarating surf tones of the fabulous Beau Brummels!      At least it's in technicolor.  "}{"Title":"Beach party meets science fiction.","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bert I. Gordon directs a low budget film loosely based on H.G. Wells' novel The Food of the Gods. Beach party mentality meshes with sci-fi, as a young boy named Genius(Ron Howard)by accident creates a substance that makes animal life to grow super large. His sister Nancy(Charla Doherty)and boyfriend Mike(Tommy Kirk)see a money making situation. The substance is dubbed Goo and could increase future food supplies dramatically. Just think, selling the formula for say...a million dollars! Giant chickens let loose at a small dance party amazes everyone. A group of snobby delinquents led by Fred(Beau Bridges)crash the party and get the notion to steal the Goo for their own fun. Something changes their minds and Fred urges his friends to eat the substance themselves. They grow outrageously large and sees themselves taking over anything they desire. During all the chaos of dancing and merriment, Genius can't remember the formula to make more Goo. For all the young guys(and older as well)the highlight of the movie is Fred's girlfriend Merrie(Joy Harmon)filling out a sweater. And when she becomes giant size...you can only imagine what you couldn't handle even if you wanted to! Music is provided by Freddy Cannon, Mike Clifford and the British sounding Beau Brummels. Also in the cast Johnny Crawford, Tisha Sterling, Robert Random, Tim Rooney, Kevin O'Neal and Toni Basil. "},{"Title":"movie fantasy anti-establishment theme","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Village of the Giants, 1965. A small town runs into problems when arrogant teenagers hit a growth spurt by eating a chemistry set goo and turn into Goliaths wanting a anti-elder rebellion in the town. *Special Stars- Johnny Crawford, Ronny Howard, Tommy Kirk, Beau Bridges, Mickey Rooney Jr.*Theme- Another youth rebellion film with a sci-fi twist. *Trivia/location/goofs- Color, American International. Shot at Universal Studios. B-Movie featuring many daughters and sons of iconic stars. Look for Mikey Rooney's and Lloyd Bridge's sons, dancer Tony Basil as well as 60's pop bands and singers of the times. It seems Mickey Rooney Jr was a problem 'new' actor and had to be disciplined while working on this film by producers & director.*Emotion- Aside from this movie fantasy anti-establishment theme, it's fun to see these young people from famous Hollywood actors trying out their first performances in this fun film.*Based On- H.G. Wells story 'Food of the Gods'. - "},{"Title":"Cool score, gorgeous women and those wild 60s!","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In some ways 1965's Village of the Giants is a godawful flick about a group of kids (more like mid-20s) who stumble upon a potion that turns them into giants. Godawful or not, there's just something mesmerizing about this flick! It's ridiculous and the special effects are laughable, yet it's full of energy and is thoroughly entertaining; and that's the name of the game. Highlights include the weird bass-driven 60's score (ripped-off by Tarantino for Death Proof); the accompanying sensual dancing of the teens (they really don't know what else to do after becoming giants, so they just dance, lol); the cast -- which includes a young Ron Howard, Beau Bridges, Robert Random and Tommy Kirk -- is great; and last but certainly not least, the cast includes not one, not two, but three gorgeous 60's babes -- Joy Harmon, Tisha Sterling and, best of all, a young redheaded Toni Basil (who went on to become a one-hit wonder with Hey Mickey). Basil is so jaw-droppingly gorgeous it's worth seeing the movie just for her! For instance, watch out for Basil in a bikini in the pool party scene. She also has an extended dance sequence late in the film in black leotards.So, yeah, Village of the Giants is a real turkey, but it's a golden turkey.The film runs 81 minutes and was shot in Burbank and Hollywood, Ca.GRADE B (Actually a C but A for entertainment; so overall B ) "},{"Title":"Silly and harmless...","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's no doubt about it, Village of the Giants is a bad film. However, to its credit, it doesn't even try to be a good film and it never takes itself seriously. So, while it's imminently skip-able, it's not a bad way to spend 81 minutes--provided you don't expect a film from the Criterion Collection.The film begins with four straight minutes of sexy young men and women rolling in the mud. Seriously. There is no reason for this other than to titillate the audience--which, at the time, was probably almost exclusively under 25. In fact, while the film is not in any way obscene, it IS very sexy and there are quite a few innuendos throughout and LOTS of scantily-clad young women breaking into dance for no particular reason.Eventually, there is a plot. It involves a young genius, played by Ron Howard (sort of a 60s version of Dexter from Dexter's Lab), creating a potion that accidentally makes creatures grow instantly to huge proportions. The special effects for these transformations are pretty lame (especially when there are CLEARLY strings pulling the ducks up and down) and I really don't think they tried very hard to get this right. His older friends (including Tommy Kirk) want to use this to grow enormous livestock and thereby end world hunger. Some other young people (led by Beau Bridges) are far less generous in their intentions and want to steal the formula to get rich. In fact, late in the film after they steal it, the jerks decide to try the formula on themselves--and they then decide to terrorize the town!! Can Kirk and the others manage to thwart these jerks? This film is almost like The Amazing Colossal Man merged with Beach Blanket Bingo. Director Bert Gordon and the rest really manage to make a fun yet amazingly cheap and stupid film. It's got guilty pleasure written all over it if you are a bad movie buff. Otherwise, you'll probably want to skip this one. "},{"Title":"BEST SUPPORTING CLEAVAGE - JOY HARMON!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" VILLAGE OF THE GIANTS (1965) * (really ****) Tommy Kirk, Johnny Crawford, Beau Bridges, Ronny Howard.  Laughable sci-fi fantasy 'based' on  HG Welles' Food of the Gods is just an excuse for really horrible filmmaking courtesy of schlockmeister Bert I. Gordon (read BIG) Ronny (in his post Opie days) is Genius, a kid who invents a goo that causes things to grow and once bad boy Bridges gets a hold of it turns himself and his gang into giants.  Some way out special effects including the highlight Giantess Joy Harmon dancing with tiny Crawford; or ride the wild breasts!  All I gotta say is woo hoo we need a remake quick!  Two words giant babes!! Look for go-go choreographer Toni Basil (of '80s one hit wonder Mickey fame!!) MORE TRIVIA Harmon is best known as the wet dream of Paul Newman's chain gang in Cool Hand Luke.   "},{"Title":"Almost gave it a 2...","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie on TNT or something about 15 years ago.  I couldn't believe I wasted my time!  I had rated it a 2. Several years later, a little show called Mystery Science Theater 3000 aired on Comedy Central.  Somehow, they made this stupid movie very watchable...but only with the silhouettes of robots at the bottom of the screen!Whatever happened to the Beau Brummels? "},{"Title":"All grown up and nowhere to go...","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Film that is fun to watch, but for all the wrong reasons; search out the MST3K version if possible. Movie was obviously shot as cheap, drive-in filler, but its subtext of youthful empowerment in the '60's is rather interesting.  However, the execution and payoff are both lame.  That's a problem with movies about Amazing, Colossal people...once they're all grown up the writers run out of things for them to do...the closing payoff is a big disappointment, as if the film adopts a teenaged Yeah, whatever attitude of its own.     "},{"Title":"An exceptionally stupid movie . . . **spoilers**","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"     First off even though I am a huge MSTie, I must say I have not seen this on MST3K (though I would like to).  That said   I caught this on AMC the day before Halloween, and man, it sucked even more than I thought it would.   The whole plot (Ron Howard invents a gook that turns things giant) is okay, but it is executed howwibly, howwibly (to quote Lord Blackadder).  The actors are wooden and idiotic.  This shouldn't matter too much, since this quite obviously was an exploitation flick - but hey, I hate exploitation flicks - and this is no exception.   There were a lot of stupid jokes - Howard's character genius was a dumb running gag for kids under eight; the scene with the guy hanging off the giant girl's bra wasn't as funny as I thought it would be; and the end with the midgets marching to town to get the goo (as the formula is called) is kinda funny but really stupid.   No matter how you judge it, this film is a piece of trash.  I hope M&TB did a good job ripping on it, but alas, for now it's only hope.   Three stars for Village of the Giants, since there are a LOT worse movies out there. "},{"Title":"How Idiotic Can You Get","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those darned teenagers; those juvenile delinquents. So we have a town beset by some adolescents who have gotten their hands on a secret formula and have grown to be 30 feet tall. They were rebellious before but now. Those parents who used to tell them what to do are going to get theirs. There are several old Mouseketeers here but this is not a Disney movie. Tommy Kirk is the handsome one. Ronny Howard is the Genius who is responsible for all this. And, of course, there are a host of mutant animals running around. The adults are so clueless, but then why shouldn't they be. This is the living out of the kid fantasy, but these guys are so stupid, all they want to do is party. Hey, nobody is accusing anyone of Shakespeare. It's worth watching for laughs. "},{"Title":"A good deal of dopey fun","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This completely ridiculous tongue-in-cheek adolescent sci-fi comedy romp represents 60's kitsch at its most delightfully dumb and inoffensive. The plot alone is pure silliness A precocious little squirt scientific genius named -- what else? -- Genius (none other than future Happy Days TV show star and mainstream feature director Ron Howard!) creates a special formula called goo that causes both people and animals to growth substantially in size. Of course, a no-count band of rowdy rebellious teenagers led by the suave Fred (an embarrassingly bad turn by Beau Bridges) eat the goo and become evil tyrant towering behemoths who take over the town. It's up to nice guy Mike (former Disney movie star Tommy Kirk) to stop them. Boy, does this hilariously ludicrous honey deliver the campy goods with a gut-busting vengeance we've got fumbling (mis)direction by the ever-inept Bert I. Gordon, uproariously poor and unconvincing (not so) special effects (the huge wooden legs are especially laughable), extremely variable acting, a pair of giant dancing ducks, hopelessly dated hip slang (favorite line Dig that nitty gritty), a cheerfully silly tone, blithely lewd and idiotic humor (one dude hangs off the breasts of a busty lady giant!), an excellent rock soundtrack, and more insanely groovy dancing than you can shake a tail feather at (the lengthy sequence with the over-sized teens dancing up a storm is positively sidesplitting!). Better still, Jack Nizsche supplies a terrific catchy score (the rumbling instrumental tune The Last Race is simply fantastic), both Freddy Cannon and the Beau Brummels make special guest musical appearances, and such hot babes as Joy Harmon (the buxom blonde car wash girl in Cool Hand Luke), Tisha Sterling, and Toni Basil provide a plethora of delicious distaff eye candy. Stanley Kubrick film regular Joe Turkel plays the no-nonsense sheriff and Rance Howard even briefly pops up as a deputy. All in all, this infectiously inane stupidity sizes up as a total goofy hoot. "}{"Title":"All of Us Against the Adults","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is not as dumb as it looks. Sure, it has cheezy effects, bad acting, improbable situations, and screwy dialog. But so do nearly all the movies from this period.You can see this in several interesting ways--This was when the larger society was beginning to know about LSD, and associating it with the impression of `beats' on teenagers. It is after the rock and roll scare and just before the serious hippie scare. Here we have the drugs and sex version of `Rebel Without a Cause,' but done poorly of course.--I am beginning a study of redheads in film. Check this out. The `bad' teenagers (sometimes 6 sometimes 8) are three blond girls plus at the end a brownhaired one. The `good' teenagers are led by a red, Nancy, who has a red brother (`Genius') and a red friend (Georgette who does a sexy dance to distract the baddies), and if you look, and inordinate number of red friends in the crowd. Bad blonds versus good reds. Interesting. Toni Basil makes an appearance as a redhead gogo dancer.--The writers went immediately to `Lord Love a Duck' which was a truly intelligent, dark film black pyschedelia. One of them was apparently in love with the redhead, Vicki London, who appears in both. Look for her. Anyway, these guys knew `Alice in Wonderland' and put the bad teens literally on a stage, where they are approached by the sheriff. A pretty clever conceit, I say.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life.  "},{"Title":"Giant teens; small movie","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" BEACH PARTY MEETS COLOSSUS MAN...an uneasy mix indeed. Bert I. Gordon's lame-brained comedy has a group of really goofy teenagers ingesting a goop created by boy genius Ronny Howard, resulting in extraordinary growth. Their brains do not seem to keep pace with their bodies as they're just as idiotic large as they are normal sized. Tommy Kirk tries mightily to lasso the giant teens and Toni Basil (as Red) dances a lot. A very young Beau Bridges is the lead teen giant and his performance here is probably best forgotten. The special effects are on par with other Bert I. Gordon productions, which is to say they're dreadful. Johnny Crawford, the Beau Brummels and Freddy BOOM BOOM Cannon are in it too. Based on THE FOOD OF THE GODS by HG Wells, a source Gordon would revisit just as badly several years later with his 1975 eco- thriller version. "},{"Title":"VILLAGE OF THE GIANTS (Bert I. Gordon, 1965) *1/2","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A boy scientist (a young Ron Howard) accidentally happens upon an enlarging formula that first affects animals and, then, an unruly set of teenagers (led by Beau Bridges). Despite its promising satirical take on both the generational gap (a remnant of the previous decade) and anti-establishment attitudes (then coming into force), this emerges as just about the most inconsequential adaptation ever made of a fantasy classic &#x96; the source being H.G. Wells' The Food of the Gods&#x85;which the director returned to, relatively more soberly, 11 years later for his film of that name. The sighting here of huge go-go dancing ducks, barely acknowledged by assorted 'hipsters' (including leading man Tommy Kirk) similarly letting rip at a nightclub &#x96; to the strains of The Beau Brummels and Jack Nitzsche &#x96; is not easily forgotten and unfortunately synonymous of the film's innate silliness. Incidentally, Gordon seems to have had something of a fixation on giant-sized menaces throughout his career, since he frequently dealt with this subject matter&#x85;and, for obvious reasons, was himself affectionately referred to as Mr. B.I.G.! "},{"Title":"Bert I Gordon's first attempt at Food of the Gods","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bert I Gordon has made a few movies that I like, my favorite being Empire of the Ants. In most of his films he uses a simple techniques to make something or other look large in addition to making a prop or two. Here he tries to make a movie based on H.G. Wells story Food of the Gods. This time he fails miserably. He would later make another version in 1976 that is titled Food of the Gods and it is probably my second favorite Bert I film. This one is just to goofy and is more of a comedy. There are some nice shots of pretty 60's girls and it is at times a bit risqué for a film of this time period, but overall the story and the tone of the film just do not work.The story has a bunch of rowdy kids dancing in the rain, which with the girls was entertaining at times. However, it was also padding to the extreme. A young boy his sister and boyfriend call genius and is played by Ron Howard develops a formula that increases things in size. A cat grows to super size, leaves and two ducks and a dog. The ducks rock on at the local bar before being roasted and it is not long before the rowdy kids are eating the formula and growing large and implementing their own rules. Though, they really do not do anything all that bad as no one is going to be killed here. It is up to the town's teens to find a way to stop the super rebellious and giant teens! I saw this film on MST3K and it was an all right episode of that show; however, I was expecting it to be funnier than it turned out. I found the host segments involving Frank's firing and unemployment funnier than the movie in this one. Not to say it made for a bad episode. The effects are at times very funny including a pair of made up legs! So this film had a couple of good points, mainly the parts of the film that focused on the girls of the film. Most of the film was padding, the film was like a very small idea and with the rest of it being filler. There are times you cannot hear certain characters, I probably could not make out half of what that sheriff said. At times the scale is completely off or they were reading the world's largest magazines. Just a whole lot of mess going on here, but it is nice to see that Bert I Gordon would revisit Food of the Gods and do a much better job of it than he did here. "},{"Title":"Weird, risqué piece of go-go dancing, junk food cinema!","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where to begin? Okay, first off...it's obvious director Bert I. Gordon has a severe macrophilia fetish. Accepted. And what at times seems like one of those innocent,'60s Disney family comedies (little Ronnie Howard concocting strange potions) gets strangely 'adult' for a family flick (Joy Harmon's growing breasts bursting open her sweater, giant teens gyrating ENDLESSLY in slow motion). Practically jump-starts young boys into puberty! With giant ducks, house pets and spiders, this (VEEERRRRYYY)loose adaptation of H.G. Wells' FOOD OF THE GODS seems aimed for the 'atomic monster/make-out movie' drive-in crowd. However, in this era of multiplexes and make-it/break-it opening weekends, it would be straight-to-DVD! There is no story logic to speak of; objects frequently change scale, giants seemingly enter/exit 'normal' sized doorways, dance music 'spontaneously' occurs, etc. Gordon seems to invest the most effort to the seemingly infinite go-go dancing sequences and the teen growth scene where clothes rip/break off (kind of risqué for 1965--and in a family film to boot!). His camera practically ogles the 'giant' girls in an uncomfortable, perv-cam way. It's a creepy (yet strangely innocent and retarded) little movie at times! It tries to be a comedy (midget/breast size jokes...H.G. Wells would not be amused!), but the jokes hit with a dull plop. Thankfully, Ron(nie) Howard would put this mess behind him and go on to become an A-list director/producer. Other than Howard and Beau Bridges(call it a youthful indiscretion), it seems as if the largely no-talent cast disappeared into obscurity. Probably for the best! Worth watching only if you can catch the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version. A VAST improvement. One can only really laugh at(not with) the film and even that requires assistance! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Village of the GiantsThe important thing about living with gigantic teenagers is not being buried under falling puss from their popped pimples.Fortunately, the overgrown adolescents in this sci-fi comedy are clear-skinned.When a gang of rowdy teens lead by Fred (Beau Bridges) breaks down in a small town, they come across a local youngster, Genius (Ron Howard), who has a substance that causes gigantism in its consumers.Stealing a batch, the gang gobbles it down and grows 30-feet tall.The towering teens then take-over the town and terrorize its citizens.Now, it's up to Genius' sister Nancy (Charla Doherty) and her boyfriend (Tommy Kirk) to administer the antidote before it's too late.With a swinging soundtrack from The Beau Brummels, this low-budget adaptation of an H.G. Wells tale is made marvelous by its over-sized mechanical props.However, one sock hop from these kids and the West Cost crumbles into the Pacific Ocean.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Wonder what H. G. Wells would have thought of this!","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I feel I should first mention that I watched the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of this movie. And after watching it, I am glad I saw that version instead of the original version. The movie is poorly made in every area that you can think of. Though the original version was only eighty minutes long, I could still see even in the MST3K version that the story was ridiculously padded with dance/song numbers and other material that does not advance the plot at all. The special effects are awful as well, so bad that they are not unintentionally amusing at all, instead just embarrassing to witness. Maybe because of the cheap special effects, the story was clearly written to be tongue in cheek, but isn't the least bit amusing. But the worst thing about the movie is that there is not one likable character. The bad teens are bad, and the good teens are stupid and annoying. As you can see, the original version is a movie that is tough to sit through. The constant ribbing of the movie by the MST3K version does make the movie watchable - barely. "},{"Title":"Annoying Teens Mixed with Bad Special Effects","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Village of the Giants (1965)* (out of 4)Incredibly bad giant movie from Bert I. Gordon about a boy named Genius (Ron Howard) who creates a formula that turns things huge. At first this formula is tested on some ducks and a dog but then an annoying group of teenagers get their hands on it. Once the teenagers are giants, they take over the city and lay down their own form of the law.Gordon's VILLAGE OF THE GIANTS is without question one of the director's worst movies if not the very worst. There's no doubt that Gordon made a lot of bad movies throughout his career but thankfully most of them at least had some charm to them that made them entertaining and worth watching. That's certainly not the case with this movie, which is pretty annoying from the opening scene to the very last. Worst of all is that the film is very confused as to what it wants to be.I say this because the film seems to be a mix between the director's giant movies and those BEACH PARTY films. This film kicks off with one of the dumbest dance scenes in the history of cinema as the annoying teens get out in the rain, dance and roll around in the mud. Things get even worse once they become giants because the material is just too silly to be taken serious. There certainly aren't any scares to be had with how silly everything is and the silly aspects are just as bad because the teenagers are annoying and they ask for dumb things like the adults having a curfew.Then there are the special effects, which are the worst you're going to see in any movie from Gordon. The giant effects are just so downright awful that you can't believe the producers allowed them to be used. Just take a look at the sequence where the people in town are turning over their guns while a giant watches them. Not only is the special effect bad but the director obviously didn't even bother to tell the extra to look at this giant. I mean, if dozens of people were lined up with a giant next to them, don't you think they'd look over at that giant? VILLAGE OF THE GIANTS is what some might call innocent fun but there's no fun to be had here no matter what. "},{"Title":"Pretty Terrible Attempt at Science Fiction","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Delinquent teens ingest a substance and grow to 30 feet tall, then proceed to take over a small town.So, this film has a pretty decent cast with boy genius Ron Howard, giant Beau Bridges, and go-go dancing Toni Basil. And it is directed by one of the B-movie greats, Bert Gordon. But it is just bad.Sure, Quentin Tarantino used the theme song in his Death Proof and the kids like to drink Blatz beer, but it seems like more of this movie is spent on watching kids dance or bands playing music. The actual plot takes up little time.The only good thing I can say about this movie (besides the good points mentioned) is a claim a kid makes about how the rebels are no better than the old authorities if they just replace them and keep the same power structures. That could have been explored more, but I guess I should not expect too much from a psychedelic 1960s disposable film. "},{"Title":"Let's DANCE!","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What's the first thing to do when you and seven other friends crash your car into a road block and you're stuck in the mud? Well, you DANCE! What's your first reaction when you're attending a rock concert and all of a sudden two gigantically over-sized ducks come waddling in? You start DANCING, of course. What's the very first thing you must accomplish when you and your friends grew up to a length of 30ft. after consuming a gooey unidentified substance? Right again, you must DANCE! I don't think the legendary bad movie director Bert I. Gordon (BIG, for his friends) ever intended to make a loyal adaptation of H.G. Well's novel Food of the Gods, he merely just wanted to make a light-headed and 60's spirit-capturing musical about the earliest Rock 'n Roll generations. Village of the Giants features an intolerably high amount of pointless padding sequences that simply show teenagers &#150; whether 30ft tall or not &#150; singing and dancing to Jack Nitzsche's (admittedly catchy) music and that's it. Thank God the film never at one point attempts to be a real scary and unsettling Sci-Fi movie, because that would have been really pathetic with all the lousy acting performances, tacky effects and the virtually non-existing screenplay. The annoying former child star Ron Howard portrays the nerdy kid-inventor Genius and accidentally discovers a substance that causes living creatures to grow to enormous proportions. A gang of naughty, outer town kids manage to steal a big slice of goo because they're sick and tired of being bossed around by adults. The adults probably just righteously stated they should waste less time on dancing and get a job! The goody-two-shoes teenagers in town fight (and go-go dance) back, though! What a totally demented movie this is. I wonder if Beau Bridges would like to be reminded of his role in this film as the nagging and totally uncharismatic leader of the bad pack. Presumably not&#133; And neither would Toni Basil and Ron Howard. However, it must be interesting to see an X-rated version of this film, since all of the girls are quite beautiful (particularly Joy Harmon) and literally bursting out of garments as they feed on the substance. Village of the Giants is never suspenseful or interesting, with the exception of one notably engaging gargantuan tarantula scene, and manages to be quite boring despite the short running time. Jack Nitzsche's theme music was obviously brilliant, because no less than Quentin Tarantino borrowed the song The Last Race for his own recent grindhouse movie Death Proof. Worth a peek in case you're a fan of horribly bad low-budget 60's stuff or in case you have a strange & inexplicable admiration for director/writer Bert I. Gordon, like I have. "}]