[{"Title":"Ipcress Still Hip and Best","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"86 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although conceived and produced by Harry Salzman and scored by John Barry, this is a film which deliberately positions itself miles away from the up until this time familiar James Bond espionage ethos. Palmer is a short sighted, class-ridden, form-signing petty criminal, co-opted into the spy service to avoid a year in jail. He lives in a bedsit and wakes up with an alarm call and not a stunning sexual conquest. Unlike Bond too, he operates in an environment which is recognisable and totally believable big echoing offices ruled by passed over Majors, where filling out forms is as important as tedious leg work and the idea of a Aston Martin as a company car would be ridiculous. The glamorous stereotypes of 007 have been replaced by the grinding, self effacing reality of the civil service, with its believable day to day grind. In short Ipcress has roots in the contemporary wave of 60's kitchen-sink drama, and not garish Bond fantasies.This is a film taking a fresh look at what has passed for a spy film before. It's fitting then that a lot of the imagery revolves around sight and seeing. Palmer's glasses are an obvious symbol of imperfect vision (exemplified by a couple of 'blurred vision' special effects in the film). The camera in turn plays avant garde tricks, shooting alternately through the crowded window of a phone booth, through glasses, ornaments and other objects and so on. This is a film in which vision, or *comprehension* - deciphering 'Ipcress' or identifying 'Albania' as really London, for instance - is finally of paramount importance. Palmer has to both see, then understand, the web that surrounds him before he identifies the traitor. At the most basic level this 'knowing' extends to his own self, through the psychological trauma he undergoes.Class, too, is an important element. Whereas the public school educated Bond would be at home conversing with Palmer's superiors, Palmer is the working class staff man, insubordinate perhaps and cocky, but one who ultimately knows his place. Even the main villain is fairly aristocratic. This makes Palmer's final choice of shot all the more relishable. In the class-ridden snobbery of the secret service it proves to be one of the elite who is suspect and must be killed. Palmer is the better man - and not just morally either his appreciation of Mozart ('proper' Mozart, too, not the appalling bandstand variety pushed on him by Daulby) and fine cooking, marks him out as a man of taste, in contrast to the surrounding snobbery and elitism.This theme of class, as well as the locations chosen for 'The Ipcress File' mark it out as a very British spy film - possibly the best one ever in contrast to the Bond cycle, which represented an attempt to create a deliberate trans-Atlantic product. One parallel serves to illustrate this difference Bond has an American agent friend (Felix Leiter), an occasional minor character in the series. In contrast Palmer shoots an American agent dead by mistake and they tail him in revenge, while another dies in his flat. There is no camaraderie here, and the snug special relationship is nowhere in sight.Over the years 'The Ipcress File' has lost none of its edge (with the possible exception of the dated 60's psychedelia which confronts Palmer in his torture chair) or punch. Utterly compulsive as a spy drama, it remains one of Caine and Furie's best films, an example of a contemporary fresh approach that still remains a classic. "},{"Title":"Best of the series, and one of the best British spy films.","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"55 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although this film is obviously made on something of a shoestring, there is nothing kitchen sink about it. The scenes are shot on location in London (I came out of my house one morning, and saw them shooting the film across the road. A friend told me that Michael Caine was in the film, and this turns out to be the film.) This film was made in the wake of the Philby, McLean et al scandal, and the film enters the British class warfare with all guns blazing. You see, these bunch of traitors were not the undependable working class, these were decent Oxbridge chaps who had had the finest education and privilege. And it was THEY who had sided with the commies. Similarly, the Profumo affair, where a minister of the Conservative government had been sharing a mistress with a Soviet diplomat, had been a nail in the coffin for the old British order. If the chaps at the top couldn't be relied on to stay loyal. How about the rabble beneath?Harry Palmer represents the new kind of British hero, just as Michael Caine represents the new kind of British film actor. Whereas in British action films hitherto, the elite were shown as efficient and brave with their OK, chaps, in you go. I'll be right behind you; here they are displayed as duplicitous, inept, and resistant to change. (Listen to the comments made about supermarkets by Col. Ross.) The new order of things is being swept away, as evinced by Major Dalby swinging away to the military band in the park, in a sparsely filled auditorium.Again and again this theme of it's the upper classes that are subversive comes up - from the very beginning, when Palmer leaves his lowly flat in Maida Vale's Formosa Street to head for a stakeout in Hamilton Terrace, one of the most exclusive streets in London. When the traitor is revealed at the end, it is a member of the establishment, who apparently believes in the system - not the insubordinate Palmer who continually cocks a snook at the system.Plenty of interesting imagery here. Notice that it is the working class Palmer who is living the most sophisticated life, from the moment he first appears in the memorable scene. Yes, the working class with their regional accents, and studying the racing pages of the newspapers have now got electric kettles, electric coffee grinders, and make their coffee in cafetieres. Another harbinger of the social change to come is the CIA agent, portrayed by a well-dressed Negro who smokes a pipe.Then there is the irony. The establishment, who hold the lower orders in utter contempt are the ones who embrace communism, a system that is supposed to be on the side of the worker, while it is lower orders, as represented by Palmer, who are trying to stop them.The spy mystery is just the tip of this iceberg, the interesting things are the changes in society that are going on underneath. "},{"Title":"Do a good bit of a lunch at your club do they?","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"61 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The best thing about this film is the fascinating period atmosphere. When this film was made, 1965, Britain, and British filmmaking, was exactly on the cusp between the old, class ridden, Imperial culture of films like 'Zulu', and the gritty, modern, realist school that began with films like 'Get Carter'.In '65 Britain had a Labour government after a long period of Conservative rule, and sweeping changes were about to happen which would utterly change the face of British life. 'Ipcress' bridges the gap between these two eras.On the one hand we have the upper-middle class army officers lunching at their clubs and strolling along in bowler hats with tightly furled umbrellas, and at the other extreme we have the way-out psychedelia of the interrogation chamber scene, and the grimy world of offices, warehouses, and men jumping out of vans that defined the TV and films of the 70s such as 'The Sweeney'. In the middle somewhere is Harry Palmer, who rather than being working class, is classless. He has no discernable accent, dresses plainly, likes cooking and classical music and lives in nondescript surroundings. It is only his military rank, that of sergeant, that enables us to make any kind of judgement on his social status. I think this is part of the enduring appeal of the film. Although the Dalbys of this world are long gone, Palmer would not be out of place in 2003, in fact the Palmers of this world are now the norm in many positions of British authority. Overall a fascinating period piece but one which has worn well.  "},{"Title":"A Class Movie","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"49 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Michael Caines first outing as secret agent Harry Palmer is set in 60's London. This is not the Psychedelic London of Austin Powers or the Beatles, neither is it the sophisticated aristocratic London of James Bond. This London is drab and populated by civil servants & bedsits. This London is still coming to terms with the end of World War II and the advent of a modern world.Working Class Palmer is an unwilling Home Office agent with criminal tendencies who is more interested in a pay rise so that he can indulge his true passion, gourmet cooking, than serving his country. His superiors, Ross (played by Guy Doleman) & Dalby (Played by Nigel Green) represent a microcosm of the British Upper & Lower Middle Classes. Palmer is clearly more cultured in his appreciation of food, music(Mozart & Bach) & women, I like Birds Best Palmer admits to Courtney played by Sue Lloyd (of Crossroads fame in UK).Palmers superiors appear uninterested in the fate of their subordinates and this is one reason why the character of Palmer works so well, we are him, he lives our lives and we want him to win through. This perspective is aided by the stunning photography that uses every conceivable camera angle (even views from a light bulb!) to see the world from the characters perspective.Look out for the supermarket scene between Ross and Palmer, my vote for the most violent use of a supermarket Trolley in a movie.As Palmer slowly unravels the mysterious disappearance of top government scientists it becomes clear that there is someone close to the top of the British Secret service acting as a double agent. Who is it, Ross or Dalby? Who is Courtney, Palmers love interest, working for?In the background is a rather sinister looking CIA, who always appear to be one step ahead of the Brits. (A reference to the decline of Britian as a world power and its reliance on America?) Wether intentional or not, this film has captured a London of the 60's that was going through substantial social change, gone are the class paradigms that suggest that the working class could never be cultured, gone is is the unquestioning loyalty to the upper class. This world was forever changed after the war. This is a film I can watch time and time again, if only to watch the title sequence as Palmer gets up for work as if he is going to just another office job.This is a stylish movie and one of the greatest British films ever made. If you havn't seen it watch it now! "},{"Title":"Better than James Bond","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film is, in a word, fantastic. Caine plays a British secret service agent who is assigned to find out who is brainwashing the country's top scientists. This is an interesting slant on the usual cold war thriller plots and is much more believable than James Bond films, although it lacks the latter's explosive action. this is the antithesis of Bond as Caine lives on a meagre wage, has a bedsitting flat and does his own shopping! He also wears glasses and in one scene, chats up his female work colleague whilst cooking. The plot is also a lot more grown-up than its Bond counterpart - there are no cat stroking madmen intent on world domination. What makes the film is the idiosyncratic camera angles and the grainy film quality which adds to the oppressive cold war drama. The brainwashing scene is quite amusing and cliched by todays standards with psychodelic images, trippy music and You-are-getting-sleepy... type-quotes. Guy Doleman and Nigel Green head up a brilliant supporting cast which include a few familiar British faces. It is interesting to note that the film was produced by the same people who bring Bond to the screen and even the excellent soundtrack is courtesy of John Barry.       "},{"Title":"An original take on Len Deighton's novel.","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" London, in the early 60s, was captured by Sidney Furie in all its splendor. One of the best things in the movie is the fantastic camera work by its cinematographer, Otto Heller. The director and his cameraman place the camera as a sort of peeping Tom device. Mr. Furie and Mr. Heller takes us along to spy on Harry Palmer in this satisfying adaptation of Len Deighton's novel. The musical score by John Barry is another element that works well with one is witnessing.Harry Palmer came alive the way Michael Caine played him. Palmer is a man from humble origins, in sharp contrast with the rest of the people he works for, who are clearly highly educated and who look down on this man because he is different. Mr. Caine is versatile actor whose take on Harry was right on the money. We can't do anything but admire him for making this man so approachable and believable.The film was blessed with an excellent cast. Nigel Green, who plays Major Dalby makes his character come true with little effort. So does Guy Doleman as Col. Ross. Sue Lloyd, Gordon Jackson, and the rest of the actors give amazing performances.The Ipcress File shows us what London looked like in the sixties. It hasn't changed that much, but all the exteriors used in the film is a joy to watch. That speaks volumes of Otto Heller who had an eye for what to photograph, as everything fit nicely into the context of the film. "},{"Title":"A cash-in on Len Deighton's bestseller, but still a great movie.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Having read the novel, I can tell you that this film follows the book even less than most so-called film adaptations. Even secret agent Harry Palmer's incarceration in what he thinks is Eastern Europe has many differences to the version in the book. The novel includes scenes in Lebanon and an American Pacific base, while this film takes place entirely in London.At one stage, Deighton's unnamed anti-hero even states that `my name isn't Harry'.That said this is still a brilliant Cold War drama and the film does retain elements of Deighton's novel his world of espionage is one of draughty back street offices, red tape and limited budgets. When he is told that he is being transferred to another intelligence unit, one of Palmer's first questions is if he will get any more money. There is also the rivalry between intelligence departments and with the Americans people working together with gritted teeth rather than devoted camaraderie against a common enemy.Michael Caine is well cast as cockney Army Sergeant Harry Palmer, a gourmet anti-hero caught up in the Great Game of espionage because the alternative was prison. As well as a smug and double-dealing enemy like Erik Grantby (Frank Gatliff), Palmer has to cope with bureaucracy, a measly pay and distrusting superiors like Major Dalby (Nigel Green) and Colonel Ross (Guy Doleman).Although made by the same people who produced the James Bond films, this could not be more different. In contrast to Bond's life as a millionaire playboy, Palmer lives in an East End flat, has to do his own shopping and cooking, has limited resources and budgets and never-ending paperwork.Gordon Jackson also lends good support as Jock Carswell, the only fellow agent whom Palmer can trust or likes; Jean Courtney (Sue Lloyd) has an affair with Palmer, but is really keeping tabs on him. In the original novel Carswell is another bureaucrat a la Dalby and Ross for whom the unnamed narrator has little time for. Jackson's character is actually based on Carswell's assistant Murray.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable (if slow) espionage tale with added digs at the UK's management structure","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  When eminent British scientist Dr Radcliffe is kidnapped off a train in broad daylight, the Secret Service make the super spy known only as 'Bluejay' their number one priority with Radcliffe being the 17th scientist to go missing. With the boost in manpower, Harry Palmer finds himself taken off surveillance duties and put into a new unit under Major Dalby to find Radcliffe and capture Bluejay. Never one for following the rules, Palmer struggles to keep up to date with his paperwork while trying to make progress in the mission &#150; the bureaucracy making his job as hard as the opposite side. However soon he makes progress and finds himself drawn into a deadly web involving treachery, American agents and a plan to 'brain drain' the UK and weaken its powers.Although it has dated in some regards, The Ipcress File stands up well as a sort of answer to the Bond ideal of the British Secret Service. While it is much more fun to have a series of slick action moves and fantasy plots, this film's focus on structure and managers is much more realistic (one assumes) and also allows for a solid, if unspectacular, story but also some amusing digs at the civil service. The plot moves slowly but is still an engaging thriller even if it slowly unfolds rather than explodes along &#150; while this may put off many who prefer things to go 'bang' every few minutes I found it to be enjoyable and quite engaging. On top of this the film pokes fun at the UK civil service with a great deal of relish (but not sticking out as doing so). I have worked in a council and a Government funded charity and can confirm that this aspect of the film has not dated &#150; the UK still is very much to do with paperwork and having all the forms filled in correctly, for example &#150; tried to fill in any tax forms lately?! The film makes good sport of this aspect of Palmer's job and shows the fussy management structure of his department as being almost as much of a threat to national security as Bluejay himself is!The cast is pretty good but it is Michael Caine's film all the way. He is suitably acerbic in his wit and has the browbeaten look many of us get when we feel we are being stopped from 'doing our jobs' by having to spend too much time filling in forms! However, while also still making this point, Caine still makes Palmer effective enough for the audience to get behind him and still see him as a spy and the fact that Caine always brings his own screen presence to the role helps as well. Support is also good from Green, Doleman, Gatliff and Jackson but Caine is the one you'll remember.Overall this is not a great film but it is a good one. When viewed alongside other spy thrillers this one will appear very slow but I still found the story to be enjoyable if low key. The portrayal of the civil service as one of paperwork and managers adds a nice layer to a story that is already pretty good in its own right. Not to everyone's taste and it helps if you can appreciate Palmer's situation but it is a good espionage tale that rewards patience with a good story that is happily lacking in Hollywood excesses and empty spectacle.  "},{"Title":"AFI's top films of the 1960's","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I got the rare chance to see this film recently on Turner Classic Movies one afternoon and I was completely blown away by what I saw. This was the first of three films to depicted the normal activities and dangerous and extreme situations of British intelligence agent Harry Palmer(played by Michael Caine who became an international star with his portrayal of the working stiff/British spy). This was an espionage thriller that went straight by the book and then some which is based on Len Deighton's best selling novel. This was in no way compare to the James Bond spy flicks that came out the same time as this one,but this was totally different and for a very good reason. Palmer was a 9 to 5 stiff who was going by a measly paycheck,meeting in drab locations and of course has to sign for everything he gets including getting an issued gun and also getting transportation to get to and from his assignments and so forth as the story proceeds. You don't know whether not to like or dislike the character as he is in constant danger at every turn as his closest friends he meets at the office becomes his deadliest enemies out to kill him at any cost with an unglamourous death in the wings as you the viewer be grabbing your seat and hoping the outcome will end up with. Caine's performance as the drab agent is a must see and it also concludes toward the end of who the villain is and who is trying to frame him as well as kill him. Cliffhanging suspense! This was one of the most tense and stylish thriller of all time which in one point makes it so realistic that makes it distinctive from all the others in its genre. While British agent 007 was fantasy,Palmer was real and down to earth and it shows. A working class Joe. Caine goes on to make two more Palmer films that were not as successful as the first one;Funeral in Berlin(1966),and the last one  The Billion Dollar Brain(1969),but in all this one was a gem of a good spy flick.  "},{"Title":"Thrilling","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A fantastic 60s spy thriller.  No flashy special effects, just dark alleys, edge of the seat suspense and high quality acting and screenplay.It's Michael Caine at his best.  It's probably the best of the Harry palmer series, but I haven't seen the whole set yet.Definitely recommended.9/10 "}{"Title":"The best spy film ever made...","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  An outstanding effort all around...acting, writing, directing, editing, and especially filming.  The story (British scientists are being kidnapped and brainwashed) is very topical for the period (height of the Cold War). Michael Caine delivers one of his two best performances (also Alfie), and really humanizes Harry Palmer, a mildly crooked guy with a real tough streak who's caught in the middle of an ugly, no-win situation.  Nigel Green is also outstanding.  The other star of the film is the camera team, who manage to make all the tricky angles work rather than detract from the story.  The scene with the Land Rover is one of my all-time favorites.  A final touch is the clever spin on British Intelligence, which makes espionage look like a nine-to-five stint, and leaves out the James Bond gadgets and preposterously named sex bombs Bond cavorts with.  (Palmer has to sign a chit to get a pistol, and chip in for the office coffee.)This is one of my all-time favorite films, and is an terrific example of real craft in filmmaking.  A definite 10. "},{"Title":"James Bond just won't be the same again ...","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film is fantastic. Many viewers complain that it is a slow movie, but if you prefer todays 1-second-per-cut non-stop brain-dead action over a solidly crafted intelligent plot slowly unfolding with tons of wit and priceless characters, then okay, be my guest! I found the (extremly) dry witty atmosphere of the movie perfect. Michael Caine just rocks as the cooking British agent that fills in T-106's in-between dangerous stake-outs. The British secret service portrayed as a bureaucratic nightmare is hilarious.The plot has just enough Bond-ish glamor, just the right sense of reality and mystery combined. I can't help myself think This is the way it could be in this business. The camera is located at strange places -- giving impressions of being hidden cameras -- and adds to the atmosphere of secret games, unknown dangers and who-can-you-trust. The music is gloomy, big-band jazz; adding coolness and atmosphere.It's hard to come by, but see it if you can -- hopefully on the big screen somewhere dusty! -) "},{"Title":"Not A James Bond Film","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  In many ways the James Bond franchise was the personification of 1960s pop culture , no one had seen anything like it before in the movie industry and everyone in the industry tried to emulate the style of the Bond movies . Looking back on these Bond clones they`re laughably dated and even embarrasing and I bet the producers of THE IPCRESS FILE are glad they conciously made Harry Palmer the opposite of Bond Depending on how you look on it Harry Palmer being the antithesis to 007 is either a good thing or a bad thing . I think it`s both which is a strength and weakness for THE IPCRESS FILE , a strength because we`re shown that intelligence work is composed of nothing more dynamic than sitting in an office all day looking through files and checking out leads ( Factually correct I imagine ) and a weakness because not many film goers will be interested in watching a spy movie involving an agent who spends much of his time behind a desk and there are maybe a bit too many scenes set in an office . There`s another problem with THE IPCRESS FILE and that`s once you know who the traitor is the surprise only works once , likewise once Harry escapes from his prison cell we`re treated to a shock revelation and I remember thinking this was a very clever plot twist first time I saw it but seeing it again tonight it doesn`t carry much of an impact . Unlike a Bond adventure people aren`t going to rewatch this movie again and again To be positive though Michael Caine is absolutely superb as Harry Palmer and it`s easy to see why he was an icon of British culture in the 1960s , he plays the part in an understated manner and whoever would have thought someone wearing specs and a raincoat could be quite so cool ? And even though the plot twists are a one trick pony they are clever first time you see them   "},{"Title":"Wonderful spy film","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Michael Caine is Harry Palmer, the spy who came in to get out of the cold, in The Ipcress File, a non-Bond type spy film set in London. Filmed on location, it really captures the London of the '60s and the back office drudgery of the intelligence game. Caine is not your average spy, in fact, he's doing the job to keep from going to prison. But he's very well suited to it.In the first scenes, we see a guard put a scientist on a train, but he's forgotten his camera. When the guard returns to the train to give it to him, the scientist is gone and someone else is in his place. Thus begins the work of getting him back and ferreting out a double agent. The film, based on the Deighton novel, probably reflects the Profumo scandal that rocked Britain, and shows the smart, patriotic boys to be the Caines of the world and not the traitorous upper crust. Caine is excellent as Palmer - dry, funny, and clever, all the while cooking gourmet food, shopping for only the best, and listening to Mozart. He's a class act - the wrong class in a class-conscious society, but the best class to do the job that needs to be done. "},{"Title":"Classic Spy thriller, classic Caine!!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It took ages before I finally got round to watching this. Well I'm glad I did. This is a classic thriller, and most certainly beats pretty much all the Bond's. Of course being a British spy film will bring a lot of comparisons to James Bond, but this is far more grounded, less fantasy. This isn't the flash gadgets, cars, suits and glamourous wenches that JB is about. This is Harry Palmer, an ordinary, underpaid guy, who works in an office, and cooks.The film has a great script, and it keeps your interest. It is refreshing to be able to watch a well written thriller, because they are so rare these days. The direction is stylish and much has been noted on Sidney J Furies flashy use of the camera, he picks out some very strange angles, filming through glasses, lampshades, phonebooths. It almost gives a surveillance style feeling which works well. Furie paces the film really well and the last half hour when the film is really building to a crescendo he builds up real tension.The real magic of the film is Michael Caine's wonderful performance. This is classic Caine, with the charisma and the flair for the one liner, not to mention the legendary accent. Overall this is not to be missed, the music and cinematography, the direction and of course Michael Caine make this memorable despite the film looking quite dated and having the odd hammy performance. ****  "},{"Title":"One of the finest spy films ever.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Excellent spy film with a wonderful subtle humour running through the script.Col Ross Palmer, I am transferring you to Major Daulby`s unit &#150; he doesn't have my sense of humour.Palmer Yes sir, I shall miss that.Later&#133;Daulby I shall bite you Palmer and bite you hard, I don't have Ross's sense of humour.Palmer Yes sir I shall miss that.The above is an abridged version of the conversations between the two commanding officers and sergeant Palmer who all work for British Intelligence. Neither Ross nor Daulby have a sense of humour neither to they even smile, he and all the cast are perfect, this is what the British Civil Service is really like (I know I worked in it.) The Ipcress file is the first of three superb films in which Palmer is presented as the British version of James Bond. Taken from Len Deighton`s novels, the plots are superb - you have to pay attention, attention to detail is evident throughout this film.The atmosphere reflects the cold war era better than any other films I have seen; there are no special effect or almighty chase scenes just fine acting and terrific, fairly complicated story lines. The best of the three films, for me, was Funeral in Berlin but you have to watch Ipcress File first then Funeral in Berlin and Billion Dollar Brain in that order to get the most out of them.If you enjoy thrillers like Scorpio then you will love these films.  "},{"Title":"Like much better on second look (decades later!).","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this film some decades ago, I was gravely disappointed because it did not follow the book as to settings, which included a trip to the Med and a Pacific atoll for a bit of atom testing. This film is set much smaller in the environs of London, which is, indeed, where most of the action in the book takes place.Also, the book has a fantastic great sense of humor, possible only with the first person interior narration of Harry Palmer in the format of the novel. (The Ipcress File is on my very short bookshelf of favorite books of all time.)However, I recently caught the film on American Movie Classics and was struck with its overall excellence, start to finish. The film stands alone, apart from the book.I will not repeat the excellent comments of previous commentators, but would like to point out several bits I relished. As soon as one is lulled into the humdrum world of the civil service spy, you suddenly see them carrying Sterling sub-machineguns to cover an exchange of valuable commodities. Also, it was a wonderful bit where one bureaucrat threatens another because his team was called out to cover an apparent dry hole, only to be effectively checkmated against official complaint because his team arrived several minutes late. I bet this happens in the real world more than we know.Now I say love the book, and, almost four decades later, love the film.  "},{"Title":"The anti-Bond...a superior spy","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Len Deighton's/Michael Caine's Harry Palmer is the anti-James Bond.Palmer is the working class hero,9 to 5,punch a time card regular Joe compared to Bond's tux and martini sophisticate.Bond gets an Aston Martin in Goldfinger,Palmer has to plead to get a loan for a car in Funeral In Berlin.Also,Harry's approach with women is more subtle,almost boyish when compared to Bond's more predatory approach.This and FIB are great spy films.Check out another great spy film/spy character very similar to TIF...The Quiller Memorandum with George Segal.Very Deighton/Palmerish. "},{"Title":"Fun, grabbing spy thriller.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Michael Caine became an international star with his portrayal of working stiff/Brit spy Harry Palmer in this grabbing 1966 espionage thriller.   Director Sidney J. Furie displays the secret agent world as a drab 9 to 5 exsistance, with meetings in bare looking offices, measly paycheck earnings and so on.   You don't know whether not you like or dislike the constantly bored looking Palmer, but when his life comes more and more in danger, with a slow, unglamourous death in the wings, you will be grabbing your seat and hoping the villian will get a well deserved finish.  The camera angles, usually skewed, or looking through household and desk items at the players, suggest a survaillance camera.  Lots of fun.   "},{"Title":"one of the best and most under rated espionage movies","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" **Warning- may contain a possible spoiler**When I first saw this movie, my initial impression was that it was a brilliant production from either the early or mid 1970's.  When I discovered that it was released in 1965, I developed an enormous respect for it and have always made time to enjoy repeats (being of exceptional quality for it's time, as it has still preserved most of it's essence today).  It is the best of the Harry Palmer espionage series, which is on the same wavelength as Funeral in Berlin which was nowhere near as good in my humble opinion.  I found it to be one of the best and most under rated espionage films of all time. Michael Caine plays the role of the British intelligence agent Harry Palmer and brilliantly delivers a reality to this film in ways that most other movies of similar nature fail. In contrast to other fictitious characters from other espionage movies and novels, where the main characters all seem to be very one dimensional, Palmer appears more like a real person. Apart from his skills as an intelligence officer, he also has a personal character which is rarely exhibited by the main characters of other espionage films.  He shows his personality in his passion for cooking ( being fussy when in the supermarket while looking at canned button mushrooms) and music when he puts on a record of Mozart when preparing dinner in the presence of a lady guest. The movie begins with the scene during the music score, when he gets up to prepare his coffee by grinding fresh coffee beans to place in his plunger while preparing to get to work. He has an enormous amount of patience with his colleagues at work as he endures all kinds of ordeals to get through with his mission in style. He never complains and shows his modesty by never answering back, when ridiculed by insults from his colleagues. As a high quality British intelligence agent, he soon suspects that he is confronted by a double agent and selects wisely when put in a difficult position.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone that can see beyond the entertainment side of this movie.  It has all the ingredients of the espionage thriller that would satisfy those who seek something outside the square. "}{"Title":"Enjoyed this film many times, One of the best Spy Movies","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film contrasts with the James Bond films of that time. It is likethe Spy who came in from the Cold. It tries to be realistic and makes a point that being a spy is not fun. It reminds me of Len Deighton's later character of Bernard Samson. You can not trust anybody including your wife and your Boss in the Spy Business. This Film made Michael Caine famous and Len Deighton too. The Photography is also typical of the Sixties. Although I like Len Deighton, I think the film is better than the Book which is long and a bit tiring. 2008 I now have the DVD of Ipcress File and I would like to add that The Photography is Excellent, You feel that you are in London of the 60's and the Cold War. John Barry's Music is haunting and add's to the suspense. Palmer (Caine) is a marvelous character which leads Caine on a career of Cockney Parts. "},{"Title":"Highly impressive","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A first class and highly entertaining thriller. Acting is top notch, camera work unique. what a pity Sydney Fury could not direct the other two, as both lack the uniqueness of the this one. "},{"Title":"An intelligent spy thriller","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the greatest spy films of all time. Unlike his contemporary, James Bond, Harry Palmer is a working class, realistic spy. The Ipcress File is an endlessly interesting and captivating film. I have seen this film around 7 times, and I'm never bored. A classic!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Interesting story with agents that feel real...","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A scientist disappears from a train, a man dies. Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) is one of many investigators on the case, looking for a man named Grantby. He follows a lead to a library where he gets the feeling that something big is at stake here. After a fight with one of Grantby's goons, he returns to his captain with the bad news that he has been unsuccessful. The captain is for obvious reasons, not pleased.In an abandoned warehouse, Palmer finds a small piece of tape with the name IPCRESS on, but at this point in the movie, has no idea what it means, if anything. Later on, though, he learns that it is an abbreviation of Induction of Psychoneuroses by Conditioned Reflex Under Stress. When a scientist suddenly appears, with a strange memory loss, all the dots are about to get connected.The Ipcress File is an old movie, but not so old that you are bored by the plot, dialogue or even images. It starts out with a mysterious disappearance from a train and a murder. Who did this and for what reasons? Then we meet a young Michael Caine, this time playing an agent called Harry Palmer, who is taken from his job on a stakeout, to investigating the murder and disappearance. He is no James Bond, and thank you very much for that. In Harry Palmer we meet a real person with real routines, real emotions and who can speak like a real person without a single one-liner. For these very reasons, this is a very satisfying movie.I quite liked this movie, and while the colors are a bit faded and the dialogue a bit stiff, it actually felt contemporary, and the plot itself is as relevant today as it was back in 1965. The drama is not big car chases or rivers of blood, it is the drama between people, people that feel real and with real relationships. Also, the Harry Palmer character is not without humor, especially in the scenes with the young Jean (Sue Lloyd) who has been asked by her superior to learn more about Palmer.As far as agent movies go, this is one of the better that I have seen in a while. If you are thinking of seeing Skyfall&#x85; don't&#x85; go rent this movie instead. You'll be the better person for it. "},{"Title":"A nice old spy film, where both sides are tough and smart","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although there are elements most of viewers know from James Bond movies, it is not a clone of them; it was just a mode or manner how spy films in Europe were directed and produced in the 1960ies and later on as well. Rude and drinking cops with poor kinderstube or questionable education started to appear in the U.S. films in the 1970ies.At present, the issue of scientists changing sides or engaging them in creating armament, hacking systems, false objects etc. is still actual, most of it is done through money or promotion, but kidnapping or threats are still available in pariah countries. In the 1960ies, Albania had similar reputation than North-Korea today...Recommendable to admirers of Michael Caine and/or thrillers without constant chases, bursts or awkward fooling. It is pleasant to recognise that the 2011 Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy bears the same nice traditions. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" One of the best British spy movies ever made. One of the best British characters in a spy film ever created. Michael Caine's insubordinate, authority-bucking, laconic and borderline seedy Harry Palmer was a flip-side to Bond's more fantasy-driven persona. He's down-at-heel, semi-criminal and blackmailed by the British government into being a spy. A working-class bum with some gourmet aspirations and generally a bit of a loser more or less.Palmer, unlike Bond, is seldom in control in this murky world of danger and espionage. He doesn't know who to trust and he makes mistakes. It's notable also for being one of the first major films in which the lead character wears glasses not for comic effect or as a disguise, but because he has impaired vision. There's a great scene where he takes them off and casually slips them into his pocket before physically assaulting a heavy who's been following him.It's tense, atmospheric, with a great sense of time, place and lashings of cold war ambiance. Tightly directed by Sidney J. Furie, gripping cinematography by Otto Heller (all inventive angles with a gritty, photo-realistic aesthetic) and a killer score by the maestro, John Barry; everything just about hits all the right notes.Saltzman produced and it gave him another big hit outside of the Bond franchise.For anyone interested in 60s British espionage cinema, I would highly recommend it, along with the two sequels - FUNERAL IN BERLIN and BILLION DOLLAR BRAIN.The original Len Deighton novels are also a must for those who might like to get an inkling of what Raymond Chandler might have produced if he had been a cockney military historian and cookery writer penning spy books in Britain in the swinging 60s. Sheer hard-boiled genre poetry. "},{"Title":"  Dalby  doesn't  have  my  sense  of  humor.  Yes,  I  shall  miss  that ","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In the world of spies, there are few secret agents who have become house hold names. 007 and Harry Palmer are two of the more memorable figures. If you are looking for spies who constantly engage beautiful girls and spar with menacing looking Asian thugs, you're in the wrong theater. Books like Len Deighton's The Impcress File are designed to be 'the thinking man's secret agent.' Once in, you will follow the exploits of Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) who's background reveals is an ex-burglar and jewel thief who has been recruited from prison by M.I.6 for espionage work. He is a gourmet when it comes to wine, women, foods, beverages and loves classical music. His immediate boss is Colonel Ross (Guy Doleman) who constantly reminds Sargent Palmer he is in the military branch of the secret service and will act accordingly. In this segment, Palmer has been transferred to counter-intelligence work under Major Dalby (Nigal Green) who is investigating the Brain-Drain in England. Several top scientists have either been kidnapped or cease to function in the laboratory. Dalby is ordered by Ross to find out why. Dalby assigns Palmer to the case who learns quickly and despite Dalby's policies, has his own way of doing things. Through his inquiries, he learns of a highly experimental but success process which turns people into catatonic zombies. This method is called Induction of Psychoneuroses by Condition reflex under stress or simply Impcress. To complicate Palmer's investigation is the suspicion there is a 'mole or spy inside M.I.6 who is trying his best to discredit or kill Palmer and will go so far as to kidnaps and subject him to the Impcress treatment. If you are looking for a film which requires you to think through a mystery, this is the film for you. Producer Harry Saltzman was extremely successful with the Harry Palmer series and this movie is no exception. With seasoned actors like Sue Lloyd playing Jean Courtney and Gordon Jackson as Carswell, it has garnered enough accolades to render it a classic. **** "},{"Title":"Great film that stands re-watching many times","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Far and away better than any Bond film. The civil service attitude was deadly accurate (I know I used to work in it,) plus Cain was perfect.The plot is very good and develops well, everything makes sense. Plus these are some great sarcastic touches like Colonel Ross suggesting that Major Daulby doesn't have his sense of humour &#150; in fact Ross is as humourless as a top civil servant gets.There are also some fairly accurate digs at stupid policemen &#150; see the Arrested in possession of a suitcase scene.Sadly, Cain didn't want to do any more Harry Palmers and so the series never got past three &#150; there were a couple of other later efforts but they are not worth the time watching. The Ipcress file and Funeral in Berlin are two great espionage films.If only Cain hadn't been so short sighted the series would have rivalled Bond. "},{"Title":"Visually and musically expressionistic low-key spy movie","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It comes from the same team as Bond (Ken Adam, Peter Hunt, Harry Saltzman, John Barry) at the same time as Thunderball, but forget Bond. This is the opposite. It's an art movie for a start, using expressionistic angles and shot composition (some of which can only be fully appreciated on widescreen editions). The halls of power are dreary and drab. The service is legwork, surveillance and paper pushing. And hero Harry Palmer wears glasses and hasn't seen a tux in his life. Basically he's ordinary. He only shares Bond's conquest of women.To see the work of these Bond artists, bringing their Bond talents to this anti-Bond film creates a wonderful counterpoint to their own traditions, and the traditions of the spy film. OK, the plot is a little silly, but it works like a dream.The distinctive music is based on the Hungarian Cymbalum. "},{"Title":"Slow but with a real undercurrent of tension","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Well ahead of its time in many respects, the subject matter, script and camera work must have been extremely stimulating for audiences at the time. Superbly crafted and with a real depth and eye for detail, the film slowly simmers along until at all comes together for the pulsating and unexpected finale. You can see many films since have only managed to poorly imitate some of the finer points and qualities of this film. It really takes you inside the subject matter with a real sense of the bewilderment experienced by the protagonists. The shifty characters, shady lighting and edgy music all adds up to a stylish take on the spy genre. The film is both polished and innovative. "}{"Title":"Fleming would have approved....","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I suspect that Ian Fleming would have preferred the James Bond films to have been closer to the Harry Palmer movies than the over the top series that relied on special effects and huge budgets but were so short on substance. The Ipcress file has a gritty realism that the Bond films lack. Michael Caine is brilliant in the role with some of the same character traits as James Bond but far more vulnerability. The Ian Fleming books portrayed Bond in a similar way. Sure, he had his expensive tastes for the good things in life but the films left out the character. The producers of the Bond films would do well to add some of the Harry Palmer realism to their films. "},{"Title":"Harry Palmer & The Ipcress File","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Caine plays Harry Palmer, soldier thief turned spy. Looking like a blond, evil Clark Kent, he's on a mission to find the Ipcress File and gets caught up in a funky brain washing conspiracy.Very odd indeed, and probably even harder to follow than the sequel, Funeral In Berlin. Not that you won't enjoy it if you just pay attention.Mike is good in his usual cynical way. At the time this was the thinking man's spy film, that's what they say. For all those who never quite enjoyed the James Bond movies.This is also possibly the only spy film where the spy and his boss actually talk about their work while out shopping for groceries together.  "},{"Title":"Britain and spying in the 60s to a tee.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is what real spy movies are about. Caine is excellent as the wise cracking Harry Palmer in this Len Deighton thriller. Most aspects of this film are what the genre should be about, spying with reality. Whereas Bond takes you into the realms of fantasy, this film drops you into the depths of reality. There are no fancy gadgets or cars, just gritty determination and pure stoicism. If you want to know what the 60s were like, this film along with quite a few other Caine movies such as 'Alfie' and 'The Italian Job' will help you along the way. "},{"Title":"a tense and stylish spy thriller","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The Ipcress File is one of the rare  realistic  spy films made in the sixties. Having read the book by Len Deighton I must say that the film is in many ways superior.Sidney Furies direction is stylish and dinstinctive. The film seems to have been filmed entirely from low angles and from behind objects ( chairs, telephones, under beds, etc...) But the highlight of the film is Michael Caines superb performance. It is definetly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Better than almost every James Bond movie.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Well, Goldfinger and For Your Eyes Only are the only exceptions. But The Ipcress File is inarguably the best film in the Harry Palmer series - the first sequel is mediocre, the second is utterly worthless. It has a straightforward plot that you can actually follow (that rarely happens in spy thrillers), dry humor from Caine (You've got some wiping to do!) and a genuine feel for this genre it looks just like a spy film is supposed to look. "},{"Title":"Ah, Them Cool, Cool 60's","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Here is a movie that is so slick it's almost an extremely dry comedy.From the very beginning, when you hear Harry Palmer's alarm clock stifled by a slap that serves as cue for theme music to begin, you just know you're in for a treat.'The Ipcress File' begins with Palmer being transferred from one government department to another, each led by a couple of smug, ex-Sandhurst military buffers turned civil-servant. We find one of them simply feeding pigeons at his office window. These men squabble at a professional level, but at least to all appearances they are on the same side. Later we find them both walking in what looks like Green Park, comparing the menus at their respective clubs. For them, Britain seems changeless.Seargent Palmer is a devious near-criminal with a healthy contempt for authority. Cool, laconic and irreverently working-class, our quietly- spoken, bespectacled anti-hero is a new kind of spy who mixes action with brains in an understated way. But Palmer is vanguard to the social changes that are coming. His speech is eloquent and he's picked-up on good food and music, fresh grinding his own coffee for breakfast. He wasn't taut these things as a kid.Something's going wrong with British scientists, and the department to which Palmer is seconded must find out what's happening. There's a great deal more than at first meets the eye. Nobody is quite what they seem. You can't trust anyone completely.With very little warning, Palmer finds himself captured by 'the enemy' and in danger of being brainwashed like some of the scientists.As I say; there are wonderful little comic touches throughout the movie. At a branch fronting as a bespoke staffing agency, we see a disaffected job-applicant leaving in a huff 'I might as well have gone to the labour exchange'. On another occasion, Palmer and one of his superiors engage in an disagreement at a small supermarket. Their exchanges are emphasised by a trolley-ramming contest. There is yet more humour in the petty inter-departmental office-politics.By the same token, drama is equally slick. Death is sudden and unexpected. During an exchange, Palmer machine-guns an American Agent to death. Slyly we see proceedings in miniature through the dead agent's discarded spectacles. It's original (for its time) wicked and fun. In response, Palmer's colleague - played by the likable Gordon Jackson - is shot through the head, whilst waiting at traffic-lights in what appears to be a case of mistaken identity. Here's some dialogue; 'The Americans have put a tail on Palmer.' 'Really? How tiresome'. Perfect.The 'spectacle trick' is one of many similar plays on indirect observation. We study characters through car windows, telephone boxes, we peer over the tops of their desks as if from a crouched position. A dead suspect is barely glimpsed between the grating of his cell-door. We look down on another dead agent from the unlikely perspective of the room's light shade. It's as if the viewer has also been seconded into the spying game. There are lots of other novel tricks too. A conversation between two is portrayed by focusing from one to the other instead of changing the camera angle or working a second close-up. It's as much fun to watch what the director and cameraman are doing as the play between the actors themselves. How much more engaging modern movies could be if makers would only take the time to study older classics instead of resorting to foul language, cheap special effects or pyrotechnics. Almost none of which appear in this work.Throughout the movie, incidental music pops-up in various tempos as laconic as the man himself, to emphasise suspense, tedium, or just the melancholy passage of time. Lead is usually played by base guitar, it's a well-tried 1960's style; the spartan cords work well in both a macho, and suspenseful presentation. But there's another instrument too with which I'm unfamiliar.Even the last lines contain an element of dry wit Palmer; 'I could have been killed, or driven mad, or anything.' Reply; 'Well, it's what you're paid for.'This is the movie that propelled Micheal Caine to overnight stardom. And it was well-earned. But the supporting cast also deserve full credit for the Sterling efforts they make. Lighting is excellent, frequently slipping into a noirish style. Editing is also unexpected and keeps you guessing as it lingers upon some seeming trivia, drawing out the moment, then at other times cutting with shock suddenness. It's an inventive, droll, and suspenseful classic from a time when British cinema could still hold its own. "},{"Title":"Like discovering treasure","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I stumbled across this movie on late night TV a few days ago and I'm still thinking about how great it was. I was captivated from the opening scene. To discover a movie nearly 40 years old that is this good is a great experience. 10/10 "},{"Title":"**","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The film is tedious and deals with the brainwashing of scientists. Guess what? You had to be brainwashed after viewing this film.What's going on with the British scientists? They're leaving in record numbers and this Ipcress File reveals what is going on.Michael Caine is actually numb here as the Agent Palmer. There is deceit and treachery along the way. Caine is blamed for the accidental killing of an American agent and another one from the U.S. is found dead in his apartment.We're dealing with his new boss as he has been transferred within the agency. The new one's veneer makes you think that we're not dealing with someone who is on the up and up.Double agents abound here within the treachery. We see Caine able to overcome hypnotic trances and ultimately win the day. Unfortunately, the people does not. "},{"Title":"A Working-Class James Bond","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Ipcress File was produced at the height of the James Bond craze. However, while also a British secret agent, The Ipcress File's Harry Palmer is entirely different sort of character altogether. An Army Sergeant convicted of racketeering, Palmer has been given the choice of working for British Intelligence or going to prison. He is a working-class James Bond with a cockney accent. Harry Palmer lives in a modest flat in London and, rather than driving around in an posh Aston Martin, one gets the distinct impression that he probably commutes to the grubby office from which he works on the bus.There is nothing glamorous about Palmer's associates, either. All are either civil-servant bureaucrats or stuffy military types. On the other hand, Harry Palmer is a wise-guy who is smart enough to carry out his assigned tasks efficiently but who also doesn't quite fit in.The Ipcress File is a rare type of film, a smart thriller. Don't expect massive explosions, spectacular car chases or eye-popping special effects. Instead, The Ipcress File is an intelligent film about intelligent people, none of whom can necessarily be trusted. In Harry Palmer's world, brains count far more than brawn. This is one spy thriller that is well worth going out of one's way to see. "},{"Title":"Classic spy movie, deserves more respect","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of Michael Caine, but I do my best to rate and review his films fairly. I first saw this film on television, it was actually a recommendation, and I loved it. I loved the style of it, the pacing, the story and the acting, not to mention that excellent score from John Barry, the main title theme is unforgettable. The locations used in the film make for a unique viewing experience, as does the way that it is shot, it is very 60's, stylish yet dark and mysterious, whilst maintaining a sense of gritty realism, spoiler alert, if you can forgive the fairly dated torture scene, dated it may be, but tense and distressing it is. Having read reviews that suggest that The Ipcress File itself is dated, my argument is that it was a different era, films were different, fashion was different, acting was somewhat different, a slightly dated film should not effect your viewing experience. As I previously mentioned, I am a big fan of Michael Caine, and The Ipcress File would be my favourite Caine film, a classic. "}{"Title":"Intriguing espionage drama","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Intriguing espionage drama, based on the Len Deighton novel.Decent, reasonably complex, plot. Not 100% watertight, but the holes aren't big. Solid direction by Sidney J Furie. Movie moves along at a decent pace and he builds the tension well. Does miss a few beats though. Some scenes are quite flat and almost pointless.Good final few scenes which make it all worthwhile and bring everything together.Good performance by Michael Caine in the lead role. Not your average spy - he is almost the anti-James Bond. Resourceful, but slovenly and, well, human. Seemed much more like a real agent would be than James Bond.Good support from Nigel Green and Guy Doleman. "},{"Title":"A Good Spy Caper","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" After being caught black-marketing in Germany, an English soldier by the name of Harry Powell (Michael Caine) is essentially conscripted into becoming a spy for the British government. His immediate supervisor, Colonel Ross (Guy Doleman) then reassigns him to a subordinate named Major Dalby (Nigel Green) to work on a case involving a missing scientist. However, during the course of his investigation Harry soon finds that there is more to this case than meets the eye and the closer he comes to discovering the truth the more dangerous it gets for him. Now, rather than reveal any more of the story and risk ruining the movie for those who haven't seen it I will just say that those who enjoy a good spy caper will probably love this film. I especially liked the dry British humor along with the overall performance by Michael Caine. In short, although this film is a bit dated, I definitely recommend it to fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Sharp and innovative.  Wonderfully executed with style.  Blu-ray Exquisite A10 V10","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Still one of the best. It's hard to imagine that this was Michael Caine's first big film; what a natural this guy was (is).There really isn't much that I can add to the comments here; many of them clearly state how excellent this film is. It's interesting the mood that the director Furie created for this movie. It isn't slick like the Bond films, but it isn't TOO gritty like the more sober spy films, such as 'THE SPY WHO CAME IN FROM THE COLD' (now, THERE is a real cheerful film sarcasm intended) But, it has just the perfect balance between an 'Everyman' type of spy, and yet at the same time the guy IS frigg'n cool because he is flipp'n MICHAEL CAINE!!! He makes a perfect anti-Bond hero.I also should add that the supporting cast is quite excellent. No one, and I mean NO ONE can do films quite like this like the British. I should add too that the cinematography is superb. We have seen a lot of stuff like this since then, but for the time, it was quite innovative. The soundtrack is also particularly well done. Very moody and perfectly suited to the film.And, as I state in my Summary, the Blu-ray is indeed breathtaking, especially considering the film is 50 years old!Of course, HIGHLY recommended! "},{"Title":"Knocks those very silly James Bond films well and truly into a cocked hat","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I might well be in a minority when I say the almost all 007 James Bond films have left me stone cold. No, that's not even true &#x96; I actively dislike many of them. As a Sixties lad I saw some of the early Sean Connery Bonds and soon grew bored of the standard oh-so predictable formula. Later came the jokey Bonds with the bad pubs and fibre-glass scenery and I didn't bother, ever. Why exactly? I have since happened to catch glimpses of several of them on TV when keeping company with my housebound stroke victim stepmother, so I haven't actually not seen them, but I never actively went to the flicks or turned on the TV to watch one. In my view they are tacky, boring crap. The only Bond film I have liked even a little bit was the most recent Daniel Craig offering, Skyfall, but even it's two immediate preceding Craig offerings left me quite cold. So a film such as The Ipcress File is a very welcome change from all that stylised, macho schtick.It is worth noting that The Ipcress File with Michael Caine (who, admittedly, seems to portray no one else on screen but Michael Caine, though as I like him as an actor, that is no bad thing) was also a Sixties film, shot in 1965, but in its deviousness it is in a different league. The plot is pretty standard, but it is in its execution, by director Sidney Furie and his cinematographer Otto Heller (I had to look it up) is good to very good and, in my view at least, it has helped The Ipcress File stand the test of time.There is none of that utterly spurious spy glamour in Furie's (and writer Len Deighton's) spy world &#x96; the security services are just another department of the Civil Service for those it employs &#x96; and the whole film, when it counts, exudes menace, the lack of focus which is necessarily at the heart of spying &#x96; after all no on really knows what's going on.Forty years on it is salutary to reflect on what can be done with imaginative lighting and camera-work. These days there directors have far many more resources to fall back on - not least CGI effects - and all too often still produce nothing but formulaic clunkers.The Ipcress File isn't James Bond, but for that be grateful. If you can catch it and, like me, the whole 007 schtick leaves you cold, watch it. You will most certainly enjoy its ins and outs. "},{"Title":"Atmospherically Shot Cold War Thriller","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" THE IPCRESS FILE covers familiar territory of a Cold War spy thriller; it contains an incomprehensible plot, a fair share of untrustworthy characters, and a subject (The Ipcress File) which is never satisfactorily explained. Suffice to say that Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) discovers the cause of all the trouble, but only after a considerable degree of suffering at the hands of a torturer (Frank Gatliff).What makes Sidney J. Furie's film so memorable is its shooting-style (photography by Otto Heller). It makes use of the basic shot- reverse shot sequence, but every frame is partially obscured by an object, or person placed close to the camera; we seldom see the characters' faces in full profile. This strategy helps to create an atmosphere of menace, where nothing is quite as it seems, and every mission suggested to Harry by his two bosses Dalby (Nigel Green) and Ross (Guy Doleman) appears to have ulterior motives behind it that Palmer remains blissfully unaware of. Palmer himself retains his integrity throughout, even if he perceives himself as something of a rebel within the Secret Service.THE IPCRESS FILE is a direct antithesis of the Bond canon of films, also popular at the time of release. It is set in a grimy, rain- sodden London full of gray buildings and dark interior; no exotic locations for this spy. The most colorful aspect of the mise-en- scene are the big old-fashioned Routemaster buses that drive up and down familiar streets - Piccadilly, Whitehall, Oxford Street. Palmer himself lives in a shabby apartment; his one concession to the so-called 'Swinging Sixties' spirit is an ability to cook, but no one, not least his colleague Jean (Sue Lloyd) seems especially interested. The film inevitably incorporates some of the sexist attitudes of the time - for Palmer all women are birds, and they do not become actively involved in any espionage activity. The film is a very masculinist piece, with legions of actors dressed in long coats, trilby hats and dark suits. Palmer himself has a good sartorial sense, but even he adopts the same uniform, especially when in pursuit of the enemy.Michael Caine, in a pre-ALFIE role, shows all the cockiness characteristic of his youthful period, when he really believed he could challenge the status quo. Whether he succeeds or not is very much open to debate. "},{"Title":"A good unconventional spy thriller","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a well-made gritty spy film set during the cold war years of the 60's.Michael Caine is Harry Palmer, an undercover British agent who we see initially to perform routine surveillance on suspected enemy agents from an apartment in London. This everyday routine is interrupted when his boss gives him a different assignment to follow the whereabouts of enemy agents involved in the kidnapping of British scientists and theft of sensitive documents related to nuclear arms. The case is more difficult than usual since the British agents have reasons to believe that one of their own works for the enemy.What makes this film different from the films of the Jame-Bond 007 series is that it portrays a different and more realistic life of intelligence agents that is not glamorized or romanticized. Instead their lives can be more boring but also more deadly at the same time whereby little details can make the difference between life or death especially if the enemy may anticipate your moves.Eventually Palmer manages to resolve the case he works on (and also stay alive) not because he has the best weaponry or the best information but simply because he follows his instincts.I recommend this film if you are looking for a good mystery and intense thriller. It may have a bit outdated feel now since the cold war is over but do not let this deter you from seeing the good film that it is. An 8/10 from me. Note This is the first film where Michael Caine portrays the 'Harry Palmer' fictional character. "},{"Title":"Omelette whisked, not stirred","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A critical sequence takes place early in The Ipcress File, one of the best spy movies of the 1960's. Michael Caine as Harry Palmer, a sergeant in army intelligence, gets out of bed, goes to the kitchen and makes his morning cup of coffee. The camera follows him as he grinds the beans, spoons out the coffee, and finally adds boiling water. Later in the film he makes an omelette, expertly breaking the eggs with one hand while chatting to a female colleague. These are important scenes in The Ipcress File; they establish the character's point of difference. Spy films proliferated in the 60's, inspired by the Cold War and the success of the James Bond films. Each new entry in the genre presented a bit of business that would help it stand out from the crowd. Bond may have had his Aston Martin and his debonair style but Harry Palmer had his horn-rimmed glasses and his domestic virtues. Harry Palmer is good at what he does but invariably rubs his superiors the wrong way. He is posted to British Counter-Intelligence to track down Dr. Radcliffe, a scientist who has been kidnapped by an international group of criminals who will try to sell him to the highest bidder &#x96; East or West. Palmer is under the command of Major Dalby played by Nigel Green, but finds his previous boss, the snobbish Colonel Ross, played by Guy Dolman, still hovering on the scene. Double agents and brainwashing were two of the favourite plot devices of movies from the period, and The Ipcress File ticks both items on the checklist. When the missing scientist is returned, it is discovered that he has been brainwashed. The claims for the effectiveness of brainwashing in movies have become more preposterous over time. Although the techniques on view in The Ipcress File are not the most far-fetched, they are nonetheless the least convincing aspects of the film. They consist of a high-pitched noise and cheap disco effects projected onto the subject strapped to a chair inside a metal container. Michael Caine plays Palmer with that same air of insolence that he brought to nearly all his roles in the first half of his career. The film also strips away any glamour espionage may have had. The operatives spend a great deal of time filling out forms &#x96; L101's and Motor Pool Requisitions. Mostly it's just legwork, explains Jock, a colleague Palmer befriends played by Gordon Jackson.A noticeable feature of the film is the camera work. After nearly 50 years, this appears as eccentric rather than chic. Many scenes are shot with the view obscured by what appears to be the nearest piece of furniture. Other scenes are shot at gravity defying angles. Although these effects now seem quaint and overly self-conscious, The Ipcress File is still a sharply told tale. It seemed that no British spy movie of the period was complete without a John Barry score. Barry was very experimental during the 60's, and produced one brilliant score after another including this one for The Ipcress File with effective use of the cimbalom in the main theme.Even if The Ipcress File doesn't qualify for classic status, Caine is still a good reason to watch this film, he gave it a unique edge back then that still makes it easy to watch today. "},{"Title":"A decent '60s spy thriller","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Inevitably any spy, particularly one from this era, will be compared to James Bond; Harry Palmer is a very different character, rather than the suave and sophisticated former Royal Navy Commander he is a rough and unsophisticated ex-Sergeant; his only real similarity with Bond is his fondness for a pretty girl. The plot could have come from Bond, or even an episode of The Avengers; somebody is kidnapping British scientists and, we later learn, brainwashing them! Palmer is part of a team investigating the latest disappearance, knowing the only person capable of organising the kidnapping they offer to buy him back but the man they get isn't the man he used to be... he has forgotten all information concerning his latest breakthrough. As Palmer starts to close in on his target he is set up for the murder of a CIA agent and ordered to lay low for a while but as he does so he is snatched and held captive while his captor attempts to brainwash him; will he be able to resist these techniques and contact his boss or will he become a pawn of his captor? I rather enjoyed this film; while it might not be a classic due to its rather far-fetched central premise which would be more suited to a lighter style, it is still fairly gripping and there are some nice twists to keep things interesting. While it is true that Michael Caine only seems to play Michael Caine whatever the role that doesn't matter in the slightest as he does it so well and hardly ever disappoints. While there wasn't much in the way of real action things were kept fairly tense; especially in the scenes were he was in captivity. I'd certainly recommend this to anybody who likes spy thrillers or fans of Michael Caine. "},{"Title":"The Whole is Greater than its Parts","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Regardless of how one criticizes the various components of this movie, I have to give this movie a high mark based on the unforgettable emotional impact it had on me as an artful creation. There are positive and negative commentaries on each component of the foregoing analysis depending on one's point of view, however just like a card game and the random nature of what comes up, this movie is what it is.......ie a novel portrayal of the nearly subjugated British way of life in a postwar funk. The unique and curious British culture and style which survived the Nazi attempt to abolish it, was now kicking and clawing to survive in the post WWII Cold War. Here we have a spy flick showing that inimitable British effort with the real workers in England, the lower middle and upper middle class... not the aristocracy, which was the style of portraying characters in British movies traditionally. Likable characters like Caine, and unlikeable ones representing the administrative and bureaucratic side of England's socialist leaning culture was a new adventure away from previous spy movies. The eerie and spellbinding Hungarian dulcimer instrument used throughout the movie's soundtrack added emotional impact which is forever impacted into my brain (not unlike the screeching violins during the Psycho shower scene.) By identifying with the skeptical and individualistic attitude of Caine's character, I seemed to empathize his torture experience far more than in other movies. The trigger phrase Now listen to me seemed to be a powerful simulation of brain washing technique and was used equally for same effect in The Manchurian Candidate. Overall, The Ipcress File left a favorable impact on my psyche such that I am spellbound by watching many different scenes throughout the movie. The encounters with spying, his bosses, the women in his apartment, his cooking, his close calls, the torture scenes, etc. are not particularly earth shattering cinematic achievements, but rather the interesting likable character Caine portrays and the eminent danger and the mysterious music all came together to make this a very interesting and emotionally provocative art piece. "},{"Title":"The on screen birth of Harry Palmer","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Micheal Caine is one of my favorite all time actors, not an action man upgraded but a real actor, as is Anthony Hopkins.This movie has such an impact on me that I keep hearing Harry Palmer talking day and/or night until long after viewing the movie!Micheal Caine did not play or act, Micheal Caine is Harry Palmer! I realize that I write more about Caine than the movie I am sorry, I am just too emotional. Character actors come from the UK, thats a fact. Look at successful James Bond actors, I rest my case.The movie is somewhat slow on moments, its not a USA action movie with a 200 million dollar budget. Its more like reading a book, taking the information to pound on, not looking at explosions and such a destruction of cars, boats, plains, houses and more. If I however do want to see that I choose for the real thing, not CGI! "}{"Title":"new spy","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The ipcress file is the first of a trilogy of films made about the spy harry palmer. It helped make michael caine a star. He had recently become famous after the film zulu. His co star in zulu nigel green is in the ipcress file too. This is a quality film about a more normal spy than james bond though it is made in a big spy film era. Palmer's life is much more normal than Bond's. It is set around the London area. It is similar that palmer has a boss and he faces tricky villains. it is much a spy's life with danger, secrecy and trickery. the film is well acted and the music and harry's specs are good. the plot is good and the films success meant a trilogy for film goers. gordon jackson would later star as the boss in the professionals. it is harder stuff. just 12 years had passed, it wasn't as if 50 had passed. "},{"Title":"Harry's Game...","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hard to believe this gritty, down-at-heel, classic 1960's spy-thriller came from the same production team behind the glossy, glamorous James Bond series - must have been like managing the Beatles and The Rolling Stones at the same time! Of course there's room in the cinematic universe for both and I personally wouldn't be without either. Here, Michael Caine, as Harry Palmer, in another iconic role (c.f. Zulu, Alfie, Get Carter etc) is plucked from mundane CI5 (or equivalent) obscurity to front-line field-work where his maverick nature and unorthodoxly direct instincts set him on the trail of foreign agents who kidnap, brainwash and then return for ransom, high-ranking British scientists. The Brain Drain indeed. Along the way he interacts with his terribly pukka-pukka superiors who operate out of massive offices in the heart of London, his new colleagues, principally stalwarts and later long-running UK TV stars Gordon Jackson and Sue Lloyd before confronting head bad guy Bluejay, played with lan if not exactly menace by Mohammed Al-Fayed lookalike Frank Gatliff. Director Furie uses every possible quirky camera-angle to keep the viewer off-guard, but probably overdoes it, no doubt a 60's infection. And yes, the brainwashing scene loses a lot in comparison to its previous depiction in Frankenheimer's superior The Manchurian Candidate and with its lapsing into subsequent clich in any number of 60's TV dramas (Star Trek, Man From Uncle, hey - Joe 90 anyone, never mind Austin Powers!!!) but the who-to-kill? conclusion is genuinely suspenseful and leaves you wondering (like Cagney's cowardice at the end of Angels With Dirty Faces) as to whether Palmer kills the right man because of or despite his conditioning - after all he does shoot the traitor. Best of all though is Caine, now hitting his stride in starring vehicles, hardly having to break accent or native mannerisms, one suspects, in depicting the altogether less-than-superhuman secret agent, Palmer. Nice to see shots of contemporary London too, red buses everywhere, oh, and lest I forget, John Barry's soundtrack is as good as you'll hear for any movie... "},{"Title":"Pretty solid British film","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The sublime acting talents of Michael Caine were beginning to emerge strongly and are well showcased in this film.He was in his early 30s for this film and his against all odds character is more than a match for the authoritarian bureaucrats that he has to battle with.There is something of the David Callan about his character Harry Palmer and there may have been some influence for James Mitchell's character.There is an overwhelming sense of history in this film as it retains its power and I have to keep reminding myself that I was only 4 years old when it was made.It really is a platform for Caine to display his total involvement with his role and he tends to dwarf the other characters even though Gordon Jackson was a particular favorite of mine.The sultry Sue Lloyd who was unforgettable in the Two Ronnies detective spoof Done To Death is another draw card for students of female beauty. "},{"Title":"60's Spy Thriller that doesn't show it's age","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Michael Caine stars in this spy thriller set in the cold war days of the sixties. The plot is just the right amount of intricate and unexpected, but not at all the 'Bourne Identity' kind of ridiculously entwined storyline. It doesn't need the hot stunts or hot star of Bourne either, Michael Caine is just smoldering enough as the rouge spy who smashes open a traitor in the midst of the British secret service. He is definitely a rouge, having qualified for the secret service only in exchange for time that would have been served in a military prison. To see how women are treated and portrayed in the 60s is quite an eye opener, they are in the secret service, but are quite willing to serve fix me a scotch will you doesn't even raise an eyebrow. That's from the token female spy hired because her husband was in it, after he passed on she evidently needed something to fill her days. Still that doesn't detract from a great spy thriller in the British tradition. "},{"Title":"A clever spy yarn","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Made by Bond-producer Harry Saltzman as the antithesis to the Bond franchise,this clever little spy yarn gives Michael Caine one of his iconic roles as Harry Palmer.He would do the part in two subsequent films in the sixties which helped him cement his fame.This movie is not for those who want action packed spy-adventures because it's pace is rather slow,focusing more on character than action. The movie's plot isn't very realistic,but quite entertaining. The script takes some witty pot shots at the spy-genre and at the British society. The depiction of sixties London as a dark and gritty place where danger lurks around every corner is very good. I must say I enjoyed The Ipcress File a lot. "},{"Title":"One word Classic!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A True 60's cult, a story of betrayal, gentleman and the secret service.Set all around London, this 60's classic follows Harry palmer (Michael Caine) as he uncovers the plot behind the kidnapping and brainwashing of British Scientists. The film has a storyline which promises many twists, leaving you with one question who is the traitor? I can promise you, you'll change your mind many times in this film. The scenes are all remarkably set. For example there is one really tense scene, no suspense music, just the ambiance of the location. Guns being pointed at each other, your just covering your eyes asking when the deal's going to go horribly wrong and a bullet in someone's head&#133;although we have a twist once again. In other scenes we have the remarkable work of John Barry's (known for composing the music for the earlier James Bond films) orchestra giving the scenes that real cult feeling.Caine pulls of the role of Harry Palmer, a rather cocky and witty character who seriously knows how to cook&#133;and kill people. This being one of Cain's first films, it was indeed a map of things to come.The I.P.C.R.E.S.S. File is truly a spy film that could quite easily stand next to the James bond movies. This is actually my favourite film. "},{"Title":"A racketeering British army sergeant in detention is dragooned into the intelligence service.","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is the hippest spy movie ever. In the '60s, anyone who saw it, enjoyed and understood it was deemed an intellectual. The thick frame of Harry Palmer's glasses (my guess is that it was a Monarch brand from Germany) added to that impression. And let's say it, the young Michael Caine was smashingly handsome in just the right way -- not too rugged as to be disgusting but not too soft to be effeminate.It's simply all about extracting information from scientists and brainwashing them afterwards. What is interesting is how the persona of Palmer is presented. Ditto the characterization of British intelligence bureaucracy as snooty, ruthless and uncaring of its agents.Some of the skills I would have liked to pick up after seeing the movie 1. How to count bundles of money real fast (the scene where the ransom of a missing scientist took place) 2. How to hold eggs in between your fingers and break them one after the other without making a mess (Palmer while cooking dinner for his love interest. Caine used to be a baker after all.) 3. How to use pain to counteract brainwashing.I found touching the final scene when his control finally considers acceding to his standing request for a salary advance to buy a car. I think he was planning on a Mini. This after his bosses betray him by practically delivering him to the enemy from whom he escaped through sheer resourcefulness by the skin of his teeth.Palmer replied I'd rather walk. "},{"Title":"How to describe it?","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I should identify that The Ipcress File is not the easiest movie to describe; the truth is, it's a little hard to follow. In the role that turned him into a star, Michael Caine plays cockney agent Harry Palmer, hired to investigate the brainwashing of some scientists. I think that's what happened, but the movie confused me a little.I would say that this movie functions best if you look at it in a historical context. Aside from dealing with the Cold War, we get to see mid-'60s London. Specifically, Palmer lives in a dreary flat but is called to investigate things involving geopolitics.Some people note that this was around the same time as the James Bond movies but The Ipcress File was more intellectual. I guess that in a way it was; James Bond mostly bedded hot babes. But overall, I would recommend watching this movie as a historical reference more than anything. "},{"Title":"Spy Film as a Spy Film Should Be","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film when it was originally released. I was only eleven at the time and was captivated by Caine (too cool by half) and the film as a whole, while not quite grasping the meaning of it all. But I never forgot the film. Being Canadian, albeit with a Scottish mum, such things as the Profumo affair, REAL spies and double agents were just not in my ken. Bond in From Russia with Love and Dr. No(seen at about the same time) were obviously more to the liking of a pre-teen.But we are talking apples and oranges here. O.K. same producer, but different objectives cinematographically. Bond films rapidly became ludicrous; popcorn fare. Having just seen Ipcress File again on late night TV after so many years, being keen on films and an actor (read unemployed), I was utterly taken by the acting and especially the camera work - brilliant. Harry's vision seems to improve as the film progresses)Too slow paced? Not enough action? Thus mentioned some of the above crits. Never felt that once. Who needs ultra-violence and endless car chase scenes. THEY put me to sleep. Too slow paced? That's the nature of the spy biz. Too slow paced? Look at the CSI series (which are excellent). Sneeze once or miss two minutes of of the storyline (especially at the start) and you're lost. Mind you they only have 50-odd minutes to squeeze everything in.George Smiley was never in a rush, and I would like to think that Harry and George, being relatively of a similar age, would get on like a house on fire. Might even make a good team! Cheers.Hugh Corston, Quebec City (where we get virtually no good films in the original English language version - thank God for DVDs) "},{"Title":"All the air of the Sunday Times Supplement.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  One of the best spy films ever made? I think it is but whether you think this one is better than the other two is a matter of personal taste as they are both very different in style.Funeral in Berlin in my opinion is both dull and uninspiring. It usually sends me to sleep after about sixty minutes. However, I do think that Billion Dollar Brain is the best of the trio. Reason? BDB breaks with the convention of the other two in terms of script, cinematography and set design.BDB is a Ken Russell film, a master of art film and it shows in BDB. That said I can understand those who prefer the Ipcress File. It's a great film. It is a very intriguing film which has all the air of the Sunday Times Supplement and you don't know the baddy until the very last. Great photography and character acting from Nigel Green and Guy Doleman. Michael Caine is made for the role of Palmer.Ipcress could be the best of the trio but I simply prefer BDB for superior cinematography and set design. "}{"Title":"The music, the oeufs provencale...","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I watch this film over and over again for the score, the dialogue, the acting and the view of a scruffy city trying to be modern and sophisticated. Harry's flat is a big Victorian room tarted up with a wood-panelled kitchenette where he cooks a daringly foreign dish. He even uses FRENCH tinned mushrooms!I remember that  moment in the 60s when a brief flare up of money and style pasted a bit of colour onto that grimy city I can see out of my window.  "},{"Title":"Kitchen-Sink Bond","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Cold War meant that spy films were highly popular in the 1960s, especially after James Bond made his screen debut in Dr No. (Two further Bond films had appeared by the time The Ipcress File was released). Although The Ipcress File was also produced by Harry Saltzman, it deliberately presents a quite different picture of life in the British Secret Service. Bond is a glamorous figure who lives a life of luxury, travels to exotic locations, drives expensive cars and seduces a succession of beautiful young women.The central character of this film is Harry Palmer, a former sergeant in the army who only joined the Secret Service because the alternative was serving time in a military prison for fraud and corruption. He lives in a flat in a Victorian terrace house in what today would be an extremely desirable location but which in the sixties was still seedy and downmarket. He does not get to travel the world- the entire film is set in London. He drives a Ford Zephyr rather than an Aston Martin and his love interest, Jean Courtney, is far from being a Bond girl. (Joan Collins was considered for the role, but was presumably rejected for being too glamorous). Like Bond, Palmer is a lover of good food, but does all his own cooking and has to shop in a supermarket. We learn that his annual salary is 1,400- a decent working wage in 1965, but hardly sufficient to finance a lifestyle like Bond's.The biggest difference between the two, however, can be summed up by saying that Palmer is a spy whereas Bond is an agent. The word agent is derived from the Latin agere, meaning to do, from which we also derive the word actor. The word spy comes ultimately from the root, meaning to watch, that gives us the word spectator. Bond is an actor in a drama, Palmer a spectator. I was interested by the reviewer who pointed out that sight is important in this film. Unusually for the hero of a thriller, he wears spectacles (another word from the same root as spy), and there are frequent references to implements such as cameras and binoculars. The images during the brainwashing sequence reflect the sixties fascination with all things psychedelic.Unlike Bond's, Harry's work is dull and bureaucratic, spent in watching suspects from draughty attics and then completing field reports and other routine paperwork. Much of the time he speaks in the sort of acronyms beloved of the British civil service but unintelligible to outsiders. Whereas M speaks to Bond as a social equal (they are probably members of the same London club), Harry is patronised by his upper-class superiors, Colonel Ross and Major Dalby, who see him as unreliable and insubordinate, an NCO with unwarranted ambitions to join the officer class.This was Michael Caine's second starring role; the first was Zulu, made the previous year. In that film he had played an upper-class army officer, but Palmer was the first of a number of working class heroes he was to play over the next few years. (Other examples include Alfie, Jack Carter and Charlie Croker from The Italian Job). The politics of social class are, in fact, much in evidence in this film. This is perhaps not surprising given that the sixties were the heyday of the kitchen sink school of British film-making, which sought to give greater prominence to the lives of working-class people, but the theme of class distinctions took on added significance in a spy thriller. In 1950 Guy Burgess and Donald MacLean, both members of the Cambridge ring of Soviet spies had defected to avoid exposure, and in 1963 a third member of the ring, Kim Philby, had also defected. (Since 1965 it has come to light that there were two further members, Anthony Blunt and John Cairncross). Burgess, MacLean and Philby were all from privileged, Establishment backgrounds, so their treachery caused some consternation in Britain. Unlike some countries, such as France and Italy, Communism had very little mass appeal in Britain (by the sixties the party could never attract more than a derisory vote in elections), but it remained the opium of a certain type of bourgeois intellectual who perhaps imagined that after the Revolution the dictatorship of the proletariat would in practice be a dictatorship of themselves.The plot concerns MI5's attempts to investigate the kidnapping of a number of British government scientists and the involvement of a shady Albanian-born businessman with links to the KGB. As is common in spy thrillers, there is an atmosphere of betrayal and mistrust. Harry is never sure whom he can trust, even among his colleagues. It becomes clear that either Ross or Dalby is working for the Russians, but Harry cannot be certain which. (Was the name Dalby, I wonder, chosen because of its closeness to Philby?) There is a certain amount of dry humour, particularly in-jokes. (One line is You've forgotten your camera, Dr Radcliffe. This is a reference to the Radcliffe Camera, which is not a device for taking photographs, but a well-known university building in Oxford). As a spy thriller it still works well, and generates considerable tension, particularly towards the end, but it is also watchable today because of the insights it provides into the political and social concerns of its era. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A spy filling forms and breaking rules","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" As someone who knows Caine mostly from the films made in the latter part of his life, it's great to see him as a leading man. In the Ipcress File he delivers a solid performance as, well, himself working as a spy. And that's one of this movie's best qualities it's not a heroic tail of a spy facing constant danger - it's about a man doing his job. In some ways, it's like a Hitchcock picture, with a man getting caught up in a situation beyond his control. In other ways, it's a movie that replaces many cinematic thrills with realism. Paperwork, shopping at the supermarket, duties and hassles. The plot moves with a slow pace, and builds up to a neat (though a bit clich) ending.It's not a flawless movie though. Some performances are subpar, and there are sequences that could have done with some trimming. I liked that they didn't go all-out with the girl, though they could at least have her serve some purpose. Some times the editing confuses more than it clarifies. And there are many unanswered (or badly answered) questions that's not interesting enough to be left ambiguous. "},{"Title":"Intensify the treatment every time he falls asleep wake him up","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Known as the thinking man's James Bond movie has the just released from the brig for stealing booze out of the local army PX former UK Army Sgt. Harry Palmer, Michael Caine, who's recruited by his boss Colonel Ross, Guy Doleman,to find out what's been happening to a number of NATO scientists. It's these brilliant men who suddenly lost their memories as well as minds taking what ever information that they had in scientific as well as military research down the memory hole together with them.Palmer a master cook, he learned that wile doing KP in the British Army, and food & wine expert is told by his bosses in British intelligence to go undercover and find out what happened to the scientists in there suddenly losing their minds. That's in order to keep Plamer's handlers' hands from getting dirty or being , like Palmer, exposed and possibly assented. Palmer does crack the case he's on by deciphering this so-called Ipcress File that involves brainwashing the top western scientists and making them useless in their ability to think straight. Palmer himself is later kidnapped and tortured by the master mind of this weird operation communist Albanian Eric Ashly Grantby-Code name Bluejay-who uses torture to make Palmer forget who he is and who he's working for. Bluejay is planning to turn him into a helpless zombie as well as mind controlled assassin for, I suppose, the Soviet Union's KGB.***SPOILERS***Dark and stark looking film with a minimum of light-even in total daylight-The Ipcress File was soon to become the standard intelligent spy film that all others following it are to be compared to. It shows just how dangerous the spy game really is unlike the many James Bond real or imitated movies where in it our hero Harry Plamer is just a regular guy or just plain Joe not a superman without all kinds of gadgets to get him out of danger as well as beautiful women in every scene that he's in. It also has the villains in the film being not as powerful as in the Bond movies and not running an entire shadowy and secret organization that Palmer is confronted with that makes the movie a lot more believable. "},{"Title":"Perfidious Albania.","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's always interesting to see what race, nationality, or religion must bear the burden of the heavy in these kinds of movies. The traditional choice used to be Germany but World War II is slipping down the memory hole and one out of five of today's students think that Germany and the US fought Russia in World War II. The USSR was good for a while but with the dissolution of the Soviet Union it's gotten less common. There has been the occasional Israeli heavy (Eye Witness) or the Irish nationalist (The Devil's Own) but the villain usually represents some splinter group of renegade, so the Jews and the Irish shouldn't be upset.Albania makes a nice villainous place and provides plenty of opportunities for villainy. First of all there's no audience to be offended. Nobody can place Albania on a map. In fact, there may be no such place, even though in the underground classic, Tune In Tomorrow, I was an Albanian protesting against a negative portrait of Albanians in the media, exactly like what we see in this production.Well, that's neither here nor there; don't bother saying it. This movie is about Michael Caine as Harry Palmer, a Brit working for one of those intelligence or counterespionage agencies that the Brits have so many of. A scientist kidnapped by a group that are apparently Albanians, although it's never made entirely clear. The British buy the scientist back but his memory has been erased.MI5 or MI6 or MI7 is determined to get to the bottom of this and Caine leads the way, at some cost to himself and his friends. Caine plays the agent as smooth and heterosexual. He's also half blind without his glasses. This was 1965 and by this time, the pluperfect James Bond character may have begun to seem mechanical rather than human. He had no weaknesses or vices. So Harry Palmer had to be invested with some recognizably hominid traits.It's really rather amusing at times, as it's meant to be. All of Caine's superiors have fixed expressions of disdain or irony. One of them, Guy Doleman, is rolling his shopping cart down a supermarket aisle while musak murmurs in the background. Never cared for these American shopping habits, he remarks, and, examining a tin of Chef Boyardee, Beefaroni -- extraordinary! The photography is dark and Sidney Furie, the director, is trying to figure out how to be innovative with the camera. He fails because instead of Nouvelle Vague we get hide-and-seek. Many scenes are shot from floor level for no particular reason. And every other shot seems to be peeking over a lampshade or through a hole in the door of a prison cell. Sometimes an object hides most of the image and we don't know what the object is.The plot is nonsense from a psychological point of view but that doesn't matter. A new method of brainwashing is not so different from any of the gadgets that 007 carries around. If it's not taken seriously, and if you can get over the annoyance of looking up at someone sipping from a cup of tea from the perspective of his shoe laces, it's kind of fun. The droll dialog and Caine's balmy delivery make it an enjoyable diversion. "},{"Title":"interesting stylish espionage but ultimate reveal perplexing","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" There is a suspicious brain drain in Britain. Scientist Radcliffe is kidnapped off of a train. Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) is stuck doing mind-numbing surveillance. His boss Colonel Ross pulls him out after 2 months in the doghouse and transfers him to counter-intelligence headed by paperwork-obsessed Major Dalby. Unconventional Palmer tracks Radcliffe to a warehouse. Radcliffe isn't there but there is a tape labeled IPCRESS. Dalby tells him to open an Ipcress File.I love the style. I love the bureaucratic side of espionage. I also love Michael Caine's cool demeanor. I love the first two thirds of the movie. The last act is questionable. It's a bit too cheesy. There isn't enough tension. It needs some more action. Also I'm not sure why the conspirators do what they do. It feels different from the first parts of the movie. "},{"Title":"Slick and Solid","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Ipcress File is perhaps one of Michael Caine's best films. The principal cast of the movie is gives a great performance. Guy Doleman and Nigel Green in particular are very impressive . The director gives them a considerable amount of screen time and crispy dialogue. The movie is linear and a classic thriller . The pace is easy on the mind and doesn't offend anyone. Many scenes prove that the movie has had a profound influence on 90's thrillers. The treatment of the story is very good as also the depiction of the espionage agencies. Rife with typical British sarcasm and wry humour , the movie never loses ground.To some, however, the climax may seem a trifle stretched out but in all fairness it is well made and directed.All in all a good and entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"While most wouldn't agree, I liked this better than most of the Bond films.","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Michael made three Harry Palmer films in the 1960s, starting with The Ipcress File. Then, rather out of the blue, two more in the 1990s. It's a shame he didn't make more in the 60s and 70s as they were very good films--ones that left me far more satisfied than most of the James Bond movies--though I would not say that about the later films in the series. Why? Because even the most outlandish one of these films (The Billion Dollar Brain) was far more realistic than Bond films. There were no gadgets, Palmer was smart but no superman and when a woman threw herself at him, he immediately suspected her motives. After all, he was just a guy who wore glasses and seemed anything but glamorous. Now I cannot comment about how closely this character and these plots were to the original Len Deighton novels (where Harry was NOT blackmailed into working for the service), as I've never read them, but the films are wonderfully entertaining.In The Ipcress File, Harry has apparently made a mess of his military career and instead of sending him to prison, the government has decided to make him a spy--as he IS resourceful...though also a bit disdainful of authority. However, his boss, the Colonel, has decided to reassign him to work for the Major. Why? Well, this becomes apparent late in the film.It seems that Harry's assignment is to discover what is happening to so many important agents and scientists. Eventually, they find one of these missing folks--and his mind has been wiped clean! What happened? Who did this and how? Apparently the word 'Ipcress' is the key. I could easily say more but want you to just see it for yourself. As I mentioned above, the Palmer character seems real. Part of this is the writing and part of it is the nice characterization by Michael Caine. Regardless, the film has lots of originality and style. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"What I loved was the directing","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Ipcress File is a superb double-agent thriller in which there was one thing really surprised me, the perfect direction. Sidney J. Furie made an amazing job, I think there are quite a few ideas which were used in the latter James Bond films.I would highly recommend this film even if you are not keen on the double-agent kind of movies. Although the storyline is not too complicated, it is a nicely dated and the cinematography is also pretty much adequate. Above all, directing makes it so enjoyable, but perhaps Michael Caine's emotionless face also makes this picture memorable.8 OUT OF 10. "},{"Title":"A far better film as viewed as an adult than I remember it as a child.","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Caine is a reluctant 9-2-5 spy working in 1960's London. However his life of paperwork and tedium is about to come to a rude, unwelcome and unwanted end.Cinema is now an art form that has its antiques. Ancient antiques (silents) and modern antiques (such as this one). While value or enjoyment is a personal thing this is - to me - far more enjoyable today than when it was made or when it first got shown on TV. While clearly an answer to the slick and flash nonsense that was the, then, emerging James Bond franchise this is a product that can do nothing but divide. Probably along the lines of those that want escapism or those that want a story with at least one foot on the ground.The UK was, at that time, generally behind the USA in all technologies. This was the time when the supermarket was being introduced on to the market (hell holes of fluorescent lighting) and the NHS was still prepared to fix you up with a pair of cheap glasses. Caine even made wearing them look semi-cool - although he is portrayed here as a man of low morals. Something that was probably needed in the game he was in.The John Barry soundtrack plays a bigger role than you might think - indeed it is central to the whole con that is played out on the viewer. Quite how he scored all these films in such as short period of time I do not know. Maybe I should ask him when he returns home to our common home city of York.The cold war was built on the idea that it could - in time - become a hot war and no art form will be able to recreate the mood and the atmosphere to those that haven't lived it. The UK version of spying was a very much hands off affair - letting Russian's have a party and hoping they would get addicted to the better things in life. Today the cat-and-mouse looks dated and silly. Especially as we now know that British Intelligence was totally infiltrated by the KGB.Those looking for cheap thrills, fights or gizmo's will come away disappointed. In reality I have always thought that the spy game must be the most boring and frustrating job in the whole world. You are living a lie and in many cases you achieve nothing and even if you do your work goes unthanked. Who needs it? While only really a pot-boiler with a twist I recommend it to anybody who has had to live the life of doing things they don't really want to do and meeting people they don't want to meet. Like me, for example.... "}{"Title":"A couple of thoughts","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I first saw this movie the year it came out.I really liked it then and still do after seeing it a few more times.It rates tops along with The 1st Manchurian Candidate (didnt see the remake). When Dolby tells Palmer to call Ross And meet at the warehousehe then says, to hang up the phone and forget what he said.Which sort of negates the given message, because of his brainwashing.He had to re-injure his hand to break the spell,as shown at the end. Since Palmers' vision was blurry,as was shown previously, the last scene ,when he is about to shoot the traitor.and he not wearing glasses just didn't work all that well. That movie made me a Caine fan from then on. Tom "},{"Title":"The best spy film ever made","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Ipcress File is like no other spy film, and quite the opposite of the glamorous James Bond genre. Seedy, quirky, with a definite stamp of the sixties, The Ipcress File has marvelous characterization by Michael Caine, Guy Doleman and Nigel Green. The latter two play stiff archetypal stiff upper lip British establishment types but ironically, neither were British Doleman was South African and Green was Australian. The story has a definite sixties feel about it, and reminds me of some Avengers episodes about missing scientists. Sydney Furie's direction is superb, with unusual camera shots from the ground, giving the film an eerie, sinister quality. There are some atmospheric scenes in and around some famous London landmarks like St James's Park and The Royal Albert Hall. I never get tired of watching this film. "},{"Title":"Michael Caine was Fantastic","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Seemed to have missed this great picture starring Michael Caine where he is very young and at the top of his career and shows forth his fantastic acting skills. All the English characters make this film into a great spy thriller with all kinds of special effects and the torture of human beings you will not be able to believe. Sue Llyod,(Agent, Jean Courtney), Eat the Rich,'87 was very sexy and had her eyes on Sergeant Harry Palmer,(Michael Caine),Bewitched,'05, who worked with Jean and at times you just found her to be a rather dark and mysterious person. Great spy thriller and worth your while to view and enjoy. However, it is a bit long and drawn out for a period of time and you do have to be patient, remember it was produced in 1965. "},{"Title":"Obsessed by Class,riven with treachery.Welcome to the W.O.","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" An historical note -When The Ipcress File was written,what is now known as the Ministry of Defence was known as The War Office.Its purpose was to assist in the waging of war.A few years later with typical government hypocrisy it was renamed the Ministry of defence although ts purpose remained the same.Hence it was the Ministry of Defence that sent British servicemen thousands of miles to die in The South Atlantic,to the Middle East,to the Balkans and Iraq,and now to Afganistan.No wonder Sgt Palmer was not a happy soldier.Where did Sgt Palmer learn his cooking skills?In the army...Aldershot or Catterick perhaps,or under canvas somewhere in B.A.O.R.?Or did his dear old cockney sparrer mum teach him in between going down the rubadub for a pint of Mother - in - law (Old and Bitter).Well,we're never told and I expect Len Deighton was not overly - concerned so perhaps I shouldn't be,and I daresay his love of Mozart(it was Schonberg in the book, - much cooler)was ingrained in him with his muvver's milk swelp me. Am I being picky?Well,maybe,but for all Mr M.Caine's London Working Class Boy Looking rather like a grown up Mod performance is deserving of most of the praise it has got over the last forty - odd years,its smoke and mirrors cannot disguise the fact that his character - one step ahead of the Glasshouse - is not very believable.Much more so are messrs Greene and Doleman,a Charters and Caldicote for the swinging sixties or what passed for them amongst middle - ranking War Office civil servants. Mr N.Greene indulges himself somewhat in the much showier part as Major Dalby,every inch the off - duty guards officer,but back in 1965 most of the audience would have encountered someone just like him on a parade ground or an orderly room.Cynical of eye and tongue,rigid and unswerving he would stare out the most aggressive of drunken defaulters. Mr C.Doleman,all weary sophistication was the opposite side to the same coin.Understanding of human weakness without being tolerant of it,his type of officer puzzled NCOs and O.R.s throughout the army. Within the arcane infrastructure of the Civil Service these three very different men ostensibly work on the same task - the kidnapping of Brtish scientists and their disappearance behind the iron Curtain. But Mr Deighton's obsession with the British Class System (he was a bright working - class boy amidst the middle - classes)necessitates our Cockney hero having one over on his betters to an extent that can stretch credulity. I mean none of this to detract from the quality of the picture or the esteem I hold it in.Apart from The spy who came in from the cold thereis not a better exposition of Cold War Realpolitik in the cinema. And only Oskar Homolka as Col Stock in Mr Deighton's Billion Dollar Brain more exemplifies the pragmatic qualities of real espionage than Doleman and Greene. The Ipcress File marks the debut of Harry Palmer(unnamed in the novel,an anonymous hero presumably being a difficult concept for a movie).Not so much emphasis was placed on his proletarian antecedents in subsequent pictures,nor his culinary gifts,and he was consequently more believable,but presumably less popular because neither were successful. A pity because Billion Dollar Brain in particular is a very fine work by the much vilified Ken Russell. Mr M.Caine arguably never had a better role until Mr Huston cast him in The man who would be King. Watch this amazingly tight little film,marvel at his cool control and forget all those awful potboilers. Just as an aside....back in 1966,Sir Alf Ramsey took England's World Cup Squad to see The Ipcress File.Just as the titles rolled,the late Alan Ball piped up I've already seen this...XXXXXX done it!He was immediately set upon by his team mates,but made up for it by producing a World Cup winning performance a few days later. No such consolation for anyone printing a spoiler today. "},{"Title":"General Feedback","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is probably the best film of the 60's in the Spy Genre, at the height of the cold war era, these sinister good guy/ bad guy films were all the rage, James Bond was having massive rating in the Cinema and then along comes Caine, the rest they say, is history. Caine's appeal in IF (Ipcress File) is probably due to the stubborn anti-hero qualities he exudes, a ladies man with a a roving eye that would put a radar array to shame, suave, sophisticated, yet very much man about the house, given his self-supporting stance in the film.An ex-army sergeant ' bought ' from a military prison into active service in a different guise, the trade off being the job he's doing has the potential to kill him, so stark choice, spend time in prison or do this job and get 'pardoned' effectively, if you live to tell the tale.He exhibits in the film the ' I'm doing this my way ' attitude in several scenes, notably when he throws policy, procedure and protocol out of the window and asks for a high security clearance operation and gets it.The film is peppered with these events through to the end, had he been a matter of fact, by the book, typical spy, I doubt that the film would have worked so well, at the time, no other actor I feel would have filled the role of Harry Palmer so good as Caine. Given that it's now 40 years nearly since it was completed it's a classic in it's own right, and I feel always will be. The defining moment in Michael Caine's career which catapulted him to super stardom. One thing I have noticed is that when in the past Caine has been interviewed about films he's done he gives across that very same air of smarmy, I'm in control, I do this my way, and sod the lot of you, so I'm wondering how much ' real ' acting he needed to do in IF, it does seem that there was a lot of real Caine seeping out into the role.I haven't actually read the book yet, so if there's someone who can attest to how well placed the film is in reference to the original book of 1962, then I'd like you to put your findings as a post below mine. If you've never seen IF then please do, you won't regret it. It may not appeal to all, but then again what film does, for me it's my favourite and always will be. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Original approach but unoriginal story","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This 60's spy film was clearly designed to both cash-in on the success of the James Bond series, while simultaneously distancing itself from it. Unlike those celebrated Sean Connery vehicles, The Ipcress File does not present the life of a secret agent as a glamorous one. Michael Caine's character Harry Palmer is a short-sighted cynical spy who lives in a modest flat; he does his own shopping at his local super-market and doesn't bag-off with a succession of gorgeous women, he even has to do his own paper-work. He's pretty far removed from 007. The film itself has a strange look too. The cinematography is unusual in that events are often presented from behind foreground objects. It's quite an off-kilter approach and is agreeably unusual. There surely cannot be too many other films that show a fight from the vantage point of a phone box.Unlike the Bond films too, the film is entirely set in London. This of course reinforces the nuts and bolts presentation of spies, as opposed to the glamorous sun-kissed locales that Bond frequented on his travels. Even though I like the idea of coming at the spy-film with a new angle, I am not actually a huge fan of this film simply because the plot line just isn't very good. Where the presentation is original, the story is pretty unoriginal and at times downright questionable &#x96; for example, surely the secret service would do a hell of a lot more that lamely agree to pay a ransom to the men who kidnapped the missing professor? They seem just a little too impotent to be believable. By the end of the film I sort of felt a little underwhelmed to be honest. I hoped for a bit more but unfortunately the final scenes when Palmer is captured resort to typical Prisoner/Bond thrills; which sort of seems a shame as the initial premise suggested that this film would go somewhere else. So, overall, The Ipcress File is a weak plot wrapped in a nice overall idea. "},{"Title":"Satisfactory spy film","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Ipcress File follows British agent Harry Palmer, who is sent to contact a man suspected to be involved in the kidnapping of a prominent scientist. During the investigation the word Ipcress is found on a tape.Michael Caine is adept at being sarcastic and insubordinate as usual as bespectacled agent Harry Palmer. The supporting cast is also solid, and especially notable is Nigel Green, who was an apt choice for the role of stuffy spy supervisor Major Dalby.The story generally positions the film as a realistic spy film as opposed to the more glamorized Bond model, but some aspects of the film are more contrived toward the end. The film is effective at conveying a sense of bureaucracy without being tedious with its office procedures and specially named forms. There is a decent, though not especially complex, level of intrigue throughout the film and one especially good twist. Another notable aspect is an excellent score from composer John Barry. The Ipcress File is overall a satisfactory though not quite great spy film. "},{"Title":"Stylish Brit-spy thriller","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Where to start. Well, with Michael Caine, after all the film does too. Terrific; louche, swaggering, tough and an intelligent fulcrum for the twisty drama. Many things about the film seem a little dated. Caine's modernity transcends this somewhat.The film is a brilliant, quietly serious contemporary of Bond. The indications that we are watching the Secret Service at work are restricted to the skewed framing and 'keyhole' shots through lattice, bannisters and a magnificently edited trompe d'oeil through, indeed a keyhole.Consequently, drama is all in the subterfuge of the spy business. The obfuscated shots and John Barry's sinewy, cymbalon-based score reflects the claustrophobic drama which has little action - the first fight sequence is understated, rendered from a third-party perspective.Fine support in a strong ensemble goes right down to the excellent and thoroughly typical non-Moneypenny ('Alice') of Freda Bamford. First class movie-making all round. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this any more","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" TIF has a lot of shortcomings, mainly in the plot department, which probably would have made for a mediocre episode of the Avengers. But the dialogue sparkles; the best lines occur between Caine and Sue Lloyd when he seduces her, Jamie Oliver style, by cooking a Spanish omelette - unbelievable for a 'working class' man in 1965.Lloyd, in clinch with MC Do you wear glasses all the time? Caine Yes - except in bed.She removes his glasses. Pan to right and fade. (And that's pretty much all the intersexual action there is in the whole film).The script is full of sharp exchanges like this, while the film varies between grainy quasi-avantgarde cinematography - a fair bit of what looks like hand-held - and pointless Pinteresque pauses. If the plot had had as much style, and let's face it, this had been done a hundred times better in The Manchurian Candidate, The Ipcress File would be a lot more memorable. On the whole, it's better as a window on the period than as what it purports to be, a spy thriller. "},{"Title":"Eenie-meenie miney moe. Whom do I shoot down?","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A great British cast and that 60s London look guarantee for a pleasant viewing. The Palmer series could have been a success with someone else in the lead role, but I really don't see who else they could have cast. It's Caine that gives it that extra boost.I find the last bit a little shaky, what with Caine being hypnotized. No? Was he? Or not? Half-hypnotized, perhaps? He sort of was yet sort of wasn't, which I found a bit silly. Hence that strange scene in which Caine has to make up his mind as to which of his two bosses to gun down. It makes for a fun ending, sure, but a comic-book ending, i.e. hasn't got much in the credibility department.The James Bond series is set up a sort of fantasy almost, so idealized is everything. However, the Palmer series is supposed to be more grounded in reality (obviously not all the way!) which is why I nitpick a little.I love it how they cast a typical Englishman to play a man with Albanian origins. This sort of reminds me of Alec Guinness and Omar Sharif playing Russians in that corny little Russian Revolution yarn. Or John Wayne playing Genghis Khan. Oh, dem da goofy 50s and 60s. "}{"Title":"Interesting different take on the spy-genre.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" At the time of this movie, James Bond of course absolutely dominated the spy-genre. This movie tries to be different, by not using too much action or a true evil mastermind villain that tries to take over or destroy the world. It chooses a more realistic approach, which seems all the more silly when considering that the story is far from a likely one.Seemed that producer Harry Saltzman, who also produced multiple James Bond movies, until the mid-'70's, wanted to completely dominate the spy-genre in every form. It also explains why this movie uses many crew-members, who were also involved with making the James Bond movies; Composer John Barry, editor Peter R. Hunt, production designer Ken Adam, art director Peter Murton, the movie being shot at the Pinewood studios. They also had the intention to make this movie the beginning of a long running series of Harry Palmer movies. 4 later movies involving Caine playing the Palmer character followed but over the course of 30 years. So you can't really say it was a truly successful series of movies, at least no in the way they intended it to be.The story is confusing, with its many different character names and spy-terms and codes. However once you've figured the story out completely you'll note that its actually a rather weak and thin one, with also some bad dialog in it. They just tried to make it seem more difficult and complicated than it in fact really was.The story moves slow, which also doesn't make this the most interesting or exciting movie to watch. The movie starts to take more pace in its second halve but the movie at the same time then starts to become more ridicules and hard to take really serious.But really, the movie is still a good watch. It's a different and in a way also a quite experimental movie, which makes this all the more a good watch. Also the directing and acting makes this a good movie to watch.The innovative and experimental cinematography is from Otto Heller, who is fairly unknown but has made some great movies during his career. It's the kind of camera-work you would normally expect to see in an '70's movie.The characters are all as British as they can get, with their heavy accents and gentleman attitudes. Michael Caine once more plays a slick, 'bad-boy' kind of person who also is of course a real lady-killer. Caine was specialized in these sort of roles and one year later he played his ultimate lady-killer role in Alfie.Simply a good movie but a tad too confusing and ridicules in parts to consider it a real genre classic.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Can't figure it out!","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I don't know about this film. I have watched it a couple of times and I don't get it. Maybe it's because I think the story is a little weak. I love Sir Michael Caine, Nigel Green, and Sue Lloyd in their roles but I think the story was slow-moving. Maybe the film was supposed to take off after the James Bond film hit when most of the films begin to copy each other. I love the scene in the supermarket. The espionage and secrecy during the Cold War is interesting but I will have to watch it again to get it. As for the film itself, the quality is good and the movie doesn't do too much or overdue the plot line. You have to watch for Caine's character and the Ipcress file to see what it is all about. It's a must for Caine fans and anybody of the British cinema. "},{"Title":"A Harry Palmer triple bill","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Trying to think back to 'The Ipcress File' all I get is a sense of crushing boredom as anti-Bond spy Michael Caine does his shopping in a pair of chunky glasses and makes his way through a plot that fails to engage from the word go. It's insanely dull.'Funeral in Berlin' is an improvement on the first film despite being a dour, dull and confusing thriller with a wooden performance from Caine. A few decent lines and funny bits here and there make it slightly bearable.And then came 'Billion Dollar Brain', which is the best one despite being so dull that it's almost impossible to follow. Caine is wooden, as before, and Ed Begley overacts as a mad general but they're the best things about the movie by a long way. "},{"Title":"The Ipcress File","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I saw quite a few clips of it, I particularly liked the bit when the girl asks do you always wear your glasses, to which he replied yes, except in bed, and seeing, it was quite a good film. Basically Harry Palmer (BAFTA nominated Sir Michael Caine) is the typical English spy surprised to be assigned to investigate a case where a number of leading Western scientists have been kidnapped. These scientists reappear, but they have all been brainwashed and completely useless, and Harry was surprised to be selected, considering his past, and he believes he has been chosen because he is expendable. As the film goes near conclusion, Harry is victim to the machine that the scientists have created, that obviously brain washed them, but using force (causing himself pain) he manages to resist most of the hypnosis and kill the real villain in the end. Also starring Nigel Green as Major Dalby, Guy Doleman as Colonel Ross, Sue Lloyd as Jean Courtney, Gordon Jackson as Carswell, Aubrey Richards as Dr. Radcliffe, Frank Gatliff as Bluejay, Thomas Baptiste as Barney, Oliver MacGreevy as Housemartin, Freda Bamford as Alice, Pauline Winter as Charlady, Anthony Blackshaw as Edwards, Barry Raymond as Gray, David Glover as Chilcott-Oakes and Stanley Meadows as Inspector Keightley. Caine is the great English everyman, even being a spy, he is almost the equivalent of James Bond, that shops, cooks and wears glasses. It won the BAFTAs for Best British Art Direction, Best British Cinematography and Best British Film, and it was nominated for Best British Screenplay, and it was nominated the Cannes Film Festival Golden Palm award. Sir Michael Caine was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, the film was number 39 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die, and it was number 48 on The 50 Greatest British Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Stiff upper lip, yet probably cool for its time","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I think this film must have rated as cool when it emerged, in 1965. Mind you, I was born 12 years after that year, so what do I know of swinging London? Caine plays Harry Palmer, an insubordinate person who tries to find out the whereabouts of a man, and who's killing people, while cooking and playing Mozart.While Caine's performance is cool, the direction and cinematography is what makes this film; and possibly the fact that Portishead has snatched John Barry's leitmotif for their third album...The contrasts in film, the lighting and the camera-angles are quite Hitchcock-esquire. The views from London, the outdoor-shots are definitely worth it all, along with the Received Pronunciation of The Queen's English. In contrast with this, Caine's English comes along as bratty in the extreme.All in all, the story and plot are simple in the extreme. Very spy vs spy. The feel of the film is the good bit, and it's only worth watching to see the form; as for the story, it's quite stiff. "},{"Title":"Overrated and dated","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Ipcress File is highly overrated and plot and production dated. It is difficult to see what might in the minds of other reviewers give rise to their unwarranted exuberance. The film is a run of the mill simplistic thriller with inventive camera work that tends to make the viewer motion sick. It now seems quaint, but not thrilling, a reminder of a much more innocent time.Michael Caine is, as always, Michael Caine. He is likable, but as in every other movie he's ever made, he plays himself. He is completely unbelievable as an cold war warrior.Give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Smooth, but disappointing","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps my expectations were too high, but I found the quality of the film lacking. Only one major plot mystery; otherwise not much complexity to either plot or character presentations. Compared to such classics as Spy Who Came In From the Cold or Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy (which still, unbelievably, is unavailable in video! Call BBC...), this film looks amateurish. Sound quality is bad and cinematography is weak, as well. Still the acting is smooth and the writing is crisp (sounds like a description of a good wine). What's particularly good is the hilarious portrayal of British nonchalance.  "},{"Title":"File This Under 'Ho Hum'","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Seeing a film like this today it's difficult to know what the target audience was even at the time; there is virtually no 'action' and no sex. At one point Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) engages in a half-hearted fight with a heavy that is filmed in Long Shot so that the few blows that are struck lose any impact they may have had and the nearest thing to a sex object (in the James Bond sense) is about as sexy as Lily Tomlin and there's absolutely no chemistry between her and Caine. If this weren't enough there is the goddam MUSIC. I know John Barry is supposed to be the Man at this game but the stuff he provides here gives the impression it was not written 'to picture' but that he merely provided a given amount of music - so many yards - specifically for this film but in sections, so many feet of 'tension', so many feet of 'chase', so many 'stings', etc for the Music Editor to cut in as best he could. You know a movie's in trouble when you find yourself listening to and laughing at music that is supposed to be dramatic instead of watching the film. Viewed today this is just an extended version of any 'Avengers' episode. "},{"Title":"A wildly uneven movie that works best as a relic of its era","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie has won considerable praise over the years, but it's somewhat hard to see why.  It shifts uncomfortably among well-paced, well-edited action scenes, lengthy discourse between bureaucrats, and sudden revelations that advance the plot but seem to come out of nowhere.The opening sequence, for example, is one of the best in the entire movie; it's done almost without dialogue, yet the viewer is never at a loss to know what's going on, and it ends with a real grabber that keeps one's interest high.  Then we switch to the famous scene of Michael Caine arising and making breakfast; not a bad change of pace through the credits, actually.Contrast this, however, to succeeding scenes inside the intelligence bureaucracy that move along with all the intensity of sap dripping from a tree.  Coupled with this are some startling lapses in logic.  For instance, the counter-intelligence boys think there's some major kidnapping and murder afoot.  They have a prime suspect in mind and even can find him if they wish.  So what's their reaction?  They politely inquire whether he might be good enough to accept a payoff to stop being such a baddie.While this is all eventually explained, what isn't explained is why the other characters accepted this so unquestioningly.  Perhaps it's teddibly British and all, but you'd have thought *someone* would raise his hand and say, Um, excuse me, um, guys -- if this fellow is such a threat to the Free World, shouldn't we -- just maybe, mind you -- do more than ask his permission to bribe him?While the bad guys are allowed, even encouraged, to run around freely, one becomes puzzled a bit later when Michael Caine's character worries that someone is trying to frame him for murder.  The only question this suggests is, Why are you worried about *that*?  Your superiors didn't seem to think much of it when other murderers were running around loose.  Maybe they'll even throw some money your way . . . .We've also got C.I.A. agents who are quite willing -- even eager -- to kill one of the British agents to avenge an American agent accidentally killed by the British.  This isn't a rogue agent, either; it's more or less portrayed as business as usual.  Perhaps the question is impertinent, but weren't the Americans and British generally on the same side during the Cold War?On the other hand, there are some items tossed in without the slightest logical connection to what's gone before.  Gordon Jackson's character, for example, finds an important clue -- the possible meaning of the titular ipcress -- but he apparently figures it out because the screenwriter called him and told him.  His discovery certainly isn't based on anything that anyone's done up until that point.This isn't to say that this movie is a waste of time; Caine is always an interesting actor to watch, especially so early in his career.  The movie does engender some genuine suspense, and once the plot gets to the final third (through methods contrived or not), the payoff is worthwhile.  It's not even surprising that the visual style of this movie inspired the television version of MissionImpossible, although the creators of Mission soon learned to do it much, much better. (In fact, there are some interesting parallels between the *movie* version with Tom Cruise -- from railway intrigues to the presence of a mole -- though one can at least say of The Ipcress File that, thank God, it has a plot.)But if you're looking for the best spy movie of all time -- better look to John Le Carre or elsewhere.  This film's best moments, its strong sense of place and time, and its cast make it worthwhile, but its inconsistent pacing, lapses in logic, and reliance on plot contrivance, place it in the second tier of espionage movies. "},{"Title":"Although I'm surprised to say so, file it under miss-fire.","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Ipcress File nowadays comes across as a bit of a reaction; a knee jerk reaction to something that was whipping the British film industry into a storm back in the day. A few James Bond films had been made starring then (and now, I suppose) icon Sean Connery. Enter The Ipcress File and everyday, likable Englishman Michael Caine with his studio's attempt to cash in on the craze in genre, either that or they didn't like Bond not being English and tried to make an alternative for other would-be fans. I may not have been around back in the day but judging from a few documentaries I've seen over the years as well as those still images of people queuing around the block to see Goldfinger, The Ipcress File was an attempt to cash in on this new secret agent genre. It was clearly popular.Sadly, viewing the film now as an individual piece and nothing more connected with anything else, it comes across as dead air; a splash in film history's ocean. The Ipcress File begins with something the Bond films also began with an opening action sequence or large scale event that connects the rest of the film, in this case it's the death of some kind of scientist (we can tell because of the magazine he's reading). Then comes the agent himself, our protagonist for the film Harry Palmer, as an early Michael Caine role. The thing here is The Ipcress File borders on the parody; not having Palmer already on some secret mission or in an exotic location or with a woman creates realism for his character and makes the character of Bond and his actions broad. Palmer wakes up; gets up; switches off the alarm clock and makes coffee &#150; a far cry from most Bond introductions which would go on to involve explosions, girls and the rest for its mere introduction.But any good to come out of The Ipcress File pretty much stops here and it sort of sends out the wrong message in the first place. I got a counter-balancing feeling when watching the film, a film that begins with a clear statement of emphasis on realism but will fall into the espionage genre anyway; a film with secret agents but will go about things low-key and somewhat mute. Is it possible to approach the vast and, above all, exciting subjects like espionage and secret agents in a low-key and mute fashion? Probably, but will it be as interesting? Going by how The Ipcress File turned out, 'not really' is the answer.The Ipcress File follows on from its lead character introduction by giving us Palmer's place of work, an office. But again it's having a swipe at Bond. This isn't some fancy, exquisite office with pretty walls; houseplants and posh wooden furniture, oh-no, this is a drab and dreary office with colourless walls and people with real names instead of 'Moneypenny' and 'M'.So we get the idea The Ipcress File is trying to humanise a caricature; a caricature that exists within genres associated with escapism but if anything, it grates after a while. The trouble with The Ipcress File is its dull and unimaginative look, feel and general story twinned with the distinct lack of conflict. Rather than follow what most detective stories do by progressing the narrative with a clue in a scene in a causality driven style, The Ipcress File has its hero organise botched raids; it has its hero distracted by an American agent who appears just as quickly as he disappears before changing its tack completely and turning into something that has our hero look as if he's being framed.In The Ipcress File, everybody dresses the same; everybody looks the same and everybody talks the same, frequently in an annoying coded manner that frustrates more than it does get anything done. Caine as an actor cannot deliver an interesting performance because the character of Palmer is so flat and uninteresting bar the 'break away' ideation (in which credit goes to the screenwriter) that it's often painful to watch. Palmer spends his time organising botched raids; sleeping around and spends too much time in the office although he is conveniently placed just when the script needs a 'Eureka' moment. There is a scene that captures the monotony The Ipcress File slips into in a public park, at a bandstand, Palmer and another individual sit watching a brass band but when an important conversation arises, it is the other individual that delivers all the necessary dialogue as things progress. Palmer can only sit and remain passive as things are done.This scene sums things up for me; the lead character is relegated to staying in the background as matters are either taken care of or presented, much like the break away secret agent image ideation. I want to see Palmer away from the suits and offices, solving the mystery and cracking the case and it doesn't help later on when the bad guys cannot decide on whether they want him dead thanks to shooting the driver of his car or alive for the hypnosis torture they eventually put him through any way. Confused logic something this film has far too much of to make it just about watchable. "}{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film takes about one hour and a half to tell the audience what it is all about, and when the audience finally seizes the plot it is so disappointed with the laughable ending that it can only come to one conclusion Harry Palmer is as boring as his name suggests. He is nothing but a boring spook with glasses that make him look aristocratic. I'd rather watch an ordinary James Bond flick than this wannabe independent spy movie. I really can see how the director thought I wanna make a spy movie that is different from the James Bond movies, so what I'll do (oh, I am a genius) is this I'll make Miss Moneypenny an old lady that smokes, I'll turn James Bond into a cooking and music-loving intellectual and I develop a story around this hypnotizing story which is so great... (director raves on). No, no, no, this is not a good film There is nothing to it and I was really disappointed, because the cover on the DVD looked interesting, and I thought I was about to see a great film Guess I have to keep on searching These days it is easier to find a needle in a stack of hay than it is to find a good movie. "}]