[{"Title":"If only one gets out, it's a victory.","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" If you've seen both The Great Escape and The Train, you'll have a rough idea of what to expect from Von Ryan's Express. An American pilot (Frank Sinatra) arrives in an Italian POW camp and finds himself the senior officer, in charge of a motley group of British prisoners under the command of Major Fincham (Trevor Howard). Sinatra and Howard clash, and eventually lead the prisoners in a daring take-over of their German prison train. With the help of a turncoat Italian officer (Sergio Fantoni) they point their loco towards neutral Switzerland.This is all pretty implausible, but its fairly entertainingly done. Sinatra does well with a surprisingly unsympathetic character, and his tetchy relationship with Howard provides much of the enjoyment of the film. Howard's role is relatively stereotyped, but he's a good enough actor to know this and still make his character believable. Director Mark Robson and his screenwriter Wendell Mayes have an understanding of British army attitudes that's obviously influenced by too many viewings of Bridge on the River Kwai. While Howard is a military martinet and a man of principle, it's Sinatra's practicality and collaboration with the enemy which initially brings the men dividends.However, Mayes and Robson have ensured that it's not quite as simple as all that and Sinatra is faced with some of the dilemmas of war which were explored a couple of years earlier in The Guns of Navarone, e.g. is it better to shoot an unarmed man or woman and save lives, or let them go and risk the lives of many more? Here though, screenwriter Mayes doesn't offer the easy solutions which undercut The Guns of Navarone. Sinatra's decision to let an Italian officer go free results in the death of some of his own men. Later on he's faced with the choice of shooting an unarmed woman in the back or risk compromising his escape plan.Unlike some of its contemporaries, Von Ryan's Express isn't afraid to kill off some of its major characters, and this at least stops things from getting too predictable. Although the supporting cast includes Wolfgang Preiss, John Leyton, Michael Goodliffe and Adolfo Celi, only Edward Mulhare, as the British padre who has to impersonate a German officer, gets a chance to really shine.Like a lot of war films of its era, some of the action scenes aren't all that realistic. When the heroes ambush a platoon of German soldiers in a tunnel, the Germans all collapse decorously to the ground as if they've just fainted. No mangled limbs or hideous death throes. It's one of those films where you suspect the Germans will get up and brush themselves off as soon as the camera stops rolling.Like The Train though, Von Ryan's Express benefits from using real trains (this time on the Italian railways) and a minimum of model work. This allows it to stand up pretty well for modern audiences. Many of the hazards faced by Sinatra and the others will be fairly familiar to anyone who's seen The Train or Northwest Frontier, but they're all produced with enthusiasm, and handled with some skill, and screenwriter Mayes ensures that there are still a few surprises in store. "},{"Title":"Not far off being amongst the best","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" From a slow start this build into an exciting if somewhat unrealistic war film. However, it was designed for entertainment and not to depict any remotely historical fact.The cinematography and scenery look good and although no expert on trains, they look from the right period. The characters are not fleshed out but as this is an adventure film this lapse is not too important. Some of the main characters are also casualties by the end thus avoiding the usual Hollywood line from that period of everyone escaping without a scratch.I'm not a big fan of Sinatra as an actor but he does well here depicting a flawed character who appears both likable and unlikeable. It is established early in the film that Col Ryan is not a career airman and has limited military experience and so it is not surprising that he makes some key mistakes although he does learn from them.The supporting cast is good although with the exception of John Leyton far too old to have been on military service.Not up with the very best WW2 films but well above the average. "},{"Title":"Adventure Thriller, Well-Made; Unusual Action Premise","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" This is a very logical and well-considered storyline developed from David Westheimer's WWWII thriller by Wendell Mayes and Joseph Landon The escape that ends this film, a trainborne flight across Italian lines toward Switzerland provides a vivid action climax when the train is attacked; it is a bit implausible only because of the length of time the train has to go on unstopped. The film begins its exciting adventure narrative with the arrival of Von Ryan, then Ryan, among a group of busy British and American sorts trying to escape from a stalag run by a sadistic commandant. They are being punished, but will not give up their attempts. As the now-ranking senior officer, Ryan orders them to stop escaping, then betrays their tunnels to the enemy in return for decent conditions. He is betrayed; then he issues an order that causes him to be put into solitary. he gets respect from this; but he is now Von Ryan for the remainder of the film. the war ends; the prisoners revolt successfully and capture the Commandant. Then they have to move overland to escape, andVon Ryan's sparing of some prisoners costs lives. But it his great idea once they are captured and put aboard a train to be taken to imprisonment in Germany is to steal the train and head for safety elsewhere. They succeed; against all odds, even though he must kill an Italian officer's loyal betrayer, a beautiful woman; and by ruse, attack, feint, false messages and speed, they do what is necessary. Then as they head for Switzerland, the German planes attack. And at the last, Ryan runs after the train, the last of all--and becomes a legend the hard way. Music by Jerry Goldsmith, makeup by Ben Nye, cinematography by William H. Daniels , art direction by Hilyard B. Brown and John Martin Smith all under the direction of producer-director Mark Robson add up to a recipe for a first-rate color adventure film. As Ryan, Frank Sinatra is not entirely miscast and tries very hard, sensibly underplaying his role, matched every step of the way by Trevor Howard who mostly reacts and gives speeches about the way things ought to be done, very effectively. Edward Mulhare comes off Academy Award level in the film, and others such as John van Dreelin, Sergio Fantoni, Adolfo Celi as the Commandant, and Vito Scotti do well. Raffalla Carra is the girl Ryan must kill, Wolfgang Preiss, Brad Dexter, John Leyton and Richard Bakalyan are soldiers on one side or another. There are many exciting scenes provided, none moreso than Mulhare's impersonation of a German officer; the death of the girl, the final attacks on the train, several of the scenes set in the Stalag and the train's progress which is counterpoised many times to German language scenes of what their pursuers are doing; dialogue scenes lead here to action, action to reassessments, to challenges and to consequences. This is sometimes a slick film, but never a boring one, I suggest. Its characters are not developed as they would have been in a dramatic film; this is an adventure-level film with dramatic elements. And it is a good and occasionally thrilling ride, with the curious sense about it of a dream and a symbol both. Its theme is the courage to dare; and in the enigmatic Ryan, it finds an appropriate hero, a bit tarnished about the edges as a soldier but a first-rate result-getter nevertheless.  "},{"Title":"You'll Get The Iron Cross For This, Von Ryan","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Von Ryan's Express which was a best selling action adventure novel in the sixties combines some of the best elements of The Great Escape and Bridge Over the River Kwai. Culture clashes abound in Von Ryan's Express, Britsh versus American, Italian versus German. Sometimes the participants seem to forget just who was the enemy.Frank Sinatra is an American Army Air Corps flier shot down near Rome before the invasion of Italy. The Italians grab him and take him to an Italian prisoner of war camp run by a strutting Mussolini wannabe in Adolfo Celi. The prisoners are mostly British and in fact members of a single regiment, the 9th Fusiliers. Command has now devolved to Major Trevor Howard with the death of their colonel. Sinatra becomes the ranking POW when he arrives.Sinatra and Howard clash over several issues. Watching the film you'll see I believe that Howard was right. But Sinatra has the rank. When the Italians switch sides as the landing at Salerno commences, the Italian soldiers desert and Sinatra and Howard have to make some hard decisions. They opt to move towards the sea, but are captured by the Germans and put on a train north. They recapture the prison train from the Germans and decide to keep going north to Switzerland.It'a pretty impossible tale, but that doesn't mean it ain't entertaining. Sinatra keeps his swinging hipster persona in check and Trevor Howard was born to play those British military roles.Of the rest of the cast my favorite performance is that of the British regimental chaplain Edward Mulhare. The fact that he went to graduate study in Germany and speaks it fluently is of inestimable help to the escaping prisoners.For those who like action war films, this is your cup of British tea. "},{"Title":"Hey it works for me...","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  *** Warning *** I make a few references to this film's plot in the comments below.I think if I was living during 1943 and was involved in World War II then being with Frank, Trevor and the rest of the boys as portrayed in this film is where I'd want to be. Racing up Italy in a captured POW train, honorable American and British soldiers fighting pesky Nazis, and just trying to make it to beautiful Switzerland. Who could ask for more?  You have adventure, killing in self-defense (well mostly), outsmarting the enemy, and a gorgeous young Italian woman on the train with you! Sure beats being a German soldier stuck in Stalingrad in 1942!And let's face it, if you're looking for a WW II film with historical accuracy about specific WWII events or a war is heck, here's why kind of film then this is not the kind of film you're going to like.But to me this film offers something many others don't by how it relates to everyday life and its struggles. So what am I saying, escaping from a German POW camp and fighting Nazis is a daily life struggle for anyone nowadays ?? No, of course not. But I like the way misfortune then opportunity seem to go hand in hand in this movie. A misfortune is turned into another opportunity simply by trying or moving forward. The following two lines best sum up this film Captured German Major But still you have NO choice! British Major And nothing to lose by trying to make one!Nothing is mapped out they way they want it and each misfortune has its cost in lives lost, but they push on. Each loss looks like it is rewarded with something positive... British physician (who up 'till now has been supportive of Colonel Ryan) Roll, roll where?...Maybe this is the end of the line. Italian Captain (just running in) Colonel Ryan, the conductor has a plan, he thinks he can get us all to Switzerland! British Major Switzerland?...You're mad! (The Italian major explains the conductor's plan) British Major You know it may just work Colonel Ryan Let's move!Sometimes we are all fighting those Nazis/demons in our life and we are all just trying to escape to Switzerland and like the end of the film says I once told you Ryan, if only one gets out it's a victory.I read in another review of this film where it was said Frank Sinatra looked like he was sleep walking through it -- well then way to go Frank! No award grabbing performance from ol' blue eyes here, just a man who acts and feels like he's just been in a POW camp (the Rat Pack must've just broken up or a gig in Vegas got canceled or something). I think this is one of Frank S.'s best movies, yes much better than that depressing Manchurian Candidate (1962).And give this film credit for one thing Here at least the Germans speak German and the Italians speak Italian. There's none of that English with a heavy German or Italian accent stuff here. And filming outside when possible with picturesque Italian and Switzerland scenery are an added bonus.I know there are several other WWII films made during the 1960s that get mentioned a lot, but off-hand I think there are only two or three made during the '60s that offer or have any value The Train (1965) and Closely Observed Trains (1966) are the only two I can think of (hmmm...that's odd, but all three involve trains).If you liked Von Ryan's Express then please recommend other war films from any decade. I'm always on the look out for a good war film. And if you didn't care for this film, well then when you're through picking this one apart tell me of one you did like. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Satisfying WW II yarn","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Von Ryan's Express is overall a satisfying WW II actioner. The movie is long but never boring, there's some excitement and suspense, and some action.The only problems I found with the movie is that the above is at the expense of characters - not enough time is given to these characters, so we don't have as much of a personal stake - so whether the characters live or die doesn't matter as much as it could have. Also, some of the special effects, even for 1965, are somewhat embarrassing.It's still a good movie, and it's worth watching - it's just not the classic it could have been. "},{"Title":"A first-class as well as entertaining  WWII story of escape from a prisoner-of-war concentration camp aboard a train","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Awesome warlike movie with memorable images and outstanding acting by well-known faces . This is a splendid film about a daring breakout from an Italian concentration camp with all star cast and magnificently realized by Mark Robson . The opening prologue states Italy , August 1943. With the Allies poised to strike, the Germans seized control of Italy. So the war-weary Italian nation fought on, a prisoner of the German armies¨ . There appears Ryan, an American POW Colonel (Frank Sinatra , his leather jacket was later worn by Bob Crane in Hogan's Heroes and was later worn by Greg Kinnear in Auto Focus) and a British military (Trevor Howard who was second choice for Major Fincham after Peter Finch turned it down and Jack Hawkins was possible for this part) is the officer in charge until Ryan takes over the escape plan . Ryan leads his fellow prisoners as foreign soldiers (James Brolin , John Leyton , Edward Mulhare) as Italian local military (Sergio Fantoni , Adolfo Celi and Vito Scotti as Train Engineer) on a perilous getaway from the Germans (led by Wolfgang Preiss as Major Von Klemment) in Italy . Having seemingly made errors of judgement, Ryan has to get the support of the mainly British soldiers he is commanding . As they aboard a German train to neutral Switzerland .This great action tale contains thrills, intrigue, tension, excitement galore, entertainment and lots of fun . Suspenseful WWII epic packs exceptional plethora of prestigious actors incarnating the motley group of POWs , giving good acting and support , as a sensational Frank Sinatra whose character , Colonel Ryan, remains today as attractive iconography ; Edward Mulhare as an army priest posing as a Nazi officer , Brad Dexter as roguish Sgt. Bostick ,Sergio Fantoni as Capt. Oriani , a very young Raffaela Carra and Michael Goodliffe, who was an actual Prisoner of War during WWII , being captured at Dunkirk and spent the next five years in a German POW camp . Excellent production design and art direction with evocative scenarios by Walter Scott . Rousing and lively soundtrack , nowadays a classic score, by Jerry Goldsmith . Colorful cinematography by William H Daniels , Greta Garbo's usual cameraman .The motion picture lavishly produced by Saul David was well realized by Mark Robson. In the early 40s Robson was much involved with the low-budget terror unit in charge of producer Val Lewton , for whom made ¨Seventh victim¨, ¨The ghost ship¨, and ¨Island of the dead¨. In the late 1940s Robson joined Stanley Kramer's independent company and directed his biggest commercial hit to date with ¨The champion¨. Years later Robson made another good film about corruption in boxing world titled ¨The harder they fall¨ with Humphrey Bogart. In the late 1960s, his work did decline . His last movie was a jinx one titled ¨Avalancha express¨. Robson and his main star, Robert Shaw, died suddenly from heart attacks. And of course , ¨Von Ryan Express¨ was one of his best films . A top-notch cast , spectacular images , tense images and noisy action help make this one a superior effort of its kind . Well worth seeing , this is the ordinary War movie that Hollywood does so well . This one is certainly one of the best movies ever made about the WWII escapes . Rating  7 . Two thumbs up , essential and indispensable watching for WWII lovers , a real must see. "},{"Title":"Sinatra shines in classic war movie","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  what a marvellous performance by Sinatra and Trevor Howard in this classic World War 11 movie.A great script and some strong supporting roles make this movie a wonderful piece of entertainment.Sharp movie fans may even notice a young James Brolin in a small role,but the greatest thing about this movie is the wonderful line uttered by Trevor Howard to Frank(as Von Ryan)when Sinatra tries to tie a knot to show how to strangle a german guard (which fails) and Trevor Howard shows Sinatra how to really tie a strangle knot ,and says the immortal linelearn that from the cowboy films did you?.what a great put down,its worth watching just for that.The ending is a surprise and really leaves one a bit flat but all in all wonderful escapism. "},{"Title":"Exciting if implausible","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Loads of WWII action as Sinatra leads band of Allied POWs in theft of prison train and attempted escape run through Italy to Switzerland.  Many tense moments and spectacular location photography create a realistic feel even if the basic plot is pretty far-fetched.  After all they've been through, when Trevor Howard is still calling Frank Von Ryan an hour into the film you figure The Chairman is going to punch him senseless but that never actually happens.  Memorable final scene.  One of my favorite war movies. "},{"Title":"Robson's film gives us the necessary thrills to be pleased...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Sinatra is a cool American, whose P-38 is shot down over Italy in August 1943... The Allies were landing in Southern Italy, when Ryan is brought to an Italian prisoner of war camp...Sensing that the end is underway, the Italians were trying to get out of the war, and the Nazis were trying to keep the Allies out and the Italians in... A Fascist bully (Adolfo Celi) has ruled the POW camp, but with the collapse of Italian rule, he is thrown out... The British prisoners - professional soldiers of the 9th Fusiliers, whose constant attempts to escape have led to half rations and the withholding of medicine - headed by a heated Major (Trevor Howard), are not in agreement with the unpopular pilot, Colonel Joseph Ryan... They think him insufficiently hostile to the Italians and have given an insulting 'von to his name, insisting that he is in the wrong army...The British get along with Ryan, however, when the escape is engineered... They seize a German train, and, impersonating German troops even as they evade German pursuers, try to make a run for it to the Swiss border... The viewers can forget about realism from that moment on... 'Von Ryan's Express' is pure adventure and courts no moral dilemmas in its story...Director Mark Robson tries to combine the suspense of 'The Great Escape' with the exciting action of 'The Guns of Navarone,' and he's successful enough... The pace is quick... The Italian locations are attractive... The confrontations with German troops are well handled... Ryan is a pragmatic character not unlike the far more tragic Col. Nicholson in 'The Bridge on the River Kwai.' As a colonel master-minding commando raids, he brings the film to a great climax on an Alpine viaduct...With the exception of a strange and shocking scene where a sexy escapee is gunned down in the back, ' Von Ryan's Express' gives us the necessary thrills to be pleased... "}{"Title":"Better Than You Think","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the theatre when I was ten years old (in 1965), and I immediately decided it was my favorite movie of all time.  Think about it.  A ten year old kid deciding what was the best movie of all time. Now I'm older, and VON RYAN'S EXPRESS is no longer my choice for the best movie of all time.  It's not even in my top ten.  Can you believe it?  I've got to tell you, though, I've seen it more recently, and it's still a damn good movie.* SPOILER ALERT *This may be the last movie Frank Sinatra did where he served the script rather than go the movie star route.  His character is not likeable (Hence the Von Ryan moniker), makes mistakes, and is clearly driven by guilt in his decisions.  When he shoots the woman in the back while dressed as a Nazi in front of the Italian boy - I consider it the last great scene of his career.  And the way he gets shot in the back at the end and goes down on the tracks is a cinematic image I'll never forget.  By the way, I don't think many people know how remarkable the ending of this movie is.  Not only was it unusual for a major star to die at the end of a movie back in 1965, but the fact is, the original novel this movie is based on ends with Ryan SURVIVING, making it to Switzerland with the train!  They actually changed the plot to go for a bigger downer of an ending!* END OF SPOILER ALERT *Anyway, damn good cast (especially Trevor Howard), the plot is very solid, and my only quibble, about the German planes looking nothing like WWII German aircraft, is not limited to VON RYAN'S EXPRESS.  After all, those same aircraft were used as WWII German aircraft in THE GREAT ESCAPE.This movie takes me back.  In the best way. "},{"Title":"Great adventure war movie ruined by a poor end","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" It begins slow and gets faster and faster until the end. The color is wonderful and the music from Jerry Goldsmith well tuned to each scene. The screenplay is well adapted and the special effects good executed. The train scenes are very interesting to see and for all old locomotive lovers a must see. I liked the escape by train from south of Italy to the mountains of Switzerland.I share the opinions on IMDb that Frank Sinatra delivered one of his best performance of his career. Interesting seeing also Wolfgang Preiss that has for me the right profile for a SS. He characterizes in several war movies always a high SS and this in a very believable way. The end therefore was very poor and it seemed to me that they wanted just to stop somewhere the story.After THE TRAIN with Burt Lancaster and THE GREAT ESCAPE with Steve Mc Queen this is another good adventure war movie to add to my best of DVD collection. If you ask me which one of these three I like the most I would classify it as follows 1) THE GREAT ESCAPE (read my critic) 2) VON RYAN'S EXPRESS 3) THE TRAIN (black and white, read my critic)My vote 7/10 that matches exactly the rating on IMDb. "},{"Title":"(*Movie Quote*) - And, Such Things Do Not Happen In America?","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Released in 1965 (and starring a noticeably scrawny, 50-year-old Frank Sinatra as the title character), I honestly found this WW2, hero-worship, drama to be hardly worth getting very excited about.With its decidedly weak, paint-by-numbers storyline, this film certainly pushed the limits of daring and resourceful heroics just a little too far for their own good.If nothing else - This 2-hour war/drama (set in 1943 in Italy) definitely went well out of its way to prove to its audience that the Nazis were all just a bunch of bungling dummkopfs (natch). And, in the same breath, this film repeatedly reinforced Colonel Ryan's complete adaptability and quick-thinking as though it were his second language, or something.Anyway - For me, the comical highlight of this picture came about in a scene involving a pair of nylon stockings. I mean, you really need to see this scene for yourself in order to believe it in all of its utterly laughable absurdity. "},{"Title":"Understated War Epic","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Von Ryan's Express looks like a project never going full steam because of its star. There's this idea of an anti-hero, or more accurately reluctant and cautious hero. Sounds good for Sinatra's image, to look more like a common man, not a hero bigger than life kicking German butts with a big smile. But it's pretty awkward actually.Sinatra's character is slow in taking decisions and you're never too sure that taking command is not something he regrets the minute after he comes forward to give orders. On the whole, except for the final suspense, the movie drags its feet in line with Col. Ryan's reluctance to assume the mission of escaping. Trevor Howard is good, as always, but his role seems too much tailored to make Sinatra look nice and good.Eventually, while you would expect a breath-taking action war movie, you get much more self-conscious a war movie (mid-60s were starting to look at war on a different angle) and thus it feels mostly unfocused. Wrong angle then too challenging an approach which is continually conflicting with the main subject of a troop on the move. The Great Escape may have been too pompous, it was really focused and having most of the action unfolding in the POW camp was essential. "},{"Title":"Exciting war drama with good cast and filming!","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Von Ryan's Express (1965)Not exactly a Frank Sinatra vehicle, but he is the leading figure in a movie that has lots of ulterior motives. And it pulls off an action film about World War II with pizazz. When the war ended there was a lot of consternation about the difference in the roles of the two European antagonists--the Germans and the Italians. That's maybe the biggest ongoing theme of this movie, and clearly the Italians are being shown as victims and eventually as heroes to the Americans once the troops start to arrive and the Nazi occupation is pushed out. This is set and filmed in Italy, and the locations are terrific. And so is the filming, nicely dramatic widescreen stuff.Sinatra represents, in almost all his film roles, a kind of regular guy who isn't overly engaged but who is gentle and relaxed and ready to do the right thing. He's a real American archetype just as much as Bogart was, and his characters (including this one) mix a compelling personal demeanor with a moral fiber that makes him admirable. He doesn't seduce the woman who really is ready to let him. He doesn't put criticize his British counterpart in the prison until he has to. He stands up to the enemy but doesn't every sound arrogant or nasty. He's the ultimate good guy and is presented this way for the ongoing reason often seen in post-war American films, establishing a national character in film characters that matches the best of what was really in the air and on the ground in the U.S. at the time.It's all pretty wonderful to watch. You admire him and wish there were more people like him around.The plot is exciting as heck. What starts as a kind of prison break movie shifts to another kind of escape and survive movie, with a train running right through enemy territory. Filled with daring, with this one American amidst mostly British soldiers, the enemy is dispatched, tricked, and evaded several times. When the good guys fail, it's only temporarily. And ultimately the good guys, beyond Sinatra's American type, are the Italians, who are shown to hate the Germans and are glad for the invasion by the British and Americans. "},{"Title":"Get on board with Frankie Blue Eyes.","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Out of 20th Century Fox, Von Ryan's Express is directed by Mark Robson & stars Frank Sinatra and Trevor Howard. It's adapted by Wendell Mayes & Joseph Landon from the novel by David Westheimer. William H. Daniels is on photography and Jerry Goldsmith provides the score. Contary to what some sources say, this is not filmed in Panavision, it is filmed in Fox's trusted CinemaScope in De Luxe Color. Unless the opening credits are telling lies that is!Italy, August 1943. With the Allies poised to strike, the Germans seize control of Italy. So the war-weary Italian nation fought on, a prisoner of the German armies.Reeling from the critical kicking and gargantuan financial whack of Cleopatra, 20th Century Fox desperately wanted a hit to put the company back on an even keel. Treating the project with kid gloves, producer Saul David (director Robson co-produces) for his first producing gig for Fox takes one of the biggest names in showbiz and shoots on location in Italy and Spain. The film was a big hit that got a strong critical response and a box office take that made it the 10th highest grossing film of 1965. Of note also is that it turned out to be Sinatra's highest grossing - and biggest earning - film of the 1960s.With some changes from the novel, notably the ending, Von Ryan's Express isn't setting out to be a deep and meaningful war movie. It wants to entertain, to thrill its audience, to take them out of the stuffy prison camp and onto a fast moving train. And it does this, in spades, pitting our protagonists into a boys own adventure. We accompany Sinatra, Howard and over 500 American and British prisoners-of-war across 1943 Nazi controlled Italy; and hopefully to the safety of Switzerland. Once the film leaves the Bridge On The River Kwai like prison camp, where the characters for the story are formed, the film turns into a rip-roaring adventure piece that's flecked with moments of genuine suspense.Directed with vigour and a sense of fun by Robson, and aided no end by the fine cast, the film is all about being an old fashioned type war movie. It's not bogged down by the need to adhere to history or the horrors of war message making, this thrives on just being an action/adventure movie, one that uses real life events as its backdrop. If you like a war movie but want escapism with some beer and snacks, well this is the one for you. There are some strong character moments to keep it emotionally viable too. With the ending particularly memorable, and dare I say it, bold (altered at Sinatra's request apparently). Even the appearance of a female on board our machismo packed train (Raffaella Carrà) serves an important purpose. For where it at first seems out of place, a token offering, it ultimately makes for a critical piece of the film.Technically the piece scores high too, with effective stunt work, smart action set pieces (the last quarter bridge confrontations are thrillingly executed), sharp detailed colour and ear busting sound work (check out the Messerschmitt attack, wow!). This be an all encompassing piece of entertainment. Easily holding up on revisits over the years, Von Ryan's Express is a safe recommendation to the action/adventure/war film fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Von Ryan's Express on Reel 13","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" I had last seen VON RYAN'S EXPRESS (Mark Robson, 1965) a long time ago as a kid as one of many WWII movies that my father loved and wanted to introduce me to. Watching it again as an adult on Reel 13 last night, I realized that the film is not as strong or fun as I remembered. As a matter of fact, it is probably among the weaker films of its genre. Its superior contemporaries are films like THE GREAT ESCAPE (John Sturges, 1963), THE GUNS OF NAVARONE (J. Lee Thompson, 1961) and THE TRAIN (John Frankenheimer, 1964). The difference, I believe, is personality. All three of the films feature characters, both leading and supporting, that are significantly more fleshed out, three-dimensional and therefore, interesting. While VRE contains some impressive and well-choreographed action sequences, it isn't worth a damn without stronger character detail. The titular Colonel Ryan lacks any distinguishing characteristics or traits. He's a two-dimensional cookie-cutter war hero and its no wonder Frank Sinatra looks so bored playing him. The usually reliable Trevor Howard is frustratingly annoying as the head of the British forces in the film &#150; Major Fincham. His only character feature is that he is a wet blanket for two hours, constantly whining, complaining and naysaying at every turn. It might have been a much better film if Sinatra had just shot him in the early going.Another positive aspect of VON RYAN'S EXPRESS is the level of detail put into the WWII accuracy. While I'm no history expert and they could have made dozens of mistakes that I didn't catch, everything seemed to be precise, from the style of trains and plains to the uniforms to the military procedures. Even if they missed something, Robson and screenwriters Wendell Mayes and Joseph Landon take great pains to explain how things work so that we understand how our heroes overcome each obstacle that falls in their path. It is always clear and sensible how each approaching problem is solved. The tradeoff, however, as is common amongst plot-heavy films, is that you run the risk sacrificing character development. Great films are a balance of plot and character. The three films I mention above managed to achieve that. VON RYAN'S EXPRESS did not.(For more information on this or any other Reel 13 film, check out their website at www.reel13.org) "},{"Title":"A couple of interesting things","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" By 1965, there were a zillion WWII movies made. By the time the Beatles came along, the public must have been tired of this. However, this movie does provide adventure and some atypical moments. Usually movies about WWII show Americans as good and the British as snobs. In this movie, however, the relations were more as they truly were. They got along okay, but there were true tensions and differences that were not based solely on perceived class mentality differences. I can only say that Frank Sinatra is probably the best ever singer turned actor. He truly was a great actor on his own accord. He has to convince the seasoned veteran British Major (Trevor Howard) that he is truly deserving of being a higher ranking Colonel. The other thing I like is that it wasn't all a happy rah, rah movie. Colonel Ryan ends up shooting an Italian woman in the back (disguised as a German soldier, in front of a throng of Italian civilians), who was running away (and would have probably ratted them out to the Nazis). This is not an easy scene. I also like that Ryan dies in the end. Usually, it is a happy ending. The ending is not-so-happy, because Ryan dies saving the rest of his soldiers' lives. Lastly, it really was filmed in Italy. "},{"Title":"Great Escape yarn.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  I was never a fan of Frank Sinatra. While I had always like him as a singer, I never thought he would make a good star, especially competing with other tough guys like Steve Mc Queen, and later, Eastwood and Connery. Hah! I am still right, but I learned to like him. Especially after this movie.The second hour of this movie was fast. Really fast, and suspenseful. Honestly, I didn't expect this from a movie of that time. You will find yourself with the characters as they escape from the Germans in World War Two. Oh yes, that's what the plot is all about.While the first hour is equally good, there might be a bit of drabness. A, I've-seen-it-all stuff, especially when it concerns the World War 11 prison life. We have seen it in Wilder's Stalag 17, Sturges' The Great Escape and many others. I loved this line. American prisoners (When Frank, an air-Corp colonel, couldn't do much for them) I shouldn't known. He's a bird colonel. Sinatra Well, a bird colonel outranks birdbrain. Clear!It goes on for a while, all that prison scenes. But when Sinatra and the gang are out, boy you are in for a great thrill ride.I will not spoil you with the details of the escape.  But the ending...I mean...It should have...but it was good. Just that...oh, hell, check it out yourself. It is a brilliant piece of filmmaking. I wonder what happened to Mark Robson. Is he related to Bobby and Bryan? Lets check IMDB.Note The cast is interesting. There's Trevor Howard, who is in his Captain Bligh mode (He did the Brando version of Mutiny of the Bounty remember). There was Adolfo Celi, who, in the year before, appeared as Bond Baddie, Emilio Largo. We get to hear his real voice in this one, and goddamit! It sounds the same as his dubbed voice. Also, watch out for a young Edward Mulhare, who would, in the eighties, appear as Devon in The Knight Rider. As if you care! Hey, I do okay. It was a damn nice car. "},{"Title":"You'll Get Your Iron Cross, Von Ryan!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Told by associates that he needed to branch away from the Rat Pack home movies he'd been doing since The Manchurian Candidate, Frank Sinatra signed on for this 1965 POW epic that ranks as among his best films.Colonel Joseph Ryan is shot down in Italy in August 1943, around the time of the Allied invasion of Sicily.  Hidden from the Germans by Italian soldiers, Ryan winds up in a prison camp run by the sadistic Battaglia (Adolfo Celi, best known as Emilio Largo in 1965's James Bond epic Thunderball).  The primary residents of the camp are the members of the Royal Army's 9th Fusilleers, headed by Major Fincham (Trevor Howard) and a few American prisoners.  Fincham and the 9th Fusilleers have been waging their own private war against Battaglia, and when their commander dies (one of several trying to escape), British resistance hardens.  But with Sicily on the ropes, Italy is bound to quit the war, and with malaria breaking out, Ryan, now senior among the POWs, is convinced by the other American prisoners that the camp needs to cooperate with Battaglia and get medicines and so forth.This is the moral dilemma that begins the rocky relationship between Ryan and Fincham and his men.  Ryan shows Battaglia escape tunnels dug by the POWs in exchange for medicine, bath water, and clean clothes, but is betrayed by the camp commander.  So Ryan gives an audacious order, one that embarasses Battaglia (and brings humor to Captain Oriani, his XO and a officer who sympathizes with the prisoners) and leads Ryan to a sweatbox to rot away, a punishment that earns him respect by the British prisoners.But when Italy surrenders a few days later, Fincham puts Battaglia on trial, even though, as Ryan points out, with Italy out of the war, Battaglia is now a civilian.  Ryan convinces the vengeance-minded British to stuff Battaglia in the sweatbox to rot, which angers the more vengful Fincham.  But they all have to put their squabbles aside as the Germans are marching into Italy.Ryan leads the prisoners on a march across the land, but they are captured by the Germans and placed in a train for a German Stalag; making it worse, injured prisoners are slaughtered (off camera but clearly heard) and the one who betrays Ryan and Fincham turns up long enough to quietly gloat - and earn seemingly permanent hatred by Fincham toward Ryan.But Ryan isn't through yet, as he leads a daring second escape, seizing the train, only to have to keep going north to escape detection, with their one chance being a one-way trip to neutral Switzerland. "}{"Title":"How to Succeed in Hollywood Without Really Trying","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" With the success of the film The Great Escape (1963) a new film genre was born, the prisoner-of-war-escape film. Marc Robson's film Von Ryan's Express (1965) is one such film that is basically a remake of The Great Escape. The prisoners are being held by the Italian (instead of the Germans); there's a sweatbox instead of a cooler; and Frank Sinatra is saving the day instead of Steve McQueen. Express is basically a remake of The Great Escape and not a very good one. The film falls short in trying to convey a realistic story, with choppy dialogue and poor acting this film is just not that great.Old Baby Face is at it again as he attempts to portray a no-nonsense war Colonel, Joseph Ryan, the American soldier who will lead POWs to freedom. Watching Frank Sinatra try to evoke the power he had with The Manchurian Candidate but just couldn't do it. He acts like a little kid does when they are in charge but are lost in the shadows of stronger people like Trevor Howard's character as Major Eric Finchman. The film is built to be an escape-film and the whole film moves quickly to get to the escape and it's not that great of an escape. Everything that someone would expect to happen does, the audience knows when something will go wrong and who will die because the film is a generic representation of the escape-film. This is a film that can be watched on a lazy Saturday afternoon because it requires no deep thinking and no need to pay close attention because the film isn't that hard to follow. "},{"Title":"All aboard the Freedom Train!","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" All aboard the Freedom Train! Von Ryan's Express is an enjoyable, somewhat more than a waste of time prisoner escape movie. While Sinatra's acting was decent, I found his character to be not very believable -- but he did well with what he had in the script. Many of the characters were somewhat stereotypical but not too over the top in that regard, and the supporting cast was competent and entertaining. The story is of course not very credible, although it could have been more plausible had they been trying to fool civilian authorities in peace time rather than Nazi military and Gestapo officials during World War 2, as in the movie.The movie's strengths include the epic cinematography of a locomotive charging through a variety of genuine Italian scenery (an Italian railroad company was given thanks at the end, but their reward really was the free advertising for tourism and rail travel in that beautiful country), occasional bits of comic relief that worked (such the chutzpah of Sinatra stubbornly negotiating the sale of his shiny American watch with a Gestapo agent, a fact that should have given things away in the real world), and some picturesque air to ground combat scenes. "},{"Title":"Ay, mate, the Alps! *SPOILERS*","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Ordinary, but still with some worthwhile enjoyablility along the way, this wartime 'boys' own' adventure has a nice cameo of 'Frankie' as the astute officer of the title, leading another crew of escapee POWs from the Nazis, from an Italian POW camp. Taking over the mantle from the reluctant British Major, martinet-like Trevor Howard, provides some angst between the so-called allies as, 'Colonel' Sinatra does it his way with reckless Howard left on the sideline. There's some real taut Anglo-American relations, showing the Brits as stupid/stubborn and Sinatra and his complaining American compadres being 'The Great Escape'- like! That said, they both take the boys out of the POW camp when the Italians pull out of the war. Seizing their chance to run, they're re-captured, the wounded prisoners are shot by the Nazis though as Howard reminds Sinatra, due to HIM letting the creepy camp CO, Battaglia (Adolfo Celi) live and fingering them. Hence being christened 'Von Ryan'.The men capture the train though, posing as the Nazi guards escorting allied POWs (Tobruk, anyone?)and in the hope of actually running the train all the way to freedom. (Eventually Switzerland).The action scenes are fairly sixties-style OK (The same kind of machine gun sounds throughout the sixties) and an appearance by the Italian singer Raffaela Carra as a captured Nazi officer's 'crumpet', who's later shot when running by Sinatra, from the said train, much to Sinatra's mixed feelings about this, as she may or may not have told the Nazis the boys were the escaping POWs they were looking for.They manage to evade their pursuers at every turn and the finale is really where the Nazis have nearly caught them up, on the border with Italy and Switzerland with Messerschmitts firing rockets at them, providing the final suspense. The customary 'gun-battle' near the end of the chase, in the tunnels, with the boys running to make the train under a hail of bullets, sees Sinatra as the last one trying to get on the train, holding out his hands desperately, only to be (suprisingly)shot down (Dead of course!) as the train's rear end focuses on the leading men looking peeved (Okay, mournful!) at his demise.As I say, I think the action was ordinary but a nice performance in support from the likes of Edward Mulhare as the passive Padre, who speaks German and poses as a Nazi officer to get the boys through checkpoints and Brad Dexter as one of the few Americans. A nice 'suspense' moment is when they look like they're tumbled at a checkpoint by a Gestapo agent, as he questions Sinatra, in his Nazi uniform, where he got the American pilot's watch he's wearing, making us all think he was actually on the boys' tail. Okay at Christmas time on the TV, but how it seems so expensive on the DVD counter beats me (Usually not below the £4.99 mark anywhere). "},{"Title":"Yes Virginia, Frank Sinatra can act...","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" This is a largely forgotten film from the days of the war epic. So many great war movies came out, Bridge on the River Kwai, Stalag 17, Kelly's Heroes, Dirty Dozen, A Bridge Too Far, Bridge at Remagen, The Great Escape, etc; that this film is often overlooked. But take the opportunity to see this film. While a completely fictionalized story of a mass escape from an Italian prisoner of war camp, this movie manages to achieve a plausible story from what would be a fantastic and unbelievable occurrence. The escape of hundreds of P.O.W's and the subsequent exodus through the heart of German occupied territory, into the safe haven of Switzerland. The film really has three distinct parts. First there's the set up of the opening act, played out in the prison camp. A ruthless, but also comical Italian overseer has deprived the camp of medicine, and food. Enter Frank Sinatra, who as an American air force colonel, shot down and shipped to the camp. As the ranking officer, the regimental British troops cede command to him. He quickly rankles them with his concessions to the head of the camp. They see it as traitorous, especially given the fact their last head of camp, was killed by the Harsh Italian commander. But Ryan has a practical approach, his duty is to keep these prisoners alive, in the hopes of being soon liberated by the advancing allied forces. Act Two involves the mass escape, helped by the Italian abandonment of the camp, and Act Three is the crescendo of the exodus by captured German train. A fantastic bit of scenery. It plays out wonderfully with a very satisfying ending. Plenty of tension, and thrills keep the audience engaged. "},{"Title":"spectacular adaptation of a fantastic novel","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Of course, like many works of fiction, the movie Von Ryan's Express is not quite as good as the original novel upon which it is based. I read David Westheimer's book and thought it was a wonderful original story with a a great style and an entertainment value that never stalled or ended.Because I was such a fan of the book, I was quick to try and see the film that was adapted from Westheimer's text and imagination. The film of the same title stars Frank Sinatra and Trevor Howard among other talented actors such as Brad Dexter and James Brolin and all in all, the cast performs well in a film that is fairly faithful to the book and even better, provides a high level of entertainment. There are a few changes, eliminations, and additions made to the story, some of which I felt were necessary, some I felt unnecessary but overall the filmmakers did a good job at crafting the movie.Perhaps the greatest feat of the director and screenwriter is that they made the characters appear like human beings and gave them strong characterization just like in the novel. While I did feel there was a problem with the title character. Frank Sinatra did a great job in the role, but the problem was that the character did not have the same personality that I thought was so awesome in the novel. I think the film version of the character has three-fourths the punch of its book counterpart. Trevor Howard's character, however, was exactly as I had pictured Fincham to be.There are some really great action moments in the film and it is some content of the best of the older war films that I have seen. The careful usage of a musical score also works out and makes the movie seem more real. I did feel that more blood could have been used to create a more realistic effect in some moments, but when there is blood, it is used wisely. But when a character is killed, it is done right so that it doesn't look or feel like just an actor staggering and falling over and then holding their breath.If there is a problem with the film it is in the ending, which I warn viewers is totally different from the ending of the novel. But overall, I did very much enjoy Von Ryan's Express and I highly recommend it as one of the top best war films I've ever seen in my movie-going experiences. "},{"Title":"An all-time classic","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" This movie, unlike, say, The Guns of Navarone, has aged very, very well. Just keep in mind that it's a male fantasy film that just happens to be set during WWII. Like other male fantasy films, it involves one heroic individual using wholesale levels of violence to persevere over evil at impossible odds (hence the fantasy). If you liked male fantasy film Goldfinger and its FIVE DIGIT combination to the Fort Knox Gold Depository vault, which I did, then you'll love this film. The acting is terrific, the characters are unforgettable and the ending will leave you stunned. No one but Sinatra could have played Ryan.One other comment--the sound effect used for the German machine pistols used throughout this movie is the best among all Hollywood productions I have seen (this sound is presumably yet another fantasy). That sound effect alone is worth the price of the rental. "},{"Title":"Good stuff","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Minor spoilers.This is the type of movie that I would look for on a weekend afternoon as a kid.  In a nutshell it is a good old fashioned war movie made in the 60s (when so many of them were made) that has suspense, action, heroes and even a little irony (Sinatra taken by the lad as a Nazi shooting an innocent woman in the back).  I have no problem with the realism, moral ambiguity and the toned down heroics in modern war pictures, but sometimes it's nice to watch a simple war flick like this and just enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good Sinatra vehicle","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  A generally good POW film, starring Frank Sinatra as Ryan, later nicknamed Von Ryan. After escaping an Italian POW camp, he and his fellow prisoners must flee to Switzerland on a commandeered train, with the Germans in hot pursuit. Typical Sinatra vehicle, forgive the pun, with Frank in his usual tough-guy-from-Jersey persona. Good supporting roles by Trevor Howard and Edward Mulhare, and the filthy conditions and general squalor of the POW camp was done with more realism than other films of this genre. Good action scenes, though some are a bit of a stretch.   "},{"Title":"Vastly overrated","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Sinatra is at the edge of old when he does this movie, which undercuts all my belief in him as a young pilot. Furthermore, he just reads his line--there is no acting going on with him that I can see (and he did act darned well in Manchurian Candidate, so I know it's possible). Trevor Howard and the supporting cast did better. The morality is simple- minded, the action sequences are ho-hum, the Goldsmith score is not one of his best.This is rated highly, but it's no Stalag 17 or Great Escape--indeed, it's nowhere near them. I managed to watch the whole movie without throwing anything across the room, and there are movies I turn off, or that make me pick up a magazine to read while it's on so that I get some entertainment, and there are those who make me capable of throwing a whole coffee table across the room, I'm so angry, and this wasn't one of these. But it wasn't good. "},{"Title":"A Superb Action/Adventure","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Of the movies I have seen him in, I have to say that his turn as Colonel Ryan in Von Ryan's Express is probably the best acting I have ever seen from Frank Sinatra. As Ryan, Sinatra plays an American pilot shot down over Italy in 1943 and sent to an Italian POW camp that has mostly British prisoners from a single regiment. Ryan, however, becomes the ranking POW upon his arrival, setting up a conflict between himself and the senior British officer (played by Trevor Howard.) Ryan insists on changes in how things are done. The British don't like it. The tension is palpable and very believable in the circumstances. Upon Italy's surrender after the Allies invade, there's more conflict over what to do with the former Italian commander of the camp (who's now the prisoner of the former prisoners) and disagreement over how to get past the Germans who have begun to occupy Italy.The escape is an exciting adventure. Captured by the Germans, the Allied prisoners are put on a train to be taken to a new camp in Austria, but en route manage to hijack the train and head for Switzerland, with a German troop train and Messerschmidt fighters in hot pursuit. Eventually, a grudging respect develops between Ryan and the Brits as the movie reaches its climax.This is really an excellent movie. No doubt that the plot is somewhat unbelievable, but that doesn't take away from the excitement of it all, nor does it take away from the superb performances by Sinatra and Howard. On occasion, the movie even manages to introduce a sense of humour and there are several scenes that do cause at least a smile, if not a chuckle. "}{"Title":"Von Ryan's Express- Frank Shines in this War Film ***1/2","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" There is plenty of excitement as Frank Sinatra, Trevor Howard and Brad Dexter along with others try to outwit the Nazis in 1943 Italy.As Ryan, Sinatra comes to a prisoner of war camp just as Italy is about to surrender and change sides in the war following the overthrow of Mussolini.The film becomes a great adventure as the prisoners of war try to thwart the Germans by being on a train supposedly bound for Milan but will eventually be detoured.Edward Mulhare, the future Ghost and Mrs. Muir actor is marvelous here as a priest who uses his knowledge of German to get the Nazis to change the destination of the train.This is an above average war film which should be viewed. "},{"Title":"Just chugging along","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  I love war movies and I love movies set on trains.  So I really love this movie!Trevor Howard is brilliant as Major Fincham, the very much regimented leader of the British prisoners.  I would not have liked to serve under him!One blooper I noticed in the movie was where they were at a railway station and the Gestapo come to pay them a visit on the train.  It seems the Gestapo officer was very keen on Frank Sinatra's watch.  Anyway as the Gestapo approached the train on the left hand side, panic was created started inside the carriage.  The worry was that the Gestapo would see through the windows the German officer and girl that were locked away in one of the compartments in that carriage.  The only problem was that the windows in the compartment were on the right hand side of the carriage, the opposite side to where the Gestapo were approaching.  Therefore making it impossible for the German officer and girl to be seen by them. "},{"Title":"Tosses away it's own merits","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" I watched this on Hulu.com last night. Early on I was really struck by the location footage, convincing grimy sets, dark cinematography, and the inability to guess where it was all going. All of this is pretty amazing for the time, and for a Sinatra vehicle. Even after it was clearly only going to be a pot-boiler, I was willing to keep watching.But by the ninety minute mark all of its potential is pretty much expired, as it anxiously rushes to become something much smaller; a prison break movie. It's clearly only going to be a piece of escapism. And things begin to drag. The premise (of the Oh-Come-On! variety) becomes ridiculous, and a bundle of moments constructed to raise tension just made me roll my eyes. The only way the movie could be of interest is if the escape was a true event. It's not. So every belabored, manufactured moment of the last hour (It's too long) damages more and more of the good will created in the earlier, better half. It just tries much too late to become meaningful.Some aspects of the production don't even try to look like the early forties. The female role is completely out of 1965. Trevor Howard plays another Brit pain in the arse. "},{"Title":"Excellent, exciting film","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Frank Sinatra rides Von Ryan's Express in this 1965 film also starring Trevor Howard, Sergio Fantoni, Edward Mulhare and Adolfo Celi. James Brolin has a small role. Sinatra plays an American Colonel named Ryan who is put in an Italian prisoner of war camp, where he meets the English prisoners, led by the tough Major Finchan (Howard). Ryan makes some bad deals with the Italian commandant (Celi) for better conditions and earns the name Von Ryan from his fellow prisoners. The group eventually attempt escape but are caught and put on a train. Von Ryan devises a plot to take over the train from the Italians and head for Switzerland.There are some very exciting and suspenseful scenes in this film that will have viewers glued to the action. Sinatra and Howard are very good and believable in their roles as is Sergio Fantoni, an Italian who betrays the commandant, and Celi, the commandant himself. The showiest and most fun role belongs to Edward Mulhare, who plays a priest in the prison who knows German and therefore has to pass himself off as an officer. His scene where he speaks toughly and with great authority to the Germans and faints once out of their sight is great. The only offputting thing if you know German is that he uses the formal Sie case instead of Du which would have been more appropriate when speaking to underlings.If one man escapes, it's a victory, Major Fincham says. The two officers set out to see that everyone escapes, but there are some problems along the way. The film uses a real train and railroad, which is a plus, and while a good deal of the film isn't very realistic, one goes along with it. Truly excellent and involving. "},{"Title":"The Great Escape takes The Train","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Von Ryan's Express belongs to the dying days of WW2-as-Boys-Own-adventure movies, where, for all the cynical window-dressing, the good guys can always outwit overwhelming numbers of Nazis and death is still heroic. It's also much more entertaining than it has any right to be as Frank Sinatra's unpopular new senior officer leads several hundred prisoners of war to freedom by hijacking a Nazi train and conning his way through Italy to Switzerland while Trevor Howard's old school British officer snipes at his bad form all the way and Edward Mulhare's lovable padre impersonates a German officer to get them past the checkpoints. Yep, it's The Great Escape meets The Train, with Great Escaper John Leyton along for the ride just in case anyone misses the connection. As big, not quite as dumb as it could be entertainment it certainly does the trick, throwing in an enjoyable if sparse Jerry Goldsmith score and a particularly memorable finale. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable WWII escape movie","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Having caught most of Von Ryan's Express one Sunday afternoon many years ago, and having enjoyed it, I was pleased to have recently been able to watch the movie again in its entirety.Von Ryan's Express tells the story of how an American POW (Col. Joseph L. Ryan) leads a group mainly British prisoners to escape from the Germans in WWII. The stereotypical brash and daring American POW, is played by legendary crooner Frank Sinatra. Seeing Frank stride into the POW camp with his slicked-back 50's hair style and leather jacket near the start of the movie, it felt like this movie was going to be nothing more than vehicle to push Sinatra's sex god status, rather than a serious WWII movie. His character's plane had been shot down over enemy territory by the Germans, and he seems to come out of it with little more than a scratch, looking like a 1943 version of Fonzie from Happy Days. After the first twenty or so minutes of the movie I had realized that while this movie was a Sinatra vehicle, it was also an attempt to tell a great WWII escape story. Von Ryan's Express has all the elements a good WWII escape movie needs tension between the brash American character and the 'tough as nails' British Major (played by the talented Trevor Howard), the harrowing camp scenes, evading the enemy, dressing up like Germans in order to get past checkpoints, a bit of fisticuffs, shoot outs, and of course - THE ESCAPE... which involves a large train and the Switzerland border.Is it up there with The Great Escape, Where Eagles Dare and similar movies of that era... not entirely, but this is a great movie none the less - a solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"A bird-colonel out-ranks a bird-brain, clear?","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Von Ryan's Expess is an enjoyable enough WWII escape film, but it's far from perfect. The plot is simple and straightforward &#150; a band of allied POWs, led by Colonel Joseph L. Ryan (Frank Sinatra), take over a German prisoner train and use it to find freedom in Switzerland. While the plot may be far-fetched, it makes for an interesting idea for a movie. The acting is good, but I don't think this is Sinatra's best moment. Regardless of what others have said, I'm of the opinion that almost anyone could have played the part of Colonel Ryan &#150; and probably played it better. The real star to me is Trevor Howard. He steals every scene in which he appears. Locations, sets, and the use of a real train give the film a fairly authentic feel. The scenes filmed in the mountains are particularly impressive.But, as I stated, Von Ryan's Express is not perfect. Beyond the problems I have with the story's absurdity and Sinatra's acting, the movie runs on far too long. Tighter editing, particularly early on in the film, might have made for a better film. There really isn't much going on before the escape gets underway that couldn't have been edited by about 15 minutes. Also, some of the action sequences are far from realistic. There are too many scenes where the German soldiers fall like dominoes while being completely unable to hit anything with their guns. It just looks silly.In the end, even with the shortcomings, Von Ryan's Express is an entertaining movie. But it's those shortcomings that keep me from rating it any higher. "},{"Title":"War or train film?","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Having read several other comment features on this film I haven't much to add.I think it is a rattling good story, well acted and directed, with the additional virtues of superb scenery and plenty of railway action. I often wonder whether the film appeals more to war buffs or railway buffs.My main purpose in writing this short comment is to answer a query posed by another member in his/her comment.I was told many, many years ago that the railway scenes through the mountains involving the tunnels were filmed on the line that runs from Innsbruck, Austria up to the mountain resort of Seefeld. The line is still open, used mainly by trains travelling from Innsbruck to Munich (Munchen), Germany (and vice versa).I have travelled this stretch of line and have little doubt this is the route used in the film. "},{"Title":"I  took a trip on a train..................","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Mr Sinatra brings his Las Vegas schtick to the European theatre of war.He plays a USAF Colonel whose plane is shot down in Italy(and that can't have been easy).He is captured and ,complete with nifty band-aid,sent to a prisoner of war camp run by that nasty Adolfo Celi(complete with nifty corset). He is very grumpy(what did he expect - Room Service?)and not popular with his fellow Americans(all four of them). Mr Sinatra does not feel that trying to escape from the camp at this late stage in the campaign,balancing the risks against the likely benefits,is a worthwhile exercise.The British contingent led by uber-grump Mr Trevor Howard clash violently with his opinion which amounts to Camp policy as he outranks the Brit major. At this point the film could have developed into an interesting study of conflict between the two senior officers but John Sturgess is no David Lean and Von Ryan's Express trundles up the track already trod by countless second-rate war movies . Music Hall Italians who make 'ello 'ello seem like Bicycle thieves and Germans who should seriously consider contacting the Race Relations Board are outwitted or slaughtered by POWs escaping after the end of the campaign as predicted by Col Sinatra,during a train ride to more northern climes. The ultimate body count must make Where Eagles Dare seem like Winnie-the-Pooh and the Blustery Day.I'm amazed the Germans had enough blokes left to make a go of the rest of the war. I hope with all my heart that nobody has ever taken Von Ryan's Express remotely seriously.It is gratuitously insulting to combat troops of every European nation that fought in the second world war.Bernard Manning would make a more convincing Air Force Colonel than Mr Sinatra,but he wouldn't look as snazzy in a brown leather blouson. I took a trip on a train.....and I thought about you,he crooned on Songs for Swinging Lovers.Well,he got it half right.If he'd really thought about anybody but himself he'd have got on a bus. "},{"Title":"Nice Action Film","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" An American POW (Frank Sinatra) leads a group of mainly British prisoners to escape from the Germans in WWII.Rumors of a personality clash between star Frank Sinatra, who was flown by helicopter to the set, and director Mark Robson were not enough to cause problems as the film was shot with relatively little trouble. However, Sinatra did insist that the ending of the film be altered. Sinatra also insisted the film be shot in Panavision rather than Fox's CinemaScope.It's interesting to imagine a time where Frank Sinatra demanded enough respect on a movie set that he could boss the director around, be able to pick the camera used, and even get the script re-written. Gee, Frank, why not just be a producer if you want so much authority? "}{"Title":"Ending Scene","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" I always wondered why the prisoners just didn't get out and run through the train tunnel. At one point, they were trying to take a foot bridge around the mountain with Switzerland being on the other side of the mountain. If they had just run through the tunnel they would have been very well protected from the planes and the Germans on the troop train never would have caught them on time. It didn't make sense to me that the option they chose was to repair the track and drive the whole train through. One could argue it was because they had wounded to carry but that would have also applied to taking the footbridge around the mountain. "},{"Title":"An AWESOME movie in the tradition of The Great Escape!","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" FRANK SINATRA...the great crooner...was also a great actor! )This movie (as well as others), are definitive proof of that! Frank was at his best in all of his movies...but, he was at the top in movies like Ocean's Eleven; Assault on a Queen;  None But the Brave; The Manchurian Candidate; Sergeants 3; From Here To Eternity; and, many more, especially in this movie! Frank Sinatra was STARDOM-GOLD whether it be for his singing or acting, or, just being himself.Von Ryan's Express is a classic World War II adventure of American and British POWs escaping from an Italian POW camp just as the Italians surrendered in World War II. Now, he and his men, with the help of an Italian Army Captain and a train conductor, are alluding and evading the Germans after 'stealing' a train.This is an EXCELLENT movie that all World War II buffs need to see! ) "},{"Title":"Not a complete waste of time...","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" This is a movie with a pretty standard plot. Pows escaping Nazi Germany. You get your standard dose of gunfighting, sneaking around, and ridiculous plans that would never work in real life. The acting is okay, as are the special effects and the score.You are probably thinking right about now that this review seems pretty negative. For that i am sorry. This movie isn't really that bad. If you're bored with nothing to watch then go ahead. This movie is not a complete waste of time. However, the eloquent phrases and colorful wording that generally come to my mind when writing a review for a good movie are currently absent.Some movies are timeless. Movies like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, or to Kill a Mockingbird can be watched even to this day despite their primitive technology. Von Ryan's express is not one of these. However, it has its moments and while the movie as a whole is just Okay, parts of it may pleasantly surprise you. "},{"Title":"Great WW2 drama","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Great WW2 drama. Really a movie of two parts the first half is a character-sketching, human intrigue, battle-of-wills drama. The second is an action-drama, complete with a train chase and breathtaking Alpine scenery.Decent plot and solid direction. Could easily have degenerated into a pointless action movie, but even in the second part it had enough non- action drama to keep it very interesting.Frank Sinatra brings his trademark swagger and bravado to the lead role, and the role suits him. Good support from Trevor Howard. Lesser parts are well-performed too. "},{"Title":"Good war film","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" I've seen Von Ryan's Express ten times and it's one of those war films that are ideal for passing a couple of hours on a wet afternoon. Basically the film is set in Italy in 1943 and is the story of a group of POWs who are abandoned by the Italians as the Allies advance, then are captured by the Nazis and placed on a prison train where they kill their captors and force the driver to drive them through Italy to Switzerland and freedom.Frank Sinatra, as good an actor as a singer, plays Colonel Joseph Ryan, an arrogant pilot who antagonises the mostly British POWs and is nicknamed Von Ryan for his high handed and arrogant attitude. However, the British POWs, led by Trevor Howard, come to respect him as the film goes on and help him achieve his plan to escape to Switzerland.Von Ryan's Express is a good film as the action never lets up and the final scenes where the POWs cut the railway line behind them to stop a German train capturing them and then have a gun battle, where Ryan is gunned down, are first rate. Also the way the Gestapo are outwitted is clever, with the POWs dressed in stolen German uniforms, and there is a twist when the POWs find a woman, apparently a prostitute, on the train and then Ryan has to shoot her when she tries to escape and betray them to the Italian police.A good film that was very popular when released and one of the best war films of the sixties. "},{"Title":"A war adventure","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Von Ryan's Express is about a daring escape of about 600 POWs from a prison camp in Italy. At the Allied invasion of Italy, Italy surrendered and the POWs suddenly found themselves alone in their camp. A first escape attempt was foiled by intervening German troops, and the prisoners put on a train headed for Innsbruck. The outlook is grim, but Ryan manages to stage a coup and take over the train. But how will they escape in the middle of enemy territory? The movie is a thrilling and entertaining all the way, even though it is quite long. The plot is spiced up with some humor, and given depth by Sinatra trying to be humane in a war zone. Von Ryan's Express has a little bit of everything, it is a true adventure.7/10 "},{"Title":"Good World War Film","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" A very good war movie set towards the end of the second world war, which sees Frank Sinatra star as an American PoW in Italy. Whilst the film draws obvious parallels to the Great Escape, it does enough to distinguish itself with some memorable scenes and characters. Adolfo Celi (best known as the baddie in the Bond film Thunderball) plays an unlikable PoW commanding officer, Trevor Howard is excellent as the typical British commanding officer, whilst a young James Brolin also pops up.The film is thoroughly enjoyable with a number of nail-biting moments, unfortunately the dramatic finale was ruined for me as I had seen the ending on a review show once, but would definitely recommend this to any war film fans. "},{"Title":"Better Than It Should Have Been","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Conceived as a kind of Great Escape knockoff and mounted as a vehicle for Frank Sinatra, Von Ryan's Express feels like a bad idea in synopsis form. Yet it makes for one of the more entertaining thrill rides among 1960s' World War II films.Sinatra is Col. Joseph Ryan, a fighter pilot shot down in Italy just days after the liberation of Sicily. He is taken to an Italian POW camp, mostly occupied by British soldiers under the command of Major Fincham, played by Trevor Howard as a martinet overcommitted to the idea of escape at all costs. Ryan would rather cool it and wait for Allied liberation, but then the Germans get involved. Desperate measures are called for.This is all established in the first 30 minutes of Von Ryan's Express, which poses an interesting challenge to the mindset of films like Great Escape What's the point in a jailbreak if you wind up losing most of your men?An exchange between Ryan and Fincham captures this well. OK, clue me, asks Ryan, a tad anachronistically. Suppose you do rig an escape. How many men do you figure to get clear?If one gets out, it's a victory, Fincham replies.Sure it is, Ryan mutters.Actually, Fincham's words inspire another kind of boldness in Ryan, a kind that gets sorely needed medicine to suffering prisoners and earns Ryan the nickname Von Ryan, as in collaborator. Sinatra's performance may feel a bit like he should be wearing a sharkskin flight suit, but he and the script do a good job of setting up Ryan's loner character, and developing a kind of tension that the latter part of the film, a more straightforward war adventure, churns through nicely.There's palpable energy boiling between Sinatra and Howard, the latter revisiting his Capt. Bligh performance from Mutiny On The Bounty three years before but in a somewhat mellower vein. His Fincham is a remarkable whiner, given to exclaiming We've had it at every bad turn, but the film doesn't make Ryan the sole font of wisdom. For one thing, he doesn't know the science of killing a guard from behind, which Fincham explains with juicy relish.It can even be argued that the characters would have been better off with Fincham calling the shots all the way, though they would have been a lot less easy to root for, Allies or no. Ryan's not as war-embittered as Fincham, he's a 90-day wonder as he puts it, and though crafty, his humanistic instincts don't necessarily make him the better man.Nothing really sticks out as brilliant or clever in Von Ryan's Express, and indeed there are plenty of sizeable plot holes along the way, but it's a good film with decent supporting performances and some nice set design and Alpine scenics, like Raffaella Carra in a plunging negligee. Director Mark Robson knows what he has in his hands, an Alistair MacLean-type story, and doesn't overcomplicate things with a lot of character exposition. The best sequence features Edward Mulhare as a German-speaking British padre who must help his comrades sneak past a guarded railroad. Sinatra shines especially in a scene where a Gestapo agent takes an interest in his watch.The most memorable thing about Von Ryan's Express is its tough, taut conclusion, probably why it's as highly regarded as it is today. Without it, the film's improbabilities would feel more naked. "},{"Title":"Rollicking Railway Adventure","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Ol' Blue Eyes has always appeared to be an under-utilised asset in the serious movie drama. And although this item is, like so many war movies, very much a tongue-in-cheek poke at the beastly fascists it still has good dramatic moments. Sinatra is extremely well cast as the airman who is only an officer of necessity. He's a basically decent, practical bloke who just wants to win, but also survive if he possibly can. Unlike the almost fanatical British officer, steeped in military tradition, played more easily but still competently by reliable Trevor Howard.They hijack the train that is taking POW's from Italy to Germany and re-route it to Switzerland. Cue for a cat-and-mouse chase.It's a wee bit formulaic, with all of the usual clichés - crooked gestapo spivs, blindingly pedantic Nazi officers, simple moral issues about right and wrong. But like Northwest Frontier or The Guns of Navarone; it's well paced and entertaining.I'm afraid I belong to the 'Why Didn't They Do' school of viewer, and towards the end, when they're high up in the foothills of The Alps, they are delayed by a broken track and at the same time pursued by a German military train a couple of miles behind but several hundred feet below. And the question I ask is this before removing the rails behind their train to repair the track in front of it, why didn't they unhitch the last coach or couple of coaches, and send them careering back downhill to collide with the upcoming German train? Logical, really.That rather spoils the ending for me. "},{"Title":"The Train not to be missed","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" The movie opens in wide angle and most of the way through, it remains the same. The camera has tried to capture all the beauty of Italy and borders of Swiss. One the great classic i have seen, and the perfect one for my collection. All the actors, where good in the film and each of them have a brief role to play. Themusic was great and the Graphics was good too. The train sequences was filmed beautifully and the dialogs was right on the nail. Even though the train moves slowly the film catches speed in every frame till the end. I agree with the director with the end, and also for not making it too dramatic. I liked the character of Frank because of the way he played it, I really cant imagine somebody else playing this character so powerfully. The final combat with the aircraft was taken beautifully. One more character which i liked is that of the priest. The film has a small ray of comic sense in each and every character which is a great plus to the movie. A classic(train) which should not be missed. "}{"Title":"Excellent, absorbing WWII thriller.","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Frank Sinatra and Trevor Howard headline a solid cast in this rousing adaptation of a novel by David Westheimer, directed with gusto by Mark Robson and filmed on breathtaking locations in Italy. Sinatra plays Joseph Ryan, an American Air Force pilot shot down and taken to a prison camp run by domineering Battaglia (Adolfo Celi). This camp is mostly populated by Brits, members of the Royal Army's 9th Fusiliers, with a couple of other Americans on hand. When the prisoners see their chance for escape, they take it, only to be recaptured by Nazi forces. However, they manage to outwit their captors and gain control of the train being used to transport them.One element that really helps Von Ryan's Express to sparkle is the antagonistic relationship between Ryan and English major Fincham (Trevor Howard), who has his own way of doing things. The actors - also including Brad Dexter as American POW Bostick, Sergio Fantoni as sympathetic Italian soldier Oriani, John Leyton as Orde, Edward Mulhare as Costanzo, Raffaella Carra as Gabriella, the films' sole female presence, and Wolfgang Preiss as Nazi major Von Klemment, with James Brolin, John Van Dreelen, Vito Scotti, Richard Bakalyan, William Berger, and James Sikking in small roles - are all tremendous fun to watch, creating a number of strong personalities that nicely complement the action and spectacle.The film is also an impressive technical achievement, thanks to contributors such as cinematographer William H. Daniels and those in the sound department, and Jerry Goldsmith delivers an eclectic and lively score. The pacing is a little slow to start, focusing on setting up character and situation, and picking up considerably once the action shifts to the train. The many thrilling train sequences are certain to get the audiences' attention; everything culminates in a particularly exciting finale as Ryan, Fincham, and the rest try to fight their way to freedom through the Alps, with Nazi goons in hot pursuit. The resolution is surprisingly bittersweet, with a development the viewers might not see coming.In the end, the film does memorably espouse the idea that if just one person can make it to freedom, then the whole ordeal will be worth it, and provides potent entertainment for just under two hours. It would make very interesting viewing to compare it with the John Frankenheimer / Burt Lancaster collaboration The Train, for sure. It's well acted, well directed, and completely involving.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"You're crazy, if you think you can tunnel  your  way  out of  a  train","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Just as the war in Italy is about to be taken over by the allies, a lone airplane with engine trouble, belching smoke circles, looking for a landing field. The plane is a British P-38, but the pilot, is an American Colonel Joseph Ryan. (Frank Sinatra). Captured, by the Italians, they take him to Prisoner of War camp, run by a Fascist Major, by the name of Battaglia.(Adolfo Celi). The camp is holding some 600 American and British prisoners, who are ill fed and in rags. The stay in the camp is not lengthy and before long all of the prisoners find themselves in the hands of the Germans. They are to be shipped to a German Prisoner of War camp, by train, giving the allied soldiers a chance to overpower the guards and commandeer the train. Once they are free, Col. Ryan planned to take them all to the safety of the Swiss border. However, the Germans sent their own train to over take them and bring them back. Were it not for the use of air power, the prisoners would be long gone. However, there are several major obstacles to overcome, including enough rail tracks to get them there. From start to finish, this is a dramatic story which is enhanced by the stars in the film, including Trevor Howard, who is superb as Major Eric Fincham, Brad Dexter as Sergeant Bostick, Sergio Fantoni as Captain Oriani, Edward Mulhare as Captain Costanzo and Vito Scotti as the Italian Train Engineer. Wolfgang Preiss plays Major Von Klemment. A serious part for Sinatra, but a fun movie for his fans. **** "},{"Title":"An Iron Cross for Von Ryan","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" This is a world war II movie which more than tells a version of the great escape, it paints a picture of American attitudes toward their former allies and enemies in the Western Theatre.The prison is a microcosm of life in which you can explore the American view toward friend and foe.Americans the movie tells you are crafty; they take the long view and look for the end result. Ryan knowing that the entire Italian Army will soon surrender without firing a shot at American invaders trades off the POW's duty to escape for needed meds, clothes and bath water.Aghast at von Ryan's decision to wait out the Ites (the term the book version uses to describe the Italians), The Brits prefer the more regular and routine approach with the flagging Italians of resistance to the bitter end and thus a continuation of escape attempts that will soon be unnecessary.The movie tells you that Italians, by contrast to their rigid German allies, are for the most part a mellow phlegmatic race who are ambivalent to the fascist cause although there are some Italians like the camp commander who are somewhat hot-headed.Yet somewhat inconsistent with the stereotypes, it's the Brits who want curbside justice in the court-martial of the camp commander, whereas the Americans prefer merely a paddling to teach a lesson.The movie deviates significantly from the book in several key points changing the religion and nationality of the chaplain, making the double dealing Captain Oriani into a good guy friendly to the Americans and allowing the Italians to continue the flight into neutral territory. "},{"Title":"Exciting companion to The Train","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Von Ryan's Express is a thrilling train ride through Italy, with great scenery, vintage trains, and a somewhat implausible plot. It's good escapist entertainment, although Frank Sinatra is less than ideal as Col. Ryan, he works pretty well with seasoned actors, Trevor Howard, Edward Mulhare, Wolfgang Preiss and Brad Dexter. As the Padre who impersonates a German major, Edward Mulhare steals every scene he's in, from his incredulous wondering why an Italian woman (Raffaella Carra) should be on the train, to his swaggering, pushy masquerade as the major. Trevor Howard is every American's vision of the proper, stiff necked British senior officer, but he's over 50 and looks every bit plus. He's really too old to only be a private when he's in a German uniform accompanying the Padre and Frank on their rounds to get the train through red tape. My favorite scene in the film is when a Gestapo agent sees Ryan's pilot's watch and comes to the train to get it. Fincham is ready to strangle the agent, while Ryan nonchalantly drinks coffee and drags more loot out of him for the watch while the Padre pleads behind the agent's back for Ryan to accept so they can leave. The train chase is well filmed with some great Italian scenery. The one failing in the movie is the climactic battle as the prisoners keep the Germans back while others rebuild the track. The Germans do fall, as others have noted in these reviews, as if they've fainted rather than been shot with automatic weapons. Other than that one little failing, it's a good, entertaining war, chase and suspense movie. I give it 8 stars. "},{"Title":"Train to Prison but has been taken over!  1965.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" This War Picture, is my favourite. I like the action on the trains and I sometimes wonder if I could drive the engine myself! I would of only shot the German Major, and not that Italian girl I would of kept her on the train. I thought that the par dry (Vicar) was a great German impersonator. I also liked that Italian interpretor who told that driver to get the train moving!!! I also liked the order  Parade, Strip, given by the captain in the P.O.W. Camp Ryan then told the men to put all those rags into the fire. I thought to myself I bet the clothes are riddled with diseases and fleas! by the way the men were scratching themselves. Did anybody reqinose Wolfgang Heiss, from Bert Lancaster's The train film of 1964? "},{"Title":"Cheese but vintage","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  As a kid I thought that Von Ryan was the greatest guy on the planet and I cried in the end. Now, I'm old, and looking back I can see that the movie was truely Hollywood cheese and cornball but I still really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" I was wondering about the microwave towers in the background when the train stops to feed the prisoners. Would those have been there in 1943? I sure there were some ego issues with the main actors. I have always wondered why set directors never show the shadows passing in scenes within cars and trains. To me it's a flaw.I don't have 10 lines so I'll repeat it.I was wondering about the microwave towers in the background when the train stops to feed the prisoners. Would those have been there in 1943? I sure there were some ego issues with the main actors. I have always wondered why set directors never show the shadows passing in scenes within cars and trains. To me it's a flaw. "},{"Title":"Not Bad but a Rehash","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Allied prisoners in Italy escape, led by their American commander. The first half hour or so of this film is a drag, as neither the situations nor the characters are well developed. It doesn't really get going until the prisoners get on the train of the title. Sinatra is pretty good, as is Howard. In the supporting cast, Mulhare stands out as a nervous prisoner impersonating a German officer. Brolin has his first credited role, although he apparently doesn't have a single line. The film seems to borrow from the likes of The Bridge on the River Kwai, The Great Escape, and The Train, although it's not in the same league as those classics. The finale on the bridge is exciting. "},{"Title":"somewhat good, but some parts disappointing","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" This is a somewhat good war movie. It begins as a POW story during World War II, in German occupied Italy. The camp is close to being liberated. There are shades of the River Kwai in this movie, only with the other Axis power. And Sinatra's character is savvy enough to realize they are lucky not to be prisoners in Japan, where the treacherous Buddhist policy of working prisoners and slaves to death is in force. Sinatra is the American who is somewhat like Holden's character in his zest for life, and Howard is the British character, as hard bitten as Hawkins and Guiness in the Kwai movie. Sinatra, however, outranks Howard. He makes decisions that are usually right, but don't work out in these cases. For example, Howard wants to kill a POW, and Sinatra knows this is illegal. Under most circumstances, this wouldn't bit them in the nose, but in a Hollywood movie, any act of mercy is bound to be treated with bad karma. The prisoners are liberated, and attempt to avoid recapture on an odyssey aboard a train. Another Hollywood add on is the necessity to kill a brunette woman, which is quite common among the Nazi film makers of a past era. The logic for this killing is still elusive, as the man who shoots her doesn't want to kill her, yet for some reason shoots to kill instead of to the legs. The movie tries to show Howard's character is always right, but has to bend all the events and occurrences into the favor of this. It is quite contrived. There are good prisoner of war scenes, and some interesting characters along the way. I gave it a 5 out of 10. Somewhat good, somewhat disappointing. The final scene, however, makes up for most of the detriments, as it is one of the greatest Hollywood film endings ever, and a directorial triumph. "},{"Title":"This film goes to prove that Frank Sinatra COULD act","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" During his acting career, Frank Sinatra took a lot of hits from people who thought he couldn't act. While his early films are a tad rough, I've always thought this criticism was entirely undeserved. With films like SUDDENLY, MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM, THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE and this film, he proved pretty conclusively that in addition to singing, he was a heck of an actor. I wonder if some of the criticism of Sinatra was more a criticism of him as a person. Sure, he was in many ways difficult, but say what you want about this--he still could act.In VON RYAN'S EXPRESS, Frank plays the leader of a huge group of soldiers who escape from an Italian prison camp. The Italian government is in shambles and the soldiers have no desire to press the war, but when an entire camp of Allied soldiers bolts, the Germans come in force to stop them and save face.This is a big scope picture--with exciting prison camp scenes, chases, railroad scenes, etc. While not the best prison film I have seen, it's among the best and apart from a small handful of films (such as THE DIRTY DOZEN and THE GUNS OF NAVARONE), it's one of the best of the genre made in the 1960s. Give it a look--you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Good movie for Frank Sinatra fans, but he doesn't sing!","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" I was in college back in 1965 when this movie hit the theaters, but I don't recall it. Now, on DVD, I finally had the chance to watch the whole thing.It is set in 1943 Italy, which was under Nazi German occupation. As the movie begins we see an American plane having difficulty, and eventually crashes. The survivor is the pilot, 90 day wonder , Colonel Joseph L. Ryan played by the ultra cool Frank Sinatra. He arrives as a funeral in being held in the prison camp, and Ryan finds himself as the top ranking officer of the mostly British prisoners, to the great consternation of second, Trevor Howard as British Major Eric Fincham. Right away Ryan does something to make peace with the Italian prison warden, which upsets the British who begin to call him Von Ryan. After a brief escape from the prison camp, they are mostly all recaptured and transported by train. This second half of the 2-hour movie is the meat of the excitement, as Ryan and the others plot a daring take-over of the train, by getting the jump on all the Nazi guards atop each rail car, then coming up with bogus orders to allow them to divert the train.MAJOR SPOILERS. DO NOT READ FURTHER IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE MOVIE. Ryan proves to be a good leader, and the diversion plan finally works. In a great armed showdown at a railway tunnel in the Italian Alps, as the train is pulling away to safety, Ryan cannot catch up, is shot and killed as he runs between the tracks. He didn't survive, but he managed to get scores of other man to safety. "},{"Title":"Robust war epic with hearty Sinatra performance...","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" Superior WWII adventure has American Colonel Frank Sinatra leading large group of English POW's in takeover of a Nazi train near Milano, Italy. Fine characterizations and a full-bodied direction by Mark Robson give this epic a vivid sweep. Full of humor and pathos, the film doesn't present the Nazis as weak targets or stumblebums--they are all-business, and an evil, clever opponent in war. The Americans struggle and plan, they come up with ideas that don't work out and have to rely on man-power and each other to survive. Excellent work from Sinatra, plus terrific supporting performances by Trevor Howard and Edward Mulhare (who, as the American priest, has a very funny sequence where he's called upon to impersonate a Nazi). A good show, one with a curiously downbeat, but thoughtful and well-staged finale. *** from **** "},{"Title":"an accurate assessment of Von Ryan's Express...one man's opinion, anyway.","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" The movie Von Ryan's Express is well photographed and well acted with a slight miscasting of Frank Sinatra in the lead. There must have been a good half-dozen others who would have been better choices. A relatively unknown actor with outstanding talent would have been better than using the most famous Frank Sinatra as a drawing card and, more sadly, to cover-up the fact that the Title of the movie and a train were all that was left of the book which was far better written than the film supposedly made from it. Like Ice Station Zebra millions were paid for the title and the movie story following had little, very little, resemblance to the story as it was written. A shameful habit of Hollywood. On its own, disregarding Sinatra and the original story, this movie rates about 5 to 6 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"A vintage express, fast moving and compelling!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  I saw this movie some 15 years back and I still cherish its wonderful dramatization. It is one of those great movies that are simply ageless. It is an amazing saga of a dream, an ambition and try winning it - against all odds. I highly recommend this movie to all and I am sure it it will be for entertainment one could scarcely do better. "},{"Title":"Von Ryan's express moves like an express.","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" My first thought was - what is a seemingly nice guy singer doing in a war movie like this? I answered my own question saying to self - he is doing an outstanding job, as he has done in many dramatic roles, most notably, I think, in Suddenly when he attempts to knock off the president. (Insert your own humor here).Von Ryan's Express combines an interesting, intelligent story with a lot of exciting action. I'm a sucker for movies with choo-choos, another reason I really liked this flick.God - miles and miles of track - trains galore. It was amazing to watch.As for the acting - well - Trevor Howard is always above satisfactory. Everyone acquitted themselves very well.It was a nail biter with an untypical ending, and it is certainly worth your time.Several of the Eye-Italians were sympathetic characters and, as most people believe, they allegedly did not have their heart in WW2.A few years ago, Mussolini's idiot grand-daughter tried to elicit sympathy for her beloved granddaddy, but most people ignored her, in favor of pepperoni pizza.Von Ryan's Express is expressly for those who like an exciting story with tons of action, and unmatchable train scenes. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"An excellent portrayal of leadership","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Von Ryan's Express is an excellent portrayal of leadership. Throughout the trials and tribulations of imprisonment and battle, Colonel Ryan demonstrates integrity, decisiveness, self-control, perseverance, flexibility, diplomacy and personal investment to the mission. Major Fincham, on the other hand, is the antithesis of good leadership. He is rigid, emotional, pushy, and reacts to quickly. Colonel Ryan stays focused on the mission as he battles both the unrelenting pursuit of the Germans and the unrelenting onslaught of criticism and insult from Major Fincham. It is a real treat to watch the interactions between these two men and the ultimate outcome of their relationship with one another.  "},{"Title":"ending not that great","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  i watched this movie and it was ok. I didn't even know that was Sinatra, until the credits. I didn't like his charactor.------------------------Spoilers ahead-------------------------The ending is dumb. The movie had greatness up until the train gets derailed. the pows don't even try to get out and run into the tunnel. they want to fix the track which will eventually get some of them killed. just get out and run to switzerland. that is what i would of done. of course sinatra dies, which was crappyly done. not a good movie, the ending is what ruins it.  "},{"Title":"A Train Too Far","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":" An overlong WWII prison escape actioner, starring the singer-turned-actor Frank My Way Sinatra and stout, dependable Brit, Trevor It will never work! Howard.Coming very much on the heels of the more famous The Great Escape, Von Ryan's Express (VRE) is very much style over content compared to its more involving & character-driven bigger brother. For Steve McQueen, we now have Frank as, Jo Von Ryan, an America POW encamped with a load of Brit POWs in deepest Italy. The first half of the film concentrates on the grimness & harsh reality spent in the sweltering prison camp, where living conditions are unbearable and the Italian guards (led by a wasted Adolfi Celi) brutal.But, unlike The Great Escape, very little time is spent fleshing out the lead characters into people we can care about. Instead, director Mark Robson, just touches the edges with the usual stereotypical characterization that simply doesn't work at all.Sinatra is your typical New Yorker with attitude, and Howard, is your typical British Stiff-Upper-Lipped cynic who doesn't like been told what to do by a Yank. And that's about it as far as characterisation before Robson, moves the film up a couple of gears to an all-out actioner.Some of the action sequences are quite well done, even though the majority of the shots are taken on board a train on its way to Switzerland. But to me, Robson, fails to capitalise on turning each key sequence into something really memorable. He first sets a scene up, but then fails to develop it other than to resorting to a hamfisted shootout that's all over in a matter of minutes.Compare this style to that of The Great Escape, when the sequences are developed and ratcheted up gradually, resulting in a very satisfactory pay off at the end of each one.None-the-less, VRE does have its moments, but I think the choice of Sinata as the action hero just doesn't quite ring true somehow. Every time disaster strikes I keep on thinking he is going to grab the nearest microphone and burst into song with My Way or something.Even the direction and script is only moderately well done, the cinematography is quite excellent, especially with some very good exterior shots of the Swiss Alps. The music, also, is quite useful, and helps pace the movie without drowning it too much in pathos, especially the rather shocking (by Hollywood standards)finaleThat said, VRE still falls way short in the suspense & entertainment stakes of any comparable film of its era such as The Great Escape, Guns Of Navarone or the truly excellent Where Eagles Dare.***/***** "},{"Title":"This train should have been derailed in the station","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Who in the name of all that is holy came up with this puppy excrement? Who ever heard of a middle aged geezer flying missions against der fuerer? What was the purpose of mis-casting Frank Snotra as the smooth talking flyboy; because he was just as slick off camera? The POW's were out in a desert area but ol' brown eyes just had to don that leather jacket before he could even go to the latrine. If the Italians were as inept as this bunch, it's no wonder they had to bow out of the war early. Out of all the phony 'excitement' shoveled up in this mess, I gotta say the kraut troop train that stopped on a dime after noticing the missing rail was my best belly laugh. Even on a boring rainy afternoon you'd be ahead picking up a good novel over viewing this drivel. Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, War","Review":"  Not only dull as dishwater but pretty unpleasant, too.  Then again maybe there's an audience out there for guys who like their heroes shooting unarmed women in the back.  As it stands, the downbeat ending that distressed so many Sinatra fans is only just. "}]