[{"Title":"You're going to see things no one has ever seen before&#133;","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage follows a surgical team of three scientists Dr Peter Duval, the top brain surgeon in the country (Arthur Kennedy); Cora Peterson, his technical assistant (Raquel Welch); Dr Michaels, chief of the medical mission (Donald Pleasance), plus the skipper of the ship (William Redfield) and Grant (Stephen Boyd) the security agent for security purposes... The sealed vessel&#151;The Proteus&#151;is reduced down by a secret branch called CMDF (Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces) and injected into one artery of a defecting Russian scientist who has suffered brain injury and he's in a coma from an assassination attempt... The crew must navigate to the scientist's brain (within exactly 60 minutes) where Dr Duval will attempt to dissolve the coagulum with a laser beam&#133; After that everything starts growing back to its original size&#133;Fantastic Voyage is a film of authentic wonder An ocean of life, the corpuscles, the heart, the lungs of the human body through which the crew move are exquisitely designed in great detail with artistic quality...The plot creates unceasing moments of suspense as the ship and its crew are continually threatened by the scientist's natural defenses white corpuscles, reticular fibers, antibodies and other factors&#133; Leonard Rosenman's futuristic score nicely complements the adventure on screen with the strange sound of the human blood rushing through arteries, veins, rhythmical muscular movements, and of course, the sabotage occurred on board&#133; With two Oscar Awards for Best Visual Effects and Best Art Direction, 'Fatastic Voyage' is certainly the most unusual journey into the human body, where the 'medieval philosophers were right. Man is the center of the universe. We stand in the middle of infinity, between outer and inner space. And there's no limit to either.' "},{"Title":"Superior Sci-Fi Adventure!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"   The premise of Fantastic Voyage seemed very unlikely in 1966, however in 2002 I'm not so sure. The story concerns a top secret miniaturization program being developed by the Americans and concurrently by the other side. A scientist from the other side has the secret of counteracting the situation where the miniaturization effects wear off after one hour. Unfortunately, the scientist receives a brain injury in an assassination attempt. This results in General Carter (Edmond O'Brien), the commanding officer of the project deciding to send in a team of experts miniaturized, to the injured man's brain to repair the damage. The team consists of Drs. Duval (Arthur Kennedy) and Michaels (Donald Pleasance), Pilot Capt. Owens (William Redfield) and the romantic leads, Grant (Stephen Boyd) and the ever lovely Raquel Welch as Duval's assistant. Assisting O'Brien as a medical expert is Arthur O'Connell as Col. Reid. Of course, as in most film's of this type there is the inevitable fifth columnist aboard. The acting is good, particluarly the performances of veterans Kennedy, Pleasance, O'Brien and O'Connell. The real star of the Fantastic Voyage are its amazing special effects. Filmed long before today's computerized digital effects, this film still makes believable, the illusion of a team of people being injected into a person's bloodstream. To fully appreciate the effects the viewer should see it in its widescreen format. Watch for James Brolin in a small role as one of the lab technicians. And if you get bored, there's always (snort, pant, drool) Raquel in her form fitting diving suit.  "},{"Title":"And What A Trip It Is!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was originally introduced to me at about 8 or 9 years of age on a Saturday afternoon and it quickly became a favorite of mine.  This film tells the story of a brilliant scientist who is injured on his way to offer the U.S. military some much needed info for miniaturizing people and objects and allowing them to stay in the miniature state beyond the now 60 minute time limit the military is faced with.  With a top-notch cast that includes; Stephen Boyd, Edmond O'Brien, Donald Pleasence and Raquel Welch as the medical Dr.'s and scientists that are miniaturized and injected into the scientists body in an effort to repair a wound that can't be fixed through the usual means.  The effects in this film are truly amazing and make for a lot of fun as the sub/crew journey through the body and face problems along the way, especially as they are attacked as foreign bodies by the scientist's own natural defense system.  If you haven't had the pleasure of seeing this little gem, by all means find it and rent it and if it's been a while, why not revisit this film, I'm amazed at how well it stands up, even after almost 40 years since it's release. "},{"Title":"Classic SF and great visuals","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie holds up after nearly 35 years.  The TV version is often chopped up for commercials and the print muddy, but if you can get a good video or see it on a premium movie channel, Fantastic Voyage will still produce a sense of wonder as you navigate inside an injured man's body with a team of intrepid explorers to find and repair microscopic damage. Some of the Cold War aspects of the film might jar, as well as a 35-year-old vision of high tech, but the spec effects of the journey of the PROTEUS through the human vascular system was years ahead of its time. "},{"Title":"Pretty good little film.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To answer everyone's question about how did Issac Asimov resolve the Proteus issue at the end of the movie; in his novelization of the film (which is a very good sci-fi book on its own), the sub comes out with everyone else in the teardrop along with a very surprised white blood cell.  The scene with Donald Pleasance gave me chills when I saw it as a child and having recently seen it again, it still is creepy.  I think this is due to Pleasance's performance more than anything else.  I do have to say that seeing Stephen Boyd being driven around the LA Sports Center (subbing for the top secret research center; they had to have everything removed by 530 in the afternoon the week they filmed there because sporting events were going on at night) in a golf cart seemed a bit silly but I guess that showed how important he was.  With these kinds of films, one has to ignore all certain types of questions about how come this did or didn't happen when the scientists did this and just relax and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Is there a doctor in the house?","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" When my sister came home from seeing Fantastic Voyage at the State Theatre in Spokane in 1966, she raved about how scary it was for the crew of scientists, miniaturized by a secret government organization to destroy a blood clot in the brain of a wounded official, to be attacked by ant-bodies, or that's what I thought she said. Since sisters are hopelessly stupid--and even I knew there were no bodies of ants swimming around in us--I figured the movie was too. A few years later I found out how the body fights off infection--ANTIBODIES! I saw FV on ABC a few years after it came out. Boy, was I wrong about the movie (not my sister)! FV is a wonderfully exciting sci-fi adventure with all the right ingredients Stern, bold heroes, sweating generals, a heroine with D-cups and a jump suit (Quit giggling out there; that means you, mister!), a cringing, rat-like villain, state-of-the-art special effects (ohmygosh, we've come a long way) and the coolest little radar dishes flapping back and forth around the wounded man's head.This really is one of the best examples of good science fiction I've ever seen--it's adventurous, suspenseful, weirdly believable, and those, those death defying D-cups! Houston, we've got a problem! "},{"Title":"A Great Thriller","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not only a great science fiction film, it is also a great thriller as well.  I especially loved the fact that this was supposedly done in real time and that the characters and that it was not only a mission to save the scientist life, but a race against time before the miniaturization wore off. Also, even though the effects are dated, they still were pretty good for the era they were produced in. "},{"Title":"These People Saved My Life.....","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" All I can remember, from what the Doctors Told me, These people, where miniaturised, in a Submarine, and injected into my cardioid artery. The first part of the voyage was incident free, until they met with a strong current, and set them off course. They had to go through my heart that the surgeons stopped, this was already slowed down as was my respiration to 6 breathes per minute,After they went through my heart, they revived it (Only just) and proceeded to one of my lungs. There they had to stop, as they ran out of air. You will never guess how they replenished their air supply, they tapped into my left lung and when i inhaled their air supply was filled up. Then they went into my ear and the surgeons had to be quiet!! and after that they finally went into my injured part of my brain. There they used a laser to repair my damage. after that 5 of the team swam towards my optic nerve and the surgeons scooped them out of my tear duct of my left eye. when I came to, the Doctors told me that these brave teams saved my life, and do you know what, I actually believed them. In this review I was reviewing this film , by pretending I was Banes, the shot man. This film is excellent if you want to find out about your body. I enjoy all the special effects, If I was in the team, I'd rather be upstairs, then inside Banes body. I would like to work with the Cornel and be on the computers. I also thought that the Proteuous was beautifully designed and looked correct. The effect of the blood corpuscles can be done with looking at a larva lamp, the blobs are similar.This film is available on DVD, but has to be ordered from Zavvi, formerly virgin record shops and costs £13. they can get it for you in 24 hours and can be delivered to your house for free, or to the shop. I for one, is going to try and get it. I thought that the man who played banes, had an easy part to play in this film. All He had to do, was just lie still and sleep all the way through the film. I recognised Donald Plesence and Racca welsh. So Ends this review I'm going to give this film 10/10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Voyage.... a trip that's quite worth taking.","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in 1966, long, long before the world was turned upside down and inside out on Sept. 11, the world was a very different place. The movies were quite different and science fiction pictures depended more on good writing and less on special effects. Partly because the phrase computer generated was years away. In 1966, 20th Century Fox released a very clever, well-written and innovative movie called, Fantastic Voyage. The on-screen foreword informed the viewers that they were going to be taken to a place that no one had been before, and see things that had been, until that point in time, never been seen by human beings. I'm sure that this film had its fair share of technical advisors putting in a lot more than their 2 cents worth to make sure that the film accurately depicted human anatomy. The plot... A scientist, Jan Benes, has defected from behind the Iron Curtain, has, with the help of Grant, one of our top CIA operatives. Benes has decided to give his expertise with Miniaturization to the US. The other side has no choice but to try to kill him before he can breathe a word of it. The assassination attempt is made, but Benes barely survives, falling into a coma. After the movie's credits finish rolling, Grant is brought to a secret, gov't location. There, he meets Gen. Carter, who is in charge of the CMDF - Combined Miniature Deterent Forces. They can shrink anything; cars, planes, tanks, people way down in size, thus enabling them to become unseen military weapons. The problem both sides have this capability. Another problem is... there is a time limit. They can only stay miniaturized for 60 minutes. After that the object or person automatically starts to grow. Benes had the answer to this problem, but he will need special medical treatment to regain consciousness. That's where Grant and a special team of doctors, technicians and such will have to go into action. After Grant meets the rest of the team, the surgeons in charge, Dr. Duvall and Dr. Michaels go over their plan to remove the blood clot in Benes' brain. They will board a special Navy submarine, called The Proteus, be miniaturized and injected into Benes' body by hypodermic needle. Naturally, the crew runs into Murphy's Law and a job that was expected to take 10 to 15 minutes takes much, much longer. The ending in the movie differs quite a bit from the book written by Isaac Azimov (I know because I read it... twice), and there are a number sub-plot twists that made me shake my head, but seeing Ms. Welch in that wet suit made it more than worth while. I consider this movie to be one of my very favorite sci-fi/fantasy flicks from the '60s. If you haven't seen it yet, for whatever reason, I can suggest you spend the 100 minutes with some very fine actors, some of whom are no longer with us, such as Stephen Boyd (Grant), Edmund O'Brien (Gen. Carter) and Arthur O'Connell who was in charge of the medical team, and others like Arthur Kennedy (Dr. Duvall), Donald Pleasence (Dr. Michaels) and last but not least, the ever-beautiful, Raquel Welch as Cora Peterson, Dr. Duval's technical assistant. One last thought.... if this movie was remade with present-day technology, i.e. computer generated imaging and the like, there's no telling how it would dazzle the viewers' eye. "},{"Title":"`Grant, help! My hands are trapped!  Get me out!!  Get me out!!!'","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" `Fantastic Voyage' was the first sci-fi movie to employ psychedelic special effects.  It was released in 1966 when LSD, hippiedom, and the word groovy took America by storm.  A medical team in a far-out looking submarine are miniaturized to microscopic size and injected into a scientist's body to fix his brain.  They travel through blood plasma, which resembles the inside of a lava lamp.  Then they get lost in a rainbow whirlpool and have to journey through the heart, lung, and ear to find their way to the brain.  Raquel Welch strips off some of her clothes in one scene, while God and Darwin lock horns in other scenes.  God triumphs over Darwin in the end, and we never see Raquel get naked.  Rated GeeAlan Hale from `Gilligan's Island' was originally cast for `Fantastic Voyage', but was replaced by William Redfield.  The actors that star in this film are all dead, except for Raquel Welch.  "}{"Title":"Colourful Though Flawed  Fantasy Adventure","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" To enjoy this movie one must turn off their brain as soon as the theme tune of 20th Century Fox starts . The whole set up is very hard to swallow - A scientist who know the secret of miniaturization is injured by commie assassins and now lies in a coma due to a blood clot on the brain and only by miniaturizing a submarine type capsule and sending both it and its crew through an artery can both the scientist and free world be saved . It's never actually explained as to why miniaturizing is such a radical development for espionage or warfare . Think about it does this mean you can infiltrate the Kremlin by sending an envelope containing a miniaturized army ? Seeing as the enemy are aware of the process they can easily protect themselves against this - By running a rolling pin over all incoming mail . And wouldn't shrinking someone to the size of something little bigger than an element kill them anyway due to the changes in mass ? Wouldn't air pressure alone kill any miniaturized person ? And wouldn't it have been a good idea to vet the crew to find out if any of them were claustrophobic before sending them on their mission ?You understand what I'm saying don't you ? The ideas and plot devices presented are entirely laughable because of their nature , that's why I told you to stop thinking about it . If you manage this you've got a pretty enjoyable escapist fantasy once it gets started . You realise that if the capsule crew go on an uneventful journey we wouldn't have much of a movie so we find obstacles at every corner involving detours , anti-bodies and a traitor within and if none of this gets you excited how about Raquel Welch in a really tight costume ? What do you mean she hasn't been given any decent lines ? "},{"Title":"Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" A medical and science crew board a submarine and are miniaturised and injected into an important foreign scientist body. The mission is to remove a blood clot on his brain that was suffered during an assassination attempt. Once shrunk and in their new bodily world, the team must battle the body's defence systems as well as avoiding trouble with the major organs. Also on a clock of one hour before they return to normal size, they have to also contend with the fact there may be a saboteur on board. This is one fantastical voyage indeed.The crew's voyage thru the body's bloodstream and beyond is brought to life by the use of some inventive special effects. Thus making Fantastic Voyage one of the more visually appealing genre pictures of the time. The film won Oscars for Best Colour Art Direction and for Best Visual Effects. It was also nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Editing and Best Sound Effects. It is in short a tip top production. Based on the novel written by Otto Klement and Jay Lewis Bixby, the story is imaginative and totally engrossing, which is something that helps offset the staid performances from the cast. But really are we watching this for thespian delights? No of course not. We want director Richard Fleischer to take us on a perilous journey thru the human body, and maybe just give us some suspense into the bargain. Something that is achieved, even if the ending is a little too rushed for comfort. Silly and wonderful. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Blue Screen effects, straight ahead!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every time Fantastic Voyage comes on TV, I turn it on expecting it to be better. Better than what? The standard sci-fis of the day, the Irwin Allen TV shows. It's about on that par. There's the usual grueling technical preliminaries, the discussion over whether or not to take A GIRL along (never mind that she's a scientist), the setting up of the cardboard characters--with a madman among them (this is among the hoariest of clichés, going back to Hitchcock's Lifeboat). Why do we need a psycho aboard ship? Isn't the premise about microscopic scientists venturing forth into a human body enough? I did love the special effects, although the constant use of back-projection is hokey now (some professional critics said it was hokey then!) and I have no idea why the actors are all so stiff and unappealing. I guess with a $5-million-or-more budget on the line, 20th Century-Fox couldn't ante up the extra cash for frivolity. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Science Fantasy","Date":"5 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stephen Boyd leads an eclectic cast starring Donald Pleasance and Raquel Welch into places even Heineken would struggle to reach.They crew a miniature submarine that becomes very miniature indeed.Some bigwig has a life-threatening condition, and this is the only means to treat it. They are made microscopic and injected into the patient's blood-stream. But - inevitably - there's a saboteur on board.The big bucks got spent on special-effects which were top-drawer at the time. Even today, some of them are quite impressive, especially the laboratory sets. Inside the human body is just an oil-bubble extravaganza. There's adventures galore, as our heroes visit all the different parts of anatomy. Sometimes it's a bit daft - but fun too.Oh - and they're up against the clock, as well. They have to get out before the miniaturisation process wears off. A phagocyte threatens to engulf the crew even more dangerously than Ms Welch's bosom. And mind those anti-bodies! Still well worth a watch - if only to see Ms Welch and her ample charms squeezed into a wet-suit. It's available as a double DVD with similarly-vintaged 'Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea'. "},{"Title":"Great memories","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a kid, I loved this movie. I watched it over and over again because they played it at least once a year. By today's standards, perhaps people would judge it differently, but in 1966, with no computer generated effects, this movie looked absolutely plausible. It was entertaining, engaging and fueled the imagination of an entire generation.This was the same year that Star Trek the original series began its run. Man had not yet landed on the moon, but there was a space program. So much imagination at a time when nobody knew what a nano was. Well done!I'd still take this movie over something that was 98% CGI. Any day of the week! "},{"Title":"A trip through the human body","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage is one of the more interesting sci-fi movies to be made and I found it very enjoyable.After a scientist is shot and seriously injured, the only way the cure the injury is to inject a group of fellow scientists and a mini sub and go into the human body. They enter his body and head for the brain, where the injury is, a clot. They only have 1 hour to remove this clot before they revert to normal size, so they cannot afford to lose much time. One of the scientists is a baddie though and trys to sabotage the mission towards the end, but he is killed himself and the others emerge through one of injured man's eyes.This movie has excellent special effects and gives you an idea on what the human body really is like in the inside.An excellent cast too Stephen Boyd, a pre One Million Years BC Raquel Welch, the always excellent and creepy Donald Pleasence (Halloween, You Only Live Twice), Edmond O'Brien (DOA) and Arthur Kennedy.Fantastic Voyage is a must for all sci-fi fans. Fantastic.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Uncommonly good fun","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Richard Fleischer's film is uncommonly good fun and might have been even more enjoyable had the leads not been played by Stephen Boyd and Raquel Welch. (In this movie they are supposed to be brainy medical scientist-type people; Boyd is a top security bod and Boyd is an actor who doesn't look comfortable in a suit). It's pretty hard to take the supporting cast as brainy scientist-types either, (that will be Edmond O'Brien, Donald Pleasence, Arthur Kennedy and Arthur O'Connell), but the plot is ingenious.A scientist is brain-damaged before he can reveal his secret. The only way to save his life is to operate, wait for it, from inside the brain and the only way to do that is to, wait for it, miniaturize a submarine with said scientists on board and inject it into an artery where it will travel to the source of the problem and remove the clot with a laser beam and all within sixty minutes or said sub and its crew will start to grow again. OK, so it's deliriously silly but that's why it's so enjoyable. The whole cast act with the straightest of faces; as far as they are concerned this could be Shakespeare, (let's be grateful it isn't, although O'Brien was once a commanding Casca).Never having been inside a human body, (and stop snickering at the back), I can't say if the 'set design' is accurate or not but it certainly looks the part and the designers and the special effects guys did pick up Academy Awards for their efforts. Excitement is provided largely by having a saboteur on board and from some very nasty antibodies that see the submarine as a threat and leap to the body's defense. (Oh, and it prompted one of my all-time favorite reviews in Time Magazine that went, 'When a body meets an antibody coming through the eye ...') "},{"Title":"Great for educational purposes","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was in high school when I saw this movie, and I think it was very interesting. When a man gets in an accident, a surgical team get miniaturized and help save the day. This could prove anything is possible, the use of a laser was around in the 60's. And it was not meant for battling aliens, except in the human body. This movie is a first, reminds me of the old video game, Microsurgeon. This movie has got a lot of great casts, and the plot was super form the start. When the time was over, everyone felt despair when the team didn't leave on time, but the guy who didn't give up was the hero when he saw them in the patient's tears. To me, hit movies like these are a must, this should be shown to young kids with their parents. THE KIDS WILL THANK THEM. I'm glad I saw this. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"very imaginative","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie as a child and loved it.  It's nearly 20 years ago and it has always stayed in my mind.  It captivated my eyes.  It has developped my imagination.   - After seeing this movie I 've always been thinking that there could be a whole new universe inside the things we are seeing.  - I recommend it if you like original sciences-fiction movies. - - Vincent   "},{"Title":"Fantastic! Fantastic! Fantastic!","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sci-fi adventure is unlike all that came before it. A great visual movie takes your mind off of the script. The special effects will keep you more than interested. A vanilla coke and large popcorn doesn't last long during this adventure. A precision medical team is reduced to microscopic size to journey through a dying man's blood stream to repair brain damage.The special effects take top billing, but some pretty fine stars are featured Donald Pleasence, Arthur O'Connell, Edmond O'Brien, Arthur Kennedy, Stephen Boyd and a vivacious Raquel Welch, with the obligatory strip down to wet suit scene. Look for a small role played by James Brolin. "}{"Title":"Fantastic Voyage - A DVD Movie Review in Satire","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage - A DVD Movie Review ParodyBy Bradley A. DraperThis 1966 fantasy and in no way a true Sci-Fi movie asks us to suspend for a moment, science, for a trip within the human body, a truly fantastic voyage. This film is the story of the military capability to reduce matter to almost any size. The CMDF they call themselves. The Combined Miniature Defense Force. Wow!I first went to this film, a young lad of 14, and it left an indelible mark on my male psyche. That was of the one and only amazing Raquel Welch in a wet suit. But I digress.The suspension of science in this movie involves the properties of matter.In this very interesting film, with very good special effects for it's time, features five people, and a small submarine, that are miniaturized to the size of a microbe to travel within a human body to save it's life. Time is short, only an hour, and there are many perils indeed. If you forget about science it is a very entertaining movie.To see, through film's imagination, in arteries and veins, the lungs, the lymph glands, the inner ear, the brain, and finally the optic nerve, is a real trip, but only through the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry. All all are set pieces, and all demand a desperate suspension of reality.The cast was absolutely outstanding. Top notch. How the like of Stephen Boyd, Arthur Kennedy, Donald Pleasance, Arthur O'Connell and Edmund O'Brien not to mention Raquel Welch in a wet suit, could keep a straight face is truly great. You will note James Brolin of TV fame playing the supporting role of a technician. And of course, there is Raquel Welch in a wet suit.Now to science. To imagine an 8 ton miniature submarine with 5 people aboard, reduced to the size of a microbe, and then injected into a human body to navigate the rivers of vein and artery is truly fantastic. This is not to say this sort of reduction of matter cannot be done. But it is not within the realm of reality to interject compressed matter into the uncompressed.In all matter there is finite mass. This can not be changed or undone. It is conceivable that the vast space between actual matter can be compressed. A neutron star is a very good example. A teaspoon of a neutron star contains many tons of mass. Matter can indeed be compressed but not at the expense of the loss of mass. This film equated loss of matter with loss of mass. Nope.Therefore this 8 ton craft and it's human companions would utterly crush the human body that they are traveling within. And I won't even discuss the ending, when the submarine is absorbed. Nevertheless the dramatic enlargement of our human heros from a tear is emotionally effective cinema. Sob!But that makes a very good movie does it not?Fantastic Voyage is very entertaining, well written, and very well acted, regardless of the suspension of belief. The special effects are amazing. And then there is Raquel Welch in a wet suit.Recommended for it's genre and I would consider it a can't be missed film. But don't take it too seriously.Did I mention this film features Raquel Welch in a wet suit? Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"What a difference 45 years make.","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I bought the movie on BluRay last week and watched it and immediately realized it wasn't what I remembered when I first saw it in the movie theater in 1967. Maybe I was more impressionable back then when I was younger. The production values were so corny that they created a bias that hung through the rest of the movie. From the beginning when the car carrying Stephen Boyd arrives at the secret underground facility, then rides down the elevator and comes out in what looks like a spruced up underground parking garage. Boyd is then picked up by someone driving a golf cart and proceeds to drive back up several levels where more golf carts are seen scooting along with a soldier directing traffic.Then we see the two macho Generals, played by Edmund O'Brien and Arthur O'Connell, chomping on cigars. But the funniest part was that amongst all the high tech equipment was a simply electric hot plate and a percolator coffee pot that got repeated use and they had it sitting right on top of the TV monitors.It wasn't until the crew got into the submarine that the movie became worth watching and Raquel Welch is always a welcome sight. But wait, here is a high tech vehicle and only one person in the crew has been trained to operate it. Yeah, they have an air leak so the pilot tells two of the crew who have never been on the sub before to go over and shut off the valves, you know, they're over on the wall. Go find them. Now how is that for a script.And if they remake the movie I do hope they give those two Generals a better uniform. In place of the ribbons on their jacket was a very large patch with the letters CMDF - Combined Miniature Defense Force.Hey, just a suggestion, Raquel Welch may be the only star of the movie still alive today but if you remake it she still looks good enough to be in it. "},{"Title":"This voyage is still fantastic and doesn't require any remakes&#x85;","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was a young lad, approximately 10 years of age, I was a tremendous big fan of a Sci-Fi comedy called Innerspace, released in 1987 and starring Dennis Quaid and Martin Short. Little did I know back then that this movie was inspired and also - knowing the director Joe Dante &#x96; paying tribute to the 1966 groundbreaking adventure Fantastic Voyage. You won't hear me state that this is a flawless masterpiece, or even that the special effects and visuals still look mesmerizing by today's standards, but it definitely still stands as one of the most imaginative and original Sci-Fi adventures ever made. The plot and futuristic world perspective of Fantastic Voyage are quite ambitious and grotesque, even for contemporary sixties standards, but that is probably what makes it so unique. I'm sure that, back in 1966, certain people honestly assumed that this type of scientific technology would be possible around the year 2000. The story actually is typical Sci- Fi fodder, only&#x85; completely different! Numerous movies of its kind revolve on an elite crew going on a dangerous expedition into the unfamiliar territories of outer space. Well, Fantastic Voyage revolves on an elite crew going on a dangerous expedition into the unfamiliar territories of INNER space! The titular fantastic voyage is, in fact, a journey inside the human body. When diplomat Jan Benes is nearly assassinated, a five-headed crew (2 doctors, a female assistant, a pilot and a safety guard) and their especially designed submarine are urgently miniaturized and injected into his comatose body in order to neutralize a lethal blood knot from inside his brains. They only have 60 minutes before the current miniaturization techniques abruptly stop working and they grow back to their normal size, so it's absolutely essential to succeed their mission because the patient is the only person who knows the secret to expand the miniaturization time! Okay, admittedly this last aspect of the plot is somewhat tacky, but don't allow it to ruin the fun! The biggest accomplishment of Fantastic Voyage is that Richard Fleischer, and of course his cast and crew, succeed in making our everyday human body equally mysterious and menacing as the outskirts of space &#x85; and even more so! The landscapes of the heart are more ominous than desolate planets, the cyclones in the lungs or tidal waves in the ear are heavy ordeals and our bodies' defense mechanisms are more aggressive than aliens. The story simultaneously also focuses on the search for a saboteur among the crew members, although it's fairly obvious from the beginning who this is (especially if you're a bit familiar with the oeuvres of the players). Raquel Welch's role is rather redundant, but she looks nice in her tight uniforms and her male colleagues were offered the unique occasion to fondle her boobs during one particular scene. Reading other reviews and posts on the message board around here, it seems that many people want this film to receive a remake. I, for one, don't agree. I would hate to see a fully computerized version of this film and will always prefer the charm and old-fashioned skills of classic Sci-Fi. "},{"Title":"The dictionary definition of dated","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" FANTASTIC VOYAGE isn't a particularly bad film, but boy, has it dated since first release! It's a film firmly stuck in the mid-'60s, in which the insides of a human body are constructed by a set designer with that era's psychadelia in mind, making it very much a product of its time.Despite the then cutting-edge premise, in actuality this is pretty much a re-run of VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA, substituting a miniature submarine and crew exploring human anatomy in place of a real submarine venturing into the unfathomed depths of the ocean. With the advance of modern technology, both films are rather twee and old-fashioned these days, although not without their charms.Part of the fun of watching these expeditionary type movies is the interplay between the cast members, and the cast in this one is quite good. Stephen Boyd (BEN-HUR) is the no-nonsense leading man, while Donald Pleasence is always good value as the chief medical officer. Of course, there's tokenism in the form of the statuesque Raquel Welch, and you also get Arthur Kennedy as a brain surgeon.The special effects are rather dated and the plot is littered with holes big enough to steer a submarine through, but for novelty value, FANTASTIC VOYAGE is a fun little film - just not a classic. I much prefer the '80s comedy version of the same story, INNERSPACE. "},{"Title":"Making the impossible seem somewhat possible.","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" perhaps too cerebral real time looks dated todayAs I sat and watched Fantastic Voyage, I couldn't help but notice that whenever my wife looked at the film, she made a sarcastic comment. She thought the film was pretty silly. However, she also didn't watch all of it and if she had, she might have enjoyed it as much as I did. (Note--if you know her, don't tell her I said this--thanks!)The film is a great example of a picture that works if you turn off your skepticism and just take the movie as it is--a good attempt for the 1960s. While I am sure if they made the film today it would look so, so much better, for the time it was made, the movie did a good job.Fantastic Voyage begins with Scientist Jan Benes escaping from behind the Iron Curtain. He is almost caught but gets severely injured. The injury is potentially going to kill him but using conventional means they cannot operate. So, they use a new miniaturization machine to shrink a crew to microscopic size. Then, in a miniature ship, they are injected into the unconscious Dr. Benes to try to do micro surgery to save his life. However, they only have one hour, as the technology to shrink them isn't perfect and only lasts that long!The star of this film isn't the acting but the special effects and the writing. While the effects look dated today, they are still impressive and the film is quite interesting. While it does drag a bit here and there, overall the effort is quite impressive almost 50 years later. "},{"Title":"Biology and Anatomy","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm betting that Fantastic Voyage had its biggest fans among science teachers in every high school in the world. If viewing the film did nothing else but stimulate a student's interest in biology it would be worthwhile.I remember seeing this in theater back when it first came out and I can only imagine if computer graphic technology was available then what could have been done. As it is Fantastic Voyage won Oscars for Special Effects and Art&Set Design.The concept is a fascinating one, diplomat Jean Del Val sustains a traumatic brain injury during an assassination attempt. CIA agent Stephen Boyd brings the comatose Del Val to a secret facility where under Edmond O'Brien and Arthur O'Connell. The army is conducting experiments in temporary miniaturization. You can see the possibilities there.But now they want to know what the defecting Del Val knows so a team of five is assembled which includes Boyd, neurosurgeon Arthur Kennedy and his assistant Raquel Welch, and another scientist in charge Donald Pleasance. They are going in a submarine piloted by designer William Redfield. They and the submarine are shrunk to microscopic size and injected into Del Val. Kennedy will relieve the pressure on the brain with a laser, also miniaturized.Our team deals with the various hazards and defenses the human body has and some sabotage by one of the team who has their own agenda.The special effects even viewed 47 years later are still a marvel. And if that kind of biology doesn't pique your interest, the sight of Raquel Welch in a white form fitting jump suit should work on another biological interest. "},{"Title":"Welcome To 1960's Inner Space!","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage has got to be one of the most unique, entertaining, and imaginative SyFy films ever produced in Hollywood during the 1960s.Fantastic Voyage is an amazing journey that travels to the deepest reaches of space - Inner space.A daring team of adventurers are subjected to the technology of miniaturization and together they travel in a high-tech mini-submarine inside the body of a leading scientist in order to destroy a life-threatening blood clot in his brain.Fantastic Voyage features some great set designs and, for its time, some pretty impressive visual effects. "},{"Title":"An Inner Space Adventure","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage represents a variation on the familiar genre of the outer space adventure, except that it's set inside the human body (to be precise, inside the human circulatory system.) Featuring a pretty decent cast, including such folk as Donald Pleasance and Raquel Welch, the story follows a team of physicians and scientists as they're put in a special submarine and then miniaturized and injected into the bloodstream of a famous scientist so that they can travel into his brain to repair a blood clot from the inside, since it can't be reached from the outside. Along the way they face a number of challenges, including attacks from human antibodies and white corpuscles as well as apparent sabotage from one of the team.Overall it's a fun movie and a good adventure that even manages to educate the viewer a bit about the human body and how it works. I appreciated that Welch's role was a fairly substantive one. She wasn't just window dressing and there was no cliché romance between her and any of the crew. She comes across as a capable and dedicated scientist. The movie tries but largely fails to introduce mystery about the identity of the saboteur by giving us the prime suspect (in everybody's eyes) pretty much right off the top but anybody watching this is going to know that's just too easy, and it's actually pretty obvious who the real saboteur is. So there's no real mystery about his identity; just about whether he'll succeed in preventing the team from accomplishing its mission.The movie features pretty good special effects and realistic enough sets. It's not a cheap-looking movie by any means, and it's enjoyable pretty much all the way through. "},{"Title":"We stand in the middle of infinity between outer and inner space","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Using state-of-the-art government technology, a team of intrepid voyagers are shrunk down to microscopic size and injected into the bloodstream of a dying man. Unfortunately, 'Fantastic Voyage (1966)' never really exploits the full potential of this intriguing premise, and altogether fails to surpass the tension of its creative opening credits sequence (designed by Richard Kuhn). Despite a story that unfolds practically in real-time, Fleischer's adventure tale moves along at a sluggish pace that saps the film of any real suspense. Even so, the special effects are extremely well done for their time, particularly in their use of vibrant colours at a microscopic level, and the anatomical jargon (coming from an undergraduate biology student) is well-informed.'Fantastic Voyage' feels as though it can't decide whether to be a rollicking fantasy adventure or a thoughtful meditation on the human body, so it languishes between the two poles. A similar philosophical premise had been handled previously in 'The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957),' in which a shrunken Grant Williams muses to God, there is no zero! Fleischer's film has a similar moment, when General Carter (Edmond O'Brien) pauses before squashing an insect, and is told that Buddhists respect all life, no matter how small. Of course, no journey into the human body can be undertaken without obligatory references towards God's intelligent design. There is some dissent, admittedly, from Donald Pleasence's evolutionist doctor, but guess who turns out to be a Communist spy? "},{"Title":"2009 review by first time watcher","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was curious about this influential science-fiction film tackling for the first time (to my knowledge) the inside exploration of the human body. It's more than 40 years old now but the visual effects are still nice to look at and sometimes even elicit a sense of wonder. My favorite effects would be those for the cells (bubble-like and somewhat psychedelic) and the clunkier effects but still OK would be those for the crew swimming (they're obviously not swimming all the time, probably on wires). It's an exploration adventure in a strange setting with unforeseen obstacles. Raquel Welsh is cute but her character doesn't do much. To modern sensibilities (at least mine), she's not that sexy anymore even in her white skintight suit. The main reluctant hero acts the part but overall it's not a movie you watch for the acting the awe and fear that should have shown on the actor's faces were limited. The musical score is rather peculiar but works well with the strangeness of the surroundings. There's some suspense but I think you can see the traitor pretty much from the start. However it's fun to see him alternate between helping out and trying to sabotage the adventure without appearing to be too suspicious. It's worth renting to see a vintage original sci-fi concept done right that was used often in TV shows later on (mostly animated) and to see the original before the remake coming out in 2010 for those who didn't know.Rating 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Futuristic sci-fi thriller/fantasy deserves credit for originality...","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the time of release, I was crazy about FANTASTIC VOYAGE. Seeing it again, years later, there are lots of reservations but it still deserves a huge amount of credit for the overall originality of the plot wherein a group of scientists are turned into microscopic size in order to be injected into the body of a Czech scientist whose brain must be saved from a blood clot.It's an inside look at the lungs, ears and other assorted arteries of the upper body as the scientists attempt their mission in a one hour span because after that they revert to normal size. Needless to say, what they thought might be a ten minute salvage operation turns out to be much more perilous and time consuming. Once inside the body, the story evolves in real time, so the suspense is heightened.Some nifty players do their best to make it all seem convincing and, on the whole, they do a creditable job. That includes RAQUEL WELCH, ARTHUR KENNEDY, DONALD PLEASANCE and STEPHEN BOYD. Unfortunately, the story moves a little too slowly, a factor which modern audiences will probably find detrimental to this kind of tale.Summing up May not be quite as satisfying for today's audiences who have seen everything in the way of science fiction, but in its time it was considered quite original and won Oscars for art decoration and special effects. "},{"Title":"They respect all life, no matter how small. Very enjoyable 60's Sc-Fi adventure!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage starts with a plane landing on American soil, an important scientist named Dr. Jan Benes (Jean Del Val) steps off & speeds off in a waiting car. On the way to wherever he was going an assassination attempt leaves Benes with a serious brain injury & in a coma. Charles Grant (Stephen Boyd) is taken the the top secret Government organisation the 'Combined Miniature Deterrence Forces' where he is told by General Carter (Edmond O'Brien) that he will oversee an operation by brain surgeon Dr. Peter Duvall (Arthur Kennedy) & his technical assistant Cora Peterson (Raquel Welch). Grant is confused & says there is no reason for him to be present, General Carter goes on to say that he will be placed in a submarine, miniaturised & injected into Benes arterial system & travel to the injury which is the only way to operate on the blood clot in his brain without killing him. There are however a couple of problems, they can only be miniaturised for 60 minutes & that there may be a saboteur among the crew as the 'other side' doesn't want Benes to talk. Together with the pilot Captain Bill Owens (William Redfield), Dr. Duvall & Cora plus Dr. Maxwell Michaels (Donald Pleasence) Grant boards the sub which is then miniaturised & injected into Benes. Things don't go according to plan as the team encounter various obstacles that they must overcome in a race against time to save Benes & eventually themselves...Directed by Richard Fleischer I thought Fantastic Voyage was a very enjoyable piece of 60's Sci-Fi adventure that has not dated that well but still entertains & is good fun to watch on a lazy afternoon. The script by Harry Kleiner moves along at a nice pace, has a good solid if somewhat simple story that engages, manages to maintain interest & is very focused as it doesn't get distracted with silly sub-plots like any sort of romantic nonsense. There is a nice underlying current of mistrust as we know one of the team is a saboteur & the various problems the team encounter provide some nice scenes. Fantastic Voyage hasn't dated well, some of the 'futuristic' looking technology & the medical equipment simply don't hold up these days but I thought it gave the film a certain naive charm & innocence about it. The special effects won't impress anyone theses days used to the latest multi million CGI stuff but everything considered they aren't too bad & I've definitely seen worse. I'm not sure how accurately Fantastic Voyage depicts the inside of the human body, I personally thought it would have been more red but maybe I'm wrong. Whether Fantastic Voyage is accurate or not doesn't really matter as this is pure science fiction & the overall look & feel of these scenes is very good & memorable. Technically Fantastic Voyage is very good with some nice colourful sets & production design, some unconvincing special effects the only real aspect that lets Fantastic Voyage down today. The acting is OK & no one is going to win an Oscar, I also thought the casting of the bad guy gives him away a little too easily if you now what I mean & I'm surprised Richard Basehart isn't here somewhere! Raquel Welsh fans get to see her in tight fitting scuba gear which shows her best assets off quite well... I like Fantastic Voyage, it's good fun for all the family despite it age. A great little Sci-Fi film that is definitely worth a watch for fans & film-goers in general. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie really set the bar as the Academy Award Winner for visual effects. The special effect were on the leading edge of the technology at that time, and still are awe-inspiring. The story had a few technical holes (which were corrected in the famed Sci-fi writer Isaac Asimov's concurrently published book), but did not detract from the pace or credibility of the story. The cast was populated from Hollywood's best with Raquel Welch for eye-candy - a trend of the times. Apparently, the scene where she was tightly wrapped in anti-bodies was particularly enjoyable for the male cast members. The special effects did not detract from the plot line, which was fast-paced with believable acting showing a great depth of drama for a sci-fi/action genre film. "},{"Title":"Super small sub streaks soundlessly, saves scientist","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Serious problems arise as a team of doctors and scientists go inside a valuable patient to save his life and therefore aid the free world. A tight time frame and a gutless physician adds to the tension in this dramatic life and death fantasy. The props were fun, I could even believe the inside of a body would look similar to this. The sub itself looked like a cross between a stealth bomber and a souped up jet ski. Pretty good sci-fi adventure. "},{"Title":"Good, classic SF flick","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good, focused, suspenseful movie, a classic in its genre and of lasting interest. Since the Good Doctor was allowed to fix plot problems, this movie is pretty tight in scientific accuracy and consistent suppositions.  This sets it *way* above the typical fantasy junk the studios foist upon us as science fiction.  On a small screen (like 17 TV), the grandeur of the effects loses something, and the movie develops slow spots.  Of course, the effects of 1966 appear a bit tame against current technology, but still hold up well overall. Also, this being an Asimov/1960s combination, the characters are a little shallow, as the story focuses on roles and plots more than depth of characterization.  This focuses the viewer on the adventure rather than complex motivations -- the simple roles are plenty to drive the secondary plot. The casting also supports the movie well strong, established character actors in their accustomed range.  For the intended audience of adolescent male science geeks (remember 1966), there is Raquel Welch in a white, form-fitting uniform. "},{"Title":"Nice little SF movie, Raquel doing one of her patented frigid roles","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I have to tell this story. I went to see it, first run - 1966, on a double date. This was back in the days when you could walk in anytime and stay as long as you wanted.So, we got there, sat down and (Spoiler coming), it's almost the end of the previous showing, and I'm thinking, OK, the climax must have happened about 5 minutes earlier and this is the denouement (concluding scenes winding down).So we watch the entire movie and I realize as we get to it, that I saw the climatic scene when we first got there - they have abandoned ship (the Proteus) and are shooting through a mass of tangles and then make it through the optic nerve to the eye and are rescued. That was the climax.Was I let down. It was actually interesting to that point - even Stephen Boyd's almost wooden acting, and Raquel Welch doing her best to look all sciency and proper. It was a nice average mid-60's SF movie, nothing special, but adequate.I watched all Raquel's movies during this time - Fathom, Biggest Bundle. etc. She sure gave Jill St. John a run for iceberg queen. All show and maybe just the barest hint of double entendre's - her slightly undersized high collared uniform.Of course, Donald Pleasance made the movie, like he usually did. "},{"Title":"Delightful Sixties Miniaturisation Adventure Flick","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future, miniaturisation technology has been virtually perfected. So when a key scientist receives an inoperable brain injury, a medical team in a small submarine are miniaturised and injected into his bloodstream. Their mission is to treat him from the inside, but there is an unknown saboteur amongst them ...Fantastic Voyage is one of those great how-about-this-for-an-idea science-fiction films. Not only is it visually stunning, brilliantly made and great fun to watch, it's also a fascinating lesson in human biology and physiology. The script is a bit wonky - at times it's like a mega-budget widescreen version of a daffy old schoolkids' biology class film - but the miniaturisation idea is so clever, who cares ? Where the movie really scores though is in the visuals, as the sub Proteus glides through amazing vistas; arteries, veins, lymph-nodes, pleural sacs, neural membranes. Veteran cameraman Ernest Laszlo and director Fleischer create an incredible world, with all sorts of inventive techniques - travelling-mattes, filters, actors on wires, shooting in slow motion. The special effects (by L.B. Abbot, Art Cruickshank and Emil Kosa Jr.) and the art design (by Jack Martin Smith and Dale Hennesy) are both superb, and both won Academy Awards, and there is a great tension-building atonal score by Leonard Rosenman. Like any good cult classic the film features some great mad acting - I particularly like O'Brien as the cigar-chomping, coffee-snorting general in charge of the operation, but it's also interesting to see a then-unknown Welch as the only female crew-member. And whilst Pleasence may be far too obvious casting as the villain, he is completely wonderful as the shifty Dr Michaels. This is a great piece of technical film-making, a terrific science-fiction classic and a must-see for any kid who ever wondered how the human body works. "},{"Title":"A thrilling movie for those with patience...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fantastic Voyage is one of those movies that is charged with tension, humor, and action. These qualities are all delivered in little doses throughout, making it a great movie for Sci-fi fans all around. If you don't have any patience, this movie may not be fast enough at times. But it all fits the story, and the air of caution that follows the adventurers. The actors are talented and precise in their words and decisions, and the effects are wonderful for the time in which it was made. "},{"Title":"Original SF Film still unequalled","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is still one of the most original Sci-Fi movies in film history. The Cold-War story and special effects and sets in the normal-sized sequences are a bit dated, but when miniaturization occurs and we discover the inner workings of the human body - prepare for a truly fascinating film that delivers top notch entertainment and is a lot of fun to watch in repeated viewings. A later film, Innerspace (1987) tried to achieve the same storyline with much more comedy, but this film is by far the original and the best.. try viewing this on large screen television in letterbox to get the best visuals from the film.  "},{"Title":"See how blue our organs are!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage, Quickie Review Out of this set of Quickshots, this is arguably the most classic film. It's well known, it was creative, it was all fancy-schmancy, it's in color&#133; It was about this guy that's super important and requires an emergency operation&#151;one that can only be accomplished by taking a team of specialists, shrinking them down inside an equally shrunk submarine and injecting it into him so they can make a farciful, er, fantastic voyage to the problem in his brain. Wherein they're going to use a snazzy laser to blast away the problem (which is a clot or tumor or something). Well, the film is largely done in real-time and follows the crew as they have an hour of misadventure and endless difficulty in finding their way to the brain. Why an hour? Well, after that, they re-big-ulize inside the comatose dude.Well, I'm sure that for the time, the special effects here were just awesome. But now, by god, they're pretty awful. What we have is a collection of acid trip cinematography somewhere cross between 2001 A Space Odyssey and a lava lamp. For whatever reason, the inside of the human body is awash with the color blue. And rather than specific terms, an awful lot of stuff is referred to as corpuscles. Occasionally, the imagery is pretty neat, but a lot of it doesn't make much sense. Apparently, the inside of the human body is filled with some sort of atmosphere somewhere between liquid and gas as our heroes spend a lot of time swimming through open areas. Also laughable is the technology on hand. Who knew something as complex as shrinking a bunch of people down to travel inside the human body could be done without a drop of actual technology? Instead of futuristic TV/Computer screens, we have mirrored reflectors a la an overhead projector in a high school. The best we have is extremely futuristic black and white images which make up the maps of the human body with a little light in the background showing, apparently, the position of the craft. Needless to say, time has not been kind to this film. The writing is occasionally nerve-rackingly inane and the atmosphere is painfully light. To top it all off, the film kind of drags and it occasionally pretty dull. To add insult to injury, Raquel Welch never really wears anything revealing or body-hugging! For SF purists or film buffs only.Nostalgia Score 7/10, Modern Score 2/10, Overall 4/10 (www.ResidentHazard.com) "}{"Title":"Shrinkage","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The makers of this film did a good job creating an inexplicably high degree of verisimilitude which they used to paint over some absurdly impossible concepts, such as the wholesale size reduction of human beings and submarines.This film was groundbreaking in that it was big-budget, made for adults, and successful at the box-office, all of which were unusual for a scifi film in 1966. Its success helped pave the way for Planet of the Apes and 2001 A Space Odyssey.I saw this film on TV in the 1970's when I was 13. I hear it's on Netflix now.I remembered this film recently when my doctor made me get a colonoscopy, which is medical procedure involving a tiny camera taking a fantastic voyage via one of your body's natural apertures.While the procedure was happening, I could see what the camera saw, via a TV monitor. The staff had drugged me thoroughly, so darned if I remember much.It would be an interesting experiment to take the colonoscopy monitor and switch the feed to this film for a person getting the 'scope, seeing as they drug everyone who gets it. Afterwords, interview him, see what he has to say. "},{"Title":"Colourful, imaginative entertainment.","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" A top scientist, Jan Benes (Jean Del Val), is nearly killed in an assassination attempt. It seems that both American and enemy agents desperately want to pick his brain, to help with their miniaturization experiments. The solution that the American military come up with is to reduce a crack surgical team to microscopic size, so that they may enter Benes' bloodstream and operate on his brain from within. The real catch they have only an hour in which to pull off the mission, before the team starts naturally growing back to their normal size.There's no shortage of crises to overcome in this great bit of escapist fare. The only point that this viewer deducts is for a painfully obvious plot twist; otherwise, this is tons of fun to watch. Director Richard Fleischer keeps the pace *very* deliberate, slowly increasing the tension bit by bit. One of the best sequences involves a risky trip through Benes' heart. Just about anything could prove disastrous for the team, including the human bodys' own natural defenses, and any sound, no matter how minor.The visual effects, cutting edge at the time for a film made approximately 50 years ago, are still impressive today. That gives Fantastic Voyage the hook that helps to make it so memorable. The CinemaScope photography by Ernest Laszlo is stunning; it made perfect sense for these filmmakers to shoot in widescreen. Leonard Rosenman supplies an excellent, atmospheric music score.The cast is marvelous. Stephen Boyd, Raquel Welch, Arthur Kennedy, Donald Pleasence, and William Redfield play the members of this daring team, while Edmond O'Brien and Arthur O'Connell supervise the mission. O'Brien gets to have some little character details here and there, which is nice. A young James Brolin has a bit as a technician.Highly engaging science fiction every step of the way; the same premise would subsequently be exploited for comedic value in the 1987 film Innerspace.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Fantasy Classic","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist is nearly assassinated. In order to save him, a submarine is shrunken to microscopic size and injected into his blood stream with a small crew. Problems arise almost as soon as they enter the bloodstream.This film is pretty well known, with most people who have seen it or at least heard of it. It has also been largely influential. Obviously, it returned as Innerspace and Disney used to have a ride called Body Wars that was no doubt a spin on this. Heck, even video games like Life Force owe a debt.Some of the effects are silly, but it seems intentional. They make a point of saying that what we normally see as red can look different close up. I suppose there is some truth to that. Raquel Welch is here... not fighting dinosaurs. And Donald Pleasance, as well... not fighting pure evil. "},{"Title":"A Voyage Through the Human Body!","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Voyage is a wonderful, old-fashioned sci-fi adventure ripe with unique ideas. I like the idea about exploring the inside of a human body, something that hasn't been done much even at a time where original ideas are practically non-existent. The film is not all perfect, as the visual effects are very outdated, though it's still cool to look at. I also had an issue with some of the characterization, mainly with Raquel Welch's character. I had no idea what the point of her role was other than being eye candy. But for the most part, I had a fun time watching the movie and it was even a learning experience for me, learning about the human body. I also loved the score for the film. It wasn't so much a score as it was a sound effects party. In most cases, I would have been annoyed, but I felt such a score would belong in a film like this.Richard Fleischer's film is about this scientist who is mortally wounded by gunfire, and he holds the secret to miniaturization that could be catastrophic if the information fell in the wrong hands. The CIA decides to do emergency brain surgery, but in order to do so, they most get miniaturized themselves and take a trip into the human body. Grant was hired to act as security, because the CIA fear one of their own may be with the enemy.The film was reasonably well-acted. Stephen Boyd, more known as Judah Ben Hur's enemy in 1959's Ben-Hur does a pretty good job. This is Raquel Welch's film debut, but I'm not sure the point of her character was. There was no romantic subplot or she hardly ever speaks. This was probably my biggest bugaboo. Donald Pleasance, mostly known for starring in horror films, does a wonderful job as the lead doctor.Overall, Fantastic Voyage is a fun sci-fi movie that holds up pretty well today, story-wise. The visuals were good for its time, but not so much today. I loved the idea of exploring the human body, and I think this film does that justice. When the body's immune system starts attacking everyone was a very interesting scene to watch. I was expecting a cheesy sci-fi movie to be honest, but I was pleasantly surprised. Maybe I shouldn't be with how the cast was. While nowhere near perfection, it was a fun movie to watch.My Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Original, Interesting, Skin Deep","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Greetings! The Fantastic Voyage (in-case you didn't read the description) is a movie about a team of people being shrunken down inside a nuclear sub to then be injected inside someones bloodstream to remove a clot of the brain. The movie is definitely far-fetched and doesn't go into much detail about where the shrink-ray* came from, how it was developed, or why its effects are not permanent. Anyways, the point is this movie doesn't have a lot of depth to it in plot but it has an interesting story.Now anyways the movie was released in 1966 which was way WAY before I was born and I understand the effects weren't great back then but this movie actually surprised me. I don't think any of the scenes to me looked like a cheesy old 60's movie. Maybe it had something to do with me watching an HD copy but the actual scenes looked pretty good. The sets were interesting and the special effects looked great.Now back to the story... so your in a sub travelling inside the human body... most movies nowadays would just show a journey and the destination but not the exact parts of the journey. This movie actually described where they were in the human body, what certain parts and conditions were called (assuming anything said was remotely accurate), and what function a lot of the parts of the body did. The movie was very educational* (again assuming anything said was accurate) and entertaining to watch! I never thought that the space between our blood cells would have another fluid... I always thought our blood was made up of cells moving all together at once which made it look like a fluid not the cells themselves suspended in a fluid called plasma.Anyways, the movie like all movies has some bad parts to it BUT I'd say like 95% of the movie has good parts to it. The movie also isn't all educational it is entertaining I'd say very different to watch. This is definitely a movie for someone who wants to kick back, relax, and watch something different. Something that isn't like your standard movie nowadays. I only wish we could have more movies like this... the only thing I didn't like is how it ended so briefly. Essentially they went in and then they went out. It didn't really explain much after that which leaves you as the viewer with a lot of unanswered questions.Overall I'd say 7/10 for effects, 5/10 for plot deepness, 9/10 for originality, and 8/10 for entertaining bringing my total score to 7.25/10. "},{"Title":"The current rating is accurate for this film, and a finale for the ages...","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film in a theater right after its release, as an awestruck young kid. But it was more the novelty of the big-screen experience and my age at the time that made it that way. This movie has, quite simply, not aged very well. As a matter of fact, the special effects now appear pretty average, even taking the date of this film's production into account.But I do feel the actors' overall performances in the film were quite good; in particular, Stephen Boyd as Grant, Vice Admiral of the Combined Miniature Deterrent Force (a temporary resurgence of his fading career) and the utterly-unforgettable Donald Pleasance as the consummate traitor and saboteur, Dr. Michaels, who steals the show completely near its science-defying conclusion.But no matter. The indelible image of Dr. Michael's being 'absorbed' by the white corpuscle has stuck in my mind ever since, combined with his desperate screams of, Let me out!. Let me out!. It was truly a fitting demise, as the white cell slowly descended over and enveloped the Proteus submarine, entering the craft's cockpit and killing the trapped and hapless Dr. Michaels (accompanied by yet more blood-curdling screams). Neat stuff for a young kid, eh? Still, the film's extraordinary premise and execution still warrant a 7 rating. A dated movie methinks, yet still somewhat entertaining today. "},{"Title":"Inner Space","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The functions of the human body really are fascinating because in a way it's sort of a world of it's own, from how complex their build and how everything seems to have a function in order for this world to continue existing. This is another childhood relic of mine, I remember seeing this whenever I was sick I'd imagine some little submarines shooting down viruses within me.Let alone I just though it was really cool how the film showed the concept of shrinkage can be very useful and sort of made me which if there was a really complicated problem they would have this technology on stand by in every hospital so if I had an internal problem, the doctors would come in on a sub inside me to destroy it; I know a stretch but a fun thought all the same.Irwin Alan was always a colorful director really wanted to tackle projects that were just plain fun, this film I feel is his best one in my book anyway.There's really not a whole lot I can say about this film; the characters, plot and subplot not much I can really say for them, they all serve their functions. It's interesting seeing Raquel Welch in one of her earlier roles, she does well with what she has, I like that she's not a stereotypical girl that is useless and along for the ride, she is useful in some instances let alone she wears the suit very well. Though one character that stands out is Dr. Michaels played well by an actor I like Donald Plesence, whom is a character that seems shady, at times he's helpful but other times he's not.But really we're in this film for the adventure and that's what the whole film is one big amazing adventure. The effects were revolutionary for their time, this was the film that combined some practical set pieces with a bit of photographic matting technology. Giving us the illusion of the characters actually in the interior of the human body. OK, it's true that certain photographic effects don't quite hold up, you can easily tell in some places there is a screen behind or in front of the actors. But hey it was the 60's what do you expect, and in a way it sort of gives the film a certain retro charm because you feel that the effects people were really trying.Though to me what really impressed me were the set pieces. I like the design of the submarine. But mainly some of the design of the interior of the body sort of making seem like the underwater of the sea almost. The one I really like is the brain which to me is beautiful because of all of the lighting around and the web design.I even like the suspense in the film, in a strange way this film is sort of a submarine thriller. But unlike most of them the pacing constantly moves, there's little to no filler, it's highly focused on the action and the activity around them. Like in most of those thrillers there are the occasional snafus and there is the subplot all to simply keep things going and interesting. Though I'll admit there was one snafu or two that seemed kinda stupid and I feel is the only bad thing about the film mainly from it's cause, but then again the cause of them could of been something even more stupid so I'll let it slide. But I like how each of the members even the ones in ground control have to constantly think things though, let alone use the scientific knowledge of the human body to create a logic to get out of the snafu which makes sense, to me anyway.Nothing more to say, Fantastic Voyage is an amazing voyage.Rating 3 and a half stars "},{"Title":"Has retained most of its charm over the almost 50 years.","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was released in 1966 when I was a junior in college. I was 20 and I remember it, though vaguely. I remembered the basic premise but watching it today, on 'Movies' channel, filled in all the gaps from almost 50 years.This was a cutting edge premise back then, to miniaturize a small submarine with a doctor and scientists inside, to be injected into the body of an injured diplomat to find the blood clot in his brain and save him. Now, in the 21st century we are on the verge of doing just that, but in a different way. Very small surgical instruments can be injected into the body, the eye for example, and controlled with magnets and exacting instruments perform medical procedures from inside.So in this movie which is sort of an odyssey inside a human body, the group encounter a number of obstacles, each time needing to invent a solution. But the fun is in seeing the various depictions of systems inside thew body. I will mention only one of the cast, Raquel Welch who was about 25 during filming, as Cora. Now it isn't totally clear to me why her character was essential, but she provided much-needed scenery. Of course Welch went on to a good film career as a sex symbol, but at 25 she was about as gorgeous as she would ever be. "},{"Title":"Dated hokum but very entertaining","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's certainly not awful but it definitely has not aged well. FANTASTIC VOYAGE is undeniably entertaining. A group of scientists (and security detail Stephen Boyd) are shrunk to microscopic size & injected into the body of a man in hopes of breaking up a blood clot. There's by the book claustrophobic Donald Pleasence, genius surgeon Arthur Kennedy, pilot William Redfield and Raquel Welch. The visual effects (which won an Oscar) are very 1960s, basically pulsating blobs of red, blue and green. It's difficult to tell if you've entered a human body or are about to attend a Warhol factory freak-out. The acting is to be expected with this cast, running from hammy to hammier. Boyd is his usually stodgy self and Pleasence oozes dread with every sinister line reading. Welch has only a few lines but acquits herself well. The supporting cast includes Edmond O'Brien & Arthur O'Connell as military types who stand around smoking a lot and sweating a lot. Directed by that master of zero imagination Richard Fleischer, who would go on to helm DOCTOR DOLITTLE a year later. "},{"Title":"We stand in the middle of infinity between outer and inner space, and there's no limit to either","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Classic sci-fi film about a miniaturized submarine and its crew being injected into the blood of a dying scientist to save his life. Imaginative, fun story in the Jules Verne mold. Great cast includes Stephen Boyd, Donald Pleasence, William Redfield, and Raquel Welch. Old-timers Edmond O'Brien, Arthur Kennedy, and Arthur O'Connell help things considerably. Fans of curvy Welch should know she keeps her clothes on but maintains her sex appeal. Nice special effects, intelligent script, and exciting adventure overcome any minor quibbles. Reworked in 1987 as the Joe Dante comedy Innerspace. That one's good, too, but not as good as this. "}{"Title":"The Exploration of Inner Space","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most science fiction films, for obvious reasons, are set in the future, as plot lines involving futuristic technology are more credible if set in a futuristic setting rather than in a contemporary one. There are a few exceptions to this rule. Films about aliens visiting earth, whether hostile (War of the Worlds, Independence Day) or friendly (Close Encounters, ET) generally have a contemporary setting, because in these cases it is the aliens, not the humans, who have developed the advanced technology. In any case, a film about an alien invasion set in 2012 is always going to have more emotional impact than one set in, say, 3012. There are a few sci-fi films, however, which ask not What would happen if we could develop such-and-such a technology at some future date? but rather What would happen if we had already developed such- and-such a technology at the present date. This is normally done for some special reason. Capricorn One, for example, tells the story of a manned voyage to Mars taking place during the 1970s. (It was made in 1978). This is because the film has less to do with space flight than with a sinister government cover-up; it is one of a number of paranoid conspiracy thrillers made around the late seventies in the wake of the Watergate scandal. Similarly Fantastic Voyage, made in 1966, revolves around a technology that can miniaturise matter by shrinking individual atoms, but it has a contemporary sixties setting because the plot involves the sort of Cold War theme that was commonplace in thrillers of this era. The film-makers presciently realised that the Cold War would have finished long before human technology could have advanced to anything like the level depicted here. Indeed, the film starts off like a standard spy thriller. Jan Benes, a scientist from an Iron Curtain country, defects to the West, but Soviet agents attempt to assassinate him. (He may have been named after a real Jan Benes, an anti-communist writer and dissident who had been imprisoned by the Novotny regime in Czechoslovakia; alternatively the surname may have been derived from former Czech President Edvard Benes). Benes is left comatose with a blood clot in his brain. And this is where the sci-fi element comes in. He cannot be saved using normal surgical techniques; the only way to save him is to use the miniaturisation technology. A specially designed submarine, together with its crew of doctors and scientists, is miniaturised and injected into Benes. The team then have one hour to make their way to his brain and remove the clot with a laser. It soon becomes clear, however, that one of the team is a saboteur with instructions to kill Benes. As many have pointed out, including Isaac Asimov who wrote a novelisation based on the screenplay, the story is full of plot holes, but I won't discuss these here, partly through lack of space and partly because the plot is so fantastical that logic and internal consistency are less important than they would be in more realistic films. The film has other weaknesses, particularly as respects the standard of the acting. The best contribution is probably from Donald Pleasence as one of the doctors on board the submarine, calm and rational yet somehow sinister. Pleasence tended to specialise in playing villains, including a memorable Blofeld in You Only Live Twice, so it should come as no surprise when he turns out to be the saboteur here. Raquel Welch, in one of her earliest starring roles, looks spectacular in her tight-fitting bodysuit, but lacks the charisma she was to bring to some of her later roles. Stephen Boyd and Edmond O'Brien are both rather dull, as is Arthur Kennedy, whose lines are sometimes difficult to understand. (This was something of a disappointment, as I had admired Kennedy's work in some of his earlier films). One of the film's themes is a sense of wonder at the miracle of creation and the complexity of the human body; Kennedy's character, Dr. Duval, is particularly given to awestruck philosophising about God and the wonders he has been privileged to see. To inspire a similar sense of wonder in the audience required some very advanced (for 1966) special effects, largely through the use of the use of multicoloured lights, to create an imaginative vision of what the human body might look like from the inside to people who had been shrunk down to microscopic size. Like a number of movies from this period, the look of the film seems to reflect the psychedelic ethos of the sixties; it deservedly won the Oscar for Best Special Effects. The film was directed by Richard Fleischer, a director who worked in many different genres and who was responsible for films of widely differing quality, ranging from the near-sublime (10 Rillington Place) to the ridiculous (several examples). His ventures into sci-fi and fantasy were not always happy ones; he was, for example, responsible for the boring Soylent Green as well as the ludicrously bad sword-and- sorcery epics Conan the Destroyer and Red Sonja. Fantastic Voyage, however, is one of his better films in this particular genre. Despite the leaky plot and some dubious acting, it is a highly imaginative look at an unusual theme in the science-fiction cinema. The exploration of outer space has been done to death by Hollywood, both before 1966 and even more after that date. This is one of the very few attempts to tackle the exploration of what Duval calls inner space. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Popular Science by Analogy, and a Voyage to the Small","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is an excellent illustration of a voyage to the small. Also look for The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957) and Innerspace (1987).In the plot a scientist invents stable and longer lasting miniaturization technology, but he gets injured before he teaches his discoveries to anyone, locking the secrets to how the improved technology works in his mind. So a medical team use a miniature vessel (the Proteus) to help heal the scientist from inside.Most such ideas about the micro world lack explicit scientific credibility, but they allow us to use similar thought processes some scientists use. For example, Einstein used various thought experiments in his thinking and, more recently, the scientist Brian Greene (see The Elegant Universe -- documentary or book) uses them to illustrate scientific principles; he pretends to travel to the minute quantum level as an analogy to quantum concepts.Issac Asimov novelized the movie and shows its close attention to biological science. And I love how direct and straight to the point this film seems. "},{"Title":"Through the Auditory Canal With Gun and Camera.","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I kind of enjoyed this science-fiction fantasy. It has an appealingly eerie score, it's competently directed by Richard Fleischer, and it stars Stephen Boyd, Arthur Kennedy, Edmond O'Brien, Arthur O'Connell, Donald Pleasance, and Raquel Welsh. That's a lot of Irishmen, aside from everything else.The special effects were as good as the pre-CGI period allowed. Now, alas, they look a bit faked, particularly the cells that form the wall of the lymphatic system (I think it was), which look like hanging white drapes painted with black rosettes.The story goes thus. A scientific defector from the other side has a blood clot lodged in his brain. It's inoperable. But it must be removed if the defector is to be able to spill the beans to the military representatives of his new homeland.What to do? Simple. We know how to miniaturize a large object, like a specially designed submarine, to a size just a bit above that of a red blood cell. So we have a crew of specialists enter the submarine, miniaturize it, inject it into the alien scientist's carotid artery, and have them cruise into the brain, destroy the clot with a laser gun, then withdraw the tiny craft and its tiny crew by drawing some blood from an appointed place.As in many of these hazardous mission movies -- Where Eagles Dare, Ice Station Zebra -- there must be a saboteur aboard to add to the complications inherent in the plot. He turns out to be the lone atheist of the group.It's interesting to learn about the human body from what anthropologists call an emic point of view. We know what the body looks like from the outside. Here we get to see what it looks like from the inside. (Not looking at the inside FROM the outside, but the other way around.) Arthur Kennedy, who seems to be a philosopher as well as a surgeon, gapes in awe at the neural impulses zapping this way and that in the nervous system and quotes poetry about the sacred character of the mind. The quote is completed by Stephen Boyd. And this is outrageous because Boyd is nothing more than a glorified radio operator who sends Morse code. (Correctly, too, if too fast and perfect to be touched by human hand.) Radio operators are all too dumb to quote poetry, and besides it's unmanly. It's like using a skin moisturizer. I know this because I was a radio operator for some years. Boyd's character is a travesty. On the other hand, as a complete scientific ignoramus, he's necessary to the plot because he provides a proxy for the audience in that he has to have everything explained to him -- why the erythrocytes of the arteries turn into cyanocytes in the venous system and so forth.Especially enjoyable are the scenes in which the crew must exit the craft for one reason or another. However, there's a problem there too. They will be swimming through a plasma that resembles sea water and is about at the temperature of a living human body. So why do they have to wear SCUBA wet suits? Or, to get more specific, why couldn't Raquel Welsh exit the submarine wearing only a tiny Speedo bikini? No, the entire film falls flat on its face at that point. But come to think of it, I'm glad she got tangled up with fibers in the ear and not in the neurons of the brain, where she might have gotten her sodium pump frosted by mistake.Another noisome question. When you miniaturize stuff, do the atoms of which it's made remain the same size? If so, then you have to have fewer atoms, right? And wouldn't fewer atoms affect the functioning of the already tiny nuclear plant that powers the machine? On the other hand, if the atoms themselves are miniaturized, along with all their components, then you're doing more than miniaturizing objects. You're monkeying around with the fundamentals of the structure of the physical world. I'll put it differently. If you miniaturize an electron, is it still an electron? How small can an object be and still be called wet? But this kind of carping can be gotten over if you're swept up in this bizarre and exotic adventure. It's pretty exciting. There will always remain, however, that speed bump when the bosomy Welsh swims around in that repellent and hampering wet suit instead of au naturel. "},{"Title":"Up the Nose and Through the Ear","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 1966 epic is still fun even though much has dated. It's almost like one of those cliff- hanging serials of the 30's where our heroes face one death-dealing menace after another, except here the crew gets injected into the mad scientist, and have to swim their way out. And instead of Ming the Merciless, the villains are named white corpuscles, roving anti- bodies, and dropped scissors! Yeah, we get an insiders' tour of the upper reaches of the human anatomy courtesy miniaturization, and I've long been grateful that the injury was not to the alimentary canal, which would have produced a whole different movie maybe one person would have paid to see. The biggest attraction, both literally and figuratively, is Raquel Welch fresh from her triumph in One Million BC (1966) where we learned that even cavemen could design great uplift support. Now, thanks to Voyage's futuristic vision, we learn that some of life's really important things will, yes, continue to hang in there.Anyway, I thought the script tipped its hand too early once the one guy starts talking about evolution and atoms as some kind of ultimates. Anyone from the Cold War era knows only commies talk like that and that real Americans know things come from the higher Master Builder. But after looking at this model of our insides resembling the hallways of Disney's Haunted Mansion, maybe a new blueprint is in order. I'm just glad that great old pro's like Kennedy and O'Brien got one more payday before the winds of counter-cultural 1967 swept their generation aside. This may not be their finest hour, but the voyage up the nose and through the ear, or something like that, is sure as heck a lot more fun than my highschool biology class. Maybe not as scary, but at least more fun. "},{"Title":"A Great S.F. Movie","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although you rarely hear much about it, Fantastic Voyage is a classic of science fiction, IMO.  It's a concept that has rarely been done before or since, the F/X are spectacular, the original idea is innovative, and there's just enough action and excitement to keep things moving.  "},{"Title":"My observations and interests in this film have changed over time.","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First viewed-Aged 10-13 early 1970'sThe first time I saw this film it would probably have been the early 1970's when aged around 10-13. At that time its miniturisation and other special effects would have been amzing.The clean scientific lab, the miniturising of the submarine and lead characters, set the scene for a fanastic voyage.At that time I did not appreciate the talents of Raquel Welch, nor the requirement to have a resident bad character played by Donald Pleasance. The suspense was created by the time constraints and the growing bacteria.The scenes showing the scuba-diving in the blood, or lympathetic, system was very impressionable.Aged about mid 30's in mid 1990'sDuring the next twenty odd years I would have seen the film 4-5 times. As I better knew the storylines I tended to focus on the characters. Obviously Raquel Welch became the main point of interest wearing a skintight swimsuit. As an aside Angelina Jolie in the Lara Croft role would have a similar effect.Although nowadays there are more sophiscated special effects, it nonetheless remains a very good film, with suspense, drama played out by a great cast.It was very good technically in that it referred to the use of laser techology, something we now take for granted.RecommendationIf it comes up on TV suggest watch it, especially if you have not seen it for 15-20 years. If like me you first saw it as a young boy I am sure that your focus from that time would have changed.Good viewing "},{"Title":"A dated landmark S.F. film.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't think time has been kind to this landmark science fiction film.  Though it was a hit in 1966 and paved the way for other big-budget S.F. films such as Planet of the Apes, its story is silly, the dialogue stilted, and the special effects now seem primitive.  The interior of the human body is created by a series of large sets that look like... large sets. The acting is often unconvincing, and Raquel Welch is especially stiff.  As far as the science of it goes, the story is ludicrous, but as fantasy it's compelling because there's a one hour time limit for the micronauts to complete their task before they grow back to normal size.  So, in that respect the film is exciting.  Leonard Rosenman's music score helps, and though she can't act, Raquel Welch is probably the film's best special effect.  If you're a fan of S.F. films and haven't seen this one, it's a must-see. "},{"Title":"THE BEST FILM EVER","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would give this film a 100000000000 out of 10 it is so good. I loved this film and I still do. a MUST for everyone. The best part is when Edmond O'Brian (General Carter) saysWhat a time to run out of sugar!!! "},{"Title":"There are two reasons to like this film -- Raquel Welch","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember reading the novelization in The Saturday Evening Post, and thinking -- how dumb can you get? The plot violates more laws of physics -- and common sense -- than I have time to explain.The real problem with the film -- other than that Stephen Boyd wasn't much of an actor, and Ms Welch's thespic skills were -- uh -- vanishingly small -- was Richard Fleischer's direction. Fleischer was never anyone's idea of a top director, but someone must have thought that as he'd helmed another submarine epic (20,000 Leagues Under the Sea) he'd be a good bet for this one. Alas, the reason for the Disney film's success was a great script and an excellent cast. Fleischer's inability to inject any real tension or excitement into Voyage is apparent. He rarely gets the characters beyond standing on their marks and delivering their lines.The highly lauded special effects are poor, especially the traveling mattes. When the crew returns to full size at the end, the matting is plainly visible and unstable -- and downright embarrassing. (Yes, that's how I reacted 47 years ago.)If you can find the April, 1967 issue of Mad (#110), you can have a lot more fun with their parody, some of Siegel/Drucker's best work. An ad executive has a bad case of sinusitis, which needs treating from within. The crew is sent to LS/MFT (Laboratory Sector for Making Folks Tiny) for miniaturization (which lasts only 60 seconds, of course). As the sub shrinks, it goes from Super Economy Size to Giant Economy Size to Large Economy Size. When Raquel Welsh wonders why the the antibodies are attacking Stephen Boyd and not her, he says My body they're anti -- your body they like! And so on.Fantastic Voyage is a disappointment on every count. Though it was intended to inspire a sense of awe and wonder, the fact that virtually everything looks like a set or a special effect pretty much kills that. If someone could come up with some good pseudo-science about miniaturization, it might be worth remaking. "},{"Title":"Nice direction by Richard Fleischer with  a superb casting and sensational FX","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie begins with a splendid credits title, when an important scientist rescued from behind Iron Curtain is on the verge of the death and a medical and engineering team(Stephen Boyd,Raquel Welch,Donald Pleasence,William Redfield,Arthur Kennedy) attempt to save him. The group is miniaturized by scientific team(Edmond O'Brien, Arthur O'Connell and an almost extra James Brolin as a technician) and injected into his body by means a submarine named Proteus to locate and eliminate a blood clot. In order to complete its mission, the team has to navigate through cavernous bodily organs as well as overcoming an attempt at sabotage by one of the crew.Throughout travel inside his body they find themselves threatened by the wounded's natural defenses.This big budget film packs action,suspense, thriller and lots of excellent award-winning special effects by L.B Abbott. Magnificent sets reflecting inside the human body with circulatory system, lymphatic system, white globules, anti-bodies, lungs, ears, all supervised by a medic team. The picture contains spectacular music score fitting to action by Leonard Rosenman and colorful cinematography by Ernest Laszlo. The motion picture is correctly directed by Richard Fleischer. He's a veteran director ,recently deceased, with adventures classics (Vikings, 20.000 leagues under sea) and noir cinema(Narrow margin,Clay pigeons,Trapped). The eighties comedy, ¨Innerspace¨, has a likeness premise, both are set inside the human body, uniting similar settings in space and beneath the sea , it involves a Navy test pilot being accidentally injected into the body of geeky store clerk. Rating. Good film, better than average and well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Hard to place","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" On one hand, this movie is absolutely incredible. The special effects, suspense, and adventuristic elements are very well done and very engaging. In general, it's definitely entertaining and fun to sit back and just allow to take you along, like the ship in the bloodstream. It also throws random thoughts about religion and philosophy out in a way that should at least be appreciated for trying to cater to an intellectual audience, I suppose...On the other hand, it has terrible dialog, pretty bad acting, one-dimensional characters, is so caught up in the Cold War, and fails to make those philosophical shout-outs mean anything.Thus, while we're thrown from one aspect of pretty well researched anatomy to another, it can take your breath away two ways by dazzling with visuals, and by derisive laughter at the total inanity of the writing. It's just too silly to take seriously, and yet it doesn't seem to have been created to be comedic but awe-inspiring.Modern day audiences, as well, will get a good hearty chuckle at the little Intelligent Design situation. Good to know we haven't gotten any further, really, in our intelligence than when we were scared to death of Russian saboteurs.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"The incredible journey","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is superb. As a science fiction fans, i always look at movies which can create full of imagination and creativity to the audiences. The story about group of scientists shrink in a microscopic size and transport into the human body. I saw Inner Space too so what i think Inner Space is much more better and realistic than this. The effects are good but i knew that the creators of Independence day and Godzilla would like to do the remake. Should have it and probably with today's technology, you guys from the effects team can make people admired the ability of science fiction movies in the new milennium. "},{"Title":"A fondly remembered film -- which is ripe for a remake!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Undoubtedly one of the most intelligent science fiction films of the 1960s and 1970s. The concept is unusual and fascinating; a mini-submarine containing a team of doctors is reduced to microscopic size by a new experimental process and injected into the body of a famous scientist who was injured while defecting from behind the Iron Curtain.Stephen Boyd plays the government agent who brings the scientist to America (and then gets injected into him). Arthur Kennedy and Donald Pleasence are famous surgeons, Raquel Welch is the shapely surgical assistant, and William Redfield is the minisub helmsman.Because Fantastic Voyage was made in the 1960s, the film makers felt obliged to include an espionage-saboteur element in the plot. This part of the story isn't too well done, and absolutely nobody is surprised by whom the saboteur turns out to be.Through no fault of the film makers, some of the Oscar-winning special effects appear seriously outdated by today's standards. Too many visible wires can be seen on the miniatures, and too many full-sized sets look like sets instead of the human tissue and organs they are supposed to be. But the matt paintings and composite shots (such as the minisub's passage through the lymphatic system) look wonderful. Even the less effective special effects scenes succeed in clearly illustrating the events that comprise this truly remarkable story.The plot does have one blatant bit of illogic. It violates the plot's stated premise concerning the need to remove every trace of the submarine and its occupants before they automatically expand to normal size and kill the patient. But the bad guy's dead body and the submarine are both left inside the patient! It shouldn't matter that a white corpusle ate them -- the atoms are still there!Isaac Asimov's 1966 novelization of the screenplay doesn't make this mistake. The sub is removed, even though a white corpusle crushed it.Somebody needs to form the Independent Office of Science Advisors (IOSA), a group of scientists/writers who examine scripts and point out all the boo-boos that cause audiences to roll their eyes and warn other people to expect less of flawed movies. "},{"Title":"Lights!  Camera!  ESPECIALLY LIGHTS!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Isn't it amazing how the interior of this man's body is lit up like a football stadium?  I know, I know, it wouldn't be much of a movie in the dark.  And, how about that old geezer bringing the action to a complete, grinding halt every time he starts waxing philosophic?It's pointless to complain about dated special effects.  Technology advances, enough said.  What's truly significant is when the special effects of film from a far past film era STILL work today. (The Wizard of Oz is a fine example.)Everyone points out, ad nauseam, that the abandoned ship would also have returned to it's original size in the final scene.  How would you suggest they remove it?  I hear the novelization provides an answer - has anyone read it?? "},{"Title":"For 1966, with a great big hole in it.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was okay SF for 1966, but there was a glaring hole in the plot that had nothing to do with genre  at the end of the movie, the surviving members of the surgical team were removed from the patient, but the substance of the traitor, Dr. Michaels, and the fragments of the submarine were not. Presumably, these remains, both human and otherwise, would have deminiaturized inside Dr. Benes' head, killing him.  Perhaps they didn't have enough of a budget for the necessary pile of debris.  Fortunately, Isaac Asimov plugged this hole in his novelization of the story.  "},{"Title":"I can't breathe!...nor can she act...but the movie's still pretty cool","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Richard Fleischer's death yesterday brings to mind his movies, including this one. You have to forgive Fantastic Voyage for it's dated qualities and less-than-credible acting. I would imagine that it seemed really cool when it first came out, and I found it really cool when I first saw it. It's just that this story of some people traveling through an injured man's body - aside from being totally improbable - is clearly all about quantity and not quality. Still, it does have some neat scenes. Of course, when the antibodies attack Raquel Welch, you can tell that she doesn't really know how to act. Worth watching as a cultural reference. Joe Dante used the idea for Innerspace (although he expanded on the idea), and a Simpsons comic book also used the idea once. Also starring Stephen Boyd, Edmond O'Brien, and Donald Pleasance. "},{"Title":"Fantastic nonsense","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film begins with a statement, in which the film makers thank all the experts without whom this movie wouldn't have been possible. When the first signs of bad acting, bad dialogue and bad special effects present itself (which is pretty much right after the end of the intro credits), I started to condemn the experts for helping with this film.After the journey finally began, however, I was quite sure there actually have never been any experts involved in the making of this film. And if there were, I hope they lost their jobs and were burnt at the stake of science. How can shrinked people breeze oxygen molecules not much smaller than themselves? How can elite doctors say things like in comparison to our size the air pressure inside is tremendous? How can the dropping of scissors cause an in-ear earthquake lasting more than 30 seconds? Why are all characters luminescent when swimming around in what should have been pitch black in the first place? I could go on for hours.The screenplay is equally terrible. Why don't they just abort the mission and start all over, instead of constantly risking their lifes and the life of the patient needlessly? Why does every character have to be that stereotypical and bleak? Who on earth thinks, that jokes like This is a bad time to have no sugar (spoken by someone who drinks his coffee with sugar) are even remotely funny? How could they have possibly forgotten that the boat (or what's left of it) will deshrink inside the patient's body, thus killing him and making the mission a failure? I never thought I'd be saying this, but if you're interested in the voyage into the unknown fantastic kind of movie, avoid this one and watch Journey to the Center of the Earth (1959) or The Core instead, because beside the fact that they're also basically flawed, they're a lot less painful to watch (well, maybe just a little less in the case of the former one). "},{"Title":"Come along and ride on a...","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally caught this movie last night on television, and all I remembered was that I had wanted to see it as a kid (I liked the parody of it on Muppet Babies).  I think if I had seen it as a kid, I would have been disappointed, but as an adult, I enjoyed it.  It's a very *very* trippy, but charming sci-fi.  The concept is very bizarre, and the effects are enjoyable.  But I have to wonder where medical science was in the 1960's, seeing as they show the inside of somebody's neck as sort of a lava lamp. Lots of fun! "},{"Title":"This Special-Effects Film Needs A Re-Make","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this very interesting in parts and very boring in others....and that was awhile ago. With today's faster-paced movies, I would probably find this too much on the boring side today. The same holds true for the special effects great in its day, nothing that much today.This movie features a well-known cast but feels like a 'B' science-fiction film. A couple of decades later, they made another version of this called Inner Space, and that was more interesting. I think another re-make would be appropriate about now in the mid 2000s. With today's technology, it would look spectacular. That's the problem with movies that rely heavily on special effects they get dated quickly.This movie might have been fantastic in the mid '60s, but not now. "},{"Title":"Well, It Is A Voyage...","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another high concept sci-fi adventure yarn about a group of scientists shrunken down to microscopic level in an experimental submarine inside an injured diplomat's body(they are injected into the bloodstream, and try to make their way to his brain, in order to use a laser weapon as a surgical instrument to heal his wounds). The mission is threatened by a foreign agent/saboteur, who it turns out is one of the crew...Interesting premise is ultimately too far fetched to succeed, with several plot holes and general air of eventual silliness. Raquel Welch plays the (beautiful) woman of the team, though the best actor is Donald Pleasance, who is largely wasted, though his role is eventually expanded in the story(so to speak!) Watchable for nostalgia value, but that's all. "}{"Title":"fantastic journey-must watch the 1966 wonder","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" ONCE I WAS READING A KANNADA NEW PAPER ARTICLE(VIJAYA KARNATAKA-KANNADA DAILY) SOME YRS AGO.IN THAT SUDHEENDRA HALDODDERI A RENOWNED SCINTIFIC WRITER AND SCIENTIST OF DRDO-(India) WRITTEN ABOUT THIS FANTASTIC VOYAGE FILM.I felt i should watch this immediately. but i couldn't find DVD, CD of it.. so desperately i searched for it in net.finally found online watch and download links. i wished to have it always with me in my system so downloaded and watched.in 1966 when there's not so much resources of technical excellence were available this film managed to create some magic with its presentation..starting to finish its a very tense moments not only for actors-viewers too..!it makes us to hook to TV glued to seat edge...!!very authentic and wonderful making and acting......... if u watch it,u'll wonder the idea f making such an film on a book,and that too nearly perfect with available sources. i wish to see today's technology to be used and directors remake it again...the idea of sending a crew to human body might be a foolish then(1966)but today and in future it may nearly possible with Nan technology...!i watched it many times,and still i wish to watch it again n again... i can say you-must watch-its worth watch.. i give 10/10 for it... it deserves more..but i cant...!! happy watching..AA.. "},{"Title":"Heavily flawed, but major creativity points","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I shake my head in disappointment at all my past science teachers for never showing Fantastic Voyage in class. If nothing else, Fantastic Voyage gives biology nerds their own science-fiction film as a team of scientists and doctors shrink down and enter the circulatory system of a man with a clot in his brain that can't be removed using current-day medicine. We get a gleeful running commentary from the characters as their submarine enters different parts of the body, but as fun as these little science lessons can be, it seems more time was spent researching the science of the body than the science of good filmmaking.The plot naturally lends itself to suspense 60 minutes to be injected into this man's body, fix the clot and get out &#x97; but a great deal of the film sits in absolute silence at the worst times. Leonard Rosenman, the film's composer and eventual two-time Oscar winner, clearly hadn't honed his craft yet. Either that, or he and director Richard Fleischer were never on the same page. Although the psychedelic world of arteries and veins certainly warrants its Oscar considering it was only 1966, it creates a bit of confusion as to what's happening and Fleischer never guides us to an understanding of what the heck's going on. We're not sure if we should be scared for the characters or not half the time and we must rely on dialogue for those cues.The characters also have little bearing on the story. Stephen Boyd is a joke of a leading man here, but through no fault of his own; the main character of Fantastic Voyage is not an actor, but the spectacle. The characters are scripted with little weight and foreshadow of a traitor being amongst the team couldn't have been done more clumsily. As such, enjoyment of the film rides entirely on its creativity and uniqueness and the plot's inherent suspense (seeing as Flesicher adds so little of his own).Fantastic Voyage stands out to me as one a rare breed of classic film that begs for a remake. Not because of the special effects advances, though they certainly would add to the enjoyment of the story much like the old-school ones do in this film, but blockbusters tend to get better script treatments and there's potential here. The script even alludes to some of the big scientific and philosophical questions behind this concept of seeing the processes of the body at work and what that means, but the writers injected them in at odd moments as killer rather than weaving them into the story. Naturally, the Cold War led to a lot of generic movie plots seeing as the patient has vital information to fixing the 60-minute bug in the shrinking process, which would give the government a leg up on the Soviets. A modern script would find a way (hopefully) to make the success of the mission more vital, which would up the stakes. At the least, the intensity of the story could be done miles better under someone else's direction.Yet for all its plot holes, one can't diminish what this film accomplished during the time of its release from a technical perspective. The imagination behind the film deserves all the praise in the world. Fleischer took us to a world never seen before, though everything that happened in it could rightly be deemed laughable.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Fantastic fun bags more like!","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, this is rubbish because it's so old. Time hasn't been kind to this movie.For some reason they want to operate on a defecting scientist who has been injured in an assassination attempt (I believe someone says he is able to make the shrinking process last longer than 60 minutes as an off the cuff remark) and the guy their sending doesn't want to go but has to anyway.The crew is the Navy guy, the doctor who navigates (surely the surgeon could have done that as well negating the need for him?), the surgeon and his assistant to do the operation and the guy for security. He's pointless too, plenty of things get sabotaged and not once does he stop any of them.Then they all decontaminate and board the sub to be shrunk. Actually their shrunk twice and I still don't understand why this process couldn't have been done closer to the operating room.They are shrunk, then put into a giant syringe (Donald Pleasance has a bout of cabin fever, tries to open the main hatch but it prevented) and shrunk again.So clearly whatever the floor is made of in that room it's shrink proof. Oh, and the great goof the ship is powered by a microscopic nuclear particle. Hang on, if the whole ship shrinks, surely that will shrink as well rendering it useless as a power source?We gloss over the stunningly beautiful Raquel Welch many times who is ignored until shes wearing a skintight wetsuit and no bra. Yes, no bra. It's totally obvious she isn't wearing one and you have to be blind to not notice the scenes where she is definitely bra-less.I do find it funny that such a high tech sub has to communicate using Morse Code, could they not afford a radio?Even though we are told they have 60 minutes in shrunk mode they never get to use those 60 minutes fully as they are not injected until 4 minutes have passed with them shrunk.Once injected into the body their problems start pretty much right away and they end up going off course due to a medical problem they hadn't previously detected.They end up having to detour through the heart (but the heart can only be stopped for 60 seconds while they fly through) and lose air and have to refuel for air in the lungs (another good goof as the air molecules would be to big to fit in their ship) and then have to detour through the ear (I still really don't understand why that happens) and then finally reach the brain and the injury they are there to operate on with only 6 minutes to operate and escape. Donald Pleasance pointless argues and wastes more time doing so then jumps the Navy guy and tries to steal the ship to escape.I'm not sure if we're supposed to think he's trying to kill the defector or that he's the person who sabotaged everything but he ends up getting killed by white corpuscles and both him & the ship are destroyed.To escape the remaining survivors make their way to the optic nerve and successfully escape.A weird ending as you never know if the operation was a success or not. "},{"Title":"A classic science fiction movie about the odyssey of a submarine in the interior of a human body","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great scientist, victim of an attempt against him, is dying because of a brain coagul. His American colleagues decide to risk on a surgery from the interior of his body, thanks to a revolutionary process. A medical team on board of a submarine is miniaturized till microscopic dimensions and injected in the jugular of the wounded. Through the veins and arteries, passing by the lungs and heart, the small submarine has to arrive in brain to execute the mission with success. But there is a problem. In the submarine is a saboteur who will try everything to blow the operation off. Fantastic Voyage is one of the most famous science fiction movies of the sixties and created enormous sensation for his visual effects (won an Oscar). Today, these effects are laughable, but we have to think that they were made in a time where there were no computers. The film is an inspired fantasy of a journey to the interior of a human body. A nice movie from director Richard Fleischer with the presence of Stepen Boyd and the beauty Raquel Welch. "},{"Title":"Innovative basic concept, but FX extravaganza only","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For its time, Fantastic Voyage was an innovative concept  a miniaturized atomic submarine goes on a voyage of exploration and rescue thru the human body itself.  They are saving the scientist whose body they are traveling thru, by reaching his brain and curing an inoperable blood clot there.Unfortunately, beyond this promising start, the movie has little else to recommend it.  You are supposed to sit there awed by the depiction of the voyage thru familiar organs of the body  heart, lung, inner ear, etc.  So they have all these adventures along the way and eventually accomplish their mission.  End of story.  Big deal.The special effects are dated.  But is it fair to criticize a 37-year-old movie for dated effects, given how FX technology continually advances?  It depends.There are movies that are even older whose effects have held up much better--especially Forbidden Planet (1956).  And classics like The Day The Earth Stood Still (1951) remain charmers today despite effects that had quickly become dated.The reason is that such sci-fi movies were more than just a special-effects extravaganza.  They had engrossing, imaginative scripts, interesting characters, and something significant to say.  The special effects supported the scripts, rather than the effects carrying the movie.Fantastic Voyage was one of the movies that started us down this trend of weak sci-fi scripts masked by stunning effects.  That's risky because as the effects inevitably become dated, the movies no longer seem worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing, but probably not worth your time unless you like laughing at really bad acting (I do)","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an good movie to show as an anatomy lesson. They made a few gaffes, but by and large, stuff is accurate. And I will admit that for the 60s, the special effects are phenomenal. But the plot drags (especially the beginning--how long can you watch something shrink?) and has holes, and the acting is horrible. Raquel Welch's character Cora has three basic tasks to stand around looking pretty, to occasionally hand something to her boss, and to every once in a while do something that requires her to scream Help! Somebody please help! Still, I suppose that's more tasks than the other characters. Grant just stares at the camera in a grim and determind way, Dr. Duval recites inspirational quotes like he's reading them off a calendar positioned outside the window, and Dr. Michaels sits around being bald and muttering darkly in an accent. "},{"Title":"Didn't do much for me","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this on a double dvd with 'Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea', and I'm afraid to say I enjoyed that one much more than this one. It really had better effects, a better story and better acting than Fantastic Voyage, which is only interesting for it's main idea, a ship inside a human body.This human body is scientist Benes, who is shot (by 'the other side') and in a coma. A group of 5 (2 scientiests, one assistant, a steering man and a guard), within some sort of spaceship, are being shrunk and shot inside Benes' body, to find the injury and cure it.Sounds like a lot of fun but I was left disappointed. There isn't much going on and the voyage was trippy more than exciting. Also, we don't even see Benes waking up at the end... so did he survive or didn't he? Good thing to see Arthur O'Connell appear in it I loved him in The Great Race!4/10. "},{"Title":"White Blood Cells","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Apparently the Proteus and Donald Pleasence are destroyed by the envelopement of white blood cells before the 60 minute time frame expires.  Good way to tie up loose ends at the finale.  Solves the deminaturization problem.Moving flick for a 6 yr old at the movie theater in 1966!  Widescreen mesmerizes nicely.  Is this on DVD?  Think I'll add this to my collection.High ratings here, if only because it takes me back to childhood. Good for youngsters to learn a bit about the human circulatory system, laser beams, and above all - fortitude in the face of disaster. I still hate hypodermic needles! "},{"Title":"I think my DVD must be missing a scene.","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the scene at the end where they report that the head of Benes has just exploded because the remains of the laser, Dr. Michaels, and the entire submarine Proteus have just enlarged inside it.Oh, also the contents of a high-pressure tank of oxygen.I mean, that must have happened, right?Aside from that minor plot inconsistency, I'm very fond of this movie. The design of the research submarine is beautiful and believable, and the various interiors of the human body are also beautiful, even if not always entirely believable. I think I would expect the chambers of the heart to be a little less cluttered than they are here. "},{"Title":"The Cartoonish Expedition","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the get-go, FANTASTIC VOYAGE is a study in dated science-fiction that seen today induces self-conscious laughter instead of awe. The concept of scientists being miniaturized to microscopic size and inserted into the comatose body of a scientist who has a clot in his brain now seems like an exercise in Discovery Channel porn but then was filmed with the seriousness of 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, and because of the time it takes in bringing a strong realism into its hokey montage, it succeeds rather than sink before it's even started. For the first half hour the movie develops its set-up with care. Once the crew becomes injected into the scientist's bloodstream, the effects of blood platelets is startling -- considered all it is, is lava lamp bubbles and a greenish background. Plotwise, the story makes no sense and transitions between one scene to the next are flimsy at best, but this is escapism made very well. If you can get past awful acting from Arthur Kennedy who continues to spew out bad lines and a King Charles' head approach to his scenes, and Raquel Welch's presence as eye candy -- she was J. Lo before J. Lo was even a blip in this world; check out the many reference the movie gives her torpedo-like breasts, particularly in the scene when the crew removes antibodies from her body), FANTASTIC VOYAGE is silly, cotton-candy fun. And kudos to the human GPS system who continues to track the ship's trek through the scientist's body -- that visual alone is priceless. "}{"Title":"Fantastic...snooze.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people don't know this but when I was in elementary school, I was subjected to see this film. Was I thrilled? No. At one showing when I was 10, as everyone else was looking at this film, I read, The Andromeda Strain. That should give you some idea of how I accepted the film and why I still have a little bitter resentment to it even to this day.Don't get me wrong, it was a wonderful idea and I am sure for its time, it had neat-o special effects to some but the special effects to me were boring. I thought they could have been better. The actors were...okay....with what they had to work with. Somehow I knew Raquel Welch was cast for T&A because most of the little boys and male science teachers I had loved the part when Raquel got caught in those anti-bodies. But again, this is not to say the idea wasn't bad. Now it looks REALLY dated. (And someone tell me what ever happened to Steven Boyd's career? He was wonderful in much he had done and this fizzled out!)This is the time to take a film like Fantastic Voyage and do it right.  There must be a reason why there have been several attempts to copy Fantastic Voyage but never actually re-do this ONE film. Anybody Got any guts? About ten years ago, I would have voted for John Carpenter to take a swing at it, but now that ship may have passed. There are a few other up and coming directors that could take a stab at it, and maybe they should.Fantastic Voyage contains alot of good things to work with. It's okay to watch, but take it from a child who was FORCED to watch it year after year for about 4 years in science classes, re-do it, update it, bring out the medical information and why THIS man would be SO important to save, especially with today's new technology. then it would get me going as it should and as I suspect it was meant to. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who was grossed out by this?","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I honestly didn't know if I could get through this movie. From a technical standpoint, it is not very good a weak script and obvious plot holes bring it down (we can do complicated surgery by shrinking people to the size of a molecule, but we can't do the same surgery from the outside?), and the effects are cheesy beyond belief (to be fair, the opening sequence where they first enter the bloodstream is still impressive).However, this movie managed to disturb me on a profound level. I am one of those people that gets all lightheaded with anything involving blood (I can't give blood or I would faint to death). I am still generally able to handle gore in movies just fine, but it's the overall concept of this movie that bothered me in the worst way. Human beings are ENTERING ANOTHER HUMAN BEING'S VEIN, floating around in his blood, and ultimately arriving at his brain. I am getting woozy just typing this. How can anyone else not find this horrendously gross?Eventually I stopped thinking about where the characters were and was actually starting to enjoy the movie, until Raquel Welch got attacked by the anti-bodies. That did it for me. I couldn't sleep for days after I saw that. Yes, the actual effect is silly (they look like pieces of tinsel) but just think about it she is being attacked by giant, slimy, writhing things that God never intended humans to encounter face to face. I can't imagine anything more horrible than that.Fans of cheesy movies will probably like this for the nostalgia factor, but I am writing this as a warning to squeamish people everywhere avoid Fantastic Voyage at all costs. You will faint and fall off your chair and possibly suffer head trauma. Just skip this one and find something slightly less gross to watch, such as The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, or Hannibal.6/10 for the actual movie. 0/10 if you have trouble thinking about blood.  "},{"Title":"Forbidden body","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was hoping for some Forbidden Planet version for the body; for me, it was a film hard to get through. The titles were admittedly great with their syncopated rhythm and ingenious clock-ticking suspense evocation along with the abrupt zooming.But that is that, and the film shows like an anti-climax after that. The acting is cardboard Stephen Boyd watching left and right and back and swirling again as the golf cart-like vehicle transports him to his underground destination was silly, but more perplexed than enjoyable; the pap about man being the center of the Universe was pronounced with cardboard haughtiness, that I did not find enjoyably cheesy either - it was too in common with Stephen Boyd's exhausted deliverance, as if the crew was prematurely in lack of oxygen inside the submarine - only Donald Pleasence is loonily menacing, and that not that much, either.The scenery which should have been the protagonist has its points and marks and scores here and there but mostly harks back and snores with its repetitive, uninspired biologism. The only thing that impressed me concerned the cultural zeitgeist - I could see the pictorial universe of Will Baziotes, for anyone who may care about cultural references concerning the second generation of the abstract expressionists.The special effects are not remarkable (all those lava bubbles!). The 20's abound in examples with far more imaginative effects, and less technical access.As it is the Cold War found the body cold (Rachel is stiff and irrelevant as why a woman in the crew), with something less than the pop awareness of b-movie status. "},{"Title":"Yes, but......","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Apparently, there's a plot hole in this movie. They shrunk the sub but nobody takes into account the question of mass. The mass would increase to such an extent that the sub would fall right through the scientist's skin, through the floor and down into the earth's core probably. Just thought I'd mention it.Racquel Welch gets attacked by loads of anti-bodies and the entire male crew has to pull all the bits off her wetsuit. Acting's a tough job but someone's godda do it. Raquel's lithe and lovely daughter Tahnee Welch also appears in a wetsuit in 'Cocoon'. I yelled at the screen Anti-bodies! Anti-bodies! But sadly, no dice. "},{"Title":"Still fun but dates badly","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Caught this on TV the other day,after not having seen it for ages. Was surprised at how dated it had become. Despite being set in the 90s all the characters act like they're in the 60s. I remember being terribly impressed by this when I first saw it as a kid. To some degree the special effects still work,and the art direction and sets are still as garish as I remember. The cast with the exception of the wonderfully underrated Donald Pleasance is unexceptional. Rachel Welch became a star after this movie. She was kind of the Pamela Anderson of her day. She's actually improved over the years but here she's merely a sexy distraction. Can't speak for the scientific accuracy although even when it came out many felt it was laughable.(For instance why wouldn't the molecules of the ship return to normal size even though it had been absorbed ny the antibodies?) Still the movie is still fun to watch and for that I'd give it a solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not so creative anachronism","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have recently seen parts of Fantastic Voyage, and it struck me just how backward the technology looks today. For example, Proteus Navigation systems consists of rolled up charts, and its communication system is a wireless Morse code key. They may as well be aboard Titanic. As for the purpose of the mission, that is to remove a potentially fatal blood clot from the brain of a defecting scientist, they do much the same things these days with catheters and arthroscopic surgery. The sub seemed to be over crewed as well. I suppose someone had to roll and unroll all those navigation charts. Of course even the best views of the future often collide with the actual future. Think of William Shatner with a cell phone. "},{"Title":"Has some fun qualities but is badly dated and is spectacle without tension, excitement, good writing or performances","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When a top scientist defects to the West, he brings important secrets with him however, before he reaches the safe house to tell them, his motor convoy is attacked and he narrowly escapes death. The attack has critically injured him and the damage to the brain is impossible for surgery to work &#150; normal surgery that is, but this is not the final option. With only an hour to complete their mission, a crew of pilots and surgeons are miniaturised and placed into the scientist's body in order to navigate to the injury and perform the operation from inside. Once inside though, the terrain is not as easy as they had planned for and their mission becomes a risk to all their lives.Opening with an immediate quick pace and some interesting ideas delivered with energy (so that we don't really have time to question them) this film sadly lapses into a straightforward 'people in peril' movie with a twist that relies more on spectacle more than it does plot. I will ignore the chance to make lots of bad puns ('it's a real full bodied film') or attack it's foundation (a society that can shrink people before it can perform such difficult surgery from the outside?) because the plot did cover its main weaknesses early on. However, once inside the body it becomes one thing after another but it does it without ever really delivering the goods in terms of tension or excitement. For this reason it becomes watchable rather than gripping; passable rather than exciting. The script becomes uninspired and the general writing is partly at fault for delivering scenes lacking in tension.Without a strong story creating tension what we are left with is spectacle, and the problem with spectacle is that it loses its impact with time and viewings &#150; in other words, it simply becomes less spectacle. I will acknowledge that these effects must have made a big splash at the time but now they only seem quaint. It may seem unfair to judge this film by today's standards but if it has dated it has dated and I cannot just pretend it hasn't! Having said this, I still found the film interesting enough to watch and the effects, although not spectacular, are still quite enjoyable (if a little silly!). It is maybe best viewed today as being a bit of fun of its time rather than the big event film I imagine it was, but it is still worth a look.However, no part of it being worth a look is due to the cast who are, to a man, upstaged by the very effects that should be supporting them. Boyd is as wooden as they come but he is threatened for that title by Welch, O'Brien and Kennedy, all of whom appear very rigid and so on. Donald Pleasance at least gets a bit more to do and gets to go a bit nuts at several points but mostly the film is just left to the effects to carry with neither the story nor the actors really able to step up and make the film more than just an effects movie.This failure makes it interesting as an amusing little film from the 1960's that is quite fun despite its many weaknesses. However, for my money, the lack of performances, tension and real excitement meant that I would be unlikely to rewatch it just for the dated effects alone. Like many blockbusters today, this film has been superseded since its creation and is an example to all those who bemoan the 'style without substance' of modern cinema &#150; we've been doing it for a lot longer than the past few years my friends!  "}]