[{"Title":"Tasty Waves and Exotic Locales-Forever Timeless!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"25 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" What a fun little film this is! Every 5 or 6 years I revisit this work and enjoy it as much as the first time I saw it. My hat is off to Bruce Brown for having the vision and determination to create this film. With cinematography, music, and narration that is easy on the mind and eyes, this film floats through the screen and has you envisioning your own paradise, whether or not you're a surfing aficionado. The two featured surfers in this film are at the top of their sport and seem to be doing it only for love - NOT for big prizes or cash purses. There is a unique innocence about this film that is very appealing.See this film because it is not violent. See it because there are no special effects (save one or two jerky camera moves). See it because it takes you back to a simpler time when the world (and you do see much of the world) seems much simpler. Still fun and still an inspiration, this film will remain forever timeless... "},{"Title":"A good, clean film about a good, clean sport.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Back before Sean Penn gave us his hilarious interpretation of a surfer as a drugged-out loser with a limited vocabulary in Fast Times At Ridgemont High, the common image of a surfer was that of a clean-cut guy who surfed just like other people sailed or fished.  They were normal people.  This film was made during that time, when surfing was a sport and surfers were athletes.  And its that charm that makes this film special.Bruce Brown had made 4 feature-length films prior to making this one, but this film's incredible success made him a cult hero, a Cinderella story who came out of nowhere to give us a film that could quite possibly be the best surfing documentary ever made. His premise was simple take 2 surfers and try to achieve what everyone dreams of an endless Summer of sun, surf, and girls (but mostly surf).Brown's narration, with its soft California tone, really gives the film that comfortable, easy feeling, like watching an old Walt Disney film from the early 60's, which contributes to the film's charm.  We know, we just know, that these two guys are going to go out on an adventure and nobody will die, nobody will get arrested, and nobody will do anything immoral (or at least _too_ immoral).From the west coast of Africa, to South Africa, to Australia, to islands in the Pacific, to Hawaii, we go along as two young men from California introduce the sport of surfing to people who have never seen a surfboard before.  It is quite hilarious to see villagers in Ghana and Senegal try to surf a longboard in heavy surf for the first time, and Bruce's narration really tells a funny story, and all along we're relaxing to the gentle guitar sounds of The Sandals.We also get to see some of the best surfers riding some great waves in the age before the beaches got crowded with jet skis, racing boats, and more surfers.  Endless Summer is one of those films that acts like a time capsule, and is just as entertaining now as it was when it first came out.I highly recommend it for everyone.  Adults, kids, surfers, non-surfers. There's something for everyone in this film.  You don't need to know how to surf to enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Great to watch any time of the year.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Despite the fact that this film is over thirty years old it's just as good as when it first came out in 66.  No plot, No stars.  Two guys who take off to surf the world (or at least as much of it as they can)in search of the perfect wave and are photographed as they do it. Good narration and great surfing footage along with the right amount of humor thrown in makes it an endless classic without really being a documentary.  "},{"Title":"The definitive surf movie.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Forget the Hollywood teen scene movies from the 60's with Frankie and Annette.  That was teen exploitation (and the teens knew it and didn't watch them, either).  This movie is completely different.Endless Summer is not exactly a drama, but not exactly a documentary either.  You follow two young surfers as they travel the globe looking for the elusive Endless Summer of year-round surfing.  The narration is hilarious and the surf action will make even the novice landlubber want to grab a raft and skip across the backyard pool.No bikini-clad girls trying to understand boys.  No swim-trunk clad boys trying to understand girls.  No meddling chaperones and hilarious hi-jinks. No musical guest stars.  What you get is one of the best films about surfing and Life. Period.Surfers will own it already, but for those who haven't seen it - see it.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful Wonderful Nostalgic Escape","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Beautifully filmed, wonderfully nostalgic trip to a simpler time. A labor of love by those who lived the life and embraced the philosophy of the lifestyle. Characterized by friendly exploration of different beaches (as they chased Summer around the globe) as well as different cultures; a true escape in every sense of the word. These ambassadors of the sport don't perform a high energy showcase of different surfing moves, rather they exhibit the beauty and grace of 60's style surfing, making friends along the way. A must for anyone who has ever been on a board or dreamed of it. A great film for the whole family, I put it on on a Sunday night to forget the stress of the upcoming week. Watch it over and over-- it gets better every time. "},{"Title":"One trip definitely worth taking!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" THE ENDLESS SUMMER is a terrific Documentary and a really great trip (in every sense of the word) to another era the 1960's.Basically, the film is a photographic journal of two American surfers who start off from California, USA, and travel the world to find the perfect wave. We follow them as they travel, and, if we're in a receptive mood, we have a lot of fun also. The film includes most of their trip, but the focus is on their journey through North and South Africa, New Zealand,Hawaii, Tahiti and Australia.The film features some typical surfer humour that some would find a bit lame, but it always makes me laugh. One silly example The two surfers pack their bags for their trip. One of them reads about possible shark attacks. The next thing that we see is the other one packing a single band-aid...for emergencies! Typical surfer humour!! Interestingly, but unfortunately for us, the only place the boys can't find a decent surf is here, in Australia! During their Australian trip they are constantly told by the younger and older surfers alike You guys really missed it. You should have been here yesterday! This really means You guys really missed it. You should have been here last winter! There are so many good things in the film to enjoy the laconic narration by Bruce Brown; the personalities of the two surfers, Robert and Mike; the evocative music score; the excellent photography and editing; and the scenic locations all combine to make this a great experience. This is one of the few films that will make you really appreciate surfing...and documentary films. It's a fine example of how to make an imaginative film with a small budget. THE ENDLESS SUMMER is truly one trip definitely worth taking! "},{"Title":"Fun And Educational, Thanks To Brown","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This was an entertaining and educational trip around the world. It follows two American surfers who are seen visiting West Afrcia, South Africa, India, Australia, New Zealand and, of course, Hawaii. For one thing, it was interesting to see how they looked at prices of things. For example, in Africa, they are astounded at having to pay $30 a night to stay in a motel or pay $1 for a gallon of gasoline. (I'll bet they would change their tune today!)The film gives you a good feel for the '60s surf scene with the lingo (stoked, hang ten, etc.) The surging can get boring after awhile but Bruce Brown, who made this film and narrates it, usually didn't overdo those parts and he does an outstanding job narrating to keep our history. He's interesting and he's funny. There are some memorable moments seeing a place where the waves go past the sand right to the shore and then back out again; the famous Waimea Bay of Hawaii, of the biggest waves ever to be surfed; the perfect waves on the east side of Africa, the incredible scenery in New Zealand and the flies in Perth, Australia!A fun movie. If you enjoyed this, check out the sequel Endless Summer II. That is very good, too, and with better camera-work. "},{"Title":"The Endless Summer by Bruce Brown is one of the all time great movie documentaries.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  The sport of surfing has changed much over the years and this insightful documentary gives us a snapshot of the sport in the 60's.  What is most impressive about the movie is the excellent narrative and photography.  I recently have received the movie poster from allposters.com and I recommend this to anyone who is a Bruce Brown or surfing enthusiast. "},{"Title":"The original and best surfing movie ever","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Interesting, intelligent and well-narrated movie done in the days of innocence before boring thrash-metal soundtracks drowned out commentary from surf-movies. No matter what age you are, if you like surfing (and probably if you don't) you will find this movie interesting as it travels around the world examining cultures and people as well looking for the perfect wave. Sure, Bruce Brown's commentary may sometimes sound goofy but it enhances the innocent feel of the movie and its place in time. This is the definitive surf movie - the measure by which other movies can only be judged. A recent Realsurf website (Realsurf publishes worldwide surf reports on the internet) reader pool of '000's voted Endless Summer as the best surf movie of all time with daylight second and Endless Summer 2 next.  "},{"Title":"Flawless, fun documentary","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Outstanding documentary about two young surfers who travel the world looking for a good wave.  Bruce Brown's cinematography is breath-taking, and the ongoing narration (also by Bruce) is inspired and truly funny.  One of those rare movies that you wish would never end.  Followed by the equally-good Endless Summer II 30 years or so later, which must be close to a record for sequels.   "}{"Title":"Great if you actually are interested in surfing","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" The name Bruce Brown was a name I hadn't heard until I saw The Endless Summer. Apparently, he is the king of surfing documentaries, a thing I didn't know there was a king of. The Endless Summer is allegedly his quintessential surfamentary and it's really the only one people talk about. It chronicles the journey of two ace surfers as they follow the Summer season around the globe to ride the waves in all sorts of exotic locations like Africa, Australia, and Tahiti. The film has no dialogue from the people in it, only Bruce Brown's narration which fills us in with all the information we need to know to follow this story of an endless summer.This is a particularly light hearted documentary that is solely for entertainment value to those who find its subject matter interesting. If you're interested in surfing I suppose you would love this movie because about 90% of the footage of the film is actual surfing. If you don't really care about surfing, like myself, The Endless Summer doesn't do much for you. I personally found it a little bit boring and somewhat pointless. However, I can't say that it's a bad film because it's easy to tell what a great surfing documentary it is, even if you couldn't care less about the sport.Even if you don't care about surfing there are still all sorts of beautiful locations that the two surfers and Bruce Brown visit in this film that are marvelous to look out. In this film you see some of the most beautiful ocean water you will ever see, and some truly perfect waves that you won't see on any beach in America. I can appreciate this and it makes The Endless Summer a slightly more interesting film to someone who has no interest in surfing. Of course, this film is all about the surf, and no time is really devoted to the beauty of the locations or the variety of cultures traveled to here. All the focus is on surfing, and we have to take it upon ourselves to notice the kind of beauty this subject matter is immersed in.You have to constantly remind yourself that this is nothing more than a documentary about surfing, so you have to cut it slack for not devoting time to things a non-surfer would find more interesting. However, one of the truly strange things about the film is it's sense of humor at times. It's a very easy going documentary with a light hearted and sarcastic sense of humor, but this humor is also a bit awkward at times. Some of the remarks about the African natives sometimes come off as insensitive, though not blatantly so. It's nothing that makes you do a double take, and I'm sure Brown means well in his narration, but there are a few remarks that just seem off. Who knows. Maybe it just comes with the times. It didn't bother me much, but I couldn't help but notice it, and it stayed on my mind throughout the film.The Endless Summer is perfect for a surfer who wants to watch a surfing documentary. If you're not a surfer and you want to watch a surfing documentary you might feel just a little indifferent about this film. It's not bad, in fact it's well made overall, but it won't really stick with me by any means. "},{"Title":"In Search of a Warm Climate and Good Surfing","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This documentary is about two surfers by the names of Robert August and Michael Hynson who travel the world in search of a warm climate and good surfing. After leaving California at the end of summer they fly to the west coast of Africa and then eventually head to various other locales such as South Africa, Australia, and Tahiti to mention just a few. During this process the viewer is shown a multitude of waves and some surfers who attempt to ride them. Now, if one were to really love surfing I have little doubt that they will certainly enjoy this film. On the other hand, those who might be curious due to the high rating and want to see what this documentary has to offer might not be so enthused. Personally, I thought this film was somewhat interesting at first but after an hour of watching one wipe out after another it seemed to get rather tedious&#x97;and this included some of the bigger waves toward the end. Again, those who enjoy the sport of surfing will definitely want to watch this documentary. Those who don't might just want to leave it alone. "},{"Title":"Just Following Summer around the World Looking for Places to Surf","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" You do not have to know what Hang Ten means to enjoy this wonderful surfing documentary. In 1963-1964 two surfing buddies, Michael Hynson and Robert August, simply decided to follow the summer sun around the world, from the Northern Hemisphere to the Southern back to the Northern. The travails of the two are documented by Bruce Brown, whose apropos tongue-in-cheek narration is a howl. The photography is breathtaking. In the early scenes we see some noted personalities on the Californian and Hawaiian surfs. Hawaii's air and water temperature were a perfect 75º F. But California was cooling down by November, as attested by Santa Cruz' nighttime temperature of just 48º F (California does get a winter).So it was off on a flight across the Atlantic to Senegal and Ghana in West Africa, where the two leads demonstrate that they may just have been the first surfers there in world history. Before long the locals were converted to enjoying the waves. Incidentally, the beach temperature was 70º F and the surf better than that of California. A gas station was appropriately named AGIP (a gip), as the price for a gallon of gas was $1.00, or twice as much as in the USA at the time. Next stop Nigeria just north of the equator. Water temperature 91º F and air temperature of 100º F! It was so hot that the wax on the surf boards melted.Then Bob and Mike fly across the equator to the southern hemisphere, to South Africa. There were surfers in Cape Town, but just one hundred or so, and the average age of the surfers was older than that of the Americans, about 30. In Durban, on the Indian Ocean side of the country, there were nets to protect the surfers from sharks. The porpoises do seem to get through, though the sharks do not hang with them. You see, quips Brown, Sharks and porpoises have yet to integrate in South Africa (!). Further east, at Cape St. Francis, the surfing exceeded that of Malibu.After that, our surfers fly in a wide arc from northeast South Africa to India to Perth, in Western Australia, where there is no surf. So it was on to Melbourne, two thousand miles away. There the guys find that they missed the best surf by six months. Or is You just missed it a common refrain? So it was on to Sydney, farther east still, where the surf was minimal (You just missed it. Hmmm). They do meet Pearl, a surfer girl, who wears a bikini. Bruce Brown explains that, as the girls tend to lose their swimsuits when they wipe out, the thoughtful lifeguards have spare suits.In New Zealand Mike and Bob find the surfing to be great on the west coast. And on Christmas Day, the boys are surfing in a huge cove near Auckland. The next stop is in Tahiti, where, contrary to local reports, there is indeed surfing.Finally the guys are in Hawaii, where they know the surf, the best in the world. We find out that the big wave surf break in Waimea Bay was ridden first in 1958. The waves are two and three stories high, and wipe outs are massive. Surfers who do so must quickly dive deeply into the ocean, lest they get struck by their boards and suffer severe injury.At the end, the boys explain that finding good surf is a hit or miss proposition they were lucky in Africa, not so in Australia, and OK in New Zealand. But the guys reflect on the wonderful events that they have experienced in their exciting young lives.Hang ten (stars, not toes)! "},{"Title":"So good it's preserved by the Library of Congress","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Bruce Brown's documentary about two people who travel the world in search of the perfect wave was deemed so culturally significant that it's now part of the National Film Registry and now preserved in the Library of Congress.This movie is a love song to surfing. Obviously Brown loves surfing and movie making and his photography is stunning. What you marvel at in this film is that it all seems so effortless. The two stars are obviously fabulous surfers, but they make the surfing look so easy. Obviously it isn't. This is evident when they meet local surfers on their travels and their skill is readily apparent. The music is perfect for this movie. The soundtrack by the Sandals, just rolls through the film like the soft waves that roll through this movie. Unlike many sports type documentaries the music doesn't distract from the film, or seem gratuitous. It just fits.** This paragraph may contain some mild spoilers ** The movie is a wonderful timepiece of a world that no longer exists. Travel to Africa was exotic in 1963, when this film was made. Some of the countries that these men visited are now too dangerous to visit today. Gas in Africa was an outrageous $1.00 a gallon! Other funny details pop up on their travels, that make this movie just quaint. The innocence of this era is breathtaking. The pair just run into people and are not afraid. Also as American's they are welcome everywhere they go. Contrast that with today, where many countries are now too dangerous for American's to travel to. What happened in the last 46 years to change this? I don't know.**Probably the most amazing thing about this movie is that while it's about surfing, it's not really about surfing at all. It's a movie about the joy of living your life doing what you want to do, and uses the vehicle of surfing to tell that story. You don't have to surf to enjoy this movie. You just have to enjoy life to enjoy this movie. A perfect movie for a cold winter day, or a day when you are feeling down, or up for that matter. Recommended without reservation. "},{"Title":"The happiest movie ever made","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Just get the DVD and settle into your favorite chair, add some pals, a few kids, some snacks and a drink and you have the complete setting and the perfect film for 90 minutes to make you delighted with life for the next 90 days. I first saw the ES in 1964 when Bruce Brown came to Australia and would hire old cinemas on a night they were usually closed. He ran the film silent and spoke the narration over the microphone live in the theater! The word of mouth of this film was 100% as the entertainment value... and in a city thronging with teen surfers desperate to see their sport on a real movie screen, this film projected in 16mm in a crumbling 2500 seat suburban theater (struggling to stay open) was a joyous hilarious revelation that has us kids and older pals living the dream ourselves at our local beaches. This is a perfect piece of family entertainment and you are encouraged to get it see it show it and keep it to remind yourself at what fun life can be. It is a life reaffirming experience and we are all the richer as humans for having it in our lives. The only other two films I feel this strongly about, and they are so different as films... are the 30s musical ROBERTA and the new documentary THE BALLET RUSSE. A short film called THE RED JACKET is equally strong and humanist... each of these films will do for your senses and heart to elate you beyond your wildest wishes. The music score for THE ENDLESS SUMMER by the pop group the Sandals (!) is equally unforgettable. It is worth buying as a CD when you get the DVDs of The Endless Summer, Endless Summer 2 and other Bruce Brown comedy surfing documentary valentines. "},{"Title":"The Best thing (waves) you will ever see ♥","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" At first we find the boys Mike and Rob Surfing in gold old safe know it like the back of there hand Hawaii. Winter is approaching and you know what that means... Time to have and Endless Summer. First they went to Africa, to find some of the ebst waves on there trip. They makes friends with the natives and meet one memorable character in the this doc. Is Terence, He takes time to out of his life to take the boys on there adventure through South Africa. He brings Humor in the the already funny doc. In Africa at the st. Francis Cape they finally found The Perfect Wave...Then they travle to Tahiti where there told there is no waves yet the found 3 spots... they call waves Things in Tahiti the first spot was ala Stump, the nest was In and Out then there was the other one. Then there were off to Australia where they didn't find any good waves and heard the phrase You missed it by a day over and over again. This brougth on Falsh Backs to Hawaii. Then they made it back to Hawaii where they finally knew there would be the waves they loved everyday... It was the perfect Endless Summer "},{"Title":"The Essential Movie for Surfers","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This was one of the major influences in the boom of surfing all over the world. This really is worth watching/renting/buying. The first time I watched this film was years ago (as well as the second) and it is probably the film that interested me enough to actually start surfing. Just a few days ago I all of a sudden had the need to watch it, so I went ahead and purchased the box set including The Endless Summer, The Endless Summer II, and Endless Summer Revisited. I'm heading to Hawaii this June, so I'm totally in a pumped-up surfing mode. I just love this film. It is the equivalent of 'Easy Rider' for the surfing community. Great film work, good locations, interesting and humerous commentary by the creator Bruce Brown. If you have the slighest interest in surfing, grab this movie or the second film and relax for a couple hours... in search of the perfect wave. "},{"Title":"Magical summer","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Filmmaker Bruce Brown follows surfing adventure around the globe. His narrations are casual. The film feels free flowing, irreverent and hypnotic. The views are tropical. The local flavors are amazing. The waves are powerful. The action is beautiful. Sometimes, he's filming right on the waves. It's an eye opening picture back in the day.Bruce follows Robert August and Mike Hynson on an endless summer of surfing around the world. They first travel from L.A. to Dakar Senegal. They travel down the west coast of Africa and start teaching locals who have never seen a board. That part is probably the most endearing part of the documentary. They fly to Cape Town where there is a small surfing community. There'll be a place like this. It doesn't even have a name. Along the way, he cuts in other scenes of big waves from places like Hawaii. "},{"Title":"Catching & Riding The Perfect Wave","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Being something of a surfing enthusiast, myself, in my younger days (I've surfed in both Australia and Hawaii), The Endless Summer certainly turned out to be a very entertaining and enjoyable documentary, highlighting the thrills and excitement of this tres' exhilarating sport.From sunny Malibu Beach, California, to the uncharted waters of West Africa, to the shark-filled seas of Australia, to the tropical paradises of Tahiti and Hawaii, 2 young, American surfers accomplish in a few months what most people never do in a lifetime - They live their dream. And that dream for Mike and Robert is to find and ride the perfect wave.The Endless Summer is an imaginatively photographed travelogue, from the absolute height of surfing-mania in the mid-1960s, that thoughtfully captures the joy, danger and humor of searching the world for that ultimate, most perfect wave of all.Director Bruce Brown's whimsical narration in The Endless Summer gives the whole production a very comfortable, easy-going feeling that greatly contributes to its overall charm and appeal. "},{"Title":"Like going back to my childhood...","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" I watched this wonderful film for the first time since first seeing it in 1966 in a tiny theater, hosted by Bruce Brown himself, who I consider the Godfather of the entire surf film genre. I don't know how many kids like me he turned on to the wonderful sport of surfing, but I know it was a lot. I was saddened to her that the co-star Mike Hynson had fallen on hard times in the ensuing years, but he's back from the dead and making his own custom surfboards I'm told. Surfing has the miraculous ability to heal, and I think it must have healed him. In my sixties now, I long for those years I spend surfing the California coast, and seeing this gem again made those long-forgotten memories come back like a returning faith. God bless you, Bruce Brown! "}{"Title":"Bruce Brown Shoots the Curls","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" It's a brilliant thesis for surfers - if you had the time and money, you could keep traveling around the world, participating exclusively in each location's surfing season. Thus, The Endless Summer would provide limitless opportunities for catching waves! Out searching for the elusive perfect wave, surfing director Bruce Brown (he photographed, edited and narrated) follows Malibu surfer pals Mike Hynson and Robert August around the world with a camera. The young men follow the sun to one glorious location after another. My pick for the perfect wave is the one found in Cape St. Francis but you may prefer the big ones at Waimea Bay. The waves aren't the only things perfect in The Endless Summer - so is the photography, narration and soundtrack.Hey, surf's up! Forever... ********** The Endless Summer (6/15/66) Bruce Brown ~ Bruce Brown, Mike Hynson, Robert August "},{"Title":"the way of life - not the sport","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" in this wonderfully mellow surf film by bruce brown surfers mike and bob travel around the world chasing summer, and the perfect wave. they visit exotic locations and meet surfers all around the world, and of course terence...of Africa. though the boys aren't finding any big waves (which makes this only an average surf film if you came to see the giants) bruce's great, laid back and humorous narration along with the beautiful camera work by bruce and the rest of the team give the viewer a piece of the feeling these boys must have had on this trip of a lifetime. an inspiring film that makes you want to leave the wheel behind and embrace what earth has to offer. weather you're a surfer or not you will probably enjoy this film a great deal. all you need to start watching is the feeling that something's missing from your life... "},{"Title":"Surf's Up","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" I recently saw this movie for the first time. I must admit I hadn't heard of it until I saw the poster at a local taco place. I'm usually not one for surfing movies, but I fell in love with it. It was refreshing to watch a documentary that was so well done, and without the use of special effects. Just a basic film camera and a couple of guys surfing the world. Bruce Brown's narration was spectacular, and the surfing was amazing.I think the best part was that the surfing was real. It wasn't done on a set with some green screen behind it. The people were actually out there on the waves.I will definitely watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film from a talented surfer - filmmaker","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" THE ENDLESS SUMMER is a rare film made by a talented filmmaker.First of all, Bruce Brown is a natural athlete, surfer, filmmaker. The guy truly knows and loves his subject - surfing. That apparent love of life, sand and surf also comes through plain and clear in this beautiful film.Although I tried, I have not been able to find many details on the logistics of the making this film - but what an undertaking - to film 2 surfers as they follow the summer around the world. With minimal and relatively simple equipment - essentially a Bolex 16mm film camera with some good lenses and a waterproof housing - Bruce demonstrates a keen eye and clear point of view. His addition of bits of humor, simple camera effects and a good soundtrack all add up to very good and entertaining film - probably the best of the genre that will ever be made.Bruce is obviously on a surfboard or in a boat for some of the shots giving us a perspective we would not otherwise have of the sport of surfing. He knows the sport, the surfers and the shots and how to pull it all together into a film that has enchanted millions over the last 40 years.There is an overall honesty and pleasant tone to this delightful film - Bruce's narration is spun from experience and research and it makes it a very personal adventure.Some 30 years later in 1994, Brown did Endless Summer II which is also worth seeing. ES2 includes surfer Robert August from this original ES film and who was only 18 when this film was made. "},{"Title":"In Search of the Perfect Wave","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" The Endless Summer is probably my all-time favorite movie (I usually enjoy watching it with Endless Summer II & Endless Summer Revisited in one marathon session). The theme of two guys crossing the globe in search of the perfect wave is a classic. The raw, unrefined (home movie-ish) surf footage makes you feel like you were there. The film itself is a snapshot of the early days of surfing and is a stark contrast to todays more polished sport. I particularly enjoy seeing the now famous surf spots before they were over-run and when surfers both feared & respected them. The surfing is great for the era, the humor is light if a bit corny, and the scenery is not to be missed. Buy this movie if you want to see what surfing was really like in 1966. Annette & Frankie are not here! "},{"Title":"Riding Giants","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Though Bruce Brown had been making films about surfing since the 1950s, his 1966 feature, The Endless Summer, was his first film to receive a nationwide release. It is regarded as a classic of the surfing genre.A quasi-documentary, The Endless Summer watches as two surfing buddies (Robert August and Mike Hynson) decide to follow summer around the globe. With just their surfboards, some cash and a few spare clothes, they hop aboard a plane and embark upon their quest. This journey takes them from Hawaii to Africa to Australia to Tahiti to America, each location offering an opportunity to mingle with locals, admire coastlines and ride waves.The Endless Summer captures a very specific zeitgeist a seemingly carefree time, untroubled, each day wrapped in a cocoon and so untouched by the outside world. The film's bohemian gait is contradicted by its pseudo-fascist aesthetic, which glorifies flesh, white bodies, holds an unconsciously racist attitude, and stresses a Man vs Nauture dichotomy in which the surfer exists solely to test himself, his limits, and assert himself over a roiling cosmos. Surfing, then, becomes a hermetic arena of self-mastery. It is not just an art-form, but an aesthetic and ascetic life choice. No surprise, then, that this film would influence uber-right winger John Milius (himself a Malibu surfer), and the Zen-fascism of his own surf classic, The Big Wednesday.7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Charming Surf Film - Monarch of the Genre","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" It's not just the mid-60's surfing scene time-capsule of a film that gives Bruce Brown's 'The Endless Summer' its timeless appeal. The film appeared just as jet travel was becoming commonplace, just as, for the first time in history, young people could afford to sojourn globally almost at will, so the world-circling quest of the movie's two surfers also captures the first movement by affluent youths to hitherto inaccessible lands. 'The Endless Summer' is thus not only a surfing film, in its time it was one of the many emerging spurs to today's so-called eco-tourism. 'TES' is one of the most easygoing and pleasant films to watch - and to listen to in the form of Brown's laid-back California-accented (lots of very Round R's) narration - even though the narration is, at times, a trifle overly self-conscious it's never abrasive, insulting, or - one of the early two thousand-aughts' irritating entertainment prerequisites - edgy. Younger viewers might feel baffled, or scornfully amused, by Brown's gingerly phrased admiration for an Australian woman's then-cutting-edge-scanty two-piece cozzie the bikini in question is nowadays far from daring bathing attire. Youngsters accustomed to instant worldwide communications, and addicted to their I-Pods will also snicker at the teensy, ginsu transistor radio one of the travelling surfers packs in his suitcase. Of course the surfing gear is also antiquated - battleship-big boards sporting enormous skegs, for example, and no bungees tethering board to surfer. Also dating the film is Brown's genuine shock at the exorbitant cost of a Dakar hotel room and that establishment's price for a cup of coffee thirty dollars a night, and a dollar a cup. Brown also speaks his horror at the high cost of petrol in Africa - almost a WHOLE DOLLAR for a gallon! a comment made when gas cost Americans no more than 35¢ a gallon. Such then-shocking prices would scarcely provoke so much as a yawn from today's much more affluent (spoiled) and jaded teens who have, it seems, been lamentably misled to disbelieve that all of their world's problems are the fault of intrinsically avaricious and malevolent dead white guys. Though the quaintness of Brown's laconic, good-natured narration dates 'TES,' as time marches on this quaintness also burnishes the film's appeal - it's just an endearing, lovely, wistful gaze at simpler, gentler halcyon days.'TES's' photography also remains pleasing - perhaps because Brown wasn't afraid to linger on, for one example, long establishing shots; and these lingering shots help greatly to communicate the film's overt and underlying soothing natural rhythms of the sea and the sky, and of our planet spinning for itself its cosmological alternations of night and day. The almost, but not quite, campy soundtrack music fits the period and subject perfectly - no Dick Dale frenetic here, just one surfer-filmmaker's enjoyably idiosyncratic blending of surfing music and scarcely updated travelogue scoring.I first saw 'TES' upon its 1966 theatrical release and, though I wasn't then and I've remained uninterested in surfing, it's a movie I can watch and enjoy regularly - perhaps because those lingering shots take me back to a time before gratuitous shock-schlock and instant-gratification became the be-alls and end-alls of today's so-called entertainment. 'TES' is, quite simply, pleasant and relaxing, and yet its rewarding and entertaining. In the spirit of its time, I recall feeling in the theatre during my first viewing of 'TES' that the film could have been about The Peace Corps if surfers had been allowed to serve in it as United States goodwill ambassadors.'TES's' latter-day sequels do not, and they never will, create the same warm wave of pleasure and joy and contentment that 'The Endless Summer' generated in, and propagated among, 1966's viewers. Because when it debuted there'd been no earlier film like it; and 'TES' ran for months in theatres, from beginning to end of that golden summer of '66 - a phenomenon unrepeatable in today's utterly profit-driven film industry.There you have it 'The Endless Summer' wasn't a one-slam-dunk-weekend box-office blockbuster proposal on some market-study/focus-group-driven parent corporations' financial forecast it was a labor of love, and when you see 'The Endless Summer' you feel the earnest, genuine, pure-hearted, virginal love that Bruce Brown poured into filming and editing it - love that you can't even come close to feeling from any of 'The Endless Summer's' imitators or sequels. "},{"Title":"surfing the world over.","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" The Endless Summer has some of the greatest art work posters ever printed in the 1960s. The film is only interesting when the scenery is depicted, minus the narration and the horrible soundtrack.To surf all over the world strikes one as a waste of time, and it proves to be a waste of time, except for the African episodes, which show the natives, as they are called, bored with the whole thing after a while.The racism in this film is so blatant that it looks like the KKK may have produced it.The South African observations on the Zulu are unconscionable, and this is a 1966 film, Viet Nam time, and Martin Luther King was talking about the horrors of apartheid. Women are treated as pure sex objects,and yet the two stars never date or seem interested in girls. Enough said there.Not good, but relevant for those who wonder where Coppola got his inspiration for surfing madness in Apocalypse, Now, where Robert Duvall in combat in Vietnam is having certain military surfing experts try to find the perfect wave.while drugged to the hilt. Somebody saw what was going on in The Endless Summer...sheer madness with guys who have had lobotomies. "},{"Title":"Draft Dodgers?","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  During the time of this film, there was a war in Vietnam going on and most young able bodied men were inducted into the armed forces, what a convenient way to avoid the draft, by hopping around the world to shoot a movie!! Ok, enough ragging.  This film was good, I particularly liked the scenery and the 60's lounge music atmosphere.  It must have been great, AIDS wasn't around yet, no homeland terrorism, a generation of peace and love.  I have yet to see Endless Summer 2, but I hear it is just as good. "}]