[{"Title":"Undeservingly hated.","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"238 out of 300 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is hard to find people who will readily defend this movie these days. It is commonly thought of as pretentious, overly artsy, and lacking coherence. If you don't connect with the film that is fine, but to call it trash is a mistake. Many people try to pin this as being a 60's statement. It is not however. Antonioni was a veteran filmmaker who got lumped in with the new wave scene because he was around at the same time. This was initially a hit, though that probably had little to due with it's actual merits as a film.It is the story of an artist. The photographer Thomas, who has lost all feeling of passion for his work. He hangs around London taking fashion photographs. He is cruel to his models and other women in his life. He seems interested in other's art but cannot be roused to create any of his own. He will soon be releasing a book of photographs, all of which are uninspired photos of the poor, sick and dying. While in the park he takes a series of shots he hopes will be a nice epilogue to his collection. They are of a couple playing in the park. These pictures, however, are not what they seem.Antonioni makes great use of insinuation. He tantalizes us with the possibility of what could have been. In us he insights the same passion that is in Thomas. In the end, I don't think he disappears so much as he returns. He does not return as the same person, though. He is changed by the passion for his art and the challenge of reality. He is no longer playing the game of catch the murderer, or faking the motions of being a photographer, or posing as a deep artist by taking sad pictures. He is now truly inspired.Today many people hate Thomas. And with good reason. He is definitely not a nice person, but he is one of my favorite anti-heroes. There is a scene many people may miss. It is short. He is driving in his car, I think after speeding off from some want to be models, he turns on the radio, and starts bobbing his head and making funny faces to the music. This is the scene that redeems his early self to me. When he is alone, we see he still has an innocent streak despite his cruelty. All that being said, I only recommend this to the more serious moviegoer. 10/10 "},{"Title":"You always miss something","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"232 out of 291 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would recommend that people who are considering watching this film for the first time not read the following.  I don't mention the film's ending, I just believe its far more satisfying to let the films potent details nervously sink into place on their own.It is not about cameras. It is not about seeing. It is about our perception of our individual world.  It throws shadows on the very judgments we build our lives upon.  Without mentioning the obvious references to illusion (the mimes, the abstract picture of the corpse, etc.), I offer the following expert signposts Antonioni leaves for us to find.1)  The guitar neck David snatches at the rave-up has value only until he is not being chased for it, whereupon he discards it in the street.  The pedestrian who then picks it up sees it only as junk.2)  Dialogue with his model friend at the pot party  DAVID - ` I thought you were in Paris.'   THE GIRL - `I am'.3)  Appearances and Disappearance (2 of the many).  The Lynn Redgrave character pops up as he arrives at his apartment. His question `How did you find me' is not explained.  Later in the story, it is notably odd when David wakes up the following morning after the pot party that there is no one to be seen in the party house.  Even the decorations like the clothes hung on the statue the night before have vanished.4)  David teaches the affectations of smoking to the woman.  She must create an impression.5)  His painter friend describes his painting. `They don't mean anything to me while I work on them.  Its only later that I ascribed something to them. Like this leg.' Whereupon he points out a place in a painting that might be a human leg.  When he paints, he is tapping subconscious language, something apart from subjective and objective reality. Its as if Antonioni is offering us an even further vantage point to the events to come, dream reality.6)  The rambling diversion of events shows David's inability to `focus' on working through his mystery.7)  So much is hidden from the viewer.  Its almost suggested that the real end to the narrative takes place someplace after the movie has already finished, jarring our sense of story, insinuating an ending we never get to `see'.8)  David announces at one point to his friend, `If only I had more money I'd be all right.'. Meanwhile he drives through the whole movie in his Rolls Royce.This is a very remarkable film. I was irked by the pacing and the diversions as I watched it, but that was exactly why it all kept coming and coming at me for hours after until finally in bed it all rushed through me like a gorgeous musical event.  I know for certain there are many more hidden corners to it, but this is what I got in my first viewing. Just that gut feeling that I missed something, I believe, is exactly where Antonioni was going.  You always miss something.  "},{"Title":"Success and image; fantasy and reality (SPOILERS)","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"175 out of 204 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Antonioni's Blow-Up was the biggest hit of the Italian director's career, the superficial elements of the fashion world, Swinging London and orgies on purple paper ensuring its commercial success.Models such as Veruschka (who appears in the film), Twiggy and fashion photographers at the time have complained about its unrealistic depiction of the industry and claimed that its central character, Thomas (played by the late David Hemmings) was clearly based on David Bailey.To look at Blow-Up as an analysis of the fashion business in the Sixties is to misunderstand the film's intentions. In any case, when watching this film it may be difficult to tell what its all about if you're unfamiliar with Antonioni's films but it obviously has little to do with the fashion world which is merely the setting for the story and nothing more.Antonioni made the clearest statement of his motivation as a filmmaker at the end of Beyond the Clouds when he talked about his belief that reality is unattainable as it is submerged by layers of images which are only versions of reality.This is a rather pretentious way of saying that everyone perceives reality in their own way and ultimately see only what they want to see.With this philosophy in mind, Blow-Up is probably Antonioni's most personal film.Thomas' hollow, self-obsessed world is shattered when he discovers that he may have photographed a murder when casually taking pictures in a park. He encounters a mysterious woman, Jane (Vanessa Redgrave) who demands he hand over the film and when he refuses she appears at his studio, although Thomas never told her his address.When the evidence disappears shortly afterwards, Blow-Up seems to deal in riddles that have no solution. Redgrave re-appears and then vanishes before the photographer's eyes, Thomas returns to the park without his camera and sees the body. The film concludes with Thomas, having discovered the body has disappeared, watching a group of mimes playing tennis without a ball or rackets in the park where the murder may have taken place.It is only in the final scene of the film where the riddle is solved. Thomas throws the imaginary ball back into the court and watches the game resume. The look of realisation on his face is all too apparent as the game CAN BE HEARD taking place out of shot.There is a ball, there are rackets and this is a real game of tennis. What we have seen up until this point is the photographer's perception of reality the murder, the mysterious woman in the park, the photographic evidence and the body.The following exchange between Hemmings and Redgrave is the key to the filmThomas Don't let's spoil everything, we've only just met.Jane No, we haven't met. You've never seen me. "},{"Title":"What the Eye Truly Sees...","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"147 out of 183 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Is an image really there when you see it in closer zoom-ins? Or does it become even more indistinct, confusing the eye even more? Was there or wasn't there a crime being committed in the middle of the day in a London park? Are there any answers, and is this whole mystery even worth even investigating? These are questions that are the root of the matter, and Michaelangelo Antonioni toys with what happens, and what doesn't happen, what is, what is not, what is real, and what is unreal. The story, if there truly is one, moves slowly and deliberately David Hemmings portrays an unsympathetic fashion photographer -- he is credited as Thomas but we never hear him called this way -- who seems to wallow in his own prowess as a photographer. He treats women like mincemeat -- to him, they're only objects for his lust as when he meets Veruschka and practically rapes her through a photo shoot -- or mannequins who can't pose worth anything and only fuel his anger. He also has a painter friend who's girlfriend (Sarah Miles) seems to have a certain interest in him, but whom he ignores, like all other women who come in contact with him. After what turns to be a lousy photo shoot he does some meandering and comes to a park, and from a distance witnesses a woman and a man (Vanessa Redgrave and Ronan O'Casey), in an apparent, romantic interlude, enjoying the day and the semi-privacy within the park's confines. He takes pictures, walks closer, takes more pictures, walks even closer... almost predatory so, much like a voyeur.That is, until she sees him and demands he return to her the film roll -- he can't take pictures just like that, and is against her consent. He declines so and gives her a different film (after almost having her beg for it). And a little after halfway through the story, he develops his film... and sees what looks to be like a body on the ground, the outline of a man with a gun hidden within some thick bushes. And her reaction, full of angry surprise.Has he truly photographed a murder in progress? Is he privy to more than he should be, and could this have some danger in store for him? Antonioni toys with the audience, never letting in on Redgrave's character, but letting us experience the world through Hemmings untrustworthy eyes and superficial values that momentarily seem to have been thrown out of whack due to this disquieting incident. The problem is, what Hemmings sees may or may not be true -- a classic shot where he tries to find Redgrave and he sees her in the middle of a walking crowd and she literally makes an about-face and disappears from view. Just like that. And his grasp of the mystery emanating from his brush with her at the park, like even Hemmings at the end, is gone, dissolved into the grass.This is not a film for people looking for action and adventure as quite the opposite happens here. It's a film that echoes the French New Wave as it tells a story about an antihero who has a moment of crisis and decides to (maybe) take action, and is left suspended at the end. Influential for Coppola's THE CONVERSATION, this is a fascinating puzzle which is missing its last, vital piece. "},{"Title":"A parable about the possible dehumanizing effects of photography...","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"164 out of 225 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  BLOW-UP is the story of a successful fashion photographer, Thomas (David Hemmings), who, whilst scouting for fresh subjects in a park one afternoon, photographs a mysterious couple in 'flagrante delicto.' Upon returning to his studio loft later that day, he develops the pictures and discovers that he has inadvertently stumbled upon a murder. Antonioni is not interested in the details of the murder itself, as in a typical detective story, but rather with how the protagonist's perception of the world, and his relationship to it, is altered by this event.As a fashion photographer, Thomas is a creator of illusions that define a certain kind of young urban lifestyle and Antonioni's flagrant use of the loud, splashy, attention-grabbing colors of billboard advertising -- a visual association elevated to an unholy apotheosis in his next film, ZABRISKIE POINT (1970) -- brings to the surface the transient sensation and hollow artifice that lies at the heart of all pop culture consumerism. In his previous work, RED DESERT (1964), Antonioni spray-painted both the man-made décor as well as the natural setting as a means of giving concrete expression to the heroine's neurotic state of mind and her ameliorative aestheticizing vision of a world despoiled by technology and pollution. He does the same in BLOW-UP, painting doors, fences, poles, and the façades of entire buildings to emphasize the exhilaration and alienation that characterizes life in a large modern city.Psychedelic colors make the 'real' world of the film seem exaggerated and hyperbolic like a fantastic 'surface' reality, while the 'captured' and reconstructed world of the photographs appears ominously stark, grainy, and documentary-like  -- the bare, denuded 'essence' of reality. In the central montage sequence of the film, the camera -- in place of Thomas' eyes -- slowly moves back and forth from one photograph to the next, and likewise, Antonioni cuts back and forth from the pictures to the protagonist looking at them. Since the act of looking at these enhanced images effectively reconstructs an event that the protagonist -- and the audience -- never actually saw with the naked eye in 'real life,' technology is shown to reveal a new surface of the world that is normally hidden from view. Antonioni's own particular brand of phenomenological Neorealism is concerned primarily with the process of seeing through a camera as a way of exposing an ultimate truth, or a lack thereof, that underlies the surface of the world.The curious self-reflexivity of this scene is an epistemological hall of mirrors Antonioni's camera looks at Thomas looking at photographs which are blown up larger and larger so that eventually they become merely an abstract collection of dots, a Rorschach test in which almost anything can be read. Like the Abstract Expressionist paintings of the tormented artist son in Pasolini's TEOREMA (1968), the received cultural baggage and semiotic referentiality of the image is eliminated until all that remains is purest subjectivity of the spectator. And so, picture-making technology mediates reality only up to a point once the threshold of referentiality has been crossed, the suspicion of a murder in the park gleaned from a series of enlarged photographs would seem to say more about Thomas' own paranoid state of mind than what his camera may or may not have recorded.This subtextual aspect of the film has been compared to the controversy surrounding the various interpretations of the Abraham Zapruder film as a definitive and reliable record of the Kennedy assassination -- and particularly, the mystery of the notorious 'grassy knoll.' Also, the possible incidence of adultery and The Girl's desperate efforts to retrieve the film suggest the scandalous fallout of the Profumo affair. Vanessa Redgrave, with her thick, dark brown hair and affected temptress-naïf manner, hinted at by a schoolgirl outfit and arms folded seductively over her breasts, seems meant to evoke, for a British audience at least, then-recent memories of Christine Keeler.BLOW-UP is full of visual and verbal non-sequiturs and nearly all the scenes are composed of long-takes with plenty of 'longeurs' and 'temps mort.' This real-time approach -- often fragmented by abrupt and seemingly arbitrary cuts -- faithfully simulates Thomas' experience and the mechanical routine of his creative process and its fleeting moments of sudden inspiration and frenzied excitement. All throughout the film there is a recurrent pattern of relationships left unconsummated and work left undone. Just as he appears on the verge of establishing meaningful contact with someone or about to finally resolve himself to some efficacious deed or another, he is immediately distracted by something else that pops up.Thomas resembles Odysseus in the way he is continually thwarted by chance encounters, which cause him to lose sight of his mission. Indeed, the film's meandering, episodic plot does seem to have elements of classical epic the rock concert and the marijuana party afterward all suggest a ritual journey through a modern 'Land of the Lotus-Eaters.'  Ironically, it is just when he discovers a sense of emotional commitment and social obligation in his life that his self-justifying cynicism and arrogant indifference toward others is replaced by a growing sense of impotence and defeat.  In the final scene, speech is phased out of the film entirely, leaving only a silent form of physical communication unmediated by language and social pretensions.BLOW-UP was the Antonioni's greatest commercial and critical triumph and the film's narrative -- an odyssey through a modern city, following the protagonist from feigned poverty to the false security of wealth and ending on a note of final lingering doubt about one's place and purpose in the world -- seems itself a trenchant comment on the nature of success and what it does to people. By transposing to 'Swinging London' the Marxist concerns of his Italian films, Antonioni demonstrates once again that this malaise of modern life is not caused by technology and consumer culture but rather by man's failure to adapt to the conditions of the new environment he has created for himself. "},{"Title":"A confusing but thought provoking film!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"116 out of 143 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Antonioni was not a director that worried too much about people completely understanding his films. In fact I'd bet that he actually hoped they didn't understand everything. So I did not find it strange or surprising when after finishing the movie I felt quite confused. But the movie made me think for a very long time, which in my opinion is what a good film should do. There are so many aspects to this film that if you give them a chance and think about them, they will keep you reeling for hours on possible interpretations. The first and probably most important aspect of this film dealt with love. From what I have seen of his films, love is Antonioni's favorite subject. But this love was different than that of past films; it is much more shallow and un-centered. Thomas, the photographer, is surrounded by women, he goes from one to the next without thinking twice, treating them like dogs the entire time. But he can do this and get away with it because he is a famous photographer and can make the women what they all desperately want to be, Beautiful. For The first half of the movie I honestly did not like his character whatsoever. Whereas in the past the director has chosen mainly to explore the ups and downs of married life, or the problems of being hopelessly devoted to one person, he now points the camera at the single, care free, over sexed, youth of the sixties. Half an hour into the movie I found myself wondering what the heart of the film was going to be. We were introduced to Thomas and his world, but there seemed to be no conflict driving the story forward. Then came the quasi-murder mystery. This is what is really interesting and unique about this film in my opinion. Antonioni for a while leads us to believe that the movie is going to turn into some suspense thriller, or murder mystery, but never seems to quite get there. He has all the elements ready to go, but never follows through with them. He introduces this alluring and mysterious woman who is in on the murder and then never brings her back. The murder victim is discovered, but his identity is never revealed, nor a motive given for his murder. Thomas, after a very energetic and exciting photo investigation seems to not really care too much as to what happens with the investigations results, only telling a couple of his friends who couldn't care less. Antonioni seems to have used this whole murder mystery convention as some sort of glue to hold the rest of the real story together. The story of a mindless, beauty obsessed, celebrity idolizing, drug addicted, and violence obsessed culture. Probably my favorite scene in the film is after fighting over the piece of broken guitar with the other fans; Thomas just discards his prize as garbage. Something that kept bugging me was the antique shop. I kept wondering what in the world it had to do with anything in the movie; it stuck out like a sore thumb. But I knew it that there was some major purpose or explanation for its existence in the film, and then it just kind of clicked. Upon his first entry into the Antique store Thomas encounters an angry old man who we eventually find out is not the stores real owner, the true owner is a beautiful young woman who is planning to sell the old place and travel the world in search of something new. All this stuff she owns, the gold of past cultures, is old and useless now. She has a hard time making a living because nobody wants the stuff any longer. Here is where I think Antonioni's major message is hidden That is the way life is, it moves on constantly, things change, people die, cultures evolve and the only thing that remains in the end is nature itself. Antonioni finishes the film beautifully, Thomas stands alone in a large field of grass, the only thing heard is the wind and the trees, as the camera backs away slowly, he disappears leaving nothing but the grass blowing in the wind, for like all the antiques and all the people that created them in the past, eventually Thomas's life will end and so will the current popular culture in which he takes part. Change is life's only constant.  "},{"Title":"Patience will be rewarded","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"107 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you believe that the ending makes the movie, Blowup is for you. The first 30 minutes seem aimless and wandering, but they set up the main character and what is he is to discover about himself, about his occupation and about art in general. Antonioni builds tension (or frustration as you're watching it) not with plot, but with anti-plot. You want to scream at David Hemmings's character to focus! screw those models! do something! But as the film unfolds you will see why Antonioni chose this actor, this profession and those girls. A wonderful manifesto about the dangers of voyeurism and what it does to a man's sexuality that is 40 years ahead of its time. The symbolism might get heavy handed at times (mimes, a broken guitar), but the sets are so full of creativity and the actors so beautiful (this will give my age away, but Vanessa Redgrave, who knew?) that you forgive Antonioni (he's Italian after all). Hemmings is Hugh Grant before Hugh Grant, but in this role at least, much more interesting. He's highly sexual, but unlike his painter roommate, his chosen art form represses him, all in the name of the shot. And when he finally gets the perfect shot in the perfect light, it's so perfect that someone steals it, and for good reason. Did those events actually take place or just through his camera lens? When the photos are the proof of what you see, then when that proof is taken away, did you see? "},{"Title":"My extended review of the film","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"71 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers; limited review due to word limit.This film is an intense character study, essentially about emptiness in life. Thomas feels that everything in his life is superficial, and he wants to do something more than just take photographs. If he could solve a mystery, then his life would have a definite purpose. Therefore, he sees what he wants to see, and invents a mystery from one of his photographs.What he sees is essentially part of his imagination. There are many factors that indicate this, such as his friend the artist who mentions that a detail in a painting is like a clue in a detective story. Thomas plays detective in the film, however life is full of distractions, and ultimately he is unable to solve the mystery.Time management is a key idea through the film, as Thomas is a procrastinator. He knows that there are many things that he needs to do, and he uses them as an excuse at one point, saying I haven't even got a couple of minutes to have my appendix out, even though he fiddles with a coin, and just before that he had visited some friends. He has lost his dedication to his work. He does things because they need to be done, not because he wants to. He indulges himself in antiques, then on the spur of the moment, goes to a park.Ultimately, Thomas wants to escape from his life. Reminders of escapism follow him about, such as a sign that a protester places in his car, with the words go away on it. The sign later falls out and is run over by another car, indicating how futile trying to escape life is. He meets an antiques dealer who wants out her job, and from her he purchases a propeller - a device that can be used to fly away with.Thomas is often presented in an isolated environment, whether it be running down alleyways or wandering through a park. He is removed from the world, with no real friends or family. At one point he says that he has a wife, then he changes his mind and says that they just have kids together. Then, he admits that he has no children, and that his wife is not beautiful, but just easy to live with. Following this, he changes his mind once again and says that she is not easy to live with. Thomas wants a family, but he does not have one. He wants a wife (who need not be beautiful, since the models who he photographs are superficially beautiful) and children.Thomas feels that his life is empty, and his photography - his work - has replaced his sex life. In one scene he photographs a model by sitting on top of her in a sexual position, and the things he calls out could be used as expressions during sex. However this is not pleasure for him - it is work. He later indulges himself with group sex, but after watching two of his friends making love, he realises how meaningless sexuality is for him.For all these reasons, Thomas sees what he wants to see - a possible murder - something that he can take credit for. Much of the film involves this notion of seeing what one wants, which is represented by the mimes. The mimes are contrasted in the opening sequence against the gloomy England workers. At nighttime, Thomas visits the park where he photographed the supposed murder, and lo and behold, a corpse is lying there. This scene is unrealistic, as it is highly unlikely that someone would leave a corpse lying around, or that no one else had spotted it yet, however Thomas is seeing what he wants to.After visiting the park, he tries to find someone who he can confide in about the body. He treks through a building where a rock band is playing along his journey. The fans are mostly just standing or sitting around with blank expressions. Their lives are as empty as Thomas feels that his is. They idolise rock musicians who are crazy and smash their guitars. From there, he goes to a party for sophisticated, upper-middle class people, however they are mostly smoking dope and wasting away their time. Their lives are empty too.In the morning, Thomas visits the park again, but he is no longer as excited as he was before, and this is shown through his slow pacing and long distance photography. After seeing that others have empty lives - and are happy with them - he is unsure if he should be happy too. In the park, there is no longer the body, as he not seeing what he wants to see anymore.The mimes return, and Thomas watches them 'play' tennis. The camera follows the imaginary ball around. The mimes seem so happy, and therefore, Thomas joins in when he has a chance. After he throws the ball back to them, we can hear tennis rackets hitting a ball. Thomas is still alone and isolated, even though he is finally seeing what he wants to see. His life is still empty. There is not much of a resolution to the film, and from what there is, it is bleak, but as a character study, it is engaging stuff.The technical side of the film is great - especially the sound in some scenes, showing how isolated Thomas is that he can hear soft sounds. Every shot is set up with care, and Hemmings is superb. 'Blowup' is not the type of film that will satisfy every taste, but it has quite a lot to it. "},{"Title":"Still fascinating after all these years!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"84 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'Blowup' is frequently mentioned as one of the most influential movies of the twentieth century. And I believe it is. But it is no dry and dull document that the viewer must force himself to appreciate while he stifles his yawns. Like 'Citizen Kane', 'Breathless' and 'Psycho' it is not only an important movie milestone, it is still a living and breathing work of art that will fascinate and impress any movie lover who approaches it with an open mind. 'Blowup' lures you in with its snapshot of swinging 60s London, and it's tease of being a murder mystery, which it really isn't, but by then you're hooked. This movie is a puzzle with no solution, a text with any interpretation the viewer cares to bring to it. That may sound heavy going and off putting, but this is a surprisingly watchable movie. Even the boring sequences are interesting! Anyone who enjoys David Lynch, Dario Argento (whose 'Profundo Rosso' deliberately referenced this), Nic Roeg or Jim Jarmusch, movies where atmosphere and visual images are more important than characterization, plot or dialogue, will appreciate this 60s classic. I think it gets better with every viewing. "},{"Title":"Sixties Marvel","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"70 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blow Up is the quintessential 60' s movie with a roster of talented British actors, colourful mod fashions (now back in vogue), dreary post-war London locations and empty streets, groovy music by American composer extraordinaire Herbie Hancock and an Italian director and writer in love with the whole scene. Blow Up is the cinematic equivalent of the TR4 cabriolet, designed by Michelotti and manufactured by Triumph during the same period, and mixes the best of two rather different cultures. The movie offers the right amount of nudity, sensuality and perversion without offending the prude status quo of swinging Olde England. David Hemmings plays a character who is by all accounts snobbish, homophobic, prejudiced, rude and macho. This pseudo thriller/whodunit unwinds rather slowly and with little dialogue and, I think, is just an excuse for Antonioni to show how weird the English were. A must see flick for the ones nostalgic or who missed the 60' s completely.  "}{"Title":"The best color film by Antonioni","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"58 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This, along with L'Eclisse, is one of the two best Antonioni movies. It is very different from his earlier films in that it is much less overtly intellectual and is purportedly a thriller. However, it is no more a standard thriller than is The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. Instead, it is an examination of reality and illusion and an exploration of what distinguishes the one from the other. The movie has an exceptional lyrical quality to it, which of course is also not associated with thrillers. The color is gorgeous and Vanessa Redgrave is a total surprise. I have generally not found anything appealing about her, but in this movie, master-magician Antonioni transformed her into a ravishing beauty. Sarah Miles is also very sexy as the next-door neighbor. Young Jane Birkin plays a groupie who gets to roll around nude in the photographer's backdrop paper. As in L'Eclisse, the final scene is stunningly poetic. "},{"Title":"Fascinating 1966 film still pertinent 40 years later","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"61 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although released in 1966, BLOWUP is remarkably pertinent today, nearly 40 years later. Its theme of reality/illusion, with people seeing or not seeing what they want not to see, is still pertinent in this era of missing weapons of mass destruction.Also, the movie's jaded view of a society distracted from reality by random sex, drugs and immediate sensation is still sooooooo true today.The Mod fashions for the photo shoots look bizarre to us now -- but you'll see equally bizarre fashions in VOGUE, at least the European issues. And what's wrong with David Hemmings' white jeans?  "},{"Title":"a beautiful, small and curious film","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The person that recommended this film to me told me that very little actually happens, and that its beauty comes from its ambiguity and the way it portrays swinging London. I didn't sit down anxiously awaiting a structured plot and narrative. In the event it turned out to be much more straightforward than I imagined. Some people might interpret it as an exploration of the questions - what is real? how do we know if it is or isn't?. Yet it's certainly not the only, or most important interpretation to be had.There's little point in rehashing the story, as plenty of other reviews here have already saved me the trouble. The thing that caught me about it was its sense of real-time. Blow Up's been called slow-moving, but in fact the events of the film don't happen over a matter of weeks. From what I can tell, they barely span 24 hours, give or take. The transition of thought and attitude and confidence that Thomas goes through in that small space of time is artfully handled, with no clumsy epiphanies or idiotic, unrealistic moments of revelation. You share the confusion that has crept up on him and seized him before he actually realises it - HIS confusion exactly, not the confusion of an uninvolved viewer watching an arty, labyrinthine film. Antonioni injects you, Alice-In-Wonderland-like, right into his head.Thomas is from the start magnetic but brutal; someone you wouldn't expect pity or benevolence from; a man who is aware of his own power in the world, despises everything around him and acts kindly only if it's in his own interests to do so. By the end of the film, as an imaginary ball is tossed accidentally across a park by a ghostly teenage pack of mimes, the look on his face as he retrieves it for them suggests empathy; a sense of understanding that was lacking when we first met him. The events of the film are not explosive or loudly momentous; yet we understand that they are enough to change him, and by the end of the film we understand why. The sharp little shocks of distraction throughout - in particularly his encounter with the would-be models - are startling and realistic in their unconstructed spontaneity, as such experiences often really are. It's easy to see how Blow Up came from a short story; it has the elusiveness of one, and those who didn't appreciate it as a feature film might enjoy it more if perhaps they watched it again as a detailed anecdote rather than expecting a crashing epic. "},{"Title":"Through A Glass Darkly","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Some interpret this existential film to mean that human reality is defined in the context of the group, not the individual. Hence, in the film, to Thomas (David Hemmings), the murder did occur. But, the murder's reality is objective only if Thomas can verify it through someone else's experience. Otherwise, Thomas' observed event is subjective and problematic. Each individual thus sees through a glass darkly ... even when the glass is an objective camera lens. Ironically, the same could be said for Antonioni.This film came out only three years after the JFK assassination. I find it hard to believe that that event did not play into this film to some extent. There are all kinds of references to the assassination the grassy area and picket fence; photographic evidence of a badge man character with gun hiding in the bushes; the subsequently developed pictures having been presumably stolen or altered as part of some conspiracy. It's almost as if Thomas and his camera represent the Zapruder film component of the assassination. Indeed, the causal reality of the JFK murder was, and still is, to some extent a function of human perception, derived from an interpretation of what the camera sees.Blowup is unlike most films. There are long takes, with minimal editing. This gives the film a slow, meandering feel. Dialogue is minimal. Natural sounds override music, throughout. And like other Antonioni films, this one is mostly visual. The cinematography is striking.Another characteristic is that the film is not plot intensive. Nor are the characters sympathetic. Thomas is not at all likable. And other characters are mere mannequins. I question whether Antonioni needed two hours to convey his message. More of a plot might have reduced the need for so much seemingly irrelevant filler.Blowup is mostly for viewers who like unconventional, arty films that impart abstruse philosophical meaning. The film is therefore aimed at people who like to think and ponder. "},{"Title":"one of 10 best films ever","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For me this is one of the 10 best films ever made.It is certainly an art film for the dedicated appreciater of film, not a film at all for the consumer of Hollywood entertainment.  It is a film that makes you think, as you can see from the numerous long comments; a film in which the viewer has to work to appreciate as a participant.Antonioni's films are slow,langorous, visual, driven neither by plot nor by character, but by the unfolding revelation of the perception of our situation itself.  In this they are unique, and represent a challenge to the viewer, to drop the expectations of fantasy gratification that film usually exploits.  If the viewer can lose the speed of modern life and just flow along with the film, much deeper rewards are to be found here, as attested by the many posted reviews.When sound was added to film, many filmmakers were worried that the artistic value of film as visual motion would be lost to the complexities of text, which has largely been the case.  Antonioni's films, however, have explored and deepened the visual aspect of film as a means for making profound communications.  The dialogue doesn't, for the most part, tell anything about the message, but is merely a supporting aspect of the visual metaphor. His last film, the superb Beyond the Clouds, is more talky and gives some verbal clues about Antonioni's world view.I feel that Antonioni's films are artistic and spiritual landmarks of cinema; but of all his films I have seen, this is the most accessible, with the most conventional presentation, plot, etc.The rest of this includes my interpretation of the film and might include spoilers.A lot of the comments here are excellent.  I will just add that for me, the film is about our attempt to observe and understand our world through our placement of our attention.  The photographer is just us as the observer; his professional work reflects our customary perception of the world through pre-conception, kitsch, convention.  It is meaningless, exploitive, alienating, even cruel.On the other hand, when he observes reality rather than artificiality, when he turns up the intensity and magnification until things are no longer recognizable, he is seeing the essence of things and not his conceptual projections.  He discovers a crime- for me this murder is a metaphor for the murder of real perception, along with real feeling, by a society which alienates us from our own natural ability to see things as they are.From here, the film goes even deeper into the meaning of this crime, and how one can live with it.  Yet the film never gets into any obvious deep speculations; it makes its point completely in the domain of visual images and metaphors that also serve as plot devices, until the enigmatic conclusion of the film.Like any great work of art, the meaning of the film lies in the symbols and metaphors and cannot be reduced to words; the success of the film lies in the tremendous emotional impact it has on its viewers who probably often, like myself the first time I saw it, don't even realize it has such deep levels to it.  Antonioni has constructed something that has a life of its own, with the ability to reflect profound meanings that arise from an interaction of the film and the viewer.  "},{"Title":"A Film To Watch More Than Once","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've often contemplated my large DVD collection and wondered why in the hell I paid good money for some of the titles I have collected. Sometimes it's because I saw the films as a kid in the 1960s and remembered them as good films. Other times I've just been in the right place at the right time and purchased on a whim. Many I have only watched once, disappointed that they didn't re-meet my expectations (or others', on whose opinions I had relied). Working from the other end of the equation - films I'm glad I've purchased - I've tried to consider what makes a good addition to a film collection, like Blow Up a film that I want to watch again and again.In the case of Blow Up, the reason I can watch it often is the atmospherics. The sound of the dismal London breezes in the park where the central pivotal action of the film takes place. The damp greenery that accompanies the breeze. The nihilism of the photographer. Even the photography itself. I spent many a long month trudging through parks in London, Paris and other places making decisive moment photographs, just like Thomas (the main character) did. I can appreciate the loneliness of this aspect of his work, as opposed to the studio sessions where he has a large, yet virtually mute cast of robotic assistants who do his bidding without so much as a please or thankyou from him. Peripatetic photography is - by definition - something you have to do alone, and Thomas is alone. One gets the feeling that candid photography is his true love, where he gets closest to the truth, the only part of his craft that he is emotionally excited about.Thomas is surrounded by others, mostly because they're paid to be with him - models, staff, agents, shopkeepers, the London traffic itself - but he hates his existence and the hangers on in his life. I think that is why he's so disdainful and rude to everybody near him. He resents the space they occupy.When he finally becomes interested in a woman (Vanessa Redgrave) she enters and exits his life by suddenly appearing and just as suddenly disappearing, as if by magic. Blink twice and she's gone. All he has left are his photographs of her, taken in a blink, but remaining as permanent images on film. In them he first sees her with her lover and then, enlarging the images, sees something more sinister. Is she really who he thought she was? These revealed truths and questions lead him first to wonder if he really did see what he photographed, and then to ponder what course of action he should take. Real life has come up and head-butted him, and he has to respond in some way. But no-one else seems to care, not his friends or business associates. He is on his own again.We see him at the end of the film back in the park, accompanied by the same lonely, damp London breeze, revisiting the scene of his photographs taken just 24 hours before. Whether what he saw was real or not we don't know for sure by this stage... and neither does he. Just about every scrap of evidence that he was there such a short time ago is gone the woman, the man she was with, the photographs. He has only his imagination to rely on. As his painter friend in the first act painted his artworks and only then sought meaning in them, so Thomas found meaning in his photographs only after the act of creation - the opening of the shutter - was over. But by then it is too late. As he picks up an imaginary tennis ball and throws it back to some frolicking mimes playing imaginary tennis he smiles and realises that what he saw (or thinks he saw) in the park the day before is none of his concern. It's as if what happened never happened, as there is no record of it any more. The leaf fell in the forest and there was, for practical purposes, no-one there to witness it and bring back proof that it fell.An excellent, complex film about a lonely, arrogant man who, for once, wants to care about something, but can't find anyone who believes in him. Full of atmospherics and rich photography. A film that I can definitely watch again and again, each time learning more about the many ways reality can be viewed and, most importantly, interpreted. "},{"Title":"The All-Time Perfect Art Film","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Possible minor spoilers (though, considering the nature of the film, they probably won't spoil the experience).Antonioni's brilliant Blowup was the first art movie I've ever seen, and I was immediately entranced. The vagueness of the characters' motivations, the blurring between art and reality, even the murder mystery taking a backseat to the imagery--all mindblowing. The audience is never totally allowed into any character's head, never going much deeper than the aesthetic. Thomas is the only character who seems to develop in any way, and even then we're kept at a distance. Handsome, coolly charming David Hemmings is perfect for the role--an existentialist photographer, free-floating through life without purpose, living through a series of fun but ultimately unfulfilling experiences. When he discovers a possible murder, he is given a solid goal, and the mechanical quality fades from his life as he tries to unravel the mystery--but those around him are too involved in their own insubstantial activities to listen or care. Finally, both he and us are left tired, alienated, and unsure of what life--like the blown up photo--is supposed to be. The final shot, explicitly depicting an illusion of living, is an incredibly heavy statement.This motion picture is like a photograph itself--we are shown the surface and can only infer anything more. It's a glossy, gorgeous snapshot of Swinging London, featuring Hemmings and Veruschka in one of the sexiest non-sex scenes of all time. Blowup is a sensuous and sensual experience, but doesn't show much beneath that. We don't get all the answers. That's the point. "},{"Title":"Add a Mime, Call it Art","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"35 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Pardon me for being a swine who needs 1 a compelling plot 2 a sequence of events developing the plot, and 3 a conclusion having something to do with the plot before I consider a 'film' to be watchable.This 'film' has neither sequence nor conclusion, and only a rudimentary plot.  A murder is unwittingly photographed.  Great.  Let's work with that, shall we?  No, no; instead, let's introduce all manner of irrelevent non-plot devices and breast shots in a gratuitous pseudo-lesbian tickle-fest.  What fun!Oh, wait! in order to tie it back to the story of the murder remember the murder?, let's have the main character develop a far-off look in his eye shades of Joey Tribiani teaching his acting in soaps class while the semi-naked lesbians dress him after they've been tickled out, and we go on another manic dark room binge.Then, for no apparent reason, let's have the main character wandering around his palatial downtown London studio and enter the bedroom of his wife who, for also no apparent reason, is shagging some other guy.  Just a minute, pet, I'll be with you shortly, and he tiptoes out to leave them to it.Even in 'mod London', such an event would create fireworks.  But in this madcap 'film', being caught in the act gives a desultory two-line exchange to wrap it up.  And we think sitcoms are superficial.But hey, this is a movie about a photographer who snaps a murder, remember? The husband and wife, having solved their adultery in two lines, shall now change topic in mid-marital-angst.In some circles -- those in which the inhabitants have minds that cannot sustain concentration for more than three minutes drug addicts and pre-adolescents, mostly -- this disjointed, derivative, device-filled melange serves as art, and is called a 'film'.  Art == a troupe of mimes joining the cast, apparently.I'm positive that if the editors hadn't strung together the scraps from the cutting room floor there might actually have been a story behind this art, and perhaps a mime would have been shown to have killed the poor sod with a pretend gun.  But fortunately or otherwise, we'll never know. "},{"Title":"Disappearances, in a distorted reality","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was initially apprehensive about Blowup. The enigmatic mystery where the lack of resolution is a reflection of a universe where answers continuously elude us is one of my favorite types of film, so I knew I wanted to see it because it's a cornerstone, Polanski, Lynch, Peter Weir, they all took from it, but something about the movie's mod reputation kept me at distance. I expected something garish as opposed to seriously introspective. Boy, was I wrong! It turns out that the swinging tunes and fashions of 60's London are a pleasant backdrop to the mind's confusion, in fact they abet it, in similar ways to how the drug culture permits the collapse of personality in Donald Cammell's Performance. It's a booming, prosperous world full of possibilities, yet the mind still is unable to cope. The film doesn't just invite us to be lost in this conundrum, it's also a rare case that we're presented with the devices that control it.Back to the point of my Antonioni quest (you can read the premise in my review of Zabriskie Point), what appears in the film as we go backwards in time through his filmography, what facet of consciousness to meditate on? Every time a camera lens appears in a film, 'film-about-film' interpretations become myriad. Dissertations about apparent realities and fictions seem to practically write themselves. In a brilliant early scene, Antonioni gives us the photographer as the creator of reality, a cruel god who has a world at his bidding. When he tells his models to shut their eyes for no good reason, out of the whim of power, they do.Then he wanders through streets, antique shops, and parks, hoping to see something through the lens, something that is worth seeing. The ultimate ground or principle of the photographer's trade is that, through his camera, he can capture the world as it really is, that he can enable a true perception through his artificial eye. But so many of the famous photos that capture our imagination over time with their spontaneity of a life caught unawares, years later we discover had been staged. This was also the lofty aim of early Soviet filmmaker Dziga Vertov.It's in the dark room however that the film shapes itself, when the photographer notices a small inexplicable detail in the frame. I see then the walls of his livingroom where he hangs the blown-up images of film as the walls of memory, where the reality of what used to be exists fragmentary and elusive, not quite up to the task. The reality surmised there is but a recreation that demands new contexts, a folly for the mind to dwell and be haunted.Later in the park he discovers that he didn't prevent a murder after all, and his apparent reality becomes concave, collapsing upon itself in question and doubt. It's not the eye that has deceived him though because the lens of his camera is impartial and operates at the whim of clicking a button, but the mind, shaping in memory something different from what was originally perceived, jumping to the conclusion.It's not then simply a case where if we magnify something enough it becomes meaningless, as Antonioni explained of the film, but also a metaphor for the illusionary reality of the mind which, in its frantic quest for meaning, gives birth to chimeras.Yet another transfiguration of the walled mind we find in the nightclub scene. Where a small reaction, the guitarist's irritation at an amplifier that won't work, escalates into a frenzy, and turns a crowd of passive observers into crazed animals. It makes sense then that even a more indifferent onlooker, David Hemmings, is swept up in this, until out of the club, in the quiet, he's struck by the meaninglessness of the encounter. What he salvaged with so much effort out of it, was but a useless piece of wood.It's with the appearance of memory, this debilitating function of the mind with the power to break us for lifetimes, that the immediate reality, the world as we know it, becomes a distortion, the rippled surface of a lake.All the odd tidibits and disappearances in the film, like for example the marvellous scene where Vanessa Redgrave simply vanishes from our sight in a crowd leaving behind an empty street, are a product of that distortion.I can't be sure if Antonioni would concur, but this is one of the great Buddhist films. If The Passenger is an approximation of nirvana, an impassive, detached, state of mind that permits true awareness, Blowup is an essay on the formation of sankaras, the root of human suffering. If craving or some form of it is behind all human suffering, the craving here is the utmost one, metaphysical, an unquenchable thirst for answers and meaning when those things elude us. The journalist in The Passenger, the man essentially seeking truth, abandons his quest for answers and meaning. This final bond to clinging and desire now severed, the illusions of ego and identity dissolved, he attains liberation. By embracing his transience he can then wander the world in order to experience it in its true form.I'm very keen to see what Antonioni did before this. "},{"Title":"The Result Of A Unique Style and Vision","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blowup centers on the bored Thomas, a high-profile photographer who longs for excitement in his life away from the ordinary trappings of his daily routine the photo sessions, the free time, the meetings with his boss, London city. Thomas is a young dilettante who yearns for something more important and extraordinary in his life; and he finds it in the shape of a mystery that puts him at the centre of a murderous conspiracy. Or it might be his imagination..To develop the character of Thomas, Antonioni resorted to contrast the movie's beginning jumps between the images of a group of mimes going on a Rag asking for money for charity in a joyful manner showing one can amuse oneself when working for a greater good, and Thomas who's coming out of a shabby doss-house dressed-up in rags and looking very melancholy as though he hated pretending to be a vagabond to go inside and take photos for a book on social commentary he's working on. Later, when he's commenting to his boss, Ron, how he longs to be free, Ron points at one of the vagabonds in the photos and asks in scorn free, like him? They talk these unfortunate people down, showing the book has no deep or personal interest for them &#151; it's just money. Afterwards, on his way home Thomas crosses with people who are really committed to enforcing what they believe anti-war protesters. One puts a banner on Thoma's car, but as the car starts and the banner falls on the road, one is left with the impression that these things don't mean much to Thomas beyond a superficial level. It's almost like the illusion of being meaningful.And this desire to be important unconsciously starts the chain of events that constitute the movie's narrative. Acting on the voyeurism inherent in his profession, Thomas shoots a couple enjoying themselves in a park. Suddenly the woman storms at him demanding the roll back. There shouldn't be any implication of a mystery here yet &#151; just a person who enjoys her privacy, or perhaps she's having an insignificant love affair with a man. Thomas isn't yet keen at this point there's anything going on. It's not until he thinks he sees a man tampering with his car that he starts getting worried. Suddenly the woman &#151; Jane &#151; is waiting for him at his house demanding the roll back. This is just minutes after he complains to Ron about a 'free life,' which should put the viewer on the alert as to what a man with too much free time in his hands and bored out of his mind and yearns for excitement will start doing to give his life more spice. So after he gets rid of Jane with a fake roll he starts analysing the real one and slowly starts coming up with a series of discoveries first a body on the grass, and then a man in the bushes holding a gun. But it's all blurry black-&-white photos and one can't be objectively sure of their content. Thomas has an artist friend who paints much in the vein of Pollock splashing paint on a blank canvas and then looking for meaning in the mess of dots afterwards. It is obvious Antonioni is drawing yet another contrast here, between the photos and the paintings they don't reflect reality and so have no meaning, but because of this they can mean everything simultaneously; it just depends on who's watching them.Thomas initially thinks he's saved a life. He even calls Ron on the phone to to brag about what he's done, perhaps to hear praise and compliments that'll make him feel important and give meaning to his life. But Ron treats it indifferently, foreshadowing his condition when we meet him drugged and talking incoherently at a party later in the movie. Thomas' boasting doesn't last long because he soon finds the gunman in the bushes hinting there might be a body waiting for him after all. Immediately the viewer tries to remember if the old man was seen again while Jane was hysterically demanding the roll, or if his dead body isn't just lying behind a tree. But then the mystery is interrupted when two young girls show up at Thomas' studio to become models. He drops his 'investigation' and starts a threesome with the girls, trashing the studio. But no sooner is he done with them than he sends them away to return to the mystery. A pattern starts rising like the mystery, the girls are just a tool to make Thomas' life less boring; while he's in his orgy it's like the mystery doesn't mean anything anymore, like it stops existing, if it ever existed outside his head. And once he's finished he needs it again to continue the excitement. It's not until he returns to the park that it starts again.However, I believe Antonioni failed to make Blowup ambiguous enough which would have given it more quality, in my opinion. The photo of the gunman unfortunately almost makes the case that there really was a murder which Thomas is trying to solve. In my opinion, the movie was better without it. That way, the movie would have asked us to accept Thomas thinks there's a mystery without forcing us to believe in it too and keep a distance, but in its present form the viewer doesn't have many choices but to be sucked into the mystery. I think it was better when it just existed in his head.Blowup is a modern masterpiece of cinema. It seamlessly mixes its magical-realist roots from Julio Cortazar's short-story with some restrained pre-giallo elements. This wasn't my first Michaelangelo Antonioni movie, but it's my favourite, and one of the best movies I've ever seen! "}{"Title":"Beauty in the sound","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is remarkable in many respects but for me it is one of those rare films that uses sound to tell a story and create fabulous atmosphere. The wind in the park is something that stays with you long after the film has finished. Antonioni liked to control the environment around him to tell his stories. He used sound to contribute to the overall design of the film. Also he likes to create a character out of the landscape. Often in Antonioni films a street corner will stay in shot long after the characters have left frame. It is as though the imprint of the story is still there and he lets us wait. Maybe if we waited long enough another couple would walk in and we would follow them. Blowup is a great looking film thanks in part to Carlo di Palma's photography. Often I think cities look good when they are stylised which is what Antonioni does. We have Swinging London with empty streets and strange carnivals. We are left to think about what is in front of us. Is it all a game? Did we see what we thought we saw? A good film asks questions to the audience and does not pander to them as so many modern films do. This is a great film that nourishes the viewer. See it at the cinema to get the true experience. "},{"Title":"Clarifying the Clowns","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What most people on the site have been referring to as mimes really are participating in the ritual known as rag, in which students dress up and roar around town raising money for charity.  It's a British thing. "},{"Title":"More a study than a movie","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The mistake of people who dislike Blow up is that they conceive it as an ordinary movie that can be consumed together with popcorn. Antonioni´s masterpiece is definitely not entertaining, it requires high attention. Blow up is a philosophical study about pictures, cinema and the act of looking itself. An adventure for your eyes and brain. And because of Herbie Hanckock´s jazz soundtrack even for your ears.     "},{"Title":"The most malleable masterpiece I can think of","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would only suggest the films of Michelangelo Antonioni to those who are extremely serious about film. He is an underappreciated auteur, and this underappreciation comes from the enormous difficulties his films raise. In fact, his films are kind of difficult to find. I've only seen two, L'avventura and Blowup. These are his two most famous and most studied films. If you read down the comments on this page, you'll quickly notice that many people do not like this film. I do not blame them. Initially, it can be boring. In fact, the film becomes more interesting after contemplating it long after it is over. After contemplation, and on subsequent viewings, this film seems a lot better. The same goes for L'avventura.And when you begin to think about, and then when you begin to read other people's comments and opinions, you will instantly notice that there have been dozens and dozens of rather disparate interpretations, with most of them even making sense. This provides a rare treat, an intellectual challenge.POSSIBLE SPOILERS My personal interpretation (I just finished watching it for the second time, without having seen it for about 3 years) Thomas, the photographer, is a man who seems to have everything he wants. He is wealthy (at least a little; he does express the desire to be even wealthier at one point), and people are at his whim. He treats them whichever way he wants. This especially goes for women. He is a fashion photographer (THE fashion photographer; if you ever see a movie or a tv commercial with a man snapping pictures frantically at posing models, it is based on this film), so women are practically knocking down his door to get him to manipulate them.It has all become too easy for Thomas. He is like the proverbial spoiled child having got everything he wanted, he has become profoundly bored with it. Because of this, he runs away from a monotonous shoot to a park, where things happen spontaneously. He chases birds and photographs them. Then, suddenly, eureka! A couple going about their lives as if no one were watching them. A challenge! Reality! Thomas jumps into bushes to get closer, as if a National Geographic photographer glimpsing rare animal behavior. As he is leaving the park, the woman of the couple does notice him, and chases him down for the film. For Thomas, life is again back to normal. He joshes her cruelly, letting her know that he is controlling this situation.Thomas goes back home (I'm skipping over some important stuff, but I'll stick to the meat), where the same woman (Vanessa Redgrave) is waiting. Again, he controls the situation, and lets Redgrave know that he is controlling it, finally sending her on her merry way with the wrong film. When she has gone, he develops that film from the park. As he scours it, he discovers that he may have taken pictures of a murder.This does not disturb him. Actually, it excites him, almost sexually. He has been having virtual sex with the women he is seen photographing all through the film, but he only really gets aroused at this (in fact, an orgy scene which arises a few minutes from this point does little but distract Thomas, and when it is over, he kicks the two women from his home rather forcefully, and then goes straight back to his scouring and blowing-up). He is aroused, I believe, because of his inability to truely control this situation. It is like riding a wild stallion. Having blown the photographs up to an abstract mess, Thomas decides that he must examine the murder site. There he finds the body which he believed he saw in his photos. He goes back to his pad, and finds the place ransacked with only the most blown-up photo he has of the incident left behind. It is abstract, and he is instantly unsure whether or not he did see the corpse when he was in the park. He tries desperately to tell his friends, but they could not care in the least (they joke about it). His sexual excitement has transformed into frenzy. He is not used to these sorts of emotions, and has no idea how to control himself now. He goes on a wild goose chase after a woman who looks like Redgrave from the back. A friend, high on pot, finally tells him to relax and go to bed. When Thomas wakes in the morning, he immediately goes back to the park, unsure of his experiences in the past couple of days. No body. The excitement is over. But wait! A group of mimes (see Ebert's explanation through the external reviews link) has started to mime a tennis match nearby. Thomas watches these people simulate the sport. Although neither balls nor rackets exist, Antonioni subtly inserts the sounds of a tennis match in sync with the mimed actions.One of the tennis mimes hits the invisible ball over the tennis court fence, and signals Thomas to go and get it. Thomas does not even question the ball's existence (Antonioni playfully moves the camera as if the tennis ball is actually in the center, even having the camera bounce after the invisiball has hit the ground). This invisible object is no less real than what he is experiencing in everyday life, and also than the games of invisibility that he has been playing for the last couple of days. After Thomas throws the ball back, he wavers. What to do now? Well, his choice is finally just to disappear. He has completely lost control of the world around him, and his only recourse at this point is simply to null his own existence. He does not do it bitterly (one of the greatest things about this film is the audience's change in attitude over Thomas; at first, we despise his cruelty and spoiled nature; now, we pity him), but almost willfully. Nonexistance is not such a bad option sometimes. "},{"Title":"A Unique, Memorable, and Influential Film","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have just now finished watching Blowup for the first time in about ten years.  I still remember the first time I came across this film, on late night television back in high-school.  I remember sitting up every night praying that something different would be on the local Toronto station. Usually something like Manhattan or Sleeper would suffice back then... Anyway, I remember being drawn in to Blowup immediately. I'm not sure what it was about the film at that time, perhaps just the unusual cinematography... the lack of typical conversation etc. Regardless, for a first time viewer, I find the film has character enough in this respect to warrant attention.I don't think that I fully understood the film back then, and I probably do not today... I enjoy the play regarding what is considered real and what is not, and how the sense of reality is depicted in the modern world.  More so, however, I find it interesting how the goal of the main character is seldom solidified... there seems to be both a natural and unnatural sense of life in this film and I must admit that I find it difficult in determining the opinion of the director regarding this... am I viewing an attempt to provide a more realistic travel through life's experiences, or an abstraction?  Somehow, I don't think this is really answered in the film and this probably lends itself to the popularity of the film amongst certain viewers.As a result of all of the above, I find Blowup to be one of the most memorable films I have ever seen.  Regarding the influence of the film, it is hard to ignore the impact this film has had... good or bad.  Woody Allen has acknowledged some of the impact of this film in his conversation with Stig Bjorkman... Dario Argento seemed to hate the film so much that he took it upon himself to create the antithesis (in a stylistic sense) in Profondo Rosso...I am actually a huge fan of Profondo Rosso.  I am not sure how well received that film is, but the cinematography, storyline, tempo... everything about Profondo Rosso seems perfect to me.  In some ways it has a similar temperament as Blowup, but it does lack in the sense of depth.  In my opinion, both styles are completely valid and deserve a place in film history.  I find that comparing Blowup to Profondo Rosso in style and execution can actually bring one to appreciate both films more.That's my two cents.  Anyway, you can't ignore this film so go see it.-)-Blaine "},{"Title":"An iconic film about sight and perception.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It seems that Blow-Up has been re-evaluated somewhat in recent years, no longer being hailed as the iconic classic it once was, and instead being criticised for the meandering plot and the somewhat dated depiction of swinging 60's London. This is a real shame, but at the end of the day, it's a film that I still enjoy so really, I don't care!! For me, Blow-Up is a film that holds up to repeated viewing, with each subsequent re-viewing revealing more and more (possible) interpretations of the plot. It's a film that requires the viewer's participation and imagination to elaborate on the ideas that Antonioni suggests through movements, composition, actions and sound, and mostly works for me because of an obsession I have with British 60's culture... so the chance to revel in the colours and locations is fantastic, with the film standing as something of a cultural time capsule as well as a slight (though no less enjoyable) murder mystery.The basic plot revolves around a feckless and self-infatuated photographer at the heart of the happening 60's scene, with Antonioni sketching a world of no-ties sex-orgies, pot parties, protesting students, shallow scenesters, chic fashionistas, gaudy colours, bizarre camera angles, extended jazz-numbers, waif-like models and the gradual disintegration of the hippie era and the sense of innocence lost. Amongst all of this, he and co-writer Tonino Guerra manage to comment on the urbanisation of most major metropolitan cities moving towards the 1970's (with the newly built concrete housing blocks that our protagonist drives past a number of times during the film now being an all too familiar presence, particularly in areas around London, Manchester and Birmingham). It also taps into the existentialist idea of a character lost in his own abyss, finding little comfort in the scene he has immersed himself in, whilst simultaneously struggling to find something more tangible and worthwhile within the mire of 60's caricatured excess.More than that however, the film is a great treatise on the notion of perception... for example, is it really that coincidental that our lead character is a photographer, someone who's entire profession revolves around documenting an abstracted view of reality? Throughout the film, Antonioni is playing with the notion of perception and the way we see things, from the opening scene - in which the photographer emerges black-faced from a factory and dressed in grungy overalls to match his work-mates, before he rounds the corner and jumps into his pristine Rolls Royce - right the way to the end, where a group of students act out a tennis match using mime, in which our hero finally realises the difference between what is seen and what is felt.The point of the film is not who was murdered? or who murdered who?, but rather, did the murder actually take place at all? Can we trust our central character? And, more importantly, can we trust what we are being shown by the director? The major set-piece here is a tranquil moment in which the photographer (the brilliant David Hemmings) innocently snaps a couple enjoying an intimate moment in a secluded park for the closing chapter of his book. When he is spotted by the couple the woman approaches and demands to have the negatives returned to her. Our hero refuses and, in moment of confusion, manages to slink away with the snaps still on his camera. Later, the same woman appears at the photographer's studio and attempts to seduce him in an attempt reclaim the negative. Again, playing off the notion of perception, we assume that the woman's urgent desire to reclaim the photographs stems from a possibly illicit affair, however, once Hemmings has developed the negative and printed the shots he sees a curious shape in one of the bushes that almost resembles a face.What follows is another tense, low-key set-piece in which Hemmings has large scale blow-ups made of each picture and studies them at length. Antonioni forces the audience to study the pictures along with him and, in a moment of unrivalled cinematic subjectivity, the outline of the face and the possible appearance of a gun begins to become clear. In the last picture, the photographer outlines what could be the shape of a collapsed body, but the images are purposely obscured by the pixilation of the blow-up and the harsh contrast of the picture's black and white. When he should be bringing the photographs to the attention of the police, the photographer instead gets roped into a three way sex-game (an important and historical cinematic moment featuring a young Jane Birkin and Gillian Hills, with the first sight of pubic hair ever glimpsed in a mainstream movie) and later, when he should be tailing the woman from the park, he ends up watching a shambolic performance from the Yardbirds (another iconic moment in the film... though it would have made more sense with Antonioni's original choice, The Who).The appearance and later the disappearance of a body in the park suggests a possible conspiracy, or it perhaps suggests deeper shades to our hero's personality. Was there really a murder, or was the whole film just part of the central characters need for something more tangible than the routine pantomime of 60's overindulgence? The ending seems to suggest some moment of transcendence for the character, with that aforementioned tennis scene between the mimes and that deep silence that makes the moment into something much more memorable and important than it might have initially seemed. Blow-Up is a slow-paced and meandering film that favours atmosphere over narrative momentum, and, as a result, will no doubt alienate a number of potential viewers. That said, if you're the kind of person who enjoyed the mystery elements of films like Coppola's The Conversation, Argento's Deep Red and De Palma's Blow-Out (all of which draw heavily on the influence of this) and can look past the dated depiction of 60's London, then Blow-Up offers a lot be enjoyed. "},{"Title":"The Brilliance of Subtlety","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, many people simply don't understand 'Blowup', and thus they disregard it as a dated and pretentious piece of kitsch. I didn't find 'Blowup' irritating in the least. Perhaps I could go with 'pretentious' on some scale, but I think brilliant would take precedence over that description. The film is in no way a failure because of its seemingly plodding and unconventional pace. Antonioni decided to throw every Hollywood convention down the toilet and TRUTHFULLY depict the serene yet insidious world in which its protagonist dwelled, with a psychedelic edge. The viewer who cannot or is not willing to accept this fact will simply not appreciate the film as a whole.Take note of the subtleties within 'Blowup'. The concert scene, for one, is of primal importance. The inhabitants of the club listen to the band as if they're mindless drones, bored and weary with their lives. They do not react until the guitarist unleashes a violent paroxysm, smashing his guitar against the amp. This could be interpreted as a metaphor for Thomas's state of mind.This is truly the first film that I've seen that explained so much of its meaning just within its soundtrack. Try to notice the subliminal subtleties in it such as1) The sound of wind rustling in the trees as Thomas analyzes his infamous park photographs. 2) The distinctive sound of a tennis game being played during the mimicry scene at the end.In what other film has the simple sound of breezing wind been so memorable? The photography scene within the park is also done during the day, not the night, yet it manages to be completely chilling. During that scene, there is no ridiculous music on the soundtrack, trying to stress the importance of the scene. Instead, Antonioni conveys the voyeuristic feeling as if we're right there, in the London park with Thomas.HOWEVER, my favorite subtlety in Blowup is, by far, the scene in which Thomas turns around in his car after parking next to the club and notices Jane standing there, and by some virtuoso editing (especially for the 1960s) we can see her body suddenly vanish out of thin air as she walks away, if watched closely.The ultimate message of the film is a subjective one and Antonioni refuses to just lay it all out for the less patient viewer, however, the explanations are there. Love it or hate it, Blowup, in my opinion, deserves to be watched with an open mind. "},{"Title":"a poor and pretentious film.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The best part of the film was when it finished. Whatever effect this film had on a 60s audience is completely lost on me. The story is disjointed and too much time is wasted on trying to be arty and weird instead of good. A shame really because the plot about a photographer finding something curious and strange in the background of one of his pictures is an intriguing one, maybe they should have given it to Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"The real star of Blow-Up","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The real star of Blow-Up is a park - an anonymous, largely deserted one at that. Maryon Park, situated off the Woolwich Road, Greenwich, grazes the mystical Meridian line where time both begins and ends - a primordial Narnia, full of twisted trees and winding tarmac paths that disappear into the heavens. Oddly, sounds normally associated with the area, like traffic and trains, seem to have been switched off, replaced by an organic tinnitus of wind rustling through the trees, as if the leaves were gossiping about the intruders.And as one trips further into the park there comes a growing awareness that something not altogether happy has occurred here, something psychically disruptive. The Hanging Woods surrounding the park were named after the many executions carried out, and Samuel Pepys often spoke of his fear of the place whenever he visited the area.Compared with Maryon, Blow-Up's more familiar London landmarks - the King's Road, Cheyne Walk and Soho - look pretty insubstantial. "},{"Title":"Blowup was entirely created with scissors","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many clever, relevant comments are put forward in the reviews written thirty years later. How short is memory ...  In fact, this much-applauded Antonioni masterpiece is a masterpiece of cutting and pasting. The maestro set out to show that he could create a thriller - thence the murder plot. After months of shooting, money ran out and eventually, funding was halted; Antonioni was told to assemble something from the huge quantity of footage he already had. Presto ... and Blowup was born from wind and waves.  A masterpiece, no doubt, but not the one he'd planned. To the disbelievers  check out your Cahiers du Cinéma collection of 1966-67 (can't remember which month, sorry) and find the article that revealed the truth.  "}{"Title":"David Hemmings Defines Cool In Blow Up","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Hemmings portrays one of the coolest characters in movie history in this pop/mod mystery movie.  Hemmings is a confident, self centered photographer in the mid sixties London scene where he unwittingly photographs a murder.  When Vanessa Redgrave throws herself at him in order to recover the film, Hemmings becomes obsessed with the pictures, ultimately blowing them up to expose a sinister murder scene.  The true brilliance in the film is the David Hemmings portrayal of the full spectrum of cool attitude, fashion, art - everything.  On another dimension Blow Up is a character study of this hip London photographer.  Its influence even made its way to the Austin Powers series in the photography scenes.rating = ***** (out of 5) "},{"Title":"One of the key films of its era","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Although it looks, very much, a film of its era, Blow-Up is a film that it as timeless as all but a handful that the cinema has produced. At the centre of it is the question that most of us have asked of ourselves at one time or another is the world that we perceive really as we perceive it? Thomas, the photographer (though not identified as Thomas in the film, as far as I can gather) is introduced as being different from how he is perceived. He is not a down-and-out, but he is emerging from a doss-house. Elsewhere in this very dense opening sequence, Antonioni shows us a mixture of the people 'dressed up' - the rag students, nuns, guardsmen. This notion of 'false image' is really what the film is about. Since we are always being given false images, how can we be sure that the way that we interpret them is accurate? And does it matter? In the middle of these glamorous metaphysics, we are treated to one of the cinema's finest sequences. It is one of only a very few sequences in the whole cinema that define the filmmaker's art. As Thomas 'blows up' the reality that he has captured in the park, he defines mise en scène. He creates the sequence that he would have shot, had he been the director of the film. This is magical cinema that is simply the crowning glory of a film that dares to demand that its audience THINKS. And in the end, when Thomas' faith in the reality that he photographs has been destroyed, he finds an alternative reality, the reality of the mind. "},{"Title":"The Mind of the Eye.","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  London photographer David Hemmings has no trouble taking pictures of fashion models in all kinds of simulated situations, but when he photographs a young beauty (Vanessa Redgrave) with an older man (Ronan O'Casey) in an isolated park a true mystery starts. Hemmings is immediately chased down by Redgrave as she is willing to get the film at any cost. The young photographer does not think much of the incident, but decides to give Redgrave a decoy roll of film instead. Soon he develops the photos and he thinks that he has unintentionally caught a crime with his camera. It appears that O'Casey may have been a victim in an odd crime that apparently has no rime or reason. Now Hemmings becomes paranoid as the incident consumes him completely and fear even starts to creep into his wild life. Blowup was one of the first truly marketable art-house flicks. Its unconventional elements and blatant sexuality were trail-blazing back in 1966. Italian co-writer/director Michelangelo Antonioni (Oscar-nominated in both aforementioned categories) decides to push the envelope with symbolism, adult thrills and visually dizzying imagery. It keeps its audience at an arm's length and still simultaneously sucks you in with its demented wickedness. 5 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Swinging London","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are so many levels that this film touches, but what is most important is the way that the mental process of constructing reality is addressed. Reality is a construct, and Blow Up goes far in portraying the manner in which the mind fills in the blanks between disparate events - it touches the realm of what Kubler refers to as Actuality. "},{"Title":"Great art/little plot; Strong statement/few explosions","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blow-up was philosophic and symbolic.  It was a fashionable film of the 60's, both for depicting the times and for setting new trends.This is great art, because each person can see many things in it.  For those who only want thrill-rides and explosions in their movies, Blowup is a flop.  For those who can find art without the crutch of plot, this film is a fantastic exploration of existentialism.  For me, it peels back the layers of identity, how we fit in with the trends and fads of a superficial society, as well as the individual's deepest sense of self.  It is not coincidental that Antonioni chose a fashion photographer... he is a shaper of fad, he is arrogant, he is selfish, his sense of power and sense of self are artificial.  In the end these illusions are stripped from him, and he is left with himself.. only to find that he has not invested in his true self, so is left with nothing.Some complain that the exposition is too drawn-out at times, and jumps too erratic at other times.  I don't mind occasional stretches of time in these sorts of film.  You need those kinds of breaks at key moments to assimilate and digest.********************Summary -- Minor Spoilers **************** The self-absorbed and controlling photographer (& what famous fashion photographer is not self-absorbed and controlling?) gets intrigued by a scene in the park... then he gets drawn out of his ego-centric ways as he spots the clues, as the clues indicate one thing, as he delves further into the mystery, as the clues indicate something else, as he becomes increasingly concerned... He's constantly being drawn out of his egocentric self. Then his case begins to unravel. The carefully prepared evidence is, well.. obscured, shall we say. As he's left with only the vaguest photo proof, his friend compares this scrap to a meaningless abstract-expressionist painting. He's left with nothing.And he becomes Nothing-- He started out as self-absorbed and controlling. Now he's become absorbed in something he has no control over.He watches the mimes playing their game of Invisible Tennis. His evidence has vanished.He picks up an invisible tennis ball. His desires have vanished.He throws the ball back to them. He himself vanishes. "},{"Title":"Its all about tennis","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Or is it? I've never been that interested in who killed the man who fondled Vanessa Redgrave, what I want to know is which mime artist won the tennis match at the end? When Antonioni cuts away to Hemmings it looks like 30-15 to the bloke but that last point (a fault naturally) leaves it all wide open. Does the fact that the ball doesn't exist mean the game will be void anyway? It was recently suggested to me that none of it happened anyway because Hemmings smokes far too much and probably can't tell fantasy from reality. Perhaps we, the audience don't exist and it's the film itself which is a collective fantasy - the projection of Redgrave's unconscious mind. If this is the case then none of us have the right to comment on it any further.As for who killed the older man, it's obvious. It was Hemmings. He shot him you see. I thank you. "},{"Title":"Double Folding","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I consider this a fine example of a doubly folded film. The first fold is the much commented  fold between the filmmaker and his chief character. Some rather obvious matters of reality  and the projected image are explored. You can read about them in thousands of places.The second fold is unintended. Here we have Antonioni making a film about self-indulgent  artists in the sixties with effect ideas. I'm sure at the time that he thought himself above this.  Both he and we thought his art rather profound at the time. Silly us. Look at this now and see  the second fold of the filmmaker into the character.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Thing I Have Ever Seen","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was forced to sit through this in a film class, and it was by far the worst film that I have ever seen. This film made me wish that I was watching Battlefield Earth. This movie made the Cable Guy look like a work of art. I can not express in words my contempt for this film. The plot was fragmented and went nowhere. There really was no point to this movie. Characters were added and dropped constantly for no purpose. Portions of the plot that seemed to be important at the time were dropped and never mentioned again. This movie did everything wrong!!! And the last scene was simply confusing, pointless and offered no sense of closure whatsoever!!! DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!! YOU WILL REGRET IT!!! "},{"Title":"Ingenious  as well as arresting picture about a mod photographer  caught into a twisted intrigue","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Intelligent and provoking suspense movie with magnificent acting by David Hemmings and perfect direction by Antonioni . Known author Julio Cortázar wrote the original short story on which Blow-Up is based . It deals with a mod London photographer called Thomas (David Hemmings , though photographer David Bailey was also considered for the character) seems to find something very suspicious in the shots he has taken of a mysterious beauty in a desolate park . Thomas carries out a deep investigating and he discovers surprising results . As Thomas refines and re-refines the photographs , as he interprets what he sees in different ways and then discovers a shattering revelation . Later on , a woman (Vanessa Redgrave) gets in his studio and attempts to seduce him out the snapshot . Michelangelo Antonioni's first British film , resulting to be a compelling examination into what is or not reality . This interesting flick turns out to be a powerful statement about pop-culture , privacy , guilty and casual discovery ; being ¨photography¨ as the basis and theme of the film . The picture contains thrills , symbolism , emotion , thought-provoking issues and plot twists during the last reel . It has some nudism , reportedly the first British feature film to show full frontal female nudity . As the picture was really censored and a way of bypassing the Production Code , the powerful MGM created Premiere Productions , a dummy company . The title of the original short story by Julio Cortázar , who has a cameo , translates into English as The Spit Of The Devil . Nice acting by David Hemmings as a photographer who takes a simple snapshot resulting in amazing consequences . However , Terence Stamp was originally cast as Thomas , but was dropped two weeks before shooting began in favor of the then-unknown player Hemmings . His role is loosely based on the careers of Swinging London's ace fashion photographers David Bailey and Terence Donovan . Support cast is frankly well such as Sarah Miles , John Castle , Gillian Hills , Tsai Chin , Peter Bowles and Jane Birkin .Evocative and appropriate cinematography , rich in colour , by Carlo Di Palma , Woody Allen's ordinary cameraman . However , Antonioni unhappy with the color of the grass in Maryon Park , London , had it sprayed green so he could re-shoot the scene . Jazzy musical score by Herbie Hancock , the film contains a rare performance of The Yardbirds during the period when Jimmy Page and Jeff Beck were both in the band . Being well produced by MGM , this production company did not have to cut the full frontal nudity or other sexually explicit scenes and maintained all rights to the film, when the film opened to rave reviews and excellent box office, this defeat was considered the final blow for the Production Code's credibility and was replaced with a ratings system less than two years later. This well-made motion picture was stunningly directed by Michelangelo Antonioni . The picture achieved success at box office , it allowed him to go abroad and to work on international scale in English language  Zabriskie Point (1970) in the USA as well as Professione reporter or The passenger (1975) with Jack Nicholson and Maria Schneider . Antonioni's initial films dealt with neo-realism , reflecting his bourgeois roots like in his first movie Story of a love affair (1950) or La Signora Senza Camelie (1953) or The friends (1955). His biggest success was the trilogy about non-communication and silent with many layered meanings such as The adventure (1960), The night (1961), and The eclipse (1962), with which he won several prizes . His films frequently starred Monica Vitti or other statuesque actresses . A stroke in 1985 severely inhibited his productivity until his death in 2007 . ¨Blow-up¨ is essential and indispensable seeing for thriller and suspense lovers . "},{"Title":"Appears to Be a Suspense Thriller on the Service, But What Lies Beneath That is Much More","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a film that most people go into with the wrong mindset. It is not really a suspense thriller or mystery film, although it has influenced many including Francis Coppola's The Conversation. This is a film that is on it's own level of sophistication and intricacy with its story.The film follows a day in the life of a young London photographer who, at one point, takes photos of a mysterious woman and her lover in a park in the middle of the day. But he begins to see something off about one of the pictures he has taken, and his entire outlook on what happened changes.Like I said above, this film is one that appears to be a type of mystery or suspense thriller and it is very understandably given that short synopsis. But it is far from it. Given the type of director Michelangelo Antonioni is, it would be very surprising for him to direct a conventional thriller. His previous films were more often character studies or mildly experimental art films, and Blowup is sort of a mix of those two types of films. In many ways this films experimental nature and artistic qualities are like that of the kinds of film students and young filmmakers that this era was producing. This era showed one of the first generations of university level educated film students and makers, and it was some very early signs of ignoring the conventional Hollywood rules of filmmaking, granted this is not an American film but the point still stands.The film starts out on a very interesting note, showing the audience a group of mimes driving around in a cart doing various mime like things. The mimes are the first people we really see in this film, but yet they have no connection to the protagonist, which gives the audience the direct idea that the mimes are more of a motif than characters. But soon the film begins to show us the life of our protagonist, the photographer (who is unnamed yet he is credited as Thomas). He leads a life that many would stereotype a photographer as, he can be very uptight, takes his work very seriously, and has a keen interest in the young girls that he photographs. The film shows us only basic things that happen in his day up until the first scene in the park (a very important and recurring location) where he takes pictures of a mysterious woman and who appears to be her lover. When the woman notices, she begins to act very strange and demands the film. She seems to be eager and willing to do anything to get the film from him, which is our first subtle indication of the strange story.As the film further progresses, the photographer seems to become curious about what is happening in the photos. He sees a man with a gun in the bushes, and believes that him taking pictures in the bushes scared the shooter off and that he has saved the life of the woman's lover. As he later examines, he finds out that there is a body right by the bushes and that the target was not the woman's lover. Immediately changing his perspective on what happened. Afterwords the film shows the photographer trying to discover what really happened in those creepy photos. In a very creepy scene, he returns to the park that night to find the body still there, but is scared off by the sound of a twig snapping. Yet the next day he returns again and finds nothing, which leads the audience to ask a question what really happened in that park? The major theme that I picked up from this film was an examination on the psychological perspectives we have as humans. Many key details and scenes in this film further demonstrate this theme. The fact that the character is a photographer, which is an art form that various greatly on personal perspective. Even when he returns to the park and is scared of by the sound of a twig snapping, it is a sound that makes a person think that someone would have to be there to step on it. It's not the actual sound of the twig that scared him, it's what we attach to that sound in that situation given out perspective. The films ultimate question of what really happened is in itself a further examination of this theme that is put into the subjective mind of the viewer.There are many other examples of this and scenes to analyze, but I don't want to put the whole thing in detail for you, as a lot of it depends on the viewers own state of mind when viewing this film. All I can say is to watch this film whether you have seen it or not, watch it as many times as possible. It is a film with such a brilliant way of telling it's story. That and Antonioni's breathtaking cinematic direction make this a film for the history books. "}{"Title":"Incoherent, unsatisfying, and inscrutable.","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'll keep my spoilers for the very end.Reading these other reviews was helpful because, having just watched the film, my reaction was basically, Huh?It's a shame because I was really psyched to see this movie and at the beginning, I was getting into it. I would say that if you are a serious cinephile and are very familiar with the director or similar films of the era, then you will probably get a lot more out of it than an average viewer. I wish I was able to parse the themes and symbols the way some of the other reviewers were, but the truth is, this film did not make me care enough to do so while I was watching it, mostly because it was incredibly confusing, very slow, and has no traditional story. Any time you think you are picking up the thread of what the plot might be, that thread just peters out or becomes irrelevant. I know some have said this is deliberate, but if so, it is pretty bad storytelling, because as a result, the film never really hooks you. After almost an hour, we are finally introduced to what one thinks is the actual main point (based on a simple reading of any synopsis of the film). However, you will be sorely disappointed if you are expecting a straightforward mystery. And although I've seen someone call this a thriller, it is about the furthest from that imaginable. Part of what made this difficult to really like is that, although the film is mostly realist, there are a lot of small details in it that don't make sense, either in the words or actions of the characters, or in the choice of the director to show a particular scene which seems unrelated to the rest of the story (although, in the end, perhaps there is no rest of the story). There is also the fact that you never really know the relationships of the people in the film to each other or in some cases why they are behaving the way they do. While I didn't hate it, because it was at least interesting to see the fashion, some occasional nice cinematography, and occasional flashes of nudity (let's be honest), I would recommend that you know what you're getting into ahead of time before devoting two hours to, in the end, an incoherent film with a very unsatisfying ending.SPOILER ALERT--- Here is a sampling of what I found completely confusing The movie opens (and closes) with these people dressed sort of like clowns yelling and whooping it up while riding on a car in the middle of a basically empty streetscape. It was so odd that I actually wondered if this is a thing that people did in England, because I still don't understand it. Why were they asking for money? Why are they whooping it up when no one is around them to even hear? And if they're mimes, then why do they actually not do any miming until the last minute of the film? Then we see people filing out of some place--is it a prison? A hospital? A mill? I still have no idea. And the main character was also coming out of it. Was he taking photos there? That is sort of the assumption from a much later scene, but still, confusing. There is a scene with an antiques shop that seems to have no purpose, except that he eventually buys a gigantic propeller there. Why? Who knows. Does he really think no one can see him when he jumps behind the picket fence to photograph Vanessa Redgrave and the man? The main character is on a radio while he's driving talking to some female dispatcher about how he's almost there or he should buy this shop. Who the heck is he talking to and why? We never find out. He ducks into a music show while he's actually searching for someone. Everyone at the music show is just standing there not moving. Except there is one couple dancing. Huh? Then he grabs the piece of the guitar, which is also unexplained. The Vanessa Redgrave character never explains why she needs the film. Why does she seem completely resistant to him but then suddenly is taking off her shirt? The blonde and brunette, also, seem to be resistant to him and he seems to almost be raping them, until now it's all fun and a romp. And then suddenly everyone's dressed again. Am I supposed to assume they all had sex or didn't? Beats me. Is the chick next door to the studio his wife or isn't it? Is it his girlfriend? Is it the other guys girlfriend? Is that his house? Is it not? I have no idea. Why doesn't he call the police? Who ransacked his studio, and how the hell did they manage to take all of his photos, including going into his 3 darkrooms, in the few minutes that he had been gone? "},{"Title":"Up to the viewer","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" David Hemmings plays a self centered photographer who believes he may have caught a murder on his camera. Through a series of blow-ups he comes to the conclusion he has indeed photographed a murder.Michaelangelo Antonioni's Blow-up may be the most sociologically oriented film ever. Largely focusing on the point that things don't take on meaning unless it's a group understanding is just one of the film's fascinating subjects.Antonioni doesn't give us anything, he instead leaves everything up to the viewer. What are those mimes doing there throughout the film? Did Hemmings indeed photograph a murder? How did Vanessa Redgrave know where to find him? Why does Hemmings complain about a lack of money and he drives around in a Rolls? What's the point with the tennis match? and many more.No question is answered. "},{"Title":"A stunning thriller","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A successful fashion photographer is pictured in the swinging sixties in his trendy South Ken studio. We see a hot and steamy photo sessions (Verushka) and a group fashion shoot follows. He isn't happy with how they perform, so abruptly halts the session telling the models keep your eyes shut. It's good for you. Now! . He slips off, and cruises around London in his Rolls taking pictures. He wanders into a park.He sees a woman pulling a man along. He follows them like a stalker, flitting from tree to tree and snapping reels of film. Satisfied with the shots he's taken, he saunters off, prompting the woman to spot him and come running in a panic, demand all the photos. She is clearly desperate, and even tries to rip his camera away from him. Why? The question haunts the rest of the film, with sixties parties, would be groupies and fashionistas (Jane Birkin) trying to get him to take pictures of them, and the mysterious woman (Vanessa Redgrave) showing up in the studio and going to all lengths including taking all her clothes off to get the photos back. The photographer becomes more interested. What has he seen? He blows up the pictures biger, and bigger. And bigger still. And murder, or attempted murder seems to appear, unclearly. He revisits the scene in the park in the dead of night, and in the dark the truth appears. And his studio is ransacked. So what has he seen? The film ends with a mimed tennis match which becomes completely convincing, specators scanning from side to side following non- existent tennis balls. So what is truth? And what does a photographer see, and what does much does he construct what he photographs? And hence, what do we all see, how much to we fill in the gaps and invent, and how much is true?In short a wonderful atmospheric thriller, beautifully shot by a veteran clutch of Italians in London in the late sixties. The scenes in the park with the wind blowing will stick in your mind, the park in question is in Greenwich, lovely place, the tennis court still there, and the hill in the centre.It's hard to find anyone who doesn't find this film gripping, mysterious, through provoking and beautifully photographed. I don't understand a previous comment about lack of people who will defend this film, I know nobody who hasn't found it thrilling and thought provoking, and we're no artsy elite types. And the only for serious movie goers is way off Who is a serious movie goer? The bottom line it it's a damn fine thriller. The only scene I'd criticize is the Jane Birkin scene which was on the edge of uncomfortable at times (photographer abusing teenage groupies).You may laugh but a completely different story by another Italian which resembles this Once upon a time in the west. Because of the slow and tense mystery which emerges slowly as the film progresses.Recommendation A must see atmospheric thriller. You'll feel driven to watch it several times. Make sure the sound quality is good though. "},{"Title":"Definitely not for everyones taste.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" People watching Antonioni's film always get this feeling of a long-night's exhaustion.In a few words, according to my opinion, what Antonioni tried to express here is that Life is a CHAOS, and personal behavior is nothing but those moments of passion-explosion(aiming a camera to a model is like making love to her).After that, all you feel is deeper confusion and the absurdity of everything around you. However, your only way to survive is to accept them, just like throwing back the imaginary tennis ball.The suspense of a murdering case is just an excuse of narrative. People think they can find a reason to act, to discover something meaningful, but it is futile as always.Some say it is not a good film because they are not entertained by it. I guess so, they are not entertained by the reality of life itself either.  "},{"Title":"The Mona Lisa of cinema.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most beautiful and mysterious films I've ever seen. Especially the scenes in the park, the actual blow-up scenes and the final scene are truly magical. There's something about those trees, the leafs waving gently in the wind, the editing, the sound-effects (can you hear the tennis ball?!). For me it's the Mona Lisa of cinema history it's impossible to put your finger on it, but there's SOMETHING ABOUT THOSE TREES that captivates, puts me in awe and moves me every time beyond believe.  "},{"Title":"Utterly ridiculous","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've never seen a more disappointing film in my life. I've watched it six times in an attempt to extract what the 'ravers' have tried to define. What is so crushing about this film, is that it contains the kernel of a magnificent 'whodunnit'. I know that all will say, that's not the point, but why use such a plot in the first place only to lose it entirely? Hemmings is completely wasted as is Redgrave. The whole thing is like a cross between 'The Prisoner' and something else I can't think of! I'm sorry folks, I've never been a subscriber to the Emporer's new cloths approach to art. What is rubbish is rubbish, no matter how you dress it up. A completely wasted plot in my opinion, using up talented artists in the process, all for the vanity of a bad director. "},{"Title":"1966 film Blowup devoid of meaning","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 1966 film Blowup (or Blow Up or Blow-up) has been categorized as a postmodern film for it's themes and message. It attempts to depict a world without meaning. The evidences for this conclusion are the characters in the film self-serving, self-interested, lustful men and women who decide that there is nothing more meaningful than living life for one's self. Sex, drugs, murder are all among the pursuits of the individuals in the film. The main character, a famous fashion photographer, becomes dissolusioned when he comes to this conclusion.A problem with the film is its attempt to manipulate its audience in believing this lie. Attempting to create meaning by creating a void of meaning is ridiculousness. The falsehood of such messages should be self-evident to the audience. It illustrates the saying, Confessing to be wise, they became fools. . . Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"Pointless!, Boring!, Dated, Awful and AWFUL !! .. Probably one of the worst in 1960s!","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is total lost of time .. what a boring movie it is! I've seen only The Passenger of Michelangelo's and I think it is a goodmovie I was anxious to watch most of his movies but this movie put me offIt seems if Michelangelo was on the Boring-Awful Film Competition with FelliniMaybe the movie is likable to many people .. but I don't know why! Some say it is a deep and meaningful movie ?!!!!Well, maybe they were watching another movieOne of the worst movies in the 1960s.. possibly the worst Save you time and money and pick up another movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Silent Film?","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"21 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't get it. Neither will you.This is what happens when you give some artsy student director the budget to make a feature length film. The use of silence within a film can be an emotional tool when used effectively but a film that feels like a silent film was just boring. The silence only gives the audience an opportunity to think about how this film is avoiding telling a story and why haven't they walked out yet. The dialogue in the film was banal at best and was just as big an annoyance as the silence. The script could have been written between moments of unconsciousness during a weekend bender and probably was. That is how awful and little there was. In addition to the lack of dialogue there was also a very minimal soundtrack, which gives the audience a feeling of utter confusion with no cue as to what the emotions they are presented with.The characters are left nameless and their development is extremely limited and so the audience is unable to connect with the characters because they receive practically no insight on who they are or why they are watching them. Without anyway for an audience to connect to these characters we are left sitting in confusion. Art is an expression of emotion and ideas. However for art to be effective it must strike a chord with people. If the artist or other artists are the only ones who 'get it' the work is merely just self-indulgent tripe. If you wish to enjoy this be aware that drugs are a pre-requisite. "},{"Title":"1960s Crap","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"28 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I live on an island which means a half hour journey on a ferry to travel to the mainland . One morning several years ago I bumped into a chap I knew called Derek who was doing a media course at college . Derek decided to show me his work from the course and one of his essays was on the 1966 film BLOWUP .  Blowup  I said to Derek  That`s utter crap I`ve absolutely no idea why but so many of the reviewers on this page have also done media / film making courses that use BLOWUP as an example of film making , I`ve got to ask in all seriousness - Is BLOWUP used as an example on how NOT to make a good movie ? What I really hate about it is that there is absolutely no substance to the movie . David Hemmings plays a photographer called Thomas who smokes hash , has sex with a model , sees some mime artists driving past , smokes some more hash , has sex with a couple of models , smokes some more hash and sees some mime artists driving past again . That`s it , that`s the plot of the movie and don`t be fooled by the promotional con trick that states this is a murder thriller because this is only a minor subplot that really goes nowhere . To tell the truth BLOWUP is a load of 1960s crap made by pretentious snobs who were no doubt looking down their noses at commercial British blockbusters like ZULU , ALFIE and the James Bond movies . It also contains just about the worst ending I`ve ever seen in a British movie .As for Derek I think he`s working in a hotel somewhere in England . So if I were you I`d be very careful about doing a media / film course that uses BLOWUP as an example of film making because you might find yourself having a career in the hotel trade . Worse , you might find yourself working as a mime artist     "}{"Title":"Light and mystery. From Cortazar to Antonioni...","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" No doubt after so many years, Blowup still remain my favourite movie. Who read the short story by Julio Cortazar then Antonioni conceived the film can draw one conclusion. Nothing is what it seems to be. I will not describe the film because you can not describe this movie- symbol. And it would be a shame to reveal the plot of the movie where mysterious Hemmings make a brilliant role (pity that his subsequent films have not confirmed), and Vanessa Redgrave in a role debut (somewhat) as well. I will describe what I think fascinated me and it will always fascinate me in this film, forever. The spring light of Maryon Park London, where mysterious shooting scene was filmed. A light that I have not found it in any other film. A magical light that you do not know how much he sought it (or waiting for ?!) Antonioni, but it is perfect. I have had the opportunity to visit this park (as Google Earth does not seem to have changed much) but I always hesitate. You should find a start day of May (or end of April ?!). But it could be rainy or too bright, I do not think I would be able to found that light and I would have felt deeply disappointed. However remains the same charm to review this film to find this strange light added by Antonioni to deep Cortazar novel mystery... "},{"Title":"Still crazy after all these years","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Okay, this is a documentary - a slab of history - how we were then, based on real people, such as the photographer &#x96; a sort of mashup of David Bailey and Terence Donovan - David Hemmings (ex-choirboy) never better. Those actual models used to be on Vogue covers, clad in Mary Quant etc etc. The iconic Peggy Moffitt's in there with her Kabuki makeup. And so is Verushka and her Germanic determinism. And later Jane Birkin and her friend play with Hemmings in the studio in their mini dresses and patterned tights. Those bands used to do their thing &#x96; and here we have The Yardbirds &#x96; Jeff Beck, Jimmie Page et al in all their nascent glory. And those drugs (how benign they look now) used to turn us on - bit of hash, bit of grass, bit of speed. Occasional LSD. Like every generation we thought we were bulletproof. The women in the film, especially Sarah Miles, but even Vanessa Redgrave, seem curiously stilted &#x96; almost a different breed of animal. Did we really speak like that? Maybe so. Glad we don't now. How detached we all were. How fractured from each other. othing mattered. The future belonged to us. Then came Notting Hill gentrification (sigh)&#x96; I think I caught a glimpse of Julie's Restaurant. London 2014 is a world away. "},{"Title":"Fasten your belts, and nail your eyes to then screen","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Antonioni is one hell of a film master, such films are films that you should watch again and again and again, the movie has many lynchy moments ( very unexpected with abnormal human reactions ) ..just less creepy. I watched this movie for the 1st times in 2011, I was a different being then, and slept while watching it a couple of times after giving up on watching this slow paced movie, 3 years later, I insisted to watch it and finish it for good....but again I fell asleep, something is hypnotic about European movies, with their wide shots landscape backgrounds, nevertheless I decided for the last time to focus and try to control my ADHD, I succeeded and I am glad I did, there is so much details about this movie that one can read, analyze, and just keep wondering about, whether its the film score choices, the black comedy lines and the many many mysteries that Antonioni keep throwing at you just to keep you pulled. This is one hell of a masterpiece, from cinematography to acting, directing and script writing, a 9/10 for this genius film art. "},{"Title":"A conflict between illusion and reality","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Combining elements of an uncanny mystery with an investigation and its developing horror, this film is sure to appeal to those who enjoy intriguing story lines.Created in the 60s, by an English and Italian team, under the direction of Michelangelo Antonioni, this bizarre movie, which won the Golden Palm at the 1967 Cannes Film Festival, is difficult to review without spoilers.Thomas (David Hemmings) is a fashion photographer. Although he lives in a wealthy world, surrounded by top models, he gets bored with his job and life. Looking for thrills, he uses his free time to photograph macabre subjects. One day, as he is walking in a park, he comes across a couple kissing each other. He starts to photograph them and does not stop when they begin complaining. Back home, he develops the photos and examines them closely. A very attentive inspection shows that these photos are not what they seem. In fact, they reveal something frightening. Thomas understands that what he saw and photographed was not what he thought, and decides to investigate this mystery.As Thomas' quest goes on, you will wonder if what he experiences is real, or part of his imagination. This movie examines how our perception of the world is a conflict between illusion and reality.In 1981, Brian De Palma took the main idea of this movie and created a very different scenario which led to the movie Blow Out. Having compared the two films, I can say there's no doubt Blow Out has a less mysterious but more organized plot, and I can also recommend it as a satisfying film to watch.Blow Up itself is a strangely attractive film. Perhaps its beginning is better than the ending, but in my opinion it's worth viewing for its strange atmosphere and the thrilling investigation. "},{"Title":"Swinging 60's art film","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow-Up is Michelangelo Antonioni's most accessible film. Of course, this isn't necessarily saying a lot. It's possibly the most widely seen of all 60's New Wave art films and is easily the director's most famous and iconic work; as such it's been seen by a much larger audience than his other work and has subsequently attracted the widest spread of criticism, from reverential praise to outright hostility. It's not hard to understand why. Like all of Antonioni's work this is certainly not a film for everyone. That said, you don't have to be a serious cineaste to appreciate Blow-Up.The story follows Thomas (David Hemmings), an arrogant and soulless photographer, as he goes about his business bullying fashion models, taking obtrusive photographs of the public for his upcoming book and trying to piece together an enigmatic murder-mystery. The film is essentially about perception and what we project onto the things we see. Thomas unwittingly photographs a murder. Or does he? Like his artist neighbour, whose paintings mean nothing to him until later he finds details to hang onto, Thomas finds hidden meaning in the blow-up images of the park liaison he photographs. The more he blows up the image, the more the image is distorted, the more he projects his own narrative to the odd event he documented. By the film's conclusion we are left with the possibility that it has all been imagined. It ends with Thomas believing so much in the mime game of tennis that he starts hearing the imaginary ball.The central blow-up sequence is a quite brilliant idea. The final sequential shots of the black and white photographs in the park, accompanied by the faintly sinister sound of the trees rustling in the wind, is among the great moments of 60's cinema. Its revelation is completely at odds with the tone of the movie up to this point. Of course Antonioni would not go on to make the mystery-thriller aspect of the movie the focus of the film but this does not take away from the sheer ingenuity of this sequence. Blow-Up is in some ways the ultimate anti-thriller in its refusal to play out the formal aspects that the genre normally demands. This really is the ultimate unsolvable puzzle.Hemmings is very good as the thoroughly unsympathetic lead character. Once he emerges from the doss house he is in every scene in the movie. It's a charismatic performance despite the often awkward dialogue which was no doubt a result of English not being Antonioni's language. The setting of the film in general is atypical of the director too but it has to be said that he dives in and embraces things with some conviction. This is in fact one of the definitive swinging London movies, with a great bizarre cameo from The Yardbirds performing Train Kept a Rollin'. It's a great time-capsule film. And everything is photographed excellently to boot. If I had a criticism it would have to be that, despite their significance in the film, mime artists are always annoying.Blow-Up is a good place for anyone unfamiliar with New Wave cinema to start. It's also a good one for those interested in the 60's swinging London scene and it comes recommended for those with a mind for something a bit left-field. "},{"Title":"Reality is a perception","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Probably the most influential movie of the 60s and the best from the master director Michaelangelo Antonioni. His most successful movie both commercially and critically. In fact, it generated a lot of buzz at the time with the supposed orgy scene. But the beauty of this film is the unpredictability of its genre. It looks like thriller for the best part, becomes a movie about ennui (a constant theme of Antonioni) or a photographer's creative block and ultimately does a complete U-turn and becomes a movie about nothing, but just the perception of reality. It is easily his most engaging capturing the swinging 60s with some of the most amazing camera-work and editing you will hope to see. The legend is, the movie was intended to be a thriller, but in the editing Antonioni changed the whole context of the plot The influence on the likes of Coppola, De Palme, Scorsese and the whole generation of directors of this film is there to be seen. It. also inspired the remake Blow Out by De Palme "},{"Title":"Hold Up Well","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite some dated theme music and occasional scenes torn from the pages of the Sixties' London of Twiggy and Jean Shrimpton, this filmed study in alienation holds up remarkably well. The supporting cast are as much props of Antonioni, as the propeller that Hemmings' character purchases in an antique shop. They aren't really called upon to act so much as depict the mannequin-like existence of the race in the last quarter of the 20th Century, inured to sex and violence, and largely left with drug-induced empty stares. The film traces the central character's descent into that same ennui.I doubt that films such as this will be made anymore, or if made, if they will find distributors here in the land of the free. But this thoughtful and resonant film serves as a reminder of the potential to use the medium as something more than a technology for delivering special effects. "},{"Title":"Unique, puzzle box of a film engrosses many as it alienates others.","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the benchmark films of the 1960's, this layered and sometimes deliberately vague movie can be interpreted in more than one way. Hemmings plays an ego-maniacal, and much in demand, London photographer who is taking shots in a filthy flophouse one minute and posing ultra-glam, mod models the next. He takes a stroll in a local park and captures some frames of a couple cavorting demurely in a grassy knoll. The female of the pair, Redgrave, pleads with him to give her the film containing the photos of them, but he declines. She later comes to his apartment to retrieve the shots, but, again, he manages to hold onto them. That evening, after having indulged in some sexual play with a couple of teenage girls, he starts to believe that there's more to the photos than just a couple caught where they shouldn't be. He examines blown up portions of the pictures and thinks he sees a gunman and a body! He becomes obsessed with the matter and attempts to uncover the truth, looking for his friend Bowles at a drug-fueled party and chasing after Redgrave at a concert featuring The Yardbirds. However, the truth may turn out to be any number of things and the audience is pretty much left to its own devices in determining it when the unusual ending comes along. Redgrave may be top-billed, but this is Hemmings film almost exclusively. Everything is told from his point of view and he's in virtually every shot. Little-known at the time of filming, this seminal film made him a big name for a while. He is excellent as portraying the snotty, egotistical auteur who is forced to care about something other than himself (or is the whole mystery just more of him thinking he's important enough to have uncovered something?) Redgrave is good as well, offering up elusiveness, vulnerability and an amount of danger all at once. Miles has a small role as a married neighbor who Hemmings has a fondness for. Her handsome artist husband is played by Castle in one scene (along with a bit of another.) Birkin and Hills play the nubile girls who want Hemmings to photograph them. Veruschka, who shot to supermodel status after this, plays a gaunt, solemn-looking model who Hemmings takes photos of in a memorable sequence. (Mike Myers would later spoof this and other aspects of the era in his Austin Powers films.) The swinging London backdrop, filmed on location in most cases, makes for a fascinating milieu, even more so now that it's no longer in existence. Something must be said about the use of sound in the film. Despite the presence of Herbie Hancock's score and The Yardbirds' rock performance, what really stands out are the film's silences and sequences in which ambient sound, be it nature noises, rattling paper, dripping water or footsteps, go a long, long way in setting up a mood and an atmosphere. The filming of the blown up photographs and the way Hemmings studies them make for an unsettling, even haunting, mid-movie set piece that is surely one of the reasons the film has remained known. (And then there's the precedent-setting nudity, which really isn't all that remarkable in these jaded times.) Not everyone, however, finds the film captivating. Many viewers find it dull and overrated. The basic idea of the plot, which was itself not all that important to director Antonioni, was later reworked and re-conceptualized in the Brian de Palma thriller Blow Out, starring John Travolta. "},{"Title":"Subtleties often missed","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michelangelo Antonioni indulges his singular talent for landscapes in this 1966 classic.  Poorly imitated by dePalma in Blowout, this quirky gem has some unique qualities that are seen nowhere else.  The composition of each frame is fastidious and compelling; indeed, there are scenes which could be exhibited as stills on a museum wall.  The photographer's sensibility infuses the entire film, bringing us into his world with a totality that is stunning in its completeness.  David Hemmings is brilliant as the passionate yet disaffected artist.  Vanessa Redgrave gives an intense portrayal of the enigmatic and confused accidental subject of his lens.  The dialogue is uneven, a heady mix of banality flashed with occasional wittiness.  This is not a fault, but an attribute of life, and rings true.  Curiously, the words themselves are not important to the story you could get it all without understanding a single syllable.  Nevertheless, the sound track is as painstakingly rendered as the imagery, with foley work that is truly wonderful and an ambience that is ghostly at times and raucous at others.  The ending is a masterpiece of aural/ visual integration, simple and powerful in its execution.  The `60's atmosphere of SoHo is captured in all its facets, from the photo studio/darkroom to the literally smashing performance of the original Yardbirds in a club.  Blowup is one of the most original and well-crafted films ever made, and a must-see for any serious film student or follower of the sixties.  "},{"Title":"If a tree falls in the forest....","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  BLOW-UP is NOT about the possible dehumanizing effects of photography... but rather a movie version of the philosophical question If a tree falls in the forest and no one hears it, does it make a sound?In this case, if a murder is committed and there is no evidence, did it really happen?While seemingly about a successful, but hedonistically superficial, photographer who films both wartime brutalities and fashion, Thomas (David Hemmings) comes to finally realize that his images only create an illusion of the real world.He discovers that he has accidentally photographed a murder when he develops and enlarges (blows up) the images of photographs taken of a couple in an otherwise deserted park.  He even returns to the scene and finds the victim's body.  But when the photographs AND the negatives AND the body disappears AND there is no report of a missing person, he discovers that he has no evidence of a murder having occurred.In the end, when he throws back the imaginary tennis ball to the pantomime players on the tennis court, he realizes that what he accepts as reality is really only an illusion. "}{"Title":"Is it a mystery...or a fashionable 60s 'trip' in-between fantasy and reality..","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the coolest films of the 60s. A young and trendy fashion photographer believes he has photographed a murder, but the evidence disappears. Not just a mystery but a clever and fashionable look at a mixed-up man's mind, and whether there is a difference between reality and fantasy.The film does not have much of a plot, but grasps your attention, and leaves the audience thinking. More importantly the film provides an excellent image of mid-late 60s swinging London; the people, drugs, fashions, trends and music (The Yardbirds make a brief appearance). The film makes excellent use of lighting and colour, both literally and figuratively. One of my favourite 60s films, and if you like anything about the 1960s this is one not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Artistic Pretensions Undermine a Great Idea....","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blowup has one of the best ideas for a mystery-thriller ever a shallow fashion photographer accidentally photographs a murder. A simple yet brilliant idea that is ripe with possibilities. I can only imagine what someone like Hitchcock or David Lynch could have done with it. But Blowup literally blows it because director Michelangelo Antonioni undermines it with his art. I am not one of those people who needs or likes things explained. I love ambiguity and unanswered questions when they fit into a larger plan but it is not entirely clear what plan or idea Antonioni was after. People who think they are art minded will likely read into it what they will (for example that it is about the illusion of reality or some other kind of nonsense). The ambiguities in Blowup pile up one on top of the other to the point where we are not sure what it is supposed to be about and get frustrated by the fact that it doesn't stick to what works. Why not just focus (no pun intended) on the photographer's growing fascination/obsession with the photos of the murder? When Blowup does do this, the movie is excellent. The scenes where he keeps enlarging the photos are so good they are exhilarating. Following this, the movie offers us a series of scenes that make us question the logic of the protagonist and the film. Antonioni might think that by following a more logical narrative, he is catering into popular tastes (God forbid) but what he ends up doing is undermining the story and confusing us unnecessarily. There are ways he could have kept the narrative logical while at the same time exploring his own need to be creative (Lynch, at his best, is a master of this). As it is, Antonioni's need to be arty and edgy (for 1966) trumps the story. It is too bad that he did this because Blowup has such a great idea. "},{"Title":"A Film That's More Than Worth Seeing Before You Die","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I light a GPC cigarette as I begin to write my review of Michelangelo Anotonioni's 1966 classic film 'Blowup'. I watched 'Blowup' for the first time roughly two and a half weeks ago, and still, there are images, sounds, and ideas I can't get out of my mind. This film is a mystery, but at the same time it is anti-mystery, this film is often categorized as a thriller, but is in its own right an anti-thriller. Our hero, an anti-hero, our climax, an anti climax.The use of visuals is spectacular to say the least. The way the camera lingers can often be interpreted in many different ways; as experimental developments in the self reliance of human laziness, or the looming creative impotency of our star, or simply as technical style.The story revolves around a photographer who stumbles upon something larger than himself. His curiosity sucks him in, but how deeply it doesn't is the real kicker. The anti hero in the anti mystery.The end scene is emotionally biting. The message still changes in my head day in and day out. The truth found in this film will stay with me forever.This is most definitely a film worth seeing before you die. There are only 27 of them. This one is more than worthy of the top 250. I say we knock off mediocre films like 'The Shawshank Redemption' and put some actual masterpieces up there. "},{"Title":"Fantastically cool echt-60s metaphysical thriller","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From the very start - the titles - it's clear this film is going to be about what one can and can't see. Antonioni's film doesn't restrict itself to the rails of the central thriller plot though. We are confronted (again, from the outset) with the reality of poverty (the doss-house) and its true opposite - the opulence of joy and unfettered imagination (the Tati-like troupe). At the centre of this the marvellously uncategorisable (photographer!) David Hemmings, creator, documentor... the capricious spirit with conservative mien. He records worth in the pretension-vacuum of the doss-house (reworked as the Metro photographer in Haneke's Code Inconnu), strips away the conflagrated layers of it in a frustrating fashion shoot and then spends the heart of the film looking for it in park-shot pictures trusting to nothing but this unlearnt intuition.As a straight thriller the film can, consequently, feel distracted. Yet the film's broad attention makes for a rich and fascinating experience, examining the nature of film-making and casting a critical eye over the burgeoning confidence of youth in all its exuberance and naiveté. For that very reason it's a seminal work in terms of the 1960s (itself the seminal decade of the 20th century) and, alas, the bittersweet launching point for the subsequent plunge into cultural postmodernism. It's also a lot of fun. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Of its time, but much more","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure if my comment at the end is or isn't a spoiler.I watched this film when I was 16 I think, 1968. For me it seemed to represent everything that, as a country boy, my life wasn't. The 'London Scene'. It was about 20 or 30 years later, that I read an interview with the photographer David Bailey in which he said that in the whole of London there was probably only about 2000 people who were actually involved.The film doesn't feel 'Made in UK', which I suppose is really what Antonioni brought to it. Yes, David Hemmings character, Thomas, isn't too admirable. But to this 16 year old he had money, access to beautiful women, creative fashionable work. And as at the time I was earning money washing dishes in the workers camp of an under-construction nuclear power station, I wasn't looking too closely at Thomas's cynicism. It probably matched my own. I just believe this was a great film. Quite disturbing..., probably something also to do with an apparent murder without resolution.It's a very long time since I watched it so I might be wrong in the exact frame sequence, but when I first saw the film..; right at the end, either just before or after the tennis court scene.. The camera pans across the grass of the park. And pauses. And I was always certain that I could see the tiniest outline of a shallow grave. "},{"Title":"First impressions","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Possible starting point recall those much-imitated Hitchcock moments of sudden perceived significance (the stamps in _Charade_, the jewellery in _Vertigo_, etc)? Antonioni has one such here the moment when his protagonist realises Redgrave is actually looking at /something/ in that photo. He draws a line following the direction of her gaze into the shrubbery, and the viewer thinks at last - a plot! Which of course, it turns out not to be, or at least, not the plot we expect. The moment, beautifully handled as it is, doesn't turn out to involve hero as detective, but merely as helpless observer of a story as old as the Old Testament, and ultimately as unresolved. Whatever we might /think/ we see in the Blow Up, Redgrave's photographed expression tells its own story she's looking at the Serpent, and this is the Fall.Before seeing this film, I expected the park to be one of those bleak London commons. In fact, it's a fairly iconic, un-English affair of trompe-l'oeil vales lined with close, rustling vegetation, plus (of course) that solitary Tree in the middle, blatant as you like. The surrounding Eden is a fragmented, tourist's-eye-view of 60s Swinging London, but with none of the celebratory naivete of so much 60s docudrama Antonioni's view of the transient, arty subculture he depicts is for me pleasingly baleful, far more than would have probably been appreciated at the time. There isn't a single remotely likeable character in the film, for one thing, and clearly wasn't meant to be. The camera ranges obsessively over such epiphenomena as nervous sucking at joints, the sheeplike conformity of a rock audience, the irritating infantilism of girl groupies and wannabe models having covered all this, it gives us the wonderful joke of a lignum crucis guitar fingerboard being first fought over, then quizzically cast aside as worthless. A world that's utterly rootless, without past or future or even any present purpose antiques (history, the past) are not the business to be in, says the impatient shop owner; the ragging students are collecting money for we know not what, perhaps for nothing at all; the Ban the Bomb march is pathetically small, ineffectual and incoherent. An eternal present, then, made habitable only by drugs and perhaps sex (wrestling on a paper bed?). This is the innocence from which Redgrave's fall from grace dramatically separates her (and perhaps, by extension, the protagonist, but we don't get to see this happening). But where it takes her - the film is utterly silent on this score, offering (to the exasperation of successive generations of viewers) not even the courtesy of a superficial plot resolution. In other words, staying honest and mysterious to the end.A selfconscious film mirrors within mirrors. The painter, early on, whose abstract pictures eventually, on examination, arrange themselves into some semblance of the figurative nothing is consensual, all is private interpretation. The exquisite photography of the film reflected in the hero's own aesthetic quest. A story told, pretty much entirely, in pictures (the sparse dialogue being oddly banal and unreal).  The fragmented nature of the screenplay, impressing itself on the mind as a series of stills, each laden with symbolic weight. Too early to say, but I think this movie is going to stick in my mind and demand successive viewings, and is going to crawl its way up my list of favourites and recommended must sees. There's clearly far too much in here for a single viewing to yield up. Unexpectedly impressive. "},{"Title":"The Whole Metaphysical Package","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An extended meditation on the nature of experience and the ability of the eyes and the mind to conspire against any true perception.Sounds downright pretentious and painful as the premise for a two hour movie, right?  Don't worry.  Antonioni and Carlo di Palma's stunning visuals, complimented by a kinetic Herbie Hancock soundtrack, leaven the metaphysics with visual and auditory sensations that require no intellectual effort to appreciate.  Add to that the pleasure of trying to piece together the seeming randomness of the disjointed occurrences wrestling, shrieking, naked wanna-be models; a troupe of vagabond mimes; anti-war protests that seem quite relevant to contemporary minds; and a hilarious, uncredited performance by members of the Yardbirds, and you have yourself a film which admits to viewing on any number of levels.Don't be dissuaded by the high concept or the negative reviews on this site. Those who watch it for art will surely be amply rewarded.  As will those who watch it for philosophy, jazz, Vanessa Redgrave, or murder mystery. It is a credit to Antonioni's cinema that it can succeed simultaneously on any of these levels.  Take a chance on this film, particularly if it's the kind of thing you would never consider watching.  After it's over, ask yourself how your appreciation of the movies could be complete without having experienced the final tennis game with your eyes and (more importantly) ears open and with your skepticism in check. "},{"Title":"Blowup -- bitter sweet life","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie's essence is timeless eventual solitude of every individual, indifference of society, meaningless of life ...All those who whine about its lack of entertainment value make me feel sorry for them ... Cinema for pure entertainment purposes? ... Sure, if you grew up with daily TV 'entertainment' American style, it's hard to stand the 'anti-tainment' of more artful films ... But what else is film making than another media for artists? ... Once again it proves how hard it is for the majority to even attempt art if it isn't easy to consume, it must be bad... Simple formula ...Luckily there have always been artists and film makers who broke or just ignored the 'golden rules' of commercial film making and produced timeless masterpieces ... Look beyond the period appearance and extract the essences...The world of cinema would be poorer if there had never been  'Un chien andalou' , 'La Dolce Vita' or 'Blow Up' Nothing easy to digest nor understand -- but such is life -- and do not look for any explanation in the books or places of worship ... They are just deceiving ... Look inside yourself and see if it hits a chord ... Hopefully you find you are still alive!Julia McLaughlin  "},{"Title":"Blow up your mind","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a feast for the eyes. It is at the same time pop (in the meaning of pop art, colourful, extravagant) and philosophical. The simple story of a photographer that by accident after blowing up some photographs he's taken at a park, discovers there's a body lying under a bush. A crime has been committed. He tries to unravel this crime and his search, in truth, is a search for himself. The film was made in the swinging London of the sixties. It's like a wonderful time travel for us viewers.He's a successful photographer, but is there any meaning in his life? In society? This film explores his loneliness and the loneliness of us all. Glitter, silence, solitude. There are no answers. But it is not a sad film, because it lead us to deeper thinking about ourselves and the world. And when we reflect about it and share this experience with others we are not alone anymore.  "},{"Title":"This is the film that taught me to never again arrive late for the start","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this movie for the first time I was five minutes late. I had to infer the beginning from the film's ending, but that hole became a haunting lacuna in my life.Subsequently, whenever I found myself missing some important point, either through inattention or stupidity, I would involuntarily flashback to Blowup.I didn't have a chance to see the film again for twenty years (I did *not* miss the beginning this time) and saw that my inference had been correct. I also recognized that the beginning was now almost irrelevant (for me.) The lacuna persists to this day.And of course, that's what the film is about--all the pieces (real and metaphorical) that are missing. "}{"Title":"Powerful Antonioni","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Most think that perception works a lot like a flashlight in the dark, illuminating whatever it's aimed at. The truth, however, is that instead of revealing what's there, it creates it. - Lou Corleto Break it down. Thomas is a photographer. He spends his days photographing models. He drives out to an antiques shop. The shop is filled with junk, all of which increases in value once Thomas shows an interest in making a purchase. Thomas goes for a walk in a park. He takes photographs of a couple. He intends these photographs to provide a peaceful counterpoint to the violent photographs which he has already taken. Thomas drives home. He meets a group of anti-war protesters. They place a sign in his car. Thomas smiles, proud to be helping them. The sign falls out. At home, Thomas analyses his photographs. Shockingly, he finds a dead body hidden in one corner of the photo. He blows up the image. Yes, it's a body. Isn't it?Thomas heads off to a nightclub. He hopes to spill the news of the murder to his publisher. At the nightclub, he spots his girlfriend. What's she doing here? She said she was in France! Suddenly, she's his girlfriend only if he believes her to be away and not right before his eyes. Equally suddenly a famous band member tosses his guitar out into the audience. Thomas catches the guitar. It's worth a fortune. The audience rushes Thomas, who promptly runs away. Thomas dumps the guitar out into the streets. A kid picks it up, decides its junk and throws it away.Thomas returns home. All his photographs are gone. Who stole them? Thomas visits the park, hoping to find the dead body. But it too is gone. Was it ever there? Thomas walks over to a tennis court where a group of mimes are playing with an invisible ball. The ball rolls toward Thomas. He pretends to pick it up and tosses it back at them. The mimes are suddenly playing with a real ball. Or are they? Thomas disappears. He has not died, or faded away, but become present-as-invisible.One of Antonioni's finest films, Blow Up is preoccupied with how seeing, belief, behaviour and perception change reality or value and vice versa. Reality must be textualized through representation (externally via technology or art, or internally within a brain which is buffeted by unconscious flaws) before it can offer up meaning. The meaning of the world, if it exists, is embodied in Thomas' photographs and Antonioni's film itself. Both activities involve the creation of filmic images. Both artists take what would otherwise be chaos, and arrange matter so that order is found.But the film is also self-consciously concerned with the problem of interpreting signs. Our engagement with the world, the act of finding order or meaning, blinds us to what we might otherwise have seen. It also forces us to make assumptions based on very little information.When Thomas first visits the park, he takes photographs of a seemingly mundane event. It's only when he reflects upon and studies his photographs, that he spies the murder. From here on, Thomas doubts his eyes and his perception, trusting instead the mechanical image and the acts of reflection and interpretation. However when Thomas has his pictures stolen and returns to the park, he finds nothing. He then doubts his photographs and trusts his eyes instead. Maybe there was nothing all along. Antonioni thus casts doubt over both the act of seeing and the act of processing what we've seen.Antonioni also uses depth and deep focus to ensure that at no time do either Thomas or we the audience see and subsequently recall the whole picture. For every moment made visible there is another that becomes invisible in a reversible interchange. See this, miss that. Look at me, ignore them.The sequence in the park is a model which seeks to explain this very point. Even the combination of Thomas, his camera, Antonioni's camera, and our own perception, gives us only a partial picture. Memory, representation, reflection, intuition and interpretation, even when working in tandem, have failed us.Throughout the film, Thomas believes that the memory of mechanical art (his ability to document social ills with his photographs, which is itself underscored by the film's radicals and protesters) is somehow more real than that of brute perception. But Antonioni suggests that they are both problematic. The film's objective is thus to set up a war between these two types of memory in order to show that neither one has all the information, nor indeed all the answers. Antonioni seems to also suggest that the war between real/real is less important that that of representational/non-representational memory, for at least the latter becomes the creative agency of art (and to an extent, reality). So like an artist, man creates what he sees, and is not simply a passive observer. Both the acts of reporting the truth and observing the truth reinforces our non-conscious mind. As such, when Thomas ceases to observe (corpse gone) and report (photo's stolen), the matter of the murder dissolves. When murders dissolve, crimes go not only unpunished, but unpublished. Tie these present-as-invisible themes to all the allusions to war crimes/suffering in the film, and you have another interesting political angle.8.9/10 &#x96; Requires an initial viewing to get over the abrasive lead character and dated hippie atmosphere. The film has three of Antonioni's best sequences. "},{"Title":"This was an easy and, to this day, a challenging film","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well, here's my 2 cents This is a visual 24 hour narrative of a photographer who takes LSD. He returns to normal at the end of the film when he hears the tennis ball. If the final camera shot had panned back to the tennis court I expect that the scene would be an upscale, posh tennis match going on with an attentive crowd watching i.e. normal tennis match and the mimes would be gone. The challenge for me has always been to pinpoint the exact time his trip starts. Antonioni would never be so blunt to show the internal Hemmings seeing colors etc like Peter Fonda tripping in his movies, he merely presents Hemmings traveling through his day and lets you ponder as to what you are seeing is from Hemmings perspective or actually happening. We see the manifestations of his trip dialog full of double meanings, paranoia or need to see something more in his pictures, interaction with strangers that he appears to know but there is a thick black line between those who are aware of his state of mind and the general non-cool public. Hard for me to explain in this space but this is what I see. My favorite scene is when Hemmings wanders into the park - the wind through the trees is so overpowering it feels like you are beside Hemmings both 100% per cent absorbed in the moment. Did Antonioni plan this or did he just take advantage of a fortuitous situation? I'd like to think he waited for the wind and favorable light. Just a great film which really captures the late 60's in a subtle way rather than slamming it in your face like Easy Rider. "},{"Title":"Pretentiously bad","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I suspect that the director intended this to be a satire, depicting the English as a bunch of incompetents, and was bemused to find that it was hailed as a serious film, even a masterpiece.David Hemmings plays the ultimate professional incompetent, posing as a photographer but seldom doing any work. When he does get a commission he squanders his models' fees by becoming petulant, and leaving them standing about while he wanders next door and has a chat with a neighbour. Not surprisingly, he makes very little money, and repeatedly complains about this, even though he drives a Bentley convertible.London is depicted as a sleepy provincial town, where the traffic is almost non-existent, and the public parks are all but deserted. Suspecting that he has witnessed a murder, he demonstrates his ignorance of his craft by pinning up a photographic print and rephotographing it instead of blowing up the original negative&#151; the equivalent of copying a videotape and expecting the quality to improve rather than deteriorate. He then revisits the scene of the supposed crime, and being a photographer, doesn't bother taking a camera with him. What a surprise.After the unexpected success of this turkey, the director did a similar hatchet job on the Americans, with Jack Nicholson playing an equally stupid character. And sure enough, this too was hailed a good movie. Antonioni must almost have died laughing. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of Existential Art","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Antonioni turned his film into an existential comedy/tragedy.Like Sartre's Being and Nothingness He shows reality then makes it disappear before your eyes. His photographer hero lives in a fantasy world and tries to find gritty reality disguising himself as a bum and photographing denizens of the overnight shelter. He may have witnessed a murder when he thought he was snapping pix of lovers in a park. He investigates and sees clues suggesting murder. He's faced with the choice to act and decides to ask his manager's advice. His manager is busy partying and doing business. The Evidence disappears. He gives up the hunt. He sees mimes playing tennis with an invisible ball. Life and fantasy go on. The moral seems to be that you have to treat the ball seriously if you want to play mime tennis. "},{"Title":"Bizarre","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that makes you want to scratch your head after you see it.  The whole plot revolves around a photographer who just happens to take a picture of what he thinks is a murder and his obsession with the beautiful woman who was also in the photo.  It is an extremely confusing film and the only thing that I think a lot of people remember about it is the fact that it was one of the first films that featured full frontal female nudity as well as being the one of the few occasions that the Yardbirds were caught on film during the period when both Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page were in the band (Beck would leave a few months after this film was released).  This is definitely one film I was very much confused by. "},{"Title":"Unusual, but very gripping film","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stylish and unique drama set in `mod London' stars Hemmings as a fashion photographer who believes he accidentally captured a murder on film, but no one believes him.  Story relies primarily on symbolism and expressionism, rather than a lot of dialogue and plot.  Remade as 'Blow Out' in 1981.  "},{"Title":"Worths watching!!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  No doubt this film based on a Julio Cortázer's short story is great! Of course it's not a top level movie, but it's certainly charming and interesting. Close attention and sensibility are necessary are necessary to catch the real message of the story (which depends on each one's interpretation - I will not say mine not to spoil your search).Thomas (David Hemmings) is a photographer who is fed up with his job. One day he goes to a park for a walk and begins taking pictures of birds and landscapes.Some minutes later he sees a couple out there. He then decides to take picture of them too. The girl (Vanessa Redgrave), gets angry when she sees Thomas pointing his camera at her and her partner and runs after him in order to take the film, without saying why she wants it so desperately. Thomas understands her effort to get the pictures when he develops the film...  "},{"Title":"A truly terrible film.","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie does nothing but attempt to glorify and defend the supreme narcissism, arrogance, disrespect,and misogyny that was embraced by many young people in the 1960's. It then attempts to blur the line between right and wrong by using the guise of perception. The main character is a perfect depiction of someone who's obviously never had to suffer any real hardship or adversity and believes the world and everything in it is his playground. The film attempts to sooth this over by passing itself off as art. This movies is an insult to anyone who has any true respect for anything or decent moral values. The only reason I gave it three stars is because I admit that there are some decent camera shots, but that's about the only nice thing I can say about this film. "},{"Title":"Antonioni in Swinging London","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The news of Michelangelo Antonion's death brought back a plethora of images and memories. I should mention immediately that I started to see and appreciate Antonioni only 5 or 6 years ago thanks to a wonderful teacher/mentor/friend that guided me through the socio-historical context of Antonioni's work reminding me always that at the center of it all is pure cinema and what's important (and enjoyable) is to discover the world through an artist's view point as the most accurate X ray of the artist's times. (As a consequence my times, my parent's times and my grand parents with a glimpse into my future children's times and their children) I chose to see Blow Up as a tribute to the incredibly coherent art of Antonioni because Blow Up is the only one of his films I hadn't seen. Now I have and those images have been traveling through my mind like a lost ship in a stunningly beautiful calm sea. Lost yes but happily so. Not in hurry to find my way. I'm enjoying so much the moment. What is, what we think it is. What's true to me, it's true. We can be looking at the same thing and seeing entirely different things. That's cinema. The kind of cinema have learned to love. Give me, spectator, something to contribute. It's such a fulfilling experience. I fear that my generation has moved away from that. I wish everyone could find the kind of teacher/mentor/friend I was lucky enough to find. Goodbye Michelangelo Antonioni, rest assured you will always be among us. "},{"Title":"A mystery inside a mystery!","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michelangelo Antonioni's Blow-Up is a rather complex murder mystery, of sorts. What appears to be a film about a shallow, self-centered fashion photographer turns out to be only the tip of the ice-berg, as the story shifts into more of a social commentary/character study. Set in the swinging 1960's England, Blow-Up follows the story of Thomas, a fashion photographer who, between photo shoots, stumbles upon what may or may not be a murder in a public park. After closing observing his photographs, he realizes the possibility that he may have accidentally captured a killing on film. Sound interesting? Well, here's where the real twist comes in. Antonioni chooses to focus not on the possible murder, but on the character who observes it. As we watch Thomas' personal life, we see that he is alone in his own little distant fantasy world, where only he and his needs are of any concern. Thomas, played by David Hemmings, is so pompous and unlikable that it is very difficult to have any real feelings for his character, other than disgust. He treats women as props in his compositions, play things in his lust life, and may very well be almost completely devoid of emotion. Hemmings' performance is so flat that I can only imagine that that was the point, to show his distance from the world around him. In fact, all of the characters in this movie are played without emotion. We see meaningless sex (exhibited in awkward, childishly playful sex scenes), a complacent audience at a Yardbirds concert, pointless conversations, and an overall sense that in the director's eyes, all of his characters are dead. I don't mean dead in the literal sense, but dead to themselves, their emotions, senses, and to the world around them. Interesting photography comes into play here as well, as interesting compositions are used to create an odd, other-worldly atmosphere that makes you feel like you're in an entirely unfamiliar place. The best moment in the film, and probably, the most famous is the seen in which Thomas begins to realize what his pictures may actually contain. As the camera is used to reveal what Thomas sees, using montage and zooming affects, we share in Thomas' frightful discovery. A masterful scene, it is almost worth watching Blow-Up just for this moment. There is much here left open to interpretation. Blow-Up is an art film (as much as I hate that term), and should be viewed with that being understood. If you are looking for a murder mystery, look else where. If you are interested in something more, particularly something to contemplate, something to read into, Blow-Up is as good a choice as any. An interesting movie, but certainly not for everyone. "}{"Title":"Blowup (1966)","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When thinking of ways to describe Michelangelo Antonioni's 1966 film Blowup, odd is the first word that comes to mind. Part thriller, part character-study, and part art film, Blowup is mostly just weird. A true individual, some might dispute that it exchanged coherence for originality... but even then so what? This was essentially the start of independent art-for-art's-sake features (a genre some might find pretentious, but I happen to enjoy tremendously). The story (if you can call it that) is of a British photographer (played with sheer quirkiness by David Hemmings) who takes pictures of a couple frolicking in the park only to uncover a bizarre murder mystery. The screenplay (written by Tonino Guerra, Edward Bond, and Antonioni himself) is a rambling mishmash of ideas that -- while not entirely successful -- maintains our interest throughout and leaves us scratching our heads in bewilderment. From the opening scene, we are submerged into the film's environment without warning or introduction -- and without expectation, for that matter. The plot is so non-linear and, quite frankly, non-important that we have no choice but to take the picture on its own terms. Even though nothing seems to fit from a conventional perspective, every bizarre moment of the script seems perfectly ordinary within the film's world. From gangs of mimes driving raucously through the streets to an utterly inscrutable musical sequence, none of the characters seem remotely aware of just how strange their surroundings are -- and this is how the film manages to succeed. The film-makers don't even TRY to offer an explanation for anything that takes place ... they just present it and expect us to draw our own conclusions. And even if you never reach a conclusion (as was the case with me), it's still an entertaining experience. The direction (which received an Oscar nod, along with the enigmatic screenplay) is very avant-garde, and the performances (Vanessa Redgrave in particular) are pleasantly unusual. Carlo DiPalma's cinematography is outstanding -- as is Herbie Hancock's score. The film displays a great control of silence, and the dialogue is entirely unconventional; THIS is what the 60's were all about! Add a rare cameo by the Yardbirds and a puzzling conclusion, and you have a fine example of beatnik film-making. In one scene, Hemmings is instructing Redgrave to smoke a cigarette against the beat of the background music it appears as if Antonioni has no difficulty whatsoever with doing so himself.Grade A "},{"Title":"Simply one of the greatest films ever.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that IMDB with all of its flaws (and its inane rating system has to be the worst) is one of my favorite sites. But, when I see a rating like this for a real film when so many other BS geek love films from the last few years are included in the IMDB top 250 - well, it makes my blood boil.Hip, timely, sexy and much, much more - Blowup was one of the first films I saw when I was a teenager that made me fall in love with film as an art form. And sadly enough - the kind of film that few people know how to make these days.Back in the old days, film was a visual medium and stories where told visually. I'm not talking special effects and explosions - I'm talking about story telling. There is a key sequence in Blowup that moves the story along without dialogue that goes on for over 12 minutes. No expository explanations - no backstory - none of the nonsense that passes for storytelling in Hollywood today. Twelve minutes without dialogue that keeps you on the edge of your seat. Then there is the nightclub scene featuring the Yardbirds playing their classic The Train Kept A Rolling which is not only mindblowing but also quite possibly the best documentation of the Swinging 60's ever put down on celluloid. This when both Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page were in the band.This was probably Antonioni's (I may have spelled his name wrong - so sue me) last great film (The Passenger was an interesting piece and Zabriske Point is a weird guilty pleasure for me and many others because it is such a complete and utter misfire.) and it comes on the heels of one of the greatest ten year runs of any director in the history of film. A truly seminal film.   "},{"Title":"Dangerous Power of Images in 'Swinging London'","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow Up (1966) by Michelangelo Antonioni - is an artful, extremely well made meditation on the manipulation of images. The theme that first Antonioni's English-language film examines is reality vs. perception. We know that seeing is believing but can we always trust ourselves with what we see? Can we explain what we see? The film is as multi-layered as it is puzzling. It is very easy to admire this film and it is difficult to love it &#150; it stimulates the mind but it does not do much for the feelings. The characters appear and disappear mysteriously, sometimes, literally in the thin air &#150; after a while you don't care much what happens to them.Antonioni was able to do what his hero could not &#150; he captured the moment in time. His evidence of the most happening place in the world of the 1960s, the Swinging London with its cool music, a lot of beautiful girls exquisite like rare exotic flowers, parties, night clubs, Yardbirds performance, David Hemming in his white jeans looking like blond Paul McCartney, will not be destroyed and won't disappear like the pictures of the possible murder in the film did. "},{"Title":"Blowup (1966) A student film, devoid of emotion or plot","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Antonioni's so-called materpiece is nothing but pretentious film art. Blowup is another example of Antonioni's obsession with La Doce Vita, and Fellini as a whole.But, unlike Fellini, he gives us imagery without sensation. Beautiful pictures that don't touch us. He uses such vehicles as L'Aventura to show us his disdain for the wealthy hedonists of the world. But, this world is nothing more than a caricature. His characters are rarely likable, and always over the top in their reactions to almost all situations.Antonioni spends so much time in his films showing the decadent life of his characters that all plot is lost in the lifestyle of the non-caring,drunk,pot smoking, fast car driving and often cartoon characters. For instance, the fact that someone is murdered, and that Atonioni creates an almost Hitchcock like side plot in Blowup is totally obscured by his obsession with getting drowned in the bohemian lifestyle. The photographer is portrayed as such a playboy hippie, that he doesn't have the good sense to call the police. As a character he is totally unbelievable and stereotypical. In many scenes Antonio overwhelms with his art, rather than further the storyline. There are many scenes which seem to be thrown in,to impress the audience that this indeed is a very deep art film. The best example is the scene in which Hemming's character goes out in the night to find his friend Ron.In the interim Hemming's wanders into a rock nightclub, and listens to the violent rock band. The scene has absolutely nothing to do with furthering the story,but once again points out the lost soulless generation of hedonists, who just don't care about anything but smoking pot. It's a silly scene, done with heavy handed symbolism. Mimes are introduced with no indication as to what they symbolize, again an homage to Fellini,but without Fellini's substance and style. Just a clichéd gimmick to show us that he's a deep arty thinker. In the end the film becomes a preachy, arty film, that does nothing to touch you, and gives us lots of meaningless,beautiful art scenes for critics to ponder. "},{"Title":"Primary Colors & Primary Questions","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There is at least one big misconception about BLOW-UP it's not a film 'about' swinging 60s London, as it is usually characterized. It's not a critique or condemnation of that 'scene'. Antonioni--although his roots are in documentary--tends to use locations for their visual impact and whatever moods they may invoke and not, in his films of the 60s, to make political statements. He chooses the fashion scene of London because of its preoccupation with surface (literal surface) and a kind of primary-color palette. Thomas, (David Hemmings) seems to function as an 'artist' in this scene, but is very clearly not engaged with it artistically. It's something he does by rote, offhandedly and (very importantly) without PASSION (as a number of famous scenes show. Ironically, these scenes were exploited to sell the film as 'erotic'). The director had much of Thomas's neighborhood in the film repainted to intensify the bright, primary color scheme. A scheme in which red seems to dominate, but not symbolically. Red (as well as blue) just identifies Thomas's milieu. When the photographer goes into the park, he enters a world of green. Beautiful, almost intoxicating green (a real feature of the DVD transfer, by the way, is the brilliance of the color in this film). Green connects obviously to nature, even in a park landscaped by city planners. But, again, it's not really symbolic (Antonioni does not tend to use symbolism in any conventional sense, if at all, until perhaps the end of this film). Rather, it establishes this alternate environment where Thomas will make a significant discovery.Earlier in the film, we meet Thomas's neighbor, a painter named Bill (John Castle) who introduces the notion of looking at a work of art and seeing something in it after it's complete (he demonstrates this in his own painting). When Thomas develops his photos of Redgrave and her lover in the park, he begins to notice other details that are far more interesting. This leads to an investigation that sort of encapsulates, or stands in for the long wandering segments of Antonioni's previous films a gradual discovery of some kind of knowledge or truth. What does Thomas discover? Perhaps that there's something under the surface of life that we don't want to think about, rushing around in our driven lives; perhaps it's mortality, or just something that SEEMS to be serious and important. When he pursues the investigation by going to see the actual body, the film takes on an almost frightening aspect. There is something primitive and slightly disturbing about the nearly silent scene of Thomas finding the body, accompanied only by the soft rustling of wind through the trees. He's shaken by it. Yet the whole experience has awakened a passion in him, not so much as an artist but as a human being. When the body has disappeared on his second visit, Thomas seems deeply disillusioned. Was any of this real? Does it matter if it was or not? But for a brief moment this jaded young man cared about something that did appear to be serious and important. The encounter with the mimes actually does seem symbolic, and it's a fairly obvious move on this director's part. Here's where it all gets so subjective, that it's deliberately up for grabs what, if anything , do the mimes stand for? Why does Thomas join their game and then disappear? To some, it's a surrender to the illusory nature of being, so complete that he no longer needs to even exist himself. "},{"Title":"When film becomes metaphysics","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With Michelangelo Antonioni's emergence as a filmmaker, a new face was given to Italian cinema.It was not the oppressed and hard-luck face one sees in Vittorio de Sica's films ('The Bicycle Thief' and 'Umberto D').Nor was it the superficially flamboyant and jolly face one notices in Federico Fellini's works ('La Strada' and 'La Dolce Vita').Rather, the kind of face one encounters in Antonioni's films bears the stamp of contemporary urban life--blank, weary, estranged, lost.In essence, Antonioni can be considered as the cinematic alter ego of the German novelist and short story writer Franz Kafka ('Metamorphosis' and 'The Trial')--both are unflinchingly consistent in their concerns and preoccupationsthe metaphysical anguish and anxiety of contemporary existence.Whereas Kafka's method of discourse borders on the surreal and the absurd, Antonioni's takes the form of symbolism and allegory.It's no coincidence that his films are always peopled with characters who occupy a prominent place in societythe privileged young adults in 'L'Avventura', the successful novelist and his wife in 'La Notte', the industrialist's wife in 'Red Desert'--their material abundance masks an emotional void.The vacuity is made all the more palpable by the intense clash between appearance and substance, between what they have and what they are.Antonioni's 'Blowup', the top winner in the 1967 Cannes International Film Festival, furthers his filmic thesis.This time, the urban malaise is onerously felt by a young, accomplished and bratty photographer (David Hemmings).The superficial glossiness and the emotional pretensions of the fashion world and pop culture through which he navigates have already taken their toll on him, so much so that he remains nameless throughout the film (in the same way that readers know the protagonist in Kafka's 'The Castle' only by the initial K.), a mark of individual dissolution and alienation.As he tells us, London (the main setting of the film) has got nothing to do with him anymore and in his job, he's always in the company of pretty ladies, but that's just it--impersonal and distant;he's simply fed up with those bloody bitches.Until that chance encounter with an anonymous caressing couple at a solemn park, whom, without second thoughts, he takes pictures of.As he develops the pictures into larger sizes (hence, the title), something unpleasant is beginning to take shape out of the seemingly ordinary shotsa case of infidelity and murder--which may explain the lovely woman's (Vanessa Redgrave) agitation and persistence in having the roll of film for herself.This eerie discovery has shaken the photographer out of his humdrum and mechanized existence to investigate further about the crime--for nothing.In the hands of the novelist Kafka, such a storyline may be used to prompt the readers into utilizing their imagination for them to have a grasp of the gruelingly bizarre odyssey into which the writer plunges his atomized protagonist in his search for what is true and real--if there's really such a thing.The filmmaker Antonioni has a different take, though.As apt to his camera medium, he makes use of a film's look--the mood, texture, atmosphere--to convey certain concepts and appearances that permit of myriad interpretations.In 'L'Avventura', we have the barren island and the silences.In 'La Notte', the transparent glass windows and the silences.In 'Red Desert', the fog and, still, the silences.'Blowup', it's significant to say, has one special affinity with the last-mentioned filmthe intelligent use of colors to tell or hint at something.In both films, Antonioni had Carlo di Palma as the director of photography;and I should say that Di Palma certainly had an intuitive grasp of what was in the filmmaker's complex and brooding mind.But whereas in 'Red Desert', the sharp and strong colors were glaringly used to indicate the intensity with which modern industrial decay and pollution can bring a young wife to a downward spiral into madness, in 'Blowup', the color schemes were intriguingly quiet and subtle that, to the uninitiated, they might end up as mere garnishes and decorations, as just being there.Go, figure out for yourselves the metaphysical/hermeneutical value of the followingthe models' outfits, the photography studio, the row of houses, the antique shop, the photographer's friend's painting, Redgrave's black-striped long-sleeved shirt and black tie, the corpse in the park.You may also want to try peeling off the layers of meaning that may lie beneath these instancesthe menage-a-trois on a floor-size cut of aqua-blue cartolina, the photographer's whimsical purchase of an antique propeller, his having found himself in a middle of a jammed-down band concert, his chance initial tour of the ghostly park. (Maybe that's why the film became a cult favorite--one realizes that there's a pleasure in seeing the film again and deciphering the hidden meanings;the film turns out to be a challenging puzzle!)That's what Antonioni's masterpiece is all abouttranquility and subtlety.About three-fourths of the film is narrated in puzzling silence (the final sequence itself is a seven-minute pantomimic silence, which may have influenced Tsai Ming-liang for his final shot of the crying woman in 'Vive L'Amour';in fact, the latter has certain semblances of 'Blowup').By such a silence, Antonioni wanted the viewers themselves to sense the existential melange eating their souls.As it were, the pervasive danger of contemporary living is individual disintegration and dissolution, brought about by no less than one's immediate culture and milieu.And as far as the nameless photographer is concerned, if the image captured on the photo doesn't exactly reproduce the material world and our experiences, as its function is supposed to be, then what is still there for us to discover and know what is real and true? Could it be that the life we live is nothing but an illusion, hence our morbid feelings of anxiety and despair?Sounds fantastic, but why not? "},{"Title":"close your eyes and stay like that...","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blow Up is my all time favorite movie ever. The scenes from swinging mod London with its clothes, music, attitude, looks, make this film unforgettable. A great document for that brief colorful moment in time. I also can relate to the feeling of the film, the vast emptiness of people´s life in a big city. The photography and editing is excellent. The scenes in the park chilling. The fashion shoot hysterical. David Hemmings is perfect as the callous self centered photographer who learns that everything is not as it seems. Vanessa Redgrave is alluring as the mysterious woman. Other 60´s babes such as Sarah Miles, Veruscha, Peggy Moffat, and Jane Birkin star. The best film ever made in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Dull with beauty","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have just watched this film, made the year I was born, 38 years late. It bored the tits off me.I can see why it is revered. I understand why my friend Johnny thinks it an all-time great. But, f**k, isn't it slow? Tell me what it is with the propeller.Speak to me about the 'birds' in the purple tissue - that was nice.I thought David Hemmings should have sniffed the gussets of the green and pink tights.Maybe he did.But they should have filmed it!I should have asked more questions but I'm too tired to try. Maybe it's the fact that I'm too old, I'm inured to all this naiveté and sex and that.It looks gorgeous. I want to live there. But it dulls me like a slug. "},{"Title":"More like blow-out!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I give Blow-Up my Emperor's New Clothes Award for incredibly over-hyped, vacuous and pretentious film classics.  It had to be one of the slowest, most stilted, most dated and most pointless movies I've seen, although I can definitely see in it the foreshadowings of the MTV aesthetic.  Its jumpy editing, disjointed dialog and seemingly unmotivated eroticism are all very postmodern.  But to describe the plot as paper-thin would be complimentary; the film seems to flatter itself into thinking that it deals with important issues such as reality vs. illusion, but it does so in such a superficial way that it doesn't even fully raise the questions.  It's not as if I didn't see talent in the acting or direction, but it seemed squandered to me.  Oh well; call me a barbarian.  "},{"Title":"A perfect study of society.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you not lucky enough to have seen Blow Up as an adult in the 60's, read on and stop scratching your heads. Your brains have been washed enough to not even recognize the facts of life when they are presented as simply as they are here. Forget the photographer, the photographs, the sex. Get the message. A person sees something. He tries to confirm what he saw. Someone steals the evidence of what he saw. He tries to convince others he saw something. They can see no evidence and so don't believe. In the end he 'sees' something that doesn't exist but some others 'see' it. He is now back in society. You and I are not what we think we are, we are what others see us to be. Antonioni painted the streets black, the brick walls brick-red, and the grass green. The way we see them to be. The question you were supposed to be carrying out of the theater was will you lie to yourself to become part of society? Even the hippys of the 60's that espoused being free and different wore the hippy uniform. That, my friend, is society. You wouldn't know that because we lost that battle to the ultimate uniform wearers, the Yuppies. "}{"Title":"Stylish yet very boring. A painful combination...","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I only had one reason to check out this film, actually...Michelangelo Antonioni's career (and Blowup in particular) heavily influenced the directing skills of Dario Argento, who's one of MY favorites. Argento copied multiple of Antonioni's trademarks for his own giallo-masterpiece Profondo Rosso and he even cast David Hemmings for the leading role as well! Now, it WAS interesting to see the resemblances in style but that's about it. This whole film is pretty tedious, with only a few moments of brilliancy and excitement. It's supposed to portray a mystery...but you're never involved enough to care. All that remains is a decent acting performance by David Hemmings, a few interesting appearances by Jane Birkin (singer of the French classic Je T'aime moi non plus) and a stunning photography. Not enough to keep you awake for 110 minutes, unfortunately.... "},{"Title":"8.5/10","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchock on Michelangelo Antonioni and Federico Fellini Those Italian fellows are a hundred years ahead of us. 'Blow-Up' and '8½' are bloody masterpieces.There probably isn't a better way to describe what Blow-Up represents. It is film that is so ahead of its time, it remains, now in 2016, something that could still be viewed ahead of us. The timelessness that Antonioni achieves in his directing is sure to make any viewer's mouth drop in awe and when you will reach the end of it, there probably will not be a time where the exclamation What the hell did I just see?! could be more suiting.That is probably why reviewing such a film is so difficult. Its surrealism is so shocking and encompassing you are left without words. Blow-Up makes you feel and experience, it has a baffling sensuality, there's not much space left for your brain to think too much.This is one of the film that reminds you what directing can be, what it can achieve, but especially, what it consists of. The shots are all so fittingly perfect and complex, this is probably one of the best examples of visual storytelling in the history of cinema. The dialogue barely exists in the film and it is always really disconnected, yet you won't realize this until you think back at it. That is because the cinematography and the editing of the film work together so flawless and ingeniously, you won't think of a void to fill, you will just look at this and constantly feel something happening, the story forwarding, the characters developing.I cannot stress enough how clever the staging is. This is really one of the films that should be studied to become a filmmaker. There is absolutely everything. Actors' blocking, camera movement, editing, story beats, you name it, you will learn it from here. That is why Anotnioni manages to keep your attention spam constantly up, even when a scene on paper would not communicate anything to the viewer, he comes in and stages scenes that could be watched on repeat forever. There's such a rhythm to his editing you cannot possibly take your eyes off screen no matter what's on it.Moreover the way in which every actor, from David Hemmings to the smallest extra, plays the role to perfection is another representation of Antonioni's masterful directing. Of course a lot of the merit has to go to the casting and the actors themselves, yet to me, what it proves the most is how incredibly confident and versed the director is in his vision. He knows exactly what every scene must do to the audience, what and how much information it must convey and he manages to get everything of it, to the the point that there's not a single beat in the film that feels out of place. He manages to give us the only what is strictly necessary to build tension and leaves the rest in a gray area. The effect is a film that constantly feels like it is about to explode, but moment after moment keeps building to the point that if there is one fault it can have is not giving the pay off you wish. Yet that is still disputable since the very fact that there is no pay off is the whole thematic core the film is exploring.It is so mysterious and cryptic there is literally an infinity of interpretations anyone could give that could all be right in their own way. This is an incredibly difficult balance to strike in a film without being annoying and Blow-Up does it perfectly. Still, I must say that in these cases movies end up either making your brain explode in curiosity and thirst of knowledge or they leave you slightly wordless and confused. In the case of this one, for me it would be the latter even though it is still quite enjoyable to be left so, I must admit it reaches a level of indecipherability at times that left me scratching my head. Yet, I really look forward to trying and revisit that and break it because whilst some of those moments might have left me puzzled, I cannot ever define myself to have been underwhelmed or bored, on the contrary, I was always thrilled and eager to watch what was going to happen next.Still, the best part has yet to come this film was made in 1966. To even think that makes my head ache. The surrealism and sensuality, which are without a doubt and almost bluntly the fathers of Sorrentino's cinema today, are so crazily original it is disarming to think someone actually did this such a long time ago since it still feels new and fresh today. That really speaks to the power of the cut and the frame used by Antonioni. Whilst watching it I repeatedly thought that almost every shot in the film could be hung to the wall.I cannot recommend this film enough to any movie fan. No matter if you've never seen older movies or if you think you have seen them all, Blow-Up will floor you either way and even better, it will teach you something about filmaking. "},{"Title":"Deadpan Nothing like a little disaster for sorting things out.","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here we have Antonioni's response to the counter-culture that ironically, caused such a stir back in the 60s because of the way it took on the Production Code. Hooligans yell and scream from their joy-rides and mod icons parade the streets, but London is filmed as is; grey, mostly lifeless, static. Even the appearance of a rock show featuring the Yardbirds is stifling. Thomas sees all this and has become a shell, dismissive of the entire culture and sighing as he leaves the models in their bizarre costume and pose. It's just for the money, he mopes. The best part of the film comes when something exciting jolts his life; a well-edited and directed sequence which points towards an apparent murder attempt in the background of his photos. But of course the theme here is that the further he blows up his pictures, the less clear things become. The fuzzy details stare back and mock him and the futility and aimlessness of his endeavour. The photos disappear overnight, as does the body, like the gods are playing a cruel joke. There is a tension here in Antonioni's criticism. Thomas is used as a proxy to survey the emptiness of this lifestyle, droning on and on in his robotic enthusiasm (even as he phones a friend about his shocking discovery it is dull). But there is a hypocrisy here, in how he is just as privy to jump into a shallow, sexualised persona at moment's notice. He straddles Veruschka and chants affirmation like he is climaxing, then immediately after the shot is captured gets up and leaves her on the ground. The most cringe-worthy segment is when he pushes together the two giggling wannabe models into fighting, stripping, and eventually a threesome, then post-coital is immediately again cold and dismissive. Antonioni wants to have his cake and eat it too. Another tension is how Antonioni wants to attack the decadence of the culture at its core but somehow relents on its graphic nature; see the ludicrous way in which Redgrave 'opens up' over a smoke yet is still shyly covering her breasts. The same woman who would chase down a photographer to cover up her affair, and then try to sleep with him anyway. Yep. Antonioni can only see this world's artificiality and emptiness, but it is fairly harmless anyway - there's not even any edginess to critique. The ambiguity and nature of the film throws its ideas up into the air for a stream of nonsense jargon marvelling at what it brings up. Some say the murder is a manifestation of the media's tendency to 'blow up' any minor transgression and its emptiness into moral outrage and panic. An event is not important until it has been captured on film or written on. Others say that we perceive our own realities and that the entire film save for the final tennis strokes are a figment of his imagination, a reaction to his spiritual malaise. Still others maintain that it is not a murderer in the bushes, but Antonioni himself with a hand-held camera, peering back into the layered reality. And there are the usual buzz words which carry a vague profundity. Self- reflexivity. Phenomenological neorealism. Synthetic stimulation. Magical Realism. The film is so pre-loaded that it becomes easy pickings to pluck a section and go to town with it. "},{"Title":"Pretentious Crap","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read the reviews by the film experts who find this overblown up Blow Up as a masterpiece of subtle film making. Then I watch this film for the fifteenth time attempting to gain the knowledge to access this as a masterpiece. It is a masterpiece, a masterpiece of idiotic imagery that reflects snobbish art film aficionados to discover different meanings when in fact the illusion of this film is how artsy the famed director can get and then laugh at the people trying to give depth to it in reviews. Going back to the time it was made it was a success only because it featured models, nudity and a charming actor in David Hemmings. The plot of Hemmings, playing s photographer who seems to relish in undressing underage girls and driving around in his Rolls Royce convertible, centers on some photos he snaps of Vanessa Redgrave and an older man at a park. After he shoots the pictures Redgrave wants them back. She even turns up at his house. Takes her top off. And he gives her a roll of film which is really another roll. He develops his film and blows up the pictures to see images of s gun and a possible murder attempt or murder. People reviewing the film seem to miss the clues at the end of the picture of what he really saw and how it was blended into the photos. But instead the reviewers wallow around about the fake tennis game, whether he saw a body or not, and what was the real reality. Damn. It's right there in the last five minutes of the film. Now my comments will enrage the fandom of this picture looking for what I saw and trying to reconcile it into their interpretations of the film. SPOILER ALERTI wrote about this film and read about it 25 years ago in s film school. Capturing the students thoughts on surrealism and what in their minds was real or illusion in the film. I then called out for those that thought this was an intellectual test to define the film from the director. Their theories were like other reviews praising this film. But three other students seeing it for the first time were puzzled. Finally one of them said, the whole answer, if there is one, is in the last five minutes.I won't reveal that concept in detail. Because unless you like a meandering unexplainable story that has a sum less than its parts you won't like this. Film snobs. Get real. "},{"Title":"Endlessly fascinating nostalgia","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Meteorically successful society photographer goes about his work in Swinging Sixties London. While scouting further shots for his forthcoming book he chances on and photographs an ostensibly romantic couple in a park. The woman notices, but her vehement demand for the negatives is denied. Back at his fashion studio, progressive enlargement of the images seems to reveal a murder, made more mysterious by the urgent re-appearance of the woman (who has followed him) and her renewed pleas. Our hero returns to the park at night, and finds a body in the location suggested by his photographs. Meanwhile, his studio has been ransacked, and nearly all the photographs stolen. Early the next morning he returns, finding the corpse vanished. While in the park, he watches a group of young people play a make-believe game of tennis. At first only slightly amused, he finds himself joining in. At that moment he too vanishes, and the film, which covers only a 24-hour period, ends.So much for the nominal plot. When I first saw it in 1967, I was only impressed by its modern decadence. The many subsequent viewings have however revealed an extending layered interest. Part of that must be nostalgia, for whatever the fashion insiders of the time say, it paints a thoroughly vivid picture of how London life felt and was perceived in that period.It appears to be generally accepted that Carlo Ponti withdrew funding for this the first Antonioni film made both in colour and in English when it ran extravagantly over-budget, with the crew sent back to Italy and Antonioni told to make the film from the footage already in the can. Ronan Casey, playing the corpse, says there was an extended murder plot involving Sarah Miles, Vanessa Redgrave and her lover, (Jeremy Glover) (except for Reg, Ron and Bill, the conduits of photographic and painted images, none of the characters has a name in the film, although they do in the script). This version of events is supported by Redgrave and Glover's appearance in the film in unexplained circumstances (Glover spying on the hero in the restaurant, and both in a Rover 2000 following the photographer's car). Of course, that does not mean that, as edited, the 'full' film would have amounted to no more than a conventional murder mystery.At least three main threads interweave (apart from the ideas of image and reality which have been extensively addressed by others). The first is the character of the hero. The young protagonist has found extreme success early, most youthful ambitions already satisfied. Beautiful and naked girls, treated as no more than the foot soldiers of the fashion industry, throw themselves at him. Ennui has set in (I'm off London this week &#x96; If I was rich I would be free) and he seems bored by a (then) outrageous society marijuana party, and by a Yardbirds performance. He has already seen through, but not wholly rejected, the excesses of 60s culture. Although often off-hand and abrupt, sometimes arrogant, he is searching for a worthwhile commitment, for meaning and for value and is open to ideas. Thus, his luxurious Rolls Royce is always, rain or shine, open-topped (unusual in England), he donates to rag-week collectors/student protesters (an important feature of the 1960s) with a smile, and accommodates their anarchic rejection placard (Go Away), again with amusement. He tries to find serious meaning in his disguised and gritty doss-house photography but perhaps it only adds up to a business opportunity. He is interested in an antique- shop, but only in the end for redevelopment potential. He describes a non-beautiful wife, easy to live with, and children, but then denies their existence, perhaps because they are simply his present ideal. The possible murder represents the first glimmer of challenge to his humanity. When this fails, he is drawn into the tennis-game, and becomes one with both reality and disappearance (unreality), when he makes himself complicit in the group fantasy.The second layer consists of the language of cinematography. The colour and framing are stylised, stylish as well as realistic. Camera and protagonist viewpoints sometimes do not coincide, in a way that is non-neutral, giving the camera a narrative function. Most important is the highly original sound design. Long takes of only ambient noise (not silence- with audible planes overhead, road-drills, ice-cream vans) including of course the famous wind in the trees. There is no background music (except extra-diegetically over credits). All other sound, including music, is strictly diegetic &#x96; we are always shewn the radio, the spinning gramophone record, the switching on and off. The tennis match is not in fact silent &#x96; we hear footsteps, and the wind &#x96; the noise of a mimed performance. We then hear, but do not see, ball on racquet, the only non-diagetic moment in the film. Simon and Garfunkel's Sound of Silence reached Nr 1 in the US in January 1966. Possibly Antonioni had this in mind &#x96; the reference to neon gods perhaps the inspiration for the scaffolded neon tower he built behind Maryon Park. The invisible sounds are almost the most real features of the film.The third thread is the symbolism. In most indoor locations in the film there is a bust &#x96; perhaps life and death, history, or another, 3D, type of image. The occasional child &#x96; the hero particularly looks at the child each time. Communication the white telephone in the studio, the red telephone in the street, the blue radio-telephone in the car (Blue 439). Maryon Park is green, and the photographer wears a green jacket. But the park is surrounded by urban life (Antonioni built the neon tower and the white gable-ends to emphasize this point), so it is only nominally wild, natural or real, or perhaps an oasis (as well as the Kennedy grassy-knoll and the staple location for Cold-War spy-thrillers). The students, a linking theme, are also a Greek chorus, commenting on the search for truth, meaning and value. "},{"Title":"Slow-moving but beautifully shot","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An acknowledged classic of the art-house cinema by Italian director Michelangelo Antonioni, BLOWUP is of interest to the horror and thriller fan due to the seeds of inspiration and plot ideas that were later to be borrowed for the Italian giallo genre - and in particular the work of Dario Argento, who would copy many of the plot motifs - and even David Hemmings himself in one instance - for his subsequent movies. Both THE BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE and DEEP RED begin in similar instances, with a murder being witnessed by a central male character who then proceeds to investigate the crime, but whereas Argento focus on murder and death, Antonioni gives us an account of Hemmings' reaction to his situation whilst keeping the mystery aspects of the film to a subtle minimum.The result is a beautifully shot film, controversial at the time for explicit scenes of nudity in the menage-a-trois sequence, that never really goes anywhere but instead is packed with mood, atmosphere and plenty of hidden subtexts and meaning for those who get off on that kind of thing. Undoubtedly the languid pacing of the film can be a little too slow at times, but Antonioni's innovative direction and strong performances from both Hemmings as the harassed protagonist and Vanessa Redgrave as the mysterious girl keep it worthwhile. Hemmings would later make a similar - perhaps even finer - psychological mystery with 1970's forgotten classic FRAGMENT OF FEAR, before appearing in Dario Argento's gory sequel, DEEP RED. "},{"Title":"It's a trip.","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's always a good sign when time passes by all too quickly when watching a film, as did happen with 'Blowup'. Somewhat shamefully I must admit that this is the first Michelangelo Antonioni film that I ever saw, even if I had intended to watch 'Il deserto rosso' first, since that film had been a big inspiration for John Boorman's excellent 'Point blank', but alas.I had seen (part of) the final scene once before in a movie contest, and (/so) I had actually expected it to be in the first part of the film. Alas somewhat, again, but Antonioni (and David Hemmings and loads of pretty - ahem - birds) pretty quickly enthralled me with an almost non-stop crazy but beautiful ride through a modern London in the sixties, with all sorts of extravagant and also more understated escapades. Almost, because there were some moments eluding me with their ambiguity. And the scene in the club had really poor lighting, in my opinion (though it did enable the viewer spot pretty much every detail).These minor low-points might prove to be more in place and comprehensible when I watch this one again - which should be pretty soon, I'm convinced. I might edit this review later for that reason, and up my rating as well.For now... at least a very big 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What's Real & What's Not","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What you see in reality is definitely different from what you see behind the camera. With reality, you will have your hopes and fears, which makes any object behind the lens much better if you want to. The cameraman or the photographer will have his mind set to what the outcome of anything will be inside the frame, knowingly making it more beautiful that it really is. As of Thomas (David Hemmings), the lost and hollow lad from London, he is having trouble figuring himself, figuring how to differentiate between what he sees in real life and behind the lens, and finally figuring what's real and what's not. Picking a character like that to be the lead and then mixing it with the subject of mind-losing artists, is just brilliant writing. "},{"Title":"Compelling art film","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's the mod psychedelic culture of 60's London. Thomas (David Hemmings) is a successful self-assured womanizing fashion photographer. He seems to be most at ease with his neighbor Patricia (Sarah Miles). Girls beg him to photograph them. While taking pictures in the park by himself, he follows a couple and photographs them together. Jane (Vanessa Redgrave) chases him down for the negatives but he refuses. When he starts looking at the pictures, he finds something mysterious in the background.This is about the style and the paranoia that it generates. The style feels very elusive just like the mystery of the photograph. The story meanders and flows for awhile. He's a confident jerk. Director Michelangelo Antonioni is possibly injecting himself into this character. There are quite a lot of strange images that are up for debate. And then comes the park. The frame can't quite center on the couple. The audience works hard to listen to the scene. The trees are rustling. The voices are muted. It's one of the most compelling sequences around. Vanessa Redgrave is stunning and Hemmings has the self assured confidence. At the time, people were probably shocked at the orgy scenes but it's not quite as shocking now. It's the oddities, the surrealism, and the questions that go unanswered. It's an art film that should be viewed by all true movie fans. "},{"Title":"What do they call you in bed?......","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A successful mod photographer in London whose world is bounded by fashion, pop music, marijuana, and easy sex, feels his life is boring and despairing. Then he meets a mysterious beauty, and also notices something frightfully suspicious on one of his photographs of her taken in a park. The fact that he may have photographed a murder does not occur to him until he studies and then blows up his negatives, uncovering details, blowing up smaller and smaller elements, and finally putting the puzzle together........Although De Palma is my favourite director, the fact that he blatantly remade this as Blow Up, is not only a bit of a cheat, but just changing one word from the title is pretty lazy Brian.But wow, after seeing this movie, it's pretty easy to see why one would want to remake it, because its a wonderful piece of cinema, and not only does Thomas analyse his photos deeper and deeper as his photos become bigger and bigger, but the self realisation of his shallow life becomes more apparent as the film draws to its wonderful conclusion.Hemmings is great as the troubled photographer, and his evident unhappiness is a pivotal part of the films narrative, because you sense that he hasn't really a goal in life, as his life is false, and content can lead to boredom, so in a sense he is looking for the greener grass.The murder gives him a new aim, and not only does it make him look 'deeper', it also makes him realise just how false folk are around him, and the only genuine person in his life is being constantly pushed away by him.The ending is very sobering, just when he thinks he has reached his first goal, he ends up right back at the beginning, empty and shallow.A brilliant film. "}{"Title":"Volatile and Vexing but ultimately Brilliant","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are a few special movies that are both adored and loathed in equal measure by viewers, and Blow-Up is certainly one of the most discussed of these movies. I'll admit that I love thought provoking movies that stay with you long after you've seen them. Unlike most of the Hollywood tripe we get these days that you all but forget 5 minutes after the credits have rolled past. A number of reviews point to the confusing nature of the story or that plot points are left unexplored or entire characters are disposed of without a second thought and so on. These reviews are however missing the point that Antonioni is trying to make as these are central to the very idea that the movie is exploring  the nature of reality. Thus the movie should not be viewed as confusing as it is left purposefully ambiguous by director Antonioni. The central narrative of the film turns around a successful photographer whom unwittingly films an apparent murder in a public park. The problem arises when he starts to scrutinize the evidence. The closer he looks at his film the more ambiguous it becomes and at the end he, and the audience, is left wondering whether he saw anything at all. The true brilliance of the movie lies in the fact the Antonioni never explicitly gives any answers to the questions posed throughout the film. Instead he leaves it up to the viewers to decide for themselves. In so doing he allows the audience to impose their reality onto the movie, instead of the director imposing his reality onto the viewer. Was any of it real or merely a far fetched fantasy? You be the judge. On it's surface the movie is almost a detective story or murder mystery, but these waters run far deeper. As I mentioned above in Blow-Up Michelangelo Antonioni explores the nature of reality. When does something have meaning? Can you will something into existence? And if something loses it's meaning, can it then cease to exist altogether? Definitely a movie that demands multiple viewings, and one that is well worth the effort. The questions posed have as much relevance today as they had in 1966, and the story is told in a highly entertaining and clever way. Granted this is not a movie for everyone, much like Mulholland Drive and Barton Fink are not for everyone, but if you have an open mind the I'll highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Not essential","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before I took the time out of my life to watch this film I had been referred to Blow Up by just about any kind of essential movie guide possible, including one of my professors, good ratings on IMDb as well as the cover being featured on the front of a documentary of film in the 60s-70s. I assumed that I would be drawn to this film because of it's unique concept and also assumed it would relay a strong message and while it did have both, neither were strong enough. I admit this film is the first of which I have wrote a review on because there are so many differing opinions. But the bottom line and the strongest reason why I did not enjoy this movie is because it does not relate to my life whatsoever. The film is supposed to show the emptiness of the mod scene in London in the 60s, something of which I have no first hand experience. It is nearly impossible for me to relate whatsoever with this film. While the director did some great things with it the message is too weak to deserve a good grade. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Murder mystery in the world of fashion","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blowup, Antonioni's first British production, may definitely be called an unconventional movie, one that will make you think for a long time about the actual importance of the message that it delivers.It's a fascinating picture, showing that in the drug-infested, sexually overflowing and technically developed world of ours natural emotions and true feelings are being suppressed by various nihilistic pleasures, stimulated by materialistic prospects. On the human level, this picture is able to tell more about the matter of personal relationships than any of the popular and sweet comedies ever will.This is seriously Antonioni's first picture about a man. This man, named Thomas (David Hemmings), is a swinging, stylish, emotionless magazine photographer based in London. His interchanging personality allows him to adapt to every situation, in which he has to take pictures &#x96; be it a random set of photos in a dusty flophouse, or a real fashion shoot in his luxurious studio. He treats women like objects, never giving them enough attention, and changes his partners like the proverbial underwear. He is so devoted to his job and to his camera that he isn't able to realize how detached he is from the society and how odd most of his actions might look like to an outsider. On one seemingly uneventful day he goes on a stroll in the nearby desolate park, where he finds a man and a woman walking around the trees. He decides to take a few quick snaps, and before he is able to leave the place the woman (Vanessa Redgrave), who seems frightened and suspiciously intent on getting these pictures right away, confronts him. Yet, he takes the camera to his apartment and starts to examine one photo after another. What he finds may put him in grave danger, as he begins to unravel a deadly mystery behind the events that took place on that day. The hints are in the details, and because of his perfect photographic abilities he is capable of uncovering every single clue that is hidden in the blowups. This is a visually rich picture, built with glowing and colorful images, and focused mostly on the fashion sphere and the mod world, in which the main character lives. In all of this, there is also the sudden twist, the element of suspense that reminds somehow of a Hitchcockian picture, Rear Window. The protagonist finds out about a murder case that nobody was meant to uncover. He puts himself in a tough position, as he doesn't know who was killed or why, and every action might have some serious consequences. David Hemmings is very convincing, as this selfish, arrogant, cool, and nonchalant photographer, who is on the path to unravel a dark secret behind a few seemingly ordinary pictures. Vanessa Redgrave gives a very good performance as this overly anxious, yet seductive and beautiful mysterious woman. Even though it might seem too long or hard to grasp for some people I still recommend it, as it is not only a fantastic take on London's fashion circle in the 60's, but also a disturbing and complex story about the dehumanizing power of photography. The metaphorical wall between perception and reality can be actually smaller than we might have previously imagined. "},{"Title":"The most (and maybe least) accessible of Antonioni's films","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the things I enjoy most about Antonioni's films is his ability to capture atmosphere, to give his audience a tangible sense of place, of being there. From l'Avventura to his last film, Beyond the Clouds, it's always the same. And it doesn't seem to matter which cinematographer he's working with. I was in London in the 1960s and Blow-Up is as good a time capsule as I can imagine. He gets every detail right in a way that perhaps only an outsider can. The production design and cinematography are sublime and combined with the use of English language made this the film that opened up his work to a much wider audience. Underneath it all, it's not much less enigmatic than l'Avventura. If English is your first language, Blow-Up is probably the best starting point for the work of Antonioni. I don't think it's his very best work but it's up there. Of course, it lacks Monica Vitti but in her place we get a very interesting Vanessa Redgrave. Her role isn't central in the way that Vitti's were in most of the films she made with Antonioni but what there is makes me wish that Redgrave had made a second film with him. Assuming you're not lucky enough to see this at a theatre, be aware that there are at least two versions available on DVD. Make sure you're watching the full length, unedited cut which runs at 111 mins NTSC or 107 mins PAL. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece that's influenced directors like few other movies.","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So much occurs in Blow-Up,but does it? What is real, what is fantasy,who is he, who am I? After oh so many years this film is still gnawing away at our thoughts,like the first perceptions upon viewing Dali's art or at those ephemeral times between sleep and wakening when dreams are neither real nor fantasy. The park, the leaves,the tree, the fence, the silence,the wind,even the scudding clouds in a typical late morning sky....Antonioni is a genius.The sound of the wind and the leaves still sends a chill through me to this day.The way in which the director leads us into this,dare I say it,surrealistic environment, is both masterful and yet ever so disturbing.My favourite movie of all time, please don't really worry about the plot or the dating of the sixties scenes, just let Antonioni take you to secret places,and stunning visions and sounds. "},{"Title":"Finding substance in a world without substance","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow-Up blew me away. I haven't been this surprised and pleased with a movie in a long time. I gather from other reviews that it's a bit of a controversial film, and I think its mixed reception is mostly because it confuses some viewers and alienates others. The viewers I imagine are alienated by Blow-Up are the so-called hipsters, the mods of their own time periods.For me, Blow-Up is an allegory about someone who lives in a world of images, of fashion, of trends - a world without substance - unexpectedly finding substance. He then watches as it slips through his fingers and he has no choice but let himself fade back into the void he was in at the onset.The substance that the central character, Thomas the hip photographer, finds is a murder. After photographing what he and the viewer take to be a romantic affair in the park, Thomas infers from the woman's reaction that there's something more there. Indeed, after blowing up the photographs he discovers what he thinks is a murder attempt, instead of what it looked like was going on. This is substance. These pictures are not just trendy attempts at artwork or commerce, as his other work is, but they document something tangible and real.Thomas is overwhelmed - delaying and fumbling his attempt to take action, and eventually failing. Along the strange journey he seems to be confronted with how little substance there is to his life. At an extremely weird rock concert, Thomas fights with the mod masses for a broken guitar neck discarded by the uber-hip band member, and after winning it, he simply tosses it on the street, where a passer-by picks it up and then, seeing no value to it either, discards it as well. This was something the hip people were passionately fighting over, the only thing they seemed to care about, but without knowing its trendy context, it's void of any substance. At the druggy party Thomas then goes to, he is again confronted with the lack of anything meaningful in his world.Returning to the park, the body is gone. Then the troupe of mimes come by for the finale. The most aggressively hip characters of the film, they begin miming a game of tennis. At first, Thomas and the camera are amused at the silliness of the scene, but not drawn into it. Gradually, the camera and Thomas begin to follow the non-existent - substanceless - game. He is falling back into the void. The ball flies over the fence and the mimes send Thomas to pick it up. I thought I saw the outline in the grass where Thomas had seen where the body had previously been. Thomas walks past it, picks up the nonexistent ball and throws it back. Then, camera only on Thomas, he starts to hear the sound of a tennis game. Finally, as the film ends, he fades away into the field of grass. He has bought into the world without substance again.For me, the ending elevated this movie from a mildly amusing avant garde flick - a sort of weird detective story with impressive visuals - into a masterpiece. The ending is so perfect, so beautiful, and so crushing... it does so much without a word being spoken. What a movie! While this movie is sometimes attacked for being too pretentious, I don't think it is at all... it's an attack on pretension! It's wonderful. Bravo. "},{"Title":"The stiff in the park","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Confusing and disjointed artzy smartzy film about a top fashion London photographer Thomas, David Hennings, who somehow gets himself involved in a murder when he's out taking pictures in Maryon Park of a couple making out in the woods. We get to see earlier in the movie what a good and dedicated worker Thomas is in photographing models in his hot heavy and what seemed like orgasmic photo session with fashion model Countess, yes she's the real McCoy, Veruschka Von Lehndorff playing herself. You just knew that after that iceberg melting scene there's nothing left in the film to top it which after sitting through the entire confusing mess of a movie you knew you were right!After a few boring scenes with Thomas doing his thing in the photo lab and giving a couple of aspiring models, Jane Birkin & Gillian Hills, the short end of the stick in practically kicking them out of his studio he decides to take a walk in the park and takes photos of nature in the raw. Seeing a couple making out Thomas unrelentingly hounds them from long-range with his camera that has the woman of the amorous pair, Venessa Redgrave, tries to get him to give her the negatives. Making an appointment with the woman to show up at his studio after he develops the film Thomas in fact is anything but interested in giving her the negatives back in noticing that there's more to them that meets the eye. There's also the woman's determination to get those mysterious negatives back that seems to turn Thomas on. That's by her pulling her top down and exposing herself to him with her arms and hands very strategically placed in covering up her exposed breasts before the camera and audience! That has Thomas thinking that there's something really big, besides the lady's bar size, in those photos that he somehow must have overlooked!After a number of blow-up of the negatives Thomas notices something in them that greatly disturbs him. It's later that evening going back to Mayron Park that Thomas sees what looks like a body, it looked more like a mannequin to me,laying there in the grass where he took the photos! Not bothering to check if what was lying there was alive dead or even living matter and not even bothering to photograph it Thomas runs to get help at a local nightclub where his agent Ron, Peter Bowels, is watching together with about 1,000 comatose looking members of the audience a dull as dishwater performance by this British rock group called The Yardbirds!The crowd only became awake and conscious when a member of the rock group, upset at the reaction he was getting, smashed his guitar on stage which finally, unlike his music, got results!***SPOILERS*** In the end Thomas pays another visit to the park and the stiff in it and finds it's gone never to be seen again. You know for sure that the stiff was for real because, grainy as it was, Thomas had a photo of it! What must have happened is that it either woke up and walked away or was picked up by it's owner, if in fact it was a mannequin, and put back on display at the owners clothing storefront window. The movie ends like it began with this truck-load of fruitcakes riding down the city street and stopping at this tennis court to play a game of invisible tennis! Thomas who's on the scene of this spectacle gives the clueless bunch a hand when one of the wackos overshoots the net when the ball,invisible to the naked eye, lands right in front of him! It's then that Thomas finally getting with the program by playing along with the knuckleheads picks the ball up and with a Bob Feller like wind-up throws it back to him! "},{"Title":"Heresy - not my favorite Antonioni film","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A film I appreciated and enjoyed more on a second viewing. But, while it's clear how influential it was on other film-makers, for me it feels more dated and awkward than Antonioni's earlier films. I know, I'm probably in the minority on this one.Antonioni switches back and forth between 'plot' and abandoning it to shoot a now tame and silly three-way sex sequence, or a rock group stiffly performing. (Yes, that arbitrariness is part of the point, but its a simple point we get pretty quickly). There is that great sequence in the middle, when Hemmings starts to 'discover' the hidden images in the photos he took, but other than that sequence, this didn't have the visual brilliance of other Antonioni films that offset the sometimes simplistic characters and ideas. I guess that's a running feeling I have about Antononi &#x96; he's often simply judging the 'shallowness' of society and his characters instead of getting inside it, And he repeats himself on that theme obsessively. It's also sort of hypocritical. Clearly, Antonioni is judging his character's obsession with sex and material things, yet just as clearly Antonioni panders to those instincts with the endless sex and modeling, and 'cool. mod London' scenes. I'm sure he'd say that's the whole point; we're all that shallow underneath, but&#x85; To be fair, many (most?) still think it's a masterpiece. And if more as an important piece of film history than entertainment, I agree it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Should you see Blow Up?","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you are reading the reviews to try and figure out if you should see this film then let me ask you a question. Have you ever seen Performance or The Passenger? If so, and you enjoyed those films, then you would probably appreciate Blow Up.If you have not seen the above this is a film for people who like obscure, intellectual films. You will see a man taking photos of a couple in the park, you will see the man standing for long periods looking at his photos, you will see the man going to an apartment in London and walking through a quiet, low key, grass smoking party. All done with no explosions, no chases, no cars blowing up or turning over.I personally love films that are off the beaten track shall we say and I found some of this dull frankly. However, it is well done if a bit hard to figure out. I think some people will fast forward in search of something fast paced and I think they'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"To See Or Not To See","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Watching Antonioni's 'Blowup' felt like I was walking in a dream as the main character Thomas. There's a certain illusory and poetic feel to it. However, Antonioni uses very unconventional elements unlike the traditional Hollywood style (that use special effects or score). Then again, Michelangelo Antonioni is no Hollywood director. This is his first British film and he captures the essence of the English very well. 'Blowup' is pretty much about illusions.The director tells his story with subtlety and silence (there's no background music). In the beginning, there isn't much 'happening' in the traditional sense but at the same time I was engaged and intrigued as I followed Thomas and his actions (or lack of them). Director Antonioni uses a lot of metaphors and detail but he is very suggestive in what he reveals or doesn't reveal. He's extracted some fine performances from his cast, especially David Hemmings and Vanessa Redgrave (who looks sensually hot).An unusual comedy of sorts, 'Blowup' also works as a mood piece and can easily be enjoyed as a rainy day movie. On the surface, it may look as though Thomas encounters a random set of events that coincide with one another, like in a dream, but there seems more to it than mere randomness, just like in a dream. "}{"Title":"Antonioni is my favorite Italian director","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michelangelo Antonioni's great film has stuck with me since I saw it (first run) 36 years ago. It's not just a period piece, with a great understanding of how to represent that era, nor a simple suspense/crime drama - it goes much deeper into the psyche - perhaps especially for that of Baby Boomers and up...where the world makes less and less sense the closer you investigate it, and, if there's no pay off, why worry about it at all? You may as well go with the pointless flow... This is certainly his most accessible, popular Existential film. It was originally one of my absolute Guiding Lights of Art, and Thought. Since the passing of many years, I've grown to experience and prefer other films of his that are also Existential, but purer, and less Pop. None the less, I'd hate to choose only one. Antonioni IS my favorite Italian director. "},{"Title":"Over Analyzed 1960's Time Capsule Containing Artifacts and Ambiguity","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a Difficult Film to Review, but that Didn't Stop Anyone with a Typewriter in 1966. Critics and Social Commentarians Used, Perhaps, Every Word from Websters to Pontificate on the Profundity of this Art-Film from a Foreign Director Set in London's Swinging Scene as it was Happening.A Deluge of Discussion Among the Hip and the Not So Hip or the Pseudo-Hip, Followed this One Around Like So Many Fleas on a Dog. It is This, It is That, It Crawls on its Belly Like a Reptile, It is the Second Coming, a New Wave of Cinema Splashing on the Scene.The Movie was a Hit, a Big Hit. Not Only at the Box-Office but with Critics and Intellectuals, Art Lovers, and Those that Indulged in Mind Altering Drugs. No One Could Argue About the Impact it Made Not Only on Audiences but Other Emerging Film-Makers. Dario Argento Loved it. Francis Ford Coppola did a Homage Called The Conversation (1974), and Brian De Palma Made Blow-Out (1981).But is it a Good Movie, a Great Movie, a Pretentious Bore, a Time Capsule, or Just One More Film that is Overrated, Over Analyzed, or Just Pretty Pictures with a Pop-Psychology Pretense. It's Up to You in the End. Watch it, Don't Watch it, Write About it, Don't Write About it, Dismiss it, Discuss it, Pretend it is Meaningless, or Make it Your Life's Work Trying to Figure the Thing Out. It's Completely Your Decision.For Some......Heaven is a place where nothing ever happens.&#x85;...David ByrneFor Others.&#x85;..Heaven is a Place where Movies Like This don't Even Exist. "},{"Title":"I am a camera","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I find Blow-Up to be an extremely exasperating film. As a lover of old-fashioned beginning-middle-ending type movies, I accept and to a degree appreciate the law- bending direction of director Antonioni. Thus we get all the extraneous material like David Hemmings' character's picking up of an old aeroplane propeller, the sex-scene with the two wannabe models, the scene with the Yardbirds in pop-art auto-destruct mode and the mimed-out tennis match at the end, any one of which will have you scratching your head in wonderment and curiosity. And yet the kernel of the film is one of the most original and innovative murder mysteries you could ever watch.Mash these elements together and you get an erratically brilliant film, one part Godard, one part Hitchcock and while I know which part I preferred I couldn't take my eyes off it. That's got a lot to do with the wonderful cinematography, showing different aspects of swinging London, from its quiet back-streets, to main thoroughfares and in particular the mysteriously silent, ominous park where Hemmings camera unwittingly picks out some unwelcome detail from a random photo-shoot.Hemmings with his penetrating stare and shaggy hair is the epitome of the cool British photographer who took the fashion world by storm in the mid-60's. He's always just a step behind the plot, even while tearing around London in an open-top Rolls Royce. Vanessa Redgrave is good too in a smaller part as the strange girl he accidentally photographs in the park and who comes looking for the photographs he took, although it was hard not to smile at her attempt to get into the music Hemmings plays to her in his flat, think Jamie-Lee Curtis in True Lies and you'll not be far wrong.It seems to me that the movie fell in love with representing the rebellious, free-spirited drug-taking, sex-loving younger generation of the day and lost track of the great thriller it could have been. That said, I appreciated the chances director Antonioni took and the barriers he was pushing back, ending up with one of the era's defining movies, plus rock-buffs like me get to see Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page trading riffs in living colour. Living colour...could have been an alternative title for the movie in fact..., "},{"Title":"Blowup your mind","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A very provocative film which makes me think about limitations...Maybe the best film by Michelangelo Antonioni. Perhaps one of the boldest movies I've ever watched. And I enjoyed it. The movie depicts one chaotic day of Hemmings, a bored glamorous fashion photographer. He thinks that he has photographed a murder in a park and this incident awakens him for a moment from his chaotic and bored every day life.David Hemmings and Vanessa Redgrave play outstandingly in this bold artwork. You have to take into an account that this movie helped bringing down the so called Motion Picture Production Code of Hollywood in 1968. So for a '66 film this masterpiece is an example of adventurous film making. I can't really imagine how I would have accepted this film if it was made in 2013 for example, but I'm pretty sure that it still would have been a sensation. Why? Well, because it is open-minded, symbolic and we, as society, still have almost all the same prejudices. It's not really about breaking through them, it is more about expressing what we feel and stressing out that there aren't so many values left in this chaotic egocentric modern society. The fashion photographer is a symbol of glamor, style and fulfillment. But when we look at this blowup, we see nothing more than chaotic actions leading to dissatisfaction and alienation. The truth is that the main character is lost in his art and his job and feels frustrated that he cannot express himself the right way. And when he confronts the murder of a stranger (and the woman who is involved in the murder) he is perplexed and attracted at the same time.Hemmings is intrigued by the unknown woman who chases him to get the photos he took of her. Not knowing about what he shot he plays with her, taking advantage of the situation. But when he finds out that all the fuss was about a real murder, and especially when he confronts the corpse, he is awaken from his usual chaotic and daze personality and tries to discover the parts of the puzzle. At the end of his journey he goes through a London club where he fights for a piece of a broken guitar and runs into a drug-drenched party, trying to find a way out of this situation. The photos stolen and the corpse gone he cannot put across what he had photographed anymore. The film ends with a tennis match between mimes and Hemmings watching it ALONE on a lawn. The fading of the main character's image is a metaphor for the dissolubility of people in a jazzed-up society. And we must admit it - our natural feelings are very much overwhelmed by the synthetic stimulations we create, as the critic Bosley Crowther said in a review about the movie.We try to recreate what is already present. Artistry is a tricky thing - we can't really find the limits of creativity and where exactly reality begins. And in this vortex of sensations called life we can only find a few moments of clarity when peacefulness is present. That's why we must value them. That's why we must value movies like Blowup... "},{"Title":"Willfully Abstruse to Paint an Intriguing Picture","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Oddly enough, my first thought after watching Blowup (1966) was the song Pure Imagination from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory (1971). The film wasn't a musical by any stretch of the imagination and it wasn't sweetly decadent. In fact the music in the film is diegetic, that is to say, only on when a character actively plays it; and unlike Willy Wonka, Blowup can be rather unpleasant to watch. Still I was strangely attracted to the film and it's subtle, ever changing reality.The story of Blowup takes place in 1960's London. A well-off photographer (David Hemmings) thinks he may have photographed a homicide but is not quite sure. What he does know is the woman (Vanessa Redgrave) who he initially photographed wants the negatives he took of her and another man in the park. Who is this man? We only know of his possible demise but he may be her former lover.We never really know a lot of things in this film. While the photographer's friends and models are named Bill (John Castle), Patricia (Sarah Miles), Veruschka (Veruschka von Lehndorff) etc. the photographer himself is never named. Throughout the film pieces of dialogue fills the audience in then obfuscates objectivity once more. The photographer may or may not be married, he may or may not have children, he may or may not have romantic feelings towards Patricia.Many believe the lack of clarity is supposed to be an artistic take on the limits and failures of communication. Snapping away at his models, the photographer struggles to tell them exactly what he wants. When he asks the meaning of Bill's abstract painting, Ron explains meaning comes after the fact. All the characters for the most part act too lackadaisical to tell each other anything of substance; even when being blunt. I saw a dead body in the park, says the photographer. Are you sure? says Patricia.Yet I'm not convinced Michelangelo Antonioni's main point stems from humanities inability to connect. The dialogue is willfully abstruse to force audience members to read between the lines. Like the photographer's Kantian response to justify buying a propeller for decoration, It's completely useless. We're meant to be observers, voyeurs if you will, not eavesdroppers. Like poetry or Bill's painting, the meaning comes after the fact and without a context, we're meant to decipher significance for ourselves.It's a movie about perspective, or rather the breakdown of one's perspective to assume another. The photographer believes he has witnessed a murder yet his suspicions have been verified by no one. His evidence, when put in a context via ever expanding blowups, the man who follows him when he sees his agent (Peter Bowles), the behavior of the woman who comes to visit him, etc. creates the indication that a murder took place but without every piece of the puzzle things start to fall apart.If you look closely, the photos that the photographer shot were not the ones he developed. The angle is slightly askew to where he was watching the couple. You can tell because at one point, David Hemmings snaps a shot from behind a fence with a spindly young tree blocking a partial view. When the photos are developed there is no tree; a mistake? I tend to think the director knowingly did this to play with the audience and his character. It sneaks in facets of Antonioni's perspective while informing us of the faults in our own. Can it give credence to the theory that the photographer is going crazy? Perhaps.You can never be too sure what Antonioni's motivations are with Blowup, though there are two scenes I believe put the communication/perspective debate to rest. Ironically they're the parts in the movie that confuses the most amounts of people; the scenes involving the mimes that bookend the film. Anglophiles would know that 1 British people are weird, and 2 the mimes are actually part of a tradition known as The Rag. Student Rag groups dress up and act like lunatics running around with coin cans for charity. While this isn't an expressly mimed tradition, Rag groups have been known to practice miming during these events.At the beginning of the film, the photographer puts a few coins in their cans so they'll get away from his car. He's late for a photo shoot and has no time to assume their reality. At the end of the film however he watches the rags play an invisible tennis match in the park. They mime the ball going over the fence and beseech him to go and get it. When he does so he not only accepts the notion that the ball exists and accepts their perspective, he follows the first rule of improv, never deny your partner's reality. If they say there's a ball there, you throw it back.Perspective and context can make a broken guitar neck an impossibly valuable artifact or a useless piece of garbage. It can make the controversial scene between David Hemmings, Jane Birkin and Gillian Hills seem like the scurrilous acts of a deviant opportunist or a fun roll in the hay. It can make Willy Wonka relatable to Blowup by the power of each film's imagination. In the words of Veruschka when approached about going to Paris in a pot-addled haze, I am in Paris. I suppose if you want to view paradise, simply look around and view it.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fascinating","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's incredible that this 60s film has not become aged like many works of its era. The swinging sixties never looked more gorgeous and rich than in the hands of Antonioni. His art director, cinematographer and editor all do superlative jobs keeping the film's images stylishly balanced and thoughtfully presented.I've read many excellent reviews both pro and con on this work, each one having a valid interpretation and reaction. Somehow, though, the film itself transcends them all. It doesn't seem to matter much what one thinks, as its aim is to make its own statement, leaving interpretation to however a viewer may choose to respond.Fantasy and reality are blended together in a way that blur lines of separation, creating both mod, chic 60s revelations and timeless tapestries of rich colors and patterns. Every shot that by itself would normally be conventional become an artistic expression of composition. Colors, textures, organization and angles are all beautifully composed--even those from a rapidly moving car down a city street.What is that blotch in the photograph? A photo is supposed to tell an accurate story, yet here it's something to squint at and try to figure out. Our hero is strongly committed to his artistic craft, yet spirit-wise seems to remain empty and sad. In him one sees the super mod, chic and stylish in a revealing light that's quite superficial and vacuous.It's a striking artwork here created by a master cinematic craftsman. It'll be interesting to see how this film maintains itself over the next years. For now, it's holding it own quite brilliantly. "},{"Title":"Is it reality or illusion?","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is above average. I believe that it is slightly overrated but it does not warrant the scathing negative reviews that I have read on these boards. The movie challenges your mind, and how it perceives what your eyes see and your ears hear. What you see or hear may not be the truth. But at the same time it could be. Some scenes make you see or hear things that compels your brain to decipher it to be something. But how sure are you that your mind is right? Furthermore, the truth can even be something that you didn't see or hear. I believe that the movies message is this One man's reality is another man's illusion. Give the movie a try and decide where does one begin and the other end. "},{"Title":"They don't mean anything when I do them, just a mess. Afterwards I find something to hang onto","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Early in Antonioni's peculiar mystery Blowup, we briefly get to see a couple playing tennis. During the brilliant symbolical ending, some pantomime artists are playing too, but this time without a ball, only pretending it's there. Between the bookending tennis matches, our protagonist plays a tennis match of his own; a terrific photo shoot in the park, only accompanied by soft rustling from the trees, followed by a strange encounter with the woman who was earlier being photographed, paves the way for what might or might not be a murder, when the pictures from the session are blown up until they reveal a man with a gun and a dead body.A quick googling reveals that I'm not the first to make the comparison but I see this as sort of a companion piece to Rear Window. (Small allusions like our protagonist walking up the steps in his studio at street number 39, and repeatedly referring to the women in the movie as The Birds suggest that Antonioni did too.) Both are about successful photographers. James Stewart is physically constrained to his apartment. Blowup's photographer can move freely but is perhaps mentally constrained; while his swinging lifestyle doesn't seem too bad, he makes comments in passing about being fed up and wishing he had tons of money, then he'd be free. Appropriately, the two directors proceed to take that premise in vastly different directions; while Rear Window's photographer gets his boredom stilled by a physical realization of his concocted murder mystery, Blowup's ostensible crime only takes place in our protagonist's head.I feel like I might put too much existential weight into this based on Antonioni's back catalogue; in all fairness, Thomas doesn't seem remotely as miserable about his happy-go-lucky, swinging London lifestyle as anyone in L'avventura or Red Desert. That being said, there is a lot of stuff in this about lifelessness, vacuousness, illusion; the film oozes of sex but lacks emotion. There are the recurring pantomimes, whose nature it is to toy with objects that do not exist. The models are treated and dressed up as mannequins, and are even asked to close their eyes so as to not display any sign of life. In fact, one of the few lively characters to be found in the film is the woman who acts as a catalyst for the crime. When the protagonist finds out that it was all in his imagination, Antonioni sacrifices a proper climax for a poignant anticlimax, as the plot hauntingly dissolves into the very same nothingness he has been surrounded by the whole time. As the end credits appear, our photographer dissolves as well. "},{"Title":"Blow Up","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Thomas, the Protagonist of Blow Up is a confidently confused young man of 60's. He is rich, happening, energetic, workaholic and at the same time cold, phony, nihilistic, and useless. Thomas, being a successful fashion photographer of a trendy magazine, lives a life of excess and every now and then, becomes bored with it. The film has its share of aimless youth (fighting over a broken guitar of a popular rock band), drug use, fashion craze, delusion and like most of Antonioni's films, a sense of emptiness at the heart of it.All of these get well represented in the first half of the film. Then suddenly we see Thomas moving out of this lucrative career of his and indulge himself in taking snaps of the real world outside. His photographs represent a world of misery, distress and barrenness, a world that stands in complete contrast to the world in which he was living. He seems to breathe in such extremes. Yet, in the film nothing really happens that makes Thomas change as a person. This transformation almost happens suddenly, just like that. And that's why it is not a transformation at all. This characteristic is probably central to understanding Thomas, as well as his time. Taking photographs of the world outside seems something like a time pass for him, something that relives him from boredom, an opportunity to do something different. It seems that he has always been in and out of the fashion industry.Largely Thomas lacks a purpose in his life. He is impulsive and hasty. He buys an airplane propeller from an antique shop and seems extremely fascinated about it when he first time sees it, but when it is brought to his house, he hardly seemed to know what to do with it or where to keep it. His love for painting is also short-lived. He wants to acquire an unfinished painting from Bill desperately, but when he is refused, he loses all his interest in painting. Similarly it seems the enormous energy that he has put up to solve the mystery of the photograph will be short-lived too and it would also be a venture from which nothing come out.Blow Up is suspense unresolved, or may be resolved, but not the way we know a thriller to resolve. Probably Blow Up is not a thriller at all, though; it has all the prospect of being one. The film gets a move on when Thomas decides to follow a middle aged couple in order to take their photographs. He soon finds them making love in an empty region of the park. The woman sees him and runs towards him to take the reel. She bites Thomas' hand when he refuses to give it. Thomas doesn't understand why she is in such a hurry. The woman leaves it there and disappears mysteriously, but soon enough comes to Thomas' house to take the reel. She seems prepared to even have sex with Thomas in order to get it. Her severe desperation makes Thomas suspect the photographs. He gives her a different reel. And expectedly, in these photographs Thomas sees a man hiding himself in the bush and pointing a gun. He even sees a dead body and forms a linear, coherent structure through the series of photographs. But the problem is he can't say it for certain. The photographs are far too unclear. The more he enlarges it, the more it seems vague. The thing that he claims to be a dead body seems an abstract painting to someone else. Nothing really comes out. Was there really a murder? This question remains unresolved. The whole thing may have been a delusion, or may be Thomas sees in those photographs the thing that he wants to see. And this idea is somewhat supported by the ending of the film, where we see two members of a group of mime practitioners playing tennis without a ball and rest of them are watching it with intent and intensity. When that invisible ball goes out of the boundary, they tell Thomas to throw it back. After few moments of hesitation, Thomas goes out to through the ball back. At the end, Thomas even hears the sound of the unseen ball hitting the unseen rackets.The world is a world make belief. If you look at that apparent abstract photograph and believe that there is a dead body in there, then it must not be hard for you to play tennis without a real tennis ball or racket being there.And even the camera sees the ball when the ball goes out of the boundary, it pans in the air and on the ground to keep the ball in the frame, till the point the ball stops moving. "},{"Title":"Did you ever have to make up your mind?","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow-Up from 1966 is the first British film for Michelangelo Antonioni, and he co-wrote the screenplay and directs. Like Darling, it's a look at London in the swinging '60s. The photographer played by David Hemmings is very much like a famous fashion photographer of the time, David Bailey. And this was one of the films that led to the end of the production code.Hemmings is Thomas, a hep London fashion photographer into a very hedonistic lifestyle of sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll. In the park to take photos one day, he photographs a couple kissing, hugging, and walking. The woman (Vanessa Redgrave) chases after him and demands the photos. She winds up coming to his studio, where he deliberately gives her the wrong roll of film. She in turn gives him a fake phone number.When Thomas blows up the photos, he believes he sees someone in the bushes watching the couple, and as he continues to blow up parts of the film, he sees a dead body. He goes back to the park, finds the body, but is frightened away. When he returns to his studio, the photos are gone save one, and when he returns to where he found the body, the body is gone.I just read some of the comments on the message board and wasn't surprised to read less than stellar impressions from what are presumably younger viewers. I say that because they don't appreciate the atmosphere of the film, not having been around then. As far as the comments which take the film too literally and just don't get where Antonioni was going, I have to say there have been a few masterpieces in my time I couldn't get through, so I'm not going to criticize. Blow-Up isn't for everyone.I understand people not liking this film, and I have to agree in some respects. It's slow-paced, there's very little dialogue, the main character is a jerk, and the concept is pretty abstract.It's to me a film about the surface -- the shallowness -- and what lies beneath as Thomas studies the photos, and the idea of perception vs. reality.I can't remember when all the conspiracy theories around the Kennedy assassination started, but Thomas and his photographs remind me of the documentaries where theorists draw outlines of people in the bushes on the grassy knoll where, to the naked eye, and probably in reality, there are no people. I like the whole idea of Thomas' obsession with the photographs and what he believes he sees in them. Does he see what's there? Or is he seeing what's not there? What happened to the photos? What happened to the body? When he watches the mimed tennis match, he starts to actually hear the ball. Perception vs. reality.Fascinating, and if you can get into Blow-Up, it's well worth it. "}{"Title":"Before Led Zeppelin, before Blow Out...","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If the doors of perception were cleansed, every thing would appear to man as it is infinite.This one is a strange film, both in the mood and in its characters. For the second time in less than a week I watch a film with David Hemmings playing the main role (the other was Dario Argento's Profondo Rosso), here he plays Thomas. He is a strange character, not very likable, he seems to be sort of a prestigious photographer and he seems to be tired of his job in the fashion business. Here everything happens in only one day, a strange one. This film is classified by some here as a study of obsession. Having watched Brian De Palma's Blow Out before this one and knowing that it was a sort of reinterpretation Blowup made me think that this was more focused on that, I mean in the obsession for the truth like De Palma's. The first part of this film is centred just on Thomas' strange personality, how he makes his work. Of course is just for causality that he took some pictures of a woman who later seems to be very worry about that. Thanks to that Thomas began to look closer to why that woman was so worry in get the negative. After this event everything is quite strange since is pretty obvious that Thomas feels a lot of curiosity but this is not any kind of straight murder-mystery of search for the truth film. In this case Thomas' perception relies just in his photographs, is a new perception of how things were but when this perfection is lost everything seems to change.If like me you saw first Blow Out and you found memorable the theme Sally and Jack by Pino Donaggio (last year used in Quentin Tarantino's Death Proof) here the score by Herbie Hancock is quite accurate so is really great. Also there's a really great appearance of The Yardbirds. That's also a very strange scene, I mean everyone at the club was like statues, except for a couple, and we have a really funny moment with Jeff Beck. Sort of ironically is when Beck has some problems and destroys his guitar when the audience gets a little move. That delivers another moment to see the personality of Thomas with a part of Beck's guitar. Also we see Jimmy Page before creating many masterpieces. Stoll On is such a great song.This film is unique and even hard to rate on the 1-10 scale. I do like it and a lot and for me is quite interesting to see the reviews on this site. As many users really loved it many others not just find it as a bad film but really hated it. Anyway this is a really worth watching film and for me was a great introduction to the work of the acclaimed Italian director Michelangelo Antonioni. "},{"Title":"No, we haven't met. You've never seen me","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I once heard 'Blowup (1966)' described as the only film whose entire meaning changes completely if the final ten seconds are removed. I was understandably rather skeptical about this assertion, but no longer. I was watching the film, had already made my conclusions about what Michelangelo Antonioni was trying to say on the nature of reality... and then came the ending. Everything I thought I'd learned for the film suddenly came crashing down. How can the simple sounds of a tennis match have triggered such a drastic shift in my perception of the film? The story itself concerns a bored, superficial photographer, Thomas (David Hemmings), who unknowingly takes peaceful park photographs that apparently reveal, under extremely close inspection, a murder in the happening. The film bares stylistic similarities to Alfred Hitchcock's 'Rear Window (1954)' and 'Vertigo (1958),' also Michael Powell's 'Peeping Tom (1960).' Also notable is the film's influence on later pictures, particularly Francis Ford Coppola's 'The Conversation (1974)' and Brian De Palma's homage, 'Blow Out (1981).'By the mid-1960s, Italian director Michelangelo Antonioni had already achieved great success with films such as 'L'avventura (1960)' and 'L'eclisse (1962).' When producer Carlos Ponti offered him a three-picture contract with MGM, to direct English-language films with complete artistic freedom, he saw an opportunity to expand his success into the international market, and 'Blowup' was the first of the films released under this contract it was followed by 'Zabriskie Point (1970)' and 'The Passenger (1975)'. But Antonioni was not to compromise his artistic integrity for the sake of commercial success; his film is a beguiling meditation on the nature of reality, perception and illusion. It's a murder mystery stripped of its procedure, resolution, and, indeed, stripped of the murder itself&#133; was there even a murder? Despite these challenging themes, the film proved a tidy box-office success, perhaps in no small part due to its audacious depiction of sexuality, and the bizarre fashion styles of the swingin' 1960s hilariously lampooned by Mike Myers in 'Austin Powers International Man of Mystery (1997)' are forever encapsulated through the director's lens.But how could my interpretation of the film's themes alter so radically over a period of seconds? Previously, the element of 'Blowup' that struck me most compellingly was how the camera was able to capture moments of reality that Thomas' senses were incapable of perceiving - the armed gunman in the bushes, the body in the grass. My understanding was that the photograph represents an objective perspective of the world; whereas the senses can be distracted and misdirected, the photograph captures what is the truth. Thomas never saw the murder, and initially never saw any traces of its taking place, but the camera saw everything. Then, of course, came the ending, and I was suddenly struck by the realisation that I'd been interpreting everything in completely the wrong way. The photograph isn't objective at all - it merely reflects the subjectivity of the person viewing it. Thomas saw the gunman and the dead body in the photograph precisely because he wanted to see them there!In these moments, a Hitchcockian murder plot instantly transformed into something much more cerebral, baffling and intriguing. The opening thirty minutes, in which seemingly nothing of any relevance takes place, is crucial in the development of Thomas' character, and suggests a possible reason for his elaborate murder fabrication (if, of course, it was merely a fabrication). As he goes through the motions of his day, treating fashion models with complete and utter disdain punctuated by sporadic moments of almost sexually-charged exaltation, Thomas quickly loses interest in whatever task is at hand. He's bored, and craves for any incident that might challenge his craft&#133; a nice murder mystery, for example. The 1960s London setting provides a perfect social context for the film's events - society is depraved, superficial and obsessed with youth and appearance; given that many of the film's characters also utilise mind-altering narcotics, it's hardly surprising that the senses are not to be trusted in interpreting reality. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Blowup","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Unfolding itself in about 24 hours, we follow Thomas (Hemmings) around in his Rolls Royce convertible, as he flits from frame to frame and scene to scene, playing up a prima-donna like attitude that we would like to generalize the skillfully famous into, jaded, and with attitude to boot. Young nubile girls throw themselves at him just to get favours and be photographed, and he couldn't care less about the perks of the job. We watch him in action, but for today's audience, I suppose I can't help but see some shades of Austin Powers in him as he directs waif like models to move according to his every wish. As he explains, he's jaded with photographing beautiful creatures, and dabbles in projects that bring out the not so flattering side of humankind.But nothing would have prepared him later in the day for what would seemingly be two lovers enjoying some quiet time in Greenwich park, where his voyeuristic tendency broke their tranquil quality time, and more. We do not know who the 2 lovers are, or if they are lovers to begin with. We do not know what happened immediately after, but we do know that the lady, played by Vanessa Redgrave, was extremely concerned over the photographs that Thomas took, and demands the negatives. And I though it was ironic that she mentioned about peace and privacy, concepts that in today's modern age would have gone out of the window, at least in London, which is widely recognized as the most photographed city with its unprecedented numbers of CCTV cameras in every nook and corner.And watching it in today's context, there was one scene I thought was like a reminder to oneself about stuff we call memorabilia. To those in the know, or share common interests, memorabilia have value that equates monetarily, to the amount that someone would think worthwhile to fork out in order to possess. People claw at one another to get their hands on stuff, and go absolutely crazy sometimes in order to possess. But outside of that occasional fanatical base, people don't really give two hoots about memorabilia, and it's as worthless as junk. Kind of put things in certain perspective, as I stare at my own memorabilia collection. There are plenty of such moments, of seemingly disparate scenes spliced together in a linear timeline as we follow Thomas in his not so typical day spiced up with a sense of mystery. It's like a snapshot of his life, or anyone's life, with the little things that stuff those 24 hours, like his dalliances with a married woman, his shopping at an antique shop, buying a propeller and later we learn of an ulterior motive of being there, his toying with bimbos, and the list goes on. I think for those interested in trying to decipher and dig to get more out of such scenes, Blowup beckons repeated viewings to try and further appreciate. But I suspect it would be doing what Thomas was doing. Staring hard at a spot, and thinking that something is worthwhile exploring a little further, blows it up / zooms into the details, and stare even more, while at the same time, taking a step backward, trying to reconnect the dots and put everything into perspective.I think some of the magic of the movie will be lost, if the story was told in today's age of digital technology. We won't experience the fascination of slow discovery, of skill and patience to get down into the details. Truth be told if remake today in today's world, it'll take no more than a minute with computer wizardry to zoom X-times to the details, and send it off to forums with experts who will analyze that photograph for you, before dispatching investigative teams to the said location armed with even more cameras and technology to put everything up online within the same period of time the movie unfolds. Obviously the charm which made the film work, will be lost.While the movie is set in the swinging 60s era, we don't really see much of it except for a few scenes where it goes full swing (pardon the bad pun). One such scene was involving Peter Bowles as Ron, Thomas' agent. I was reading an article by Bowles which was published by Guardian Film on 24 June 2005, and reprinted in the Retrospective programme booklet (which you must get your hands on for its sheer quality!), was that a pivotal speech given by the Ron character, was left out and not filmed. It included what Bowles thought was a speech essential to the entire film and would have explained everything, which made perfect sense to Antonioni to not want to do it, therefore giving us what we have experienced today, something perplexing, and open to various interpretations.And yes, what about the famed and widely talked about mimed tennis game? Played in silence and with plenty of imagination, I thought it was an introspective look at the film on the whole. For the most parts in the middle section, the dialogue stops, and that's when things start to get interesting, though providing absolutely no solution to the various thoughts and incidents played out, in a matter of fact manner. You'll probably have thoughts tangenting off one another about what the film would have meant, and sometimes too, these thoughts would have bounced off the boundaries of the game, and into the realms of questioning whether certain events actually happened or is a figment of imagination of an idle mind, looking for excitement to break monotony. He's more than operating alone in his discovery, and try as he may to share them with his agent, gets brushed aside, and nobody else sees what he saw anyway. "},{"Title":"Don't expect a murder mystery going in and you'll find this to be the masterpiece both film scholars and the counterculture made it out to be (slight spoilers)","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Doing a quick scroll through the comment section proves this to be an either love it or hate it experience. There seems to be very few people whose overall enjoyment of the film is gray. In my mind, Blowup isn't an entertaining film but certainly a fascinating one. Sure, time hasn't been kind to it and occasionally it becomes a bit too pretentious. Still, it is really a masterpiece. Its also the only film by Michelangelo Antonioni I really enjoy. L'Avventura was shallow and dull (if beautiful to look at) and Zabraskie Point was self-righteous and horribly dated thematically. Blowup has many dated aspects but a quick rewrite of the script could successfully update it to the present day.I guess one of the reasons many seem to dislike this film so much is that they go into it expecting a murder mystery. Antonioni obviously had other things on his mind. The mystery is simply a ploy to get the viewer intrigued in the surroundings. There's no actual answer to the murder and Antonioni never attempts to generate much suspense over it. Hes more interested in commenting on the emptiness of the title character from the monotonous modeling photography that takes up the first quarter to the final shot of him alone in the field. Blowup is a commentary on how meaningless many supposedly successful people are, but is much more subtle than L'Avventura. I was also disappointed with the lack of explanation initially, but reflection on the film made me realize just how brilliant it actually was. This is a film requiring of more than one viewing to fully comprehend. (10/10) "},{"Title":"I can get no satisfaction, and I try, and I try....","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Love was what photographer David Hemmings was after in this movie. This is the tale of a highly sexed London fashion photographer who is convinced he witnessed a murder. Peace, freedom and higher values of that same order are what the two fellows in 'Easy Rider' were after but significantly never find them. The themes of this and other key films reflect a loss of innocence. A sense of disillusionment at the end of a decade that had begun on a wave of optimism. This film emphasizes how the sixties had been a time of transition, a decade of two halves that saw a rise in hope turn into a growth in cynicism, a trend that extends to the present. Antonioni's movies, as great as they are and as experimental as they were for their time, tend to go nowhere, leaving you with a big sense of vacancy. "},{"Title":"Further Proof That Swinging London Was a Myth","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps the most accessible film Michelangelo Antonioni ever made, Blowup joins the same year's Alfie to create a set of movie bookends that puncture the idea of a free and swinging 1960s London where one's personal actions have no consequences on others. Blowup, however, is a much more intellectually challenging and stimulating film than Alfie. David Hemmings plays a free-wheeling and womanizing photographer who, while taking pictures of a beautiful young woman in a park (Vanessa Redgrave, looking beautiful indeed), inadvertently captures what appears to be a murder being committed in some foliage in the background. Think of this as a companion film to The Conversation, with a photograph taking the place of a sound recording. The idea at first haunts Hemmings and then obsesses him, and his life begins slowly to unravel.This is Antonioni, so nothing takes place as neatly and clearly as I've layed it out for you here, and the ending is especially enigmatic, but Blowup makes for a fascinating watch, and it will likely tantalize and haunt you as much as those blurry images tantalize and haunt the film's protagonist.Grade A "},{"Title":"Worst film I ever saw","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With all of these other reviews, there is no need for a detailed plot description here. I saw it in December 2014 on TCM. Without question, it is the most pointless movie I ever sat through.To sum up Over an hour into the film, nearly half without dialog, we see that the photographer seems to have accidentally photographed a gun in a hand in the bushes, and a body on the ground. The woman in the pictures with the victim, wants his film, but she was not the one with the gun. Other than seeing a body, which disappears, we learn absolutely nothing else about this matter. We see the photographer conducting two short photo shoots, visiting an antique store twice, and buying only an airplane propeller, which wasn't connected to anything else in the movie. He has encounters with three different women that show some measure of nudity. His wife is briefly seen having sex with someone else&#x97;but that seems to have had no meaning. The man goes to a rock concert and a pot party and meets with a guy putting together a book of the star's photos, none of which has anything to do with anything else. Twice he encounters the so-called mimes (They holler and yell, unlike actual mimes.) First at the beginning of the film one day, then at the end the next day. Nothing we see in his life is changed, nor do we ever see a purpose in what happened in this film. At no time in the movie did we see anything to make us care one whit about a single character. At no time did we see that there was a purpose to anything. I guess I could say it was a commentary on the pointlessness of life. EVERY scene seemed to scream out that all of this is totally pointless. Or maybe that was me screaming at the TV, wishing there would be a point to something in this film. Only because I was halfway through by the time I finished eating my lunch did I continue to go through this film. It moved so slowly I watched most of it on speed-up mode, where you can hear but we move 30% faster than normal. That helped in one way&#x97;I got through the thing in less than the 110-minute running time. My best guess as to what we were supposed to take from this is Even when you are a married, well-paid fashion photographer with a book of your work about to be published, there is absolutely no point to anything in life. It is all a colossal bore, including the many young women eager to have sex with you. Buying an airplane propeller doesn't do anything to enhance your life. Even stumbling into what appears to be a murder doesn't help things, especially when you aren't the least bit interested in doing anything to learn about what happened. I cannot give this piece of crap anything higher than a zero rating, or, if the scale is 1-10, then it sits solidly at one. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movie experiences ever","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a fun movie&#x85;everyone has fun, the director looks like he enjoyed making the movie and most importantly, even the cast look like they're having fun, they're enjoying being the characters they are portraying, enjoying being in the locations they're in. So its only natural that the fun rubs off on the audience ! This movie is not about the plot, even though it isn't all that bad. Its about the stars Vanessa Redgrave  OhMiGod ! Hunkalicious David Hemmings  He's good, he's cool (white pants suits him), does justice to his part, but for me doesn't set the screen on fire. Redgrave  imagine a perfectly bronzed venus, dressed either as Lara Croft or in the kind of clothes that most Dad's would never allow their daughter to wear, the kind that only moth's on a diet could eat.  she brings a lot of oomph in the early part of the movie &#x96; looks great, acts well.This is a movie which is overtly about being cool. Even Hemmings is described as a 'joe cool' by the cops in the movie. But pleasantly, it succeeds.For the last word, I'm going to take refuge in my son once again. He's at the kind of age where he picks up one word and then starts using it for anything and everything. So when I asked him 'how was the movie?', he used his current such word, a word which I totally agreed with as a one word summary of Blowup  'Bloody awful!'. For the full review please visit blogspot and search for my reviews at apurvbollywood. Thanks "},{"Title":"the wind rustling through The Park's trees.","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just like millions of others, I felt that Antonioni's 'Blow Up' hits the core of Swinging London's mood in the Sixties. So years later I made a pilgrimage to The Park.This is Maryon Park in Woolwich, London. When I was there, the bushes had grown, and the wooden fence around the grass needed care. Apart from that, the place hadn't changed from Antonioni's picturing in 1966.It was just an ordinary park. Looking smaller than in the film, and without any fairytale-quality so cleverly added by Antonioni.The Park makes the key-scene in this milestone film. Perhaps its most lasting impression is left by the sound of the wind, rustling through its trees.-------------------- For those who weren't around in the Sixties 'Blow Up' makes a good film about a trendy fashion photographer. He shoots a murder, realizing it only much later by enlarging the print of his film reel. By 'blowing up' this print. The beautiful colors of this film are sometimes blown up, too. Further 'blow up' is emphasized by two mime-acts in beginning & end, thus surrounding this film's story. The last of these acts, a faked tennis match, is truly magnificent.To top it all, whole Swinging Sixites London was an pretty blown up affair in itself.-------------------- In the 1960's the first post-war generation reached maturity. Other than their parents, these people were emotionally unburdened by the horrors of the Thirties Economic Crisis & the following Second World War.Consequently this new generation had a very different outlook on life. Thanks to the wealth generated by their parents, it also had the financial means to live life in its own way. This resulted in a revolutionary young people's culture, guided by the Beatles' music and PR.This new lifestyle caused a true generation gap, leading to serious tensions. For instance, at schools boys were refused admittance for having grown their hair too long.Tensions like these are well reflected in Antonioni's 'Blow Up', by the way. All participants younger than 40 have positive roles, everyone over 40 is shown in some negative way. Making another 'blown up' statement of reality.------------------------ For pop music-lovers 'Blow Up' shows a clip by the Yardbirds, one of the Sixties' great groups. Featuring Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page. "},{"Title":"(I Suppose)You Had To Be There...","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When Michelangelo Antonioni decided to shoot his next film in the English language, he opted to shoot a who done it,set against swinging mod London of the mid 1960's. The results turned out to be 'Blow Up' (a photographers term for enlarging a photograph). The screenplay is written by Antonioni with Tonino Guerra of many a collaboration with Federico Fellini,and based on a short story by Julio Cortazar. He cast his film with a cadre of relative unknowns (at that time,but were bound for better things later). I wish I could say the results were a match made in Heaven, but sadly...the answer is,not always. David Hemmings is a photographer (mainly known as just..the photographer,as names seem to be somewhat bourgeois),who is a highly successful,albeit bored photographer ,but a total bastard to women (he generally regards them as little more than walking vagina's). When the photographer is taking some photo opts in a local park,he sees what is a couple in the middle of a romantic tryst,but finds something he didn't expect in the developed film (yeah,imagine that---back in the day when actual film was used in photography & absolutely nothing digital back then). The film seems to be a barometer for things to come (i.e. the transformation from the Mods to the Hippie counter culture movement that would envelope Europe,as well as the United States, within the next year,or so,pot parties,sexual freedom,etc.). The rest of the film is cast with faces that would make their mark in cinema later as the 60's marched on (Vanessa Redgrave,Sarah Miles,Jane Birkin,European super model,Varushka,etc.). For me,the film's high point is an appearance by The Yardbirds,in a back street club (featuring a newly recruited Jimmy Page,on guitar,who would later re-form The New Yardbirds,which would eventually change their name to Led Zepplin,and Jeff Beck,also on guitar,just as he would exit the band a few weeks later,who,in a fit of rage with his un-cooperative guitar smashes it against an amp,then flings the broken instrument into the crowd,who clamors for it). I guess this is one of those films that one would have had to been of the right age when it was first released in 1966 (I chance to see it at a revival at one of my local college art cinemas,and thought...this is what was considered groovy back then?). Seems really dated by today's standards. As this film was released two years before the MPAA organized the ratings system,it is unrated,but contains flashes of female nudity,on screen sexuality,some rude language & scenes of a pot party (this was enough to warrant an Adults Only warning in the United States on all posters advertising it then),it would probably earn little more than a PG-13 by today's standards "}{"Title":"Blow-Up Forgotten Brilliance","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It has been said that this generation is the first generation that could ever experience nostalgic longing for an unfamiliar period of time. The time of the mods has long since passed and for most people only lives on through music by bands such as The Who or Yardbirds (who appear in the film) or movies like Blow-Up. Antonioni's Blow-Up is set in mid-sixties or mod London. The very same time and place that was parodied in Austin Powers It is here we meet the main character Thomas (David Hemmings). He is a professional photographer and he's quite good at it. Thomas may not seem cool by the standards of today's audiences who are often subjected to less cerebral entertainments. At its time of release it was the most successful art house movie of all time, was nominated for two Academy Awards, and was generally viewed as the best film of 1966. Many have never heard of it today. Some feel that it is dated but after a recent viewing I felt I was being transported to this time and place. There are not many movies that truly create a setting and a mood, but Blow-Up certainly does. If you were to find yourself walking down the street and you heard someone say fab or call a purse diabolical you might laugh to yourself at the ridiculousness of such absurd slang, but as the film settles around you the speech of these characters no longer seems absurd. The dialogue here is witty and sharp such as when the girl in the antique store tells Thomas, Money is always a problem. The dialogue is also somewhat sparse and is usually load-bearing. POSSIBLE SPOILERS For the first forty-five minutes of the film we settle ourselves into Thomas' world. He is cool but he is also detached. He takes pictures of models and has women more than willing to sleep with him so that he will photograph them later but he is indifferent to this. The only two women he seems to care about is his next-door neighbors girlfriend who he may or may not be in love with and Vanessa Redgrave's character. He eventually tells Redgrave You look at a pretty girl and that's that. Thomas leads a glamorous life but somehow it is empty. He is looking for substance in life or at least something to care about . He eventually finds it. He is working on a book that will mostly feature photographs of the homeless. One day he heads to the park and ends up taking some pictures of a couple. The woman sees him and chases after him demanding that he give her the film. Later she tries to seduce him to get the film back, but he purposefully gives her the wrong roll. When he develops the photos from the park he sees that he may have actually photographed a murder. This awakes him out of the stupor and monotony of his daily life. Roger Ebert says that he feels that the movie is mostly about how people are only truly fulfilled when they are doing what they are best at and that is certainly valid. I also felt, like many others that the movie was at least partially commenting on how sometimes the things we don't see are the most important. SPOILER The teens participating in Rag Week playing tennis with an invisible ball certainly indicate the importance of visibility. As they play tennis with not visible ball or rackets we hear the sounds of tennis in the background. Is it important that we can't see the ball? No because the teens can and perhaps so can Thomas. Blow-Up never gives us a definitive solution to the mystery or a climax to the suspense. For me what makes this movie special is simply how well its photographed, directed, acted, and written. Some feel it is over-rated, but I disagree, I feel that those of us who have been charmed and entertained by this forgotten masterpiece want simply to proclaim its greatness to the movie-going public. If there's time for another Fast and Furious movie, there must be time for a great film like Blow-Up. "},{"Title":"Imagination or reality?","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Where goes the line between imagination and reality? This is what I believe is the central theme and question of this classic. Not only is it Antonioni's first English-speaking picture, it's also his best. And how easy it all looks. Both the film's slow and free-flowing structure and David Hemmings' effortlessly perfect performance. This movie made me a lifelong fan of Hemmings and this is his greatest performance in a career filled with great performances. Vanessa Redgrave also makes a fine early cameo performance along with John Castle.The protagonist is a man to feel sorry for. Why? Because he seemingly has it all-women, a lavish studio/apartment, a nice car and even a wife he freely cheats on who is still supportive. Yet he is bored with life. He does everything in order to get a kick, including messing with two silly underage girls in the studio, buying an antique propeller and fighting over a piece of Jeff Beck's guitar with the mad crowd at a Yardbirds' concert. Then he unexpectedly encounters a life-changing experience while killing boredom in the park.And now the questions start to appear. Who was the woman and why did she act so strange? Why did she just disappear after trying to seduce him and get hold of the negatives? And what happened to the dead man's corpse? Could it all have been the figment of his imagination, something he made up looking for a way out of everyday boredom? Then again, it might have all been real. That's the great thing with this film. It leaves it to yourself to draw a conclusion.The character of Thomas is very fascinating. He is morally corrupt, dressing up as a homeless man in order to capture exclusive footage of homeless men at the shelter. He will sleep with anyone and doesn't mind hitting on underage girls. Yet the scene when he is returning home after a night in the shelter and takes a protest sign in his car shows that he also sympathizes with the oppressed, the outsiders. Also the last scene with the pantomime couple shows this. He thinks of himself as a kind of outsider, because he wants to get a kick out of life and everybody else seems to have forgotten how to enjoy themselves. As he screams at a model Have you forgotten how to smile?!!? The ending is great. It made me disappointed but on the other hand made me respect this work even more. This is a true masterpiece, in line with Solaris. A perfect zeitgeist. "},{"Title":"Antonioni in top form","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blowup was Michelangelo Antonioni's first English language film, made in Great Britain, in 1966, and it's a flat-out great film, at a crisp 111 minutes. It was nominated for two Academy Awards; Best Director, and Best Original Screenplay- by Antonioni, Tonino Guerra, and Edward Bond- adapted from the short story Las Babas Del Diablo, by Argentine writer Julio Cortazar, and won the National Society Of Film Critics title as best film of 1967. Having first seen the two Hollywood films most influenced by it- Francis Ford Coppola's The Conversation, in 1974, and Brian De Palma's Blowout, in 1981, I did not know quite what to expect, since the former is also a great film- arguably Coppola's best, and the latter is a merely solid Hollywood thriller. Blowup is not only a great work of art, but a great work of philosophy. It is arguably as great as Antonioni's earlier Italian language masterpiece, La Notte, and the film caused a bit of a scandal upon its release, both for its showing casual sex and drug usage, and for its female nudity. Of course, forty years later, this all seems a bit silly, as tame as the scenes really are to the modern eye.The story follows an unnamed photographer (David Hemmings) who may or may not have inadvertently captured a murder on film, which may or may not involve a mysterious young woman (Vanessa Redgrave) who later visits the photographer in his studio, ready to have sex with him to retrieve the photos before he develops them. Both of the main characters are never named in the film, despite numerous reviews that call the two main characters Thomas and Jane. In watching the film twice- with and without commentary, I found zero in the way of evidence to support this claim of their being named, so I take it as one of those bits of information that gets repeated ad nauseam by bad critics until accepted, despite its being untrue. Possibly there were press kits that named the two characters, but they are not named within, nor in the credits. Yet, this very lack of names only makes the film all the more interesting, for not knowing the truth of these two characters only heightens their mysteriousness, and the events that ensnare the both of them. The photographer even sardonically comments in the film, when he's about to lay two girls- or 'birds', 'What's the use of a name?'Hemmings is a famed photographer whom we first see emerging from a London flophouse, just one of a crowd- not unlike the Carlo Battisti character in Vittorio De Sica's Umberto D., where he's gotten some great and intimate photos of the poor, which he plans on using in a book. He posed as a poor guy to get them, yet hops into his convertible wood paneled Rolls Royce. We then see him rather misogynistically mistreat a high fashion and clearly pre-anorexia nervosa anorexic supermodel (Verushka) in the grotesque Twiggy vein- whom, in a famed scene, he erotically 'mounts', as he photographs her from above as she lies on the floor, five models who pose behind dark glass screens, and the two 'birds' in pink and green pantyhose. We also find out he lives next door to an Abstract Expressionist painter, Bill (John Castle), and his girlfriend, Patricia (Sarah Miles), whom he has an unspoken attraction to, and who seems to return his feelings. In describing his paintings, Bill says he has no intent when he starts a painting, and that meaning only comes later. This is a key to the film, or at least the viewer's warning on how to take what they see&#133;.Others have laid bare the plot.Like Akira Kurosawa's classic film Rashomon, Blowup works on many levels, yet allows us to participate in the interpretation to an even greater extent than Rashomon. Photographs can lie- just ask AP photographer Eddie Adams, who, a few years later took the infamous photograph of a Vietnamese police commander shooting a Vietcong prisoner in the head. What was not shown was that the prisoner had killed many innocent people. By going beyond being a mere whodunit, and engaging the very the meaning of meaning, itself, Blowup (and it is Blowup, not Blow-Up, as on the DVD cover) illustrates the differences between the writer and the visual artist. The former elicits significance from things that need to be seen, while the latter does so from that already seen. In truth, there could be plausible and non-criminal reasons for all that happens in the film, and only the dull life of Hemmings spurs him on to imbue significance. That we can never know the real truth within the film is the real truth as to why this film never loses its hold in repeated viewings. On that score, no comment is needed. "},{"Title":"movie larger than life","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie again after having seen it 20 years ago. I always liked the film but never bothered to really understand it. After seeing it again I think this movie is larger than life. It has so many ways of interpretation and they are probably all right. It seems the whole meaning of life is embodied in it and there's something for everyone in its variety. One can start with the most obvious subject What is reality and what is perception? This is a big subject and concerns everyone because our relation to life is based on perception. Otherwise we wouldn't be able to exist. If we go deeper, beyond perception, the film deals with the question What makes us happy in life? For the first half of the movie our protagonist is trying to find the answer by being what everyone dreams of rich, beautiful, successful, powerful. Nevertheless he is empty and miserable, doesn't seem to feel himself any more. The movie asks us furthermore What is truth? The photographer is trying to uncover a mystery, a body in a photograph, enhances it but by enhancing it, the body (that he wants to find so badly) disappears. The film shows us that looking for the truth doesn't function, because there isn't any Truth is an illusion. There's only one moment in the movie when our protagonist seems to be focused and engaged and somewhat happy during the process of looking for the murder. A man is truly happy when he's looking for something. The way is the goal. Having something doesn't make one happy -­ looking for it does.   And here is our conclusion If what I have written above is all true it means that man can never be happy Happiness is an illusion.So what can he do? The end of the movie gives us the conclusion of Antonioni's life philosophy Go on pretending (like the mimes) and make life at least bearable. That's Antonioni's lesson. "},{"Title":"Picturing life","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Blow-up' deals with a young photographer tired of his superficial, boring life, in search of a new reality, waiting for the BIG EVENT , just like all of us do. As a matter of fact, Thomas tries to picture a new reality, a satisfying reality. I think that Antonioni wanted to point out the lack of communication between people, the slave of consumerism in all of us. There is communication, but only on the surface, used for plain things like selling goods, buying pleasure. Thomas 'gathers' reality, gets reality from pieces, just like a puzzle. He tries to integrate in the social picture,a picture of sex, fashion, pretty girls, rock n roll, but in the same time, he is completely aware of his situation, of his conventional relationships. A great movie if you are able to understand every given detail. "},{"Title":"BLOWUP (Michelangelo Antonioni, 1966) ***1/2","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Where this film is concerned, I know I need not stress the fact that people shouldn’t go into it expecting a thriller. This element is certainly there and the central “blowup” sequence is mesmerizing (the fashion photographer protagonist thinks he has captured a murder on camera, but the evidence is subsequently stolen from his studio and the body disappears); however, details are left deliberately oblique, since the director was here probing the nature of illusion. This remains Antonioni’s most popular effort and one of the seminal films of the 1960s.It presents a unique blending of Art-house and Swinging London – the latter making the former palatable to the masses, while itself seeming less insipid because of the artistic sensibilities involved. The London settings (alternately vivid and bleak) are brilliantly captured by cinematographer Carlo Di Palma they feel at once recognizable and alien! David Hemmings’ lead performance was and is iconic – managing to give the slow-moving and generally uneventful proceedings much-needed vitality; the two other featured stars (Vanessa Redgrave and especially Sarah Miles) are, however, underused. Herbie Hancock’s score now feels dated, though it’s mostly used as incidental music throughout – and there’s also an underwhelming club performance by the British pop group The Yardbirds (featuring a very young Jimmy Page, later of Led Zeppelin) - but this sequence does have a great coda as a piece of broken guitar is first frenziedly craved by the ecstatic audience but is then, eventually, nonchalantly discarded on the pavement by a disinterested youth!The film achieved notoriety at the time for its groundbreaking use of nudity (highlighting a blonde Jane Birkin) which now, of course, comes across as incredibly tame! The ‘bookend’ presence of a group of revelers/mimes is famously baffling, too, but this does lead to an exquisitely ambiguous conclusion involving Hemmings’ – and, eventually, the audience’s – conception of reality (which is bound to infuriate those not in tune with Antonioni’s approach to cinema!). The director himself later tried the same formula in America amidst the student revolutionaries with ZABRISKIE POINT (1970) – set to the music of Pink Floyd and The Grateful Dead – but the results weren’t nearly as distinguished, and the film was a critical and commercial flop (though it subsequently gained a cult following).Finally, BLOWUP’s considerable influence is evident in David Hemmings’ later excursion into Italian cinema – Dario Argento’s DEEP RED (1975; itself the quintessential giallo), where the star plays another involuntary witness to murder – and in Brian De Palma’s elaborate but disappointing techno-thriller, BLOW OUT (1981). "},{"Title":"A photographer catches what seems to be a murder with his camera.","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've just seen Blow up! And I've just read that Antonioni has died just 4 days ago! Too much for me in only 2 hours!Back to the movie, I recommend it to everyone who wants too see a good film, with great acting in it, a great story who makes you sit as close as you can to the screen. And the best part is the this movie was directed by a master of the art, but you don't feel it, you just are there with Thomas, the main character. You learn acting just by watching. No effects are added, so the movie has a sort of perennial live, in other words is still modern. The subject, the story. And a last argument for the film. Usually, the first minutes of a film (this kind, not talking in general) let you get used to the world of the movie, the character(s), until the major conflict appears. For some strange motive, I get bored of waiting, as I know that it MUST be something there as they didn't make a film based on nothing. But..this movie is different! The life of this Thomas is interesting, makes you walk his walks, has it's own story that will last and continue after the end of the film. The world of his studio, his continuous search for subjects, his photo album, his life with his wife, his Ron friend, and so on. And the story of the mysterious woman, and the murder caught with the camera. You have no time to think that is a movie, that there is a conflict that will come. The subjects just keep on coming, and they are so rich and full of life.It has action, has drama, has sex, has passion.It's a complete movie. Have to see it! "},{"Title":"surreal","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Someone swallowed something slightly illegal before making this! The result is highly challenging or fairly entertaining depending whether you want to understand the film or view it at face value. If you think the final tennis scene is just too bizarre then you are the latter. If not watch this film again and again and again! It just gets better and better. Every viewing reveals something more about the central Hopkins character and confirms this as one of the great films of all time. What is it all about? Don't ask me - I have not seen it nearly often enough to either come to a conclusion or to get bored with trying. The attempt to remake this featuring John Travolta failed entirely and in no way should the two be compared. "},{"Title":"What is REAL? ... Antonioni's work profoundly rooted in existential thoughts.","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A group of performers wander carelessly through the streets...there is seemingly a point, a reason why they are there. Seemingly occurs to be the right word because, as a matter of fact, it's difficult to explain why we are once here and once there? Irony? Destiny? All is planned or all is just accidental? Strange beginning for a movie review...that is what you probably think reading my comment. Yet, that is what I felt while watching one of the most significant and most famous films by maestro Michelangelo Antonioni, one of those films that are so deeply rooted in cinema but at the same time, so carelessly outside of it. What makes it, as some people say, the cult movie of the 1960s?Action? There is one but it is not the most important factor. What draws our attention is the director's insight into the real and the fictitious, the experienced and the pretended. The main character, Thomas (David Hemmings), is a photographer. He spends his days on taking pictures, which may be regarded as art. He lives his life rather in this psychologically claustrophobic reality, sees the world only in terms of the blowup of the pictures. His everyday bread are the visits of sexy models and their long sessions where they are primarily supposed to pose, smile and close their eyes. It turns out that he does not have much to do with the real but rather pretended, acted, artificial. Yet, he does not know that something unexpected will happen in his life, something so close to reality...Maestro Antonioni provides the viewer with wonderful, detailed interpretations of the world and, primarily, of the art-real life relation. A number of memorable moments are unforgettable, though very difficult. Consider, for instance, Thomas' visits to the park the attention is drawn onto the picture of moving trees in the wind, later onto people, as though from the standpoint of the photographer. We can see the world, or more specifically, we are made to regard the world as Thomas regards it. For Thomas, as for most people, life is a secret that is never fully revealed. He meets Jane, talks to her, sees her naked...yet, he does not even know her name. I also loved the moment which is, perhaps, not that attached to the content of the movie, but which plays a decisive role in the movie's main thought that is the concert of the Yardbirds. The audience, while the band playing, are as if hypnotized, they are listening in trance; yet, when one band member breaks the guitar and throws the pieces to people, they are suddenly awaken flocking to get at least a little part of the relics. How much is there around idols? This world view is also executed in the way models are treated they are like dolls well dressed on the shop window rather than like real people with flesh and spirit...The movie's another great advantage are the performances, or rather the one performance of David Hemmings. He does a terrific job as Thomas. When I saw the movie for the first time, I thought he is only very good in the role. Later, I was sure he was the only choice emotional, vivid, eccentrically excellent! A mention is also to be made of Vanessa Redgrave, a great actress who plays Jane here. However, she is not given much time on screen and when applied to her performance, it is a matter of a few scenes, unfortunately. But Hemmings really shines in his part throughout! As for the picture in general, it is important to keep in mind that the film is very much rooted in the 1960s. That may raise some doubts or even disappointment for the people who like modern visuals in the movie. For them, BLOW UP will not be exceptionally stunning. It is filled with quite faded colors and far from perfect cinematography. But this 1960s spirit is revealed throughout and keeping this in mind, the movie may occur a true journey to the 1960s music, anti-war protests screaming Peace not war, flower power kids, mini skirts and marijuana. The eroticism in the film is something very unique, very well executed. Consider the fact that the most dressed moments are the most erotic ones... But, of course, it is not what the film is about and that would be the point of a very shallow analysis.BLOW UP is a movie I consider a must see but not for everyone. Some people, as aforementioned, might find it odd and really very long. Although it has long scenes, they are not boring at all (at least they weren't to me). When you decide to see this film, you have to be prepared for understanding it since everything in this movie makes sense when you keep your eyes open.The particularly unpredictable ending may leave you confused at first, but after longer inspection, you realize what perfect metaphor of existence it is! Is there a way to live the real, to feel it, to experience it? Is it like holding the ball, the camera or both at the same time? "},{"Title":"Entrancing masterpiece","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film on TV when I was about 12. I didn't see it again for many years but its 'mood' haunted me. Thirty or so years later, I've seen it probably thirty times, having bought the video about ten years ago. I've even visited the park where much of the 'action' takes place. The point I'm trying to make, is that this film defies OBVIOUS analysis, in my opinion. You either get it or you don't. That's not to say that you SHOULD. Antonioni was notorious for 'painting' his films and this may explain his deliberation over many scenes. As an impressionable youngster, the frequent pondering over seemingly pointless situations only added to its mystique. I still feel that now. Sure, the 'plot' is flimsy and drawn out, the characters incomplete, but this hardly matters if you are able lose yourself in the director's visually warm interpretation of what is, after all, an unpleasant story. "}{"Title":"existentialists will crave this film --genius","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i happened to be flipping through the channels late one night and came upon this film. i missed about the first 20 minutes of it, but became captivated by it's amazing beauty and cinematography. David hemming's character somewhat reminds me of my involvements in Hollywood, as i'm a storyboard artist in los angeles. the film is very contemporary and just amazing. it brought me into it's reality nearly instantly. humanity is portrayed as an externalized stream of events that the artist, as a detached observer, has no real part of. the frustration of watching hemming's involvements is as maddening as it is hypnotizing. the production values of this film are top-notch, with thorough attention to detail featured everywhere, coming off very naturally. the hip mod scene of 1960's London is portrayed in such a manner as if you are actually there seeing it unfolding. antonioni's camera is a voyeur of sorts, ambling through the prosaic and mundane situations of daily life, elevated to an intensity of the present moments --an immediacy-- among the attractive people and their culture. you can smell the atmospheres and feel the textures. it is a touch on the surreal side. so much is said by showing very little, rather, showing a lot that apparently seems minimalistic, yet is miles deep; to attain to this level of film-making is rare and genius. the isolation and alienation factor is high but ever-absorbing. sexual tension is paramount, depicted in every last frustrating drop. the actors are all attractive and gorgeous and i highly recommend this work of art. if you like films such as two lane blacktop, scarecrow, taxi driver, thin red line, badlands, stardust memories, 2001 a space odyssey, etc, this is the film for you. i'm going to seek it out and buy a copy. "},{"Title":"Something more than a movie","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow-up is probably the most interesting Antonioni's film together with L'avventura, sharing with it the structure of an atypical detective story it starts with the hint of a murder end ends with a giant question mark, while the solution of the case turns out to be as uncertain as the case itself. And what's important in this film , as a matter of the fact, is not at all who killed whom or why he did it, but the impossibility to discover it, to capture the essence of something that's buried in the past from the very moment after it happened.Blow-up is not a movie, not completely anyway; it is cinema wondering about itself, inquiring about the illusory, fleeting nature of its matter, underlining the limits of every single fragment of reality it recreates. It's a treatise, indeed. "},{"Title":"Antonioni's peak","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A successful albeit bored mod photographer of the swinging 1966 London snaps a series of spontaneous shots of a loving couple in a park. He later discovers that the images may contain more than he was opting for, a murder mystery that threatens to involve him, but the conclusion eventually escapes him.I first saw Blowup around 1970 at the age of 16, and it made profound impression on me, though at the time I had no idea who Michalangelo Antonioni was. The long takes in the park felt incomprehensibly magic, and realistic at the same time. The key scene when the photographer gradually blows up the snapshots and possibly discovers the mystery, although seemingly lacking action, was filled with suspense of an almost uncanny nature. The staggering feelings of the photographer transcended to me in a yet unmatched way. 35 years later the film may well be a fine portrait of the zeitgeist of the late 60s, but Antonioni's reason for choosing England as the place to make his first non-Italian film was simply the fresh attitude he sensed among the trend-setting Londoners of the time - it suited the project perfectly. The detailed portrait of the main character during the first half of the film have no relevance to the plot - but it presents comments and gives deep to the development of the film's story. In fact, the plot itself is irrelevant, necessary only to accommodate the main theme of the film - the conflict between image and reality. This is how the film is commonly understood, a brilliant survey into a man's experience of reality set against the reality itself. It is also the first time that Antonioni picked a man for his main character, simply because it was easier to set up a typical male control freak against the uncontrollable.When looked upon closer, the key scene has a deeper function. The photographer enlarges parts of images, discovers things, puts images into sequences, which, given proper meaning, in turn leads him towards final disclosure. This can be seen as a comment on the directors method of making films - Antonioni always uses images - bits of reality - which in turn create a plot to carry the story on throughout the film, rather than starting with a complete story around which one builds a series of images or actions.We may suddenly realize this is also a comment on life as such. We understand things only by grouping the images that surrounds us, eventually attributing them with meaning that leads us through our daily life, right or wrong - we do not have a ready-made story to follow. We shroud reality in so many layers of interpretation that the truth will never be seen, said Antonioni almost 30 years later, which further enlightens the message of the film. When the mystery finally dissolves without conclusion, and the plot seems to lack meaning, it is because there is no deeper meaning in life, but, in the process, the photographer learns some relieving insights about the vane, relative nature of reality. The optimism is pronounced, but in an Antonioni-film conclusions are left for the viewer to make.Director's earlier films dealt with troubled relations between women and men in a modern world (Il Grido, L'Aventura, La Notte, L'Eclisse), between a woman and the world itself (Red Desert), while later films focused on clashes between the spiritual and the materialistic (Zabriskie Point) and the nature of own identity (The Passenger) - Blowup seems to peak in it's survey into nature of life itself. We may consider, though, that Antonioni's films are primarily meant to be experienced, contemplated, but not necessarily fully explained. In his own words this film is, perhaps, like Zen; the moment you explain it, you betray it! I mean, a film you can explain in words is not a real film. Quite obviously, he was right - I was perfectly able to love the film the first time, without means of understanding much of its meanings I acquired years later.Although not acclaimed as an actors' director, Antonioni nonetheless inspired David Hemmings to probably the best performance of his career, and boosted the careers of Vanessa Redgrave and Sarah Miles. Being his second color film it's not as innovative as the Red Desert, but it uses color - particularly red in a few chosen moments - with great force and sensibility that, sadly, is hard to perceive on a small TV-screen. "},{"Title":"Interesting viewing from several aspects","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this was 10 years after its initial release and it seemed to hold its own among 1970s movies. Another 29 years later it seems rather dated and stilted but the artistic intentions of its director still shine through, particularly the park scenes which make the film worth watching alone. The characters are irksome and so is much of the action, but here in a way is a portrait of London as it was in 1966 when there were a number of lifestyle revolutions underway; and a lot of changes in attitudes. Music fans will be attracted by the scenes in the club where the Yardbirds are performing with both Jimmy Page and Jeff Beck (who does the Pete Townshend thing but not in an exciting way). There are scenes - particularly with Vanessa Redgrave - which manage to be quite erotic without being explicit. The film gets better as it progresses and is one which leaves you thinking for a while after you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Blowup Antonioni´s many dimensions","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blowup has so much thoughts to give it's viewer so just because of that anyone should thinking about giving this flick a chance. It is one of the most interesting and inspiring movies I have seen. The time when this flick was considered as a less important film in Antonioni´s director-carrier is over. Blowup has inspired directors such as Coppola and de Palma, and why not? Blowup is from start to end a good movie, and perhaps most of all unpredictable.The whole direction in Blowup has a touch of consequence and accuracy.There are almost no non-diegisis-music in the movie, just in the end and at the start. Boring? Perhaps a bit, but in the same way Blowup shows that you doesn't need the music, at least not in every movie.Some say this flick is pretentious, and I thought it was suppose to be that but it isn't.Only if I had the energy, I could write so much more about Blowup here, but it is not easy knowing where to start. And the other comments might say the things I´m thinking of. A very many-sided movie. And Blowup is not either dated as some might say.Rating 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"A charming movie, but not for rednecks","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed all those comments full of complaining at a pointless story... if you want a romance, just watch soap operas, not the finest Antonioni's movie.This film is like a two hours long Radiohead's song; it contains a charming atmosphere, some great scenes, that you maybe can not understand the first time you watch it, but later it all becomes clear... perfect music, hidden jokes, and it is all stuffed with philosophy, zen and other things like that... there really IS a story and even the POINT, but 16yr old comix fans just can't see it.Finally -- if you want to see something else than Spiderman or Matrix, choose this... I hope you WON'T REGRET IT ;-) "},{"Title":"a great movie, for a select audience","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First off, for the record, I was born in the '80s, and I could connect with this movie, so there is no reason to dismiss it as being necessarily too sixties for modern  times. I think Blowup is a classic, and I will never forget it, though I understand why many people hate it. To an extent, I agree with everyone who calls the movie pointless and poorly structured. The movie is that way because life is that way. People complain that they can't figure out what's going on in this movie, but that's basically because nothing is going on. To sum up the movie very simply, it's about how Thomas wanders around, at a slow and unsteady pace, occasionally gets caught up in something significant, and then he goes back to wandering around. He wanders in style though- he wanders through sex, drugs, rock n' roll, bright colors and interesting camera angles. Which goes to say that if you are bored by Herbie Hancock, The Yardbirds, or sixties fashion, you will be bored by this movie. None of the characters are very significant besides Thomas, and he's not even a very strong character. He remains a detached observer throughout most of the movie. Whenever he interacts with another character, or becomes set on any sort of goal, the goal or the character soon disappears from his life, without any sort of resolution. A few examples -Vanessa Redgrave shows up and has an interesting conversation with him, but when he tries to contact her again, he can't. -At the Yardbirds concert, Jeff Beck(or is it Jimmy Page?) throws his guitar into the audience, and Thomas fights to get it, but when he leaves the building, he doesn't have anything to do with it, so he drops it.-Of course, what turns people off the most about this movie is its central conflict- Thomas thinks he sees a body, and is going to get involved in a murder mystery, but the body disappears, so nothing can be resolved.I enjoyed this movie because it had images and sound which I will always remember, and will definitely hold up to repeated viewings. I think that I felt a connection with Thomas because he shows a part of our personalities that we usually choose to ignore. I don't think that Thomas could ever be a role model, though, because there is hardly anything about his personality that is even dramatic enough to copy. He doesn't show a good side of humanity that anyone should aspire to, or a dark side of humanity that anyone should be wary of, just a really bored and detached side, that might as well be miming through the tennis game of life.  "},{"Title":"Strange atmosphere is not bad filmmaking","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blowup still splits audiences, and as backlashes do nothing but grow, there seems to be more of a tendency to dismiss it as ostentatious and cardboard with each passing year. I will confess that the first time I saw it, I found it to be stiff, slow and pretentiously artsy. It was not until I caught it on television recently and got unintentionally wrapped up in the thing that I ended up loving it.You need to be in a very receptive mood to appreciate the film, whose moments of uncomfortable, obnoxious silence are many and whose supporting players and props portray the swinging London of the 1960s as a place full of zombified phoneys, wrapped up in fads and affected behavioural ticks. It is understandable how the film's point of view may be dismissed as dated (which it is not, as presumably it seemed odd at the time) or that of a dismissive old man (which, possibly, it may be).For me, however, the distancing emptiness of the film's aura creates an atmosphere of uneasiness, and focuses our attention on the lean, intense lead performance by the then striking young David Hemmings. It all pays off as the movie nears its close, the plot gets sinister, and the protagonist feels all the more solitary and confounded.There are striking, colourful images throughout, and the scene in which Hemmings studies blown-up prints to see if his photographs harbour disturbing secrets is still a classic, gripping, beautifully edited moment. I'd love to see it on the big screen one day.Pity about some of the early photography scenes, though. Hemmings plays them toughly, and it's possible to be involved, but in this post-Austin Powers era, it's hard not to wince or smirk at some of the uses of Fab! and Super! "},{"Title":"A wonderful mighty picture of that sixties","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw that movie, I couldn´t enjoy it very much, because I expected a more Hitchcock-like thing. The second time I wondered what made it so full of suspense. The third time I kept cool and from distance I observed, tensed like a bow, how the protagonists acted in a very unpersonal way. Today I consider this movie to be one of the classical masterpieces out of a time where my youth took place, of course with a little nostalgia too...... "},{"Title":"Beautiful modern art masterpiece","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen much of Antonioni's, but his cinema has had a stronger effect on me than most other directors combined. The man is a structural genius, his movies modernist classics impenetrably confined. Why I don't hear more about him is beyond me.This movie is about a photographer who inadvertently witnesses a murder. Unfortunately for him, he isn't aware of it at the time, and as he slowly tries to piece together the mystery from the photos he took and the woman who confronts him, he slowly loses his certainty over what is real or unreal.I can't help but think that this is Antonioni's commentary on himself. Just as the particular details of the mystery are right out of reach of the narrator, the structure of the film itself seems deathly confined into borders with which the audience desperately wants to see beyond. And whenever anything becomes big enough to see clearly, distortion and confusion refuse an ultimate understanding. The cinematography itself is completely built around this usage, often making it feel like there's always just one thing out of the frame that ought to explain things, but we're stuck with what we have (or do we even have that?).It's also a biting social commentary of the time. Antonioni shows how ahead of the time he was, in fact, by showing the failures of the swinging era long before it was considered a failure (and believe me, failure it was). Most of the narrative involves the photographer being distracted, by other people, by society, by drugs, sex, and rock and roll. Antonioni doesn't even give us the pleasure of enjoying those things (like most directors do), making those situations feel coarse and aloof, and best of all (though worst for those wanting to just SEE something) always just a hint out of the frame.It's also a commentary on art itself, it's voyeuristic aspects, it's imposing aspects, and its symbolic deconstruction. Many people place the photographer's final understanding of the subjectivity of it all with the tennis match at the end, but his realization comes much sooner than that It looks like one of John's paintings, says his beloved who's attached to his partner-in-art. How much did he actually see, and how much did he represent? Modern art, in all of its stripped-down symbolic aspects, is unfortunately built around the area of individual interpretation. So does that mean it has ultimate meaning or that meaning is arbitrary? The joy, and frustration, of modern art is that it's both.Honestly, this movie is absolutely magnificent, and I highly recommend it.--PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"American Beauty-European style","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Antonioni is a master in depicting psychically disturbed characters,without becoming theatrical,pompous or patronizing.You just see several characters falling apart,everything coming naturally,simply yet in a highly symbolical way. La Notte and Il Deserto Rosso are actually analyzing individual forms of moral crisis and alienation. Blowup is not only stressing upon(without condemning)confused individuals but also a sick society.Seldomly a film has revealed so much of what holds our capitalistic,consumerist system together.Though almost forty years old,the film is more actual today than ever. Like American Beauty thirty years later,Blowup deconstructed our everyday reality,with the precision of a microscopic lens.Unlike American Beauty it can do this without a commercial Hollywood style.No boring plots and subplots,no black and white characters,no overreacted outcome,no abuse of stereotypical amounts of violence,status-symbols and sex;just sheer art.Every time I see this film I am enthralled by several detailsthe language,tone,the way the characters talk in general is simply flawless,the lush lines of the Rolls-Royce and the visually stunning scene in the park,I guess there's no landscape scene so accomplished in film history,there is such an unique sense of expectation ,of electricity hanging in the air,a particular movement of the trees,the neither rainy nor sunny just cloudy and exhaling the mysterious,melancholic elegance reminding of the paintings of El Greco or Giorgione. What seems to anticipate American Beauty though is the way the young photographer played by David Hemmings is trying to analyze reality trough the camera-lens,like the other young man will try thirty years later(filming even the dance of plastic bag blown by the wind)they are both in search of the truth. But as truth is stranger than fiction it becomes harder to trace it,day by day the boundary between reality and fiction slowly drifting... In fact,this is also the story of an artist struggling like Fellini's Marcello from La Dolce Vita to strike a balance between commercial success and artistic accomplishment. The final scene with the famous tennis game being just mimed yet all the people involved in it making it seem real takes on higher levelmaybe in Plato's world of ideas. "},{"Title":"Walking Away From The Herd","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From this American's perspective, Antonioni is saying in Blowup that to see the world for what it truly is takes a brash, bold individual. However, to be considered a member of society, to disappear into the mass of faceless clones, a person must accept the unreal, buy into the comfortable fantasy, reject all that his or her senses scream is true. Insisting that others simply examine the evidence is to be met with a blank, drugged stare.One aspect of this film that I particularly enjoyed was the power of black-and-white photography. Antonioni projects this quite well in choosing to use no music or sound effects during the sequence when the photographer examines the blowups and discovers the big picture.Unfortunately, Blowup includes one critical plot hole. During the first part of the movie, the photographer always has a camera. Yet, when he returns to the park to verify the existence of a body, he carries no tool to document his discovery. "},{"Title":"symbol of the sixties","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When we're dead and gone, and our descendants want to know what the 1960's were like, I guess two experiences will suffice for them listening to a Beatles-song, and seeing 'Blow-up'. The Beatles for their joyful message the sixties are a new, shining era for mankind. 'Blow-up' for its pessimistic counterpart don't let yourself deceive by its glitter.I think it hard to over-praise this movie. Its highly original story-line, its music, its acting, its pictures, its use of color, all are downright magnificent. Italian director Michelangelo Antonioni catches London at the height of its 'swinging-sixties'-spirit, merging Italian and British styles in a very tasty way. Seldom have I seen a more subtle murder-plot, the more so as Blow-up's murder is  n o t  what this movie is about.As a child of the sixties, I can go on like this almost indefinitely. I won't do so. The central scene of this 1966-movie is the photo-shooting in the park. Today, when I hear the wind rustling through the trees, I think of 'Blow-up' and its parkscene.  "},{"Title":"The one movie of the 60's you must watch","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When you are alone and have a nice Cognac in your hand and the rain is falling outside, this is the video you must watch.  Not too much Cognac as every minute you must watch the changing scenes down to the last detail. The overcast weather in the park with its lack of shadows, slight breeze, lack of audio is an outstanding piece of film direction.  The movie is a ten but only a few will be able to say they saw it and understood it. "},{"Title":"Quick test If you liked PEARL HARBOUR don't see this film!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  That's pretty much the way you can tell whether this film is for you. If you pander to the crap churned out by the Hollywood machine then avoid this film like the plague. If you just want a story, go read Harry Potter. There IS a story, and a rather good one, in this film but you have to...(prepare to have your eyes and ears bleed)...THINK a little bit, bit tonnes, but at least a little.I'm curious why films like Memento, which is also a bit of a brain teaser, can entertain the Jurrasic Park folk as well. Perhaps it's because Memento had guns, killing, and some more contemporary stylistic effects. And I guess Mullholland Drive had some lesbian sex to entertain the slackjawed.I find it funny that people can HATE movies like this. I can understand not getting it, or finding it a bit boring, or just not your taste. Hey, I love Godard but I couldn't get through alphaville. But to HATE it...maybe it is a defense mechanism to having ones primal IQ challenged, or simply not having a pacifier jammed between your lips for 90 minutes. Or maybe just because we never got to see Vanessa Redgrave's breasts (Hey if you'd hung in there a little longer you would have got to see TWO girls naked!).I would encourage everyone to see this film but PLEASE don't go into thinking your are going to see Pearl Harbour. Think of the movie itself as a mystery that you have to unravel.  "},{"Title":"It may have gone over your head.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blow Up is one of those rare films that can serve as the litmus test of a viewer's perspicaciousness.  Stripped of the usual trappings that are so often employed to help viewers relate, it is a pure, unflinching view of life through a stranger's eyes.   I've read a few reviews on this board that evidence that Blow Up was simply not understood, usually as the result of the viewer's preconceptions.  A hallmark of great art is that it defies our expectations and challenges us to see things through new eyes.  This Blow Up accomplishes with rare skill.I suppose the award for the reviewer most clueless would have to be presented to FilmBoy999, who claims to be a film student.  Perhaps he aspires to the Farrelly Brothers standard of filmmaking, but clearly he is out of his depth with Blow Up.  I have to give him some credit for using the word suck no less than six times in his missive; perhaps he is experimenting with repetition.  It's amusing to read his statement that there are a hundred movies out there that capture the time period(,) better...  I think that it's safe to assume that FilmBoy999 wasn't yet born in 1966.  Blow Up is spot-on in its depiction of the millieu; take it from someone who lived in Chelsea in the late '60s.  FilmBoy999 goes on to state that movies are all about a thrill ride.  How informative.  I'm sorry, Mr. Antonioni, but 'FilmBoy999' says you're doing it all wrong.  Please turn in your camera and go stand in the corner with Goddard, Bunuel, Cocteau, and all those other guys who are unwilling to deliver the required 'thrill ride'.In general, the negative reviews given here complain of insufficient plot, slow pacing, and weak story.  Hey - sounds kind of like real life, hmmm?  But I suppose your lives are all just a like James Bond flick.  Do films have to be like real life turned up to eleven?  Are they required to be understood within our expectations at all?  Not every photograph is an exact representation of life, not all paintings are idealized scenes from the real world.  Not all films are plot driven star vehicles concocted to maximize video rentals.  I can understand that there are viewers who are too shallow, or with too short of attention spans to get Blow Up.  What shocks me is that they would have the temerity to trot out their shortcomings for us to see.  It's sad that films of daring and nuance -- such as Blow Up -- are wasted on so many people.  Enjoy the new Jim Carrey film; I'll bet it rocks. "},{"Title":"what is reality?","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michelangelo Antonioni's masterpiece, Blowup is the great insight of what is reality and what is not. It's also the great philosophical challenge. This film is not for the people who are infected with Hollywood buzz. Whereas Hollywood films value the storyline(plot)most, the storyline doesn't really matter in Antonioni's films. There is something more than story in his films.Blowup vividly catchs the images of late 60' swinging London, the fashion, music, and the atomosphere of the era, when the wall between the reality and fantasy were fading by the big drug(LSD) movement.The photographer, Thomas(David Hemmings) discovers the vague image of dead body in the photos he took in the park. As he get himself involved in the investigation, mysteriously all the evidences disappears. Next morning, even the dead body he saw at the night in the park disappears. Was there really a dead body? What Antonioni leaves us is the forever mystery. The last scene where the bunch of youngs playing tennis without the ball is one of the most unforgettable scene of all time. An the end, when Thomas fades away from the screen, it even makes me wonder if he was really existed.What's reality?      rating*****/***** "},{"Title":"This is a Really great movie","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow Up is one of my favorite movies. People who watch it should understand that it is a profound,deep movie about illusion and reality,in my opinion.It has to be watched slowly and carefully. You have to keep your eyes open and your mind open as well.If you watch it on a surface level,like most Hollywood movies are made,it won't make too much sense.But if you watch it carefully,it will make sense on deeper levels. "},{"Title":"It's not about the plot...","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Those who criticize Blow-up simply for its lack of plot are as vacuous as they claim the film to be.  The film is brilliant in editing, especially the sound. I found the photography to be very well done also, and the many subtle details of the film are what make it great, not the story, though its lack of narrative does well in adding to the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"A fantastic, but rarely appreciated film.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blowup, one of Antonioni's finest films, is often misunderstood and unappreciated. In particular the ending of the film lends itself to dissatisfied viewers. However, to understand the ending, and the film as a whole, you have to understand that the very act of 'seeing' is being called into question. Thomas, after first seeing the couple in the park, continually attempts to form what he sees into a narrative that makes sense to him. Throughout the film, the attempts to simplify the complex situation into a simple one, and constantly he is discredited. First, he thinks they are illicit lovers, which is discredited when he finds a gun in the photograph. Thus, he constructs a new story for himself in which a murder has taken place. This is supposedly confirmed when (after smoking a joint) he goes and finds the body, for the first time without his camera. This scene can be interpreted in a number of ways. First, both the absence of the camera and the supposed touching of the body could be attributed to his intoxication. Or, often, the absence of the camera is used as evidence that the sequence takes place in a dream. However, the important thing is that doubt is cast over the whole experience, but once again, Thomas feels sure. However, once the photographs and body are gone, he is left to question the reality of his assumptions and experiences. Finally, at the end, Antonioni does to us, what is done to Thomas. By making him simply disappear off the grass, he toys with the audience, forcing us to question whether the main character, himself, ever existed, and universalizes the process that Thomas has undergone. So, while the film can be difficult to watch, it is less so if you watch it while questioning what you and the characters see. Do not try, as Thomas and, unfortunately, the marketers of the film do, to fit it into a simple and easy to understand narrative. Allow yourself to question your expectations about what you are being shown. This film, in fact, may be even more relevant and important in today's political climate than when it first came out. "}{"Title":"FUNERAL for a FRIEND.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am in mourning.  I have lost a good friend.  Twenty-three years ago, as a college student, I caught my first screening of Michaelangelo Antonioni's BLOW-UP.  I remember exiting the theatre in a state of pure bliss, stunned and mesmerized by what I had just seen.  Surely this was the most profound and imaginative film of all time, I told myself.  Subsequent viewings over the next dozen years just served to confirm my first impression.  When last I saw it in the early 90's, I was still quite convinced that it deserved a spot on my top 10 list of all time favorites.  For over two decades I have carried it in my head, not just as a great movie, but as a sort of philosophy.  Yet something quite disconcerting happened recently after my latest viewing of the film.  It suddenly dawned on me that BLOW-UP, though still quite fascinating in many ways, definitely fails as a motion picture.  This is due mainly to an extremely slow and almost insubstantial first half in which nothing really happens.  The film's decided lack of truly compelling characters does help the situation either.  So why such a radical shift in my opinion now, after all these years?  Perhaps the main reason for this is that in my younger days I tended to measure a movie's  &#145;greatness' by its arty cinematography and moody atmosphere.  I would become so enthralled by these qualities that I would often blind myself to the other aspects by which a film should also be judged, such as its acting, script and characters.  Twenty-three years of subsequent movie-going has allowed me to understand that a truly successful motion picture is composed of many key ingredients, most of which come together, whether by accident or design (or both), to form a truly satisfying whole.BLOW-UP, nevertheless, does have its virtues.  The film's dreamlike second hour contains some of its finest moments, among them a raucously bizarre concert scene featuring the Yardbirds and a truly lyrical finale that is totally devoid of dialogue.  This last scene, involving the main character, a mime troupe and an imaginary tennis match, culminates in one of modern cinema's most quietly devastating moments of revelation.  To this day that scene is as symbolically poetic and existentially haunting as anything I've ever seen on film.  In fact, I believe that BLOW-UP's great reputation among many critics and viewers (including that young college student of 23 years ago) comes in large part due to this memorable ending.  Overall however, and mainly because of the 2 reasons cited above in paragraph one, Antonioni's hypnotic film does not consistently work its magic from start to finish and therefore fails, despite moments of greatness, to be a completely satisfying experience.Rest in Peace dear friend.  There will always be a special place in my heart for you.  It's just that regretfully, from now on, I shall be visiting your grave a lot less often.FINAL VERDICT    ` 7 '   (Down from my original 10).      "},{"Title":"Boring and Uninteresting","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Boredom is never good for the soul, especially when one happens to be watching a movie. I'll be honest, I'm not sure if I have ever seen a movie that I was as uninterested with as I was with Michelangelo Antonioni's Blow-Up.Blow-Up is a movie where nothing really happens. It's really a bunch of beatniks sitting about in late '60s London smoking pot and experiencing free love. When you think that a trace of a plot has been introduced when the main character, who is a photographer, discovers a dead body, the filmmakers brush it under the rug and act as if nothing happened. Really, this is a movie that felt as if they tried too hard to make an artistic statement and it just ultimately fell flat.Blow-Up was in its intent, trying to be edgy, and for its time it was, and I'm not gonna lie and say I wasn't impressed at times as to how Antonioni smartly shot certain sequences, hiding the nudity, simply alluding to it, but seriously, this movie just droned on and on and nothing ever happened within its two hour runtime.I had always heard about this film, many filmmakers from the '70s citing it as one of the great inspirations for their work, so for that the film should be appreciated, but as a film itself, it just does not stand the test of time and is in all actuality a boring and uninteresting film by today's standards. And for the talent involved, Vanessa Redgrave, you could do better than this.I give Blow Up a 2 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Empty, Arty Bore","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is from that period in the 60's when any director with an I at the end of his name was automatically considered a genius. I have seen Blowup multiple times in an attempt to somehow see what all the fuss was about, and have never been able to see anything there except what IS there....a self-consciously ARTY exercise in STYLE. Such a pity, there's a very nice mystery idea here buried by the artiness and all but ignored by the direction which seems to have a contempt for the very idea of a plot, as if that was some crass American invention. It may be crass, but I'll take real entertainment over artsy pretension anytime. Brian De Palma did a riveting, intelligent, and genuinely entertaining take on this story in his 1981 Blowout. A film every bit as artistically relevant and one which actually didn't consider entertainment value a flaw. Antonioni definitely has a place as lyric from a song in Hair, but as director the Art-Farts are welcome to keep him. God save us from great films. "},{"Title":"I've slept during movies but...","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dear reader, I use to love art and music. But, I didn't get anything by watching this movie, reallyscenario zero, the photographer need some punch, the actresses are already dead, give me some aspirin. It's some kind of jerk-off movie between'watch my art' and 'I assure you, it's art!'... Oscar Wilde peut aller se coucher(french). art is something which is open to everybody and not some kind of stuff which pretend to have sens when nobody, especially the director get what he is doing. Jane Birkin is cute, but I really don't think that's a good reason to waste the short time of your live. The music is great, but between us, take the original soundtrack and rent another movie.see you. "},{"Title":"Very, very dated.  Completely unenjoyable.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing this film - as a fan of Herbie Hancock and as the plot synopsis sounded great.Unfortunately, there was nothing for me.  Barely anything happens, there's no momentum to speak of, and the lead character is unlikeable but too vague to be any anti-hero.Theres no resolution to any of the plot themes, and the soundtrack is so sparse that much of the film is in silence.While it may be held as a classic by film makers, I fail to see how anyone else can really enjoy it today.  Too slow, too dated.There's some comedy moments in the ridiculous drug scenes (cf Reefer Madness!!), and spotting the inspiration for Austin Powers' photography style.But then that's laughing at, not with.  "},{"Title":"There must be higher priority movies to watch than this one","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read the Mad Magazine parody called Throwupwhich was probably back in 1967. Yesterday I finally saw the movie, less than 50 years later. All I recall from the parody were the black circles under the protagonist's eyes. I see value in this movie from a historical perspective as it shows what people were impressed with back then. Twiggy was a popular model and was called that name because she set a new standard of what models should look like (twigs). Two weeks ago, I watched Marilyn Monroe in Niagara and felt that I learnt more about a view of the times that I did from watching Blowup. I think what I gained by watching Blowup, I could have obtained by watching a 10 minute clip. I have not seen Ben Hur as an example of a movie that should be higher on my list than Blowup. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Time Capsule.","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This must be a very good film indeed because Brian De Palma only imitates the very best and Blow Up moved De Palma from Hitchcock to Blow Out, which quickly deteriorated into an ordinary thriller instead of remaining a mystery with metaphysical overtones.It's not necessary to go through the whole story, which must be covered in detail in some of the other two hundred or so reviews, but Hemmings is this peremptory but whimsical fashion photographer who accidentally takes some long-distance shots in an otherwise empty park of what appears to have been a murder involving Redgrave as a seductress.It doesn't occur to Hemmings that he has anything on film other than a harmless flirtation. But he become wary when Redgrave shows up at his studio and demands the negatives, offering him anything for them, herself included. He palms off some fakes and when she leaves he begins to blow up the black-and-white shots.His investigation is interrupted by two birds (one of them Jane Birkin) who have a fun-filled naked romp with him on a crumpled-up lavender backdrop. He shoos them away and continues blowing up the photos until at their maximum they are no more than a collection of black and white blobs. One of them shows Redgrave standing alone far away. And at her feet -- is that the dead body of her swain? And isn't that a gun barrel pointing out of the nearby shrubbery? Well, yes, it is. Hemmings tries to enlist a friend's help but they get stoned instead and the next morning the body is gone and so is all of Hemmings' photographic evidence except an undecipherable blow up of the corpse.1966. It may be hard to understand now what a shocker this was when it was released. It was a kind of liminal period, somewhere between the innocence of the early Beatles and the debasement of the Manson family. No bell-bottomed trousers yet. Most of the men had short hair and those who did not wore their hair combed forward in bangs. The young ladies wore short skirts and outfits with cartoon colors. Drugs were not yet ubiquitous. Hemmings meets one of his models, Veruschka, at a Bohemian party. I thought you were supposed to be in Paris, he remarks. I am in Paris, she replies, taking another toke. (Big laugh in 1966.) The art director (Assheton Gorton) and cinematographer (Carlo Di Palma) deserve medals. Antonioni had some of the facades painted -- red, white, deep blue -- adding some relief to the drab brick of Swinging London, with its gloomy skies and wet streets. The images reek with atmosphere. It's like looking into a telescope to the past. The performances are unremarkable; they don't need to be more than that. The dialog is sparse and elliptical. There are long pauses between utterances. Nobody greets anybody else, nor does anyone say good-bye. I realize Antonioni's English was no better than my Italian but, hell, he could have translated hello and good-bye directly into the film from his native language -- 'Ey! and Ciao. What's it about? Besides losing a corpse, I mean? I don't know. There are some vague messages, more than one. A mock tennis game with mimes at the end, which Hemmings is gradually drawn into until he begins to hear the non-existent ball, suggest something about illusion and reality, but that's a chestnut that I hope the director simply flung out at us, whimsically, the way Hemmings might order a model to lift her arms. I'd hope Antonioni had something a little less banal in mind, something about transience. Don't get too committed to anything because, in the end, you lose it anyway. Maybe he's a closet Buddhist. Or it could be that there's no message at all. Maybe that's the message. "},{"Title":"Unlike anything else really.","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a real special and unique watch this movie is. At first you really don't know what to make and think about this movie, since absolutely nothing is happening in it. But yet it keeps on intriguing, through its special way of film-making and storytelling.Really the great thing about this movie is that it doesn't let the story tell its story but it instead leaves things up mostly to the viewers mind. It's your own interpretation of things and your imagination that make this movie a mysterious and tense one. The movie is filled with lots of irrelevant moments, characters that don't do- or add anything and a very slow progress, but yet the movie never bores or becomes an ineffective one because the movie constantly provokes you with its surroundings and events. You're constantly paying attention, searching for perhaps a deeper meaning behind a certain event or character and the movie keeps you constantly expecting something to develop into something big or important. So you really don't want to miss a second of it! A real unique but also quite daring approach for a movie to take and I absolutely applaud it for that, especially when you see how it all works out.I perhaps make it sound like this is a very difficult and artsy movie to watch but this really isn't the case though. Everybody should be capable off experiencing this movie just as good and effectively as anybody else and you shouldn't worry about this movie perhaps being too hard to get through.The whole build up and approach of this movie reminds me most of an Italian giallo movie, if I have to compare it to anything else. No big surprise, since as it turned out the director of this movie was an Italian himself. This is one of the rare movies director Michelangelo Antonioni did entirely outside of his native Italy and it definitely got me interested in checking out his other work as well. Hopefully it's just as provoking and unique to watch as this movie was.Another great and unique thing about this movie is that it isn't even featuring a really likable main character. David Hemmings plays a real arrogant and selfish young successful photographer. It doesn't make his story less interesting to follow though, which is also perhaps thanks to the realistic approach of the character and acting performance by David Hemmings. He was still a quite young actor at the time but he still manages to carry the entire movie almost entirely on his own. It was also fun to see a still very young Vanessa Redgrave in this.A great watch, if you want to experience a thriller/mystery in a totally different and original way!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Inspring in its photographic elements","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A brilliant film on photography. It makes me want to get into the dark room and do some more of my own photography, with the amazement of the images that come out, they always look better if you do them yourself and much better than digital photos printed. Saying that this film is very clever in its subtlety and its story line, the main thing you notice is its brilliant story and screenplay, not its acting and directing as these are not its strongest points.It is one to see for all those inspired film photographers, to get those juices going, I only wish I had a Delta 400 to hand, Iv'e only got 3200 and 100 which is not the best for this time of the evening, a snowy winters evening, captured on black and white film, brilliant.See this film. "},{"Title":"So Artistic You Might think It Is Terrible","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" About twenty years ago I made a little video movie called The Stranger. It was about an hour and a half long. The film began with a ten minute conglomeration of quick seconds of various storefront neon lights at night. Then I put in about an hour of nothing, literally nothing, just blank screen with not sound. Then the last five minutes I showed one continuous shot of a close-up of an eyeball. A few seconds before the screen went to THE END, the eyeball blinked.It was an intentional load of crap, so in a sense it was really an excellent movie, considering I succeeded. About a dozen people actually saw it. A few sincerely thought there was a message in it and believed it to be an inspired film. In a lot of ways Blow-Up reminded me of that movie. "}{"Title":"I am not artsy enough for this movie","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There is almost nothing wrong with this movie except that it was not made for me. There is the simple fact that this is an older film set in a fairly specific niche crowd of old school London. I am not familiar with this lifestyle at all so a lot of what I saw was weird and I was sometimes trying to figure out if what I was watching was close to reality or a glamorized movie version of the world. The mimes seemed like a surreal element of the movie, but after a little research they are not that mysterious. They still seemed weird and out of place to me, but in the make sense and in my own naive perspective they seem to fit into the world Antonioni was attempting to capture. There is a lot of good in this movie and a lot to recommend, but in the end there was a little too much character development for Thomas. It got way too repetitive. I got the point that he was eccentric and self centered early on and certain scenes reinforced his often flaky nature in a very necessary way. The whole propeller thing with the antique shop seemed unnecessary to me and it seemed to drag on too much.So here are the great things in the movie. First the dialog between the abstract art painter was fantastic. It set up the whole movie, while giving one of the best explanations about why abstract modern art is important. The part when Thomas is discovering the murder and is blowing up all of his photographs was extremely riveting and is definitely the highlight of the film. I also love how nothing is resolved. I saw this coming at some point so it did not disappoint me when I did not learn anything new, because Thomas never learned anything. I loved the introduction of the femme fatale and how we learn nothing of her or her relationship to the dead body. We all have our educated guesses, but the fact that we can only come up with our own conclusions makes me enjoy the movie even more. I loved how no matter how passionate about his art Thomas was he could also be distracted with drugs and sex. He was determined to get a picture of the dead body because he needed it, but ended up staying at the party instead. His romp with the two wanna-be models was appropriate, but a little weird. I wasn't sure if I was watching a rape at first or a sex scene. It was a little weird and maybe a little too long, but still effective in showing Thomas's true colors. I would only recommend this movie to my biggest movie buff friends, but it was definitely worth my time and it probably is worth revisiting when I am wiser. "},{"Title":"Thrillride of Illusion...","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film which won Grand Prix Prize at Cannes made Italian Director Michelangelo Antonioni on centre stage for this strikingly different and technically innovative stylistic film cut loose with open ending left thrown into audience's lap. It's completely innovative way to reverse and disillusion audience's film involvement.Thomas is young, hot, charming fashion photographer and his possessed with the world less prone to his artistic talents. Amateur wannabe models, routine photo shoot and ennui life. Surprisingly he shoots few snaps of a mysterious couple in a park. This leads him to interesting twist of his life since the woman watched him in park and demanded the photographs back. He smartly prevents her and soon witnessed another man, pointing revolver and probably a murder in the photographs. Like audience, he too is lost in knowing what exactly happened in the park. Whether it's murder or not is revealed in off the hook climax but for the time being it awakens the artist's creative instinct to know the reality behind his camera and he's happy because he's creatively doing something which challenges his talent. But soon his leads got stolen by the lady and he's lost again in mystery until in final scene where Antonioni put his final motif behind the film. The end left me confused and it's truly ambiguous that I feel cheated in first instance. Thanks to internet, I've read some interesting analysis which made me grasp the final Yorker by Director.The highlight of the film is not plot but style. The film is visually aesthetic in color cinematography and has intoxicating jazz background score with some revealing bare it all scenes. And yep, David Hammings is real chap you love to watch. For me it's hard to rank it as great film for its baffling ambiguity. I still don't understand the logic behind the real dead body which Thomas witnessed in park??? "},{"Title":"Overview","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The sixties gave born to loads of great movies. The ones which have a real taste of freedom, liveliness, energy and a naive way of seeing the world. This mix of uplifting feelings always leaves you excited about something you can't even name. The hippie decade wouldn't make sense without such masterpieces as musical &#x84;Hair directed by the great Milos Forman or another movie about long hair children called &#x84;Psyche Out having Jack Nicholson involved. &#x84;Blowup similarly accents the London Mod world which is atmospherically quite similar to the mentioned hippies however the movie does so much more than just introducing the ideology.Let's call things by their real names and try not to be afraid to exaggerate. In this case, &#x84;Blowup has it all great music (jazz of Herbie Hancock), glowing hippie era images, exciting plot (accidental fixation of a murder), eye-catching actors (female models from sixties such as supermodel Veruschka or Twiggy), mad London imagery (crazy lifestyle of mimes and the mentioned Mod subculture), matters of individualism (main character's efforts to find inspiration) and the creative ending which leaves you in suspense but also thankful for not finishing the movie in a clear way.Has this movie any importance to the history of cinema? In such radicalism as &#x84;first, &#x84;best, &#x84;least etcetera it would be honored as the first English Michelangelo Antonioni's movie not to mention the fact that Premiere Magazine regarded some memorable scenes as the sexiest cinematic moments in history. Overall it just leaves you smiling, thinking and being alive. "},{"Title":"Rock Legend Cameo","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rock 'n Roll fans might pay particular attention to the abstract nightclub scene to see if they can spot a rock legend (or two) in the band, including a quite young Jimmy Page, soon to be of Led Zeppelin fame.  Fans familiar with the English music scene of the mid to late '60's might also recognize a few Music Biz notables amongst the clubgoers.And while you're at it, check out the mime troupe again to see if you can verify the rumour that perhaps one of those players just might be a Beatle... "},{"Title":"I remember it in black and white is it virtual color?","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A strange film by Michelangelo Antonioni. It is a whole period of our life that is coming back. 1966. They dressed bizarre in those days. They behave slightly crazy too. The world was entering the new phase or virtuality. The cold war was a virtual war secreting a virtual peace. The long dreamed for well-off comfort was coming up for the few, the happy few who could follow a track that took them away from the factories. Cars were introducing virtual independence. The new generation of records and turntables and record players was bringing some quite acceptable sound home virtual music. And real music was not better with all the amplifiers and the loudspeakers virtual music again. Even life itself was becoming virtual due to the new cameras and the new photography, so fine that even the smallest detail became visible in this virtual life of the photograph. And when the camera caught a body, a crime, a murder, it was only virtual and the body only existed as long as the pictures existed. When the pictures were stolen and destroyed, then the body disappeared. It had only been a virtual body. And even tennis became virtual, with no balls, with no rackets, just the movements and the setting and you could have a tennis game even with no partner at all virtual tennis. Just like a plane became virtual by being reduced to one propeller, the promise of movement, of flying. Before 1968 and after the real nightmare of the second world war everything turned virtual, the way it had never been before and the best symbol of that virtuality was the camera and its pictures that were so true and yet so virtual. You will enter this film just the way you enter a dream convinced it is true and yet knowing it is an illusion and when you come out of it your head will still be full with the noise and the fury of that dream where everything true is lived again and yet it is distorted in such a way that it is no longer anything at all. A very sad film from a time when life was just starting to recapture a value after all the drama and tragedy of the 30s and 40s and 50s.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"an easier one....","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen Antonioni's other films The Eclipse, The Adventure, The Red Desert and in my opinion it is the easier one to watch. First it is not that abstract and second the plot is easy in a manner not boring to watch. It is an enigma about seeing. The use of colors, camera angles, beautiful cinematography, distancing from the main character and Hancock's music are making the film  an offbeat. Here we see again Antonioni's favorite themes estrangement as a result of modern city life and self's isolation; distinction between nature and city where the nature is preferred over the city. But for me these are the standards for Antonioni and I want to say something about his attitudes to the women in his films which is an other standard.  In his other films mostly the woman character is estranged, mostly Monica Vitti, and doesn't know what to do or where to go. Always the women are in confused, doubtful and even aimless whereas the men are self confident and strong. In Blow Up we again see these  cliches. A self confident, professional photographer, who is a voyeur as well, who teases nearly every women in the film. The women are again weak, doubtful and objects of desire in some times. Especially in the scene where two model candidates try to attract his attention which finally ends with an orgy. I don't want to call all these attitudes toward women misogyny but whenever I watch his films I feel uncomfortable about it.  "},{"Title":"my favourite movie","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i'd like to comment on the negative reaction of most of the people around here. the work of antonioni is based on an idea of his, the passion reality (as i call it) - a parallel world which exists on a higher level that the actual reality. of course, this _is_ weird. but i think that only the real fans can appreciate the beauty of it. blowup and the rest of the marvellous antonioni work is one of the greatest attempts to describe the alienation. the most mysterious and powerful problem in human society. and yes, die hard is cool too. "},{"Title":"Overblown...","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In a recent film course, I watched this movie as an example of a perfect use of symbolism and existentialism in film.  I was expecting some subtle but wonderful metaphysical theme.  What I got, though, was this muddled mess.I believe the word pretentious (not to mention self-indulgent and self-important) was created to describe this film.  I don't particularly care that the plot here is thin.  The plot of 2001 is thin, and yet, that is a brilliant motion picture, one of the absolute greats of all-time.  The difference, you see, is that Kubrick understood that there is a certain method to including large amounts of symbolic meaning in a film.  And the most important rule is that a director should never stray from the narrative content of the film for the purpose of an important symbolic concept.  A film is not an editorial.  It should be, in some sense, a story.  The conventional plot doesn't need to be large if there is a lot of symbolic content, but if the conventional plot is so lifeless and rambling that the film has no narrative flow, the symbolic plot will be lost in the process. I mean, 2001 doesn't have much plot or dialogue, but each image helps to tell an underlying story WHILE keeping the viewer involved in the conventional conflicts of the plot.This film, however, fails in this respect.  The first half of the picture is, apparently, a pretentious and lengthy introduction to Antonioni's message about the existential concept of reality.  We are shown this photographer in his empty, objective life.  But my God, we certainly do see him for a while before anything happens, don't we?  This film doesn't even exist until he goes to the park, and even then, the film is so vague and directed that we aren't even certain of the murder until the photographer tells us!  It would have been much better for us to see the murder clearly and then for the film to take that knowledge away from us, but then we wouldn't have the endless and repetitive scene in which he figures it out. Plus, did anyone not know that she was going to steal the pictures? (Presuming she did...)  Oh, and another note on the lack of pictures when he returned...if the film is trying to suggest that reality isn't what it seems to be, that this murder may never have happened, that this great existential mental conflict is unfolding before our very eyes and ears...how come there is obvious evidence that the pictures were there?  They were torn from the wall, but parts of them are left!  So they obviously WERE there, weren't they?  Just a thought...And finally, a note on the great existential finale...could the mimemobile be any MORE contrived?  Usually the term deus ex machina refers to a narrative solution, but I believe that the mimes are the straightfaced deus ex machina for the symbolic plot of this film.  They just drive by and start playing tennis, providing an excellent (and wonderfully convenient) statement about the nature of objective reality.  No reason for their being there, no point at all...  But it is well directed, and I guess that's all they ever really cared about anyhow... "},{"Title":"Mod Sensibilities in the Shadow of 'Rear Window'","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first time I viewed Michelangelo Antonioni's Blowup, the movie was halfway in progress and I was utterly confused. Still, I was intrigued by the contrast between the boring black-and-white of Thomas' photographic prints and the bold colors of his fantastical world by which he earns his living. Upon a second viewing of Blowup only yesterday on the TCM channel, however, I have discovered something new, and it is this There is wonderful, cruel irony in Thomas enlarging his b&ws and yet becoming ever more puzzled by what could be a mystery in his life of ennui. It's, like, totally Hitchcockian.It is as though David Hemmings' Thomas channels Jimmy Stewart's character in Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window, carrying out his photographic skills as second nature while trying to play P.I. Not only are both men good at their job, but also they possibly could be risking their lives. As Stewart was in Rear Window a decade earlier, Thomas is faced with the unknown -- with that which cannot be seen but indeed can be intuited. Think of that classic image of the young/old lady If you stare long and hard enough, you perceive what you want. Yeah, it's called a self-fulfilling prophecy.Yesterday, when I watched Thomas examining certain elements of his blowups, immediately my mind turned to certain scenes in Rear Window where Stewart sees what *could be* evidence of a crime already committed. In both films, however, the viewer is not let in on the facts of the case and, thus, does not know *if* a crime was committed. In both films, the elements of time and lighting are other characters, just not included in the credits.Also, as an artist, during my second viewing of Blowup I relished in the realm of illusion symbolized by the film's bold colors and the use of drugs (including nicotine) as props to reinforce the illusion. Not that I have ever taken an illegal drug in my life, but this second time around watching Blowup gave me the feeling that Antonioni was taking me on a psychedelic trip. The beautiful part, baby, is throughout Blowup I connected with the metaphysical crisis that Thomas experiences as an artist in need of a self-assessment of his worth as an adult human being.After vicariously suffering through his mental defrag while he deconstructs each chunk of a photographed mystery, I thirsted for visual relief. I also needed mango sorbetto, and once seated in front of the television again, I welcomed Antonioni's mini-masterpieces of distraction. In no particular order, I was mesmerized by moving colors in the form of the female models tumbling with Thomas as he pulls off their costumes among the purple paper in a well-edited, living-color orgy sequence. Progressive jazz courtesy of Herbie Hancock and his ensemble transform a curt and fleeting mystery lady (played by Vanessa Redgrave) into, literally, a smoking woman. Remarkably, Redgrave manages to resemble Anouk Aimee in Claude Lelouch's Un Homme et Une Femme, thanks to her mannerisms and, perhaps, the movie's hair stylist and makeup artist.The most delicious distraction for this voyeur, er, viewer, was one that provided insight into Thomas' solitude. It's a scene that magnifies his alienation, an existence that is more stripped-down than mere loneliness, and for him it occurs outside of his fashion-and-photography sphere. I am referring to the scene in which Thomas comes upon his painter friend making love with the latter's girlfriend, Patricia (portrayed by Sarah Miles). Thomas' eyes lock onto Patricia's while she squirms beneath a bright duvet and moans toward climax (either a true or fake one, in keeping with the film's shifting theme). It is the one moment in the film that I nearly sympathize with this Peeping Thomas because it's a painful glimpse into unrequited love. I would be remiss if I didn't mention the absurd angle of the painter friend, who appears absorbed in his own ecstatic abstraction instead of engaged in the erotic action.Blowup is located at the intersection of minimalist thriller and surreal character study. That is my compliment to the late great Michaelangelo Antonioni. Anytime I can catch this addictive 1966 film on my cable lineup, I will delight in its visual diversions from everyday, black-and-white existential angst. The virtual walk-through in Thomas' duplex alone is a hippie trip at a safe distance.After nearly 50 years since Blowup was released, it's still not every artist who can afford an interior designer to infuse his or her vain existence with a groovy dose of mad, mod colors. So if Blowout doesn't appear on your cable lineup in months to come, get thee to a vintage shop and ... dig it. "},{"Title":"An immensely thought-provoking exploration of perception","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michelangelo Antonioni's first English-language feature Blow-Up hinges on a simple plot device a man who has witnessed (and in this case, photographed) a crime. The catch here is that the protagonist isn't sure that a crime occurred at all and may merely be deluding himself.Besides the scenario detailed above there isn't much in the way of plot. Nevertheless, Antonioni does a pretty good job of propelling the story forward as we seek an answer to this cinematic riddle. Sure, a couple of risqué scenes seem to have been added merely as an exercise in envelope-pushing but they aren't disruptive enough to detract from the pursuit of the film's burning questions.I won't bother to put forth any theories of interpretation because most of the appeal of the film is in formulating your own opinion. I will say this, though The film has taught me that you will only see as much meaning in art as you yourself put into it.The acting is fine but not particularly noteworthy. David Hemmings is fully capable of carrying the film but I'm struggling to recall any truly outstanding moments in his performance. Antonioni's direction is solid and often shows interesting touches. The Herbie Hancock score is fitting but I suppose that your tastes will dictate whether or not you will enjoy it. The music, sets & wardrobe will no doubt seem dated to some viewers, though, which is an unavoidable result when maintaining authenticity with the era.This is not a film for movie-goers looking for an edge-of-your-seat thriller requiring little or no brainpower. If you watch at this (and you should) be patient, pay attention and you'll end up thinking about this film long after the final fade-out. "}{"Title":"You Can't Photograph People Like That!","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Few directors are as divisive as Michelangelo Antonioni, best known as creator of the 1961 L'AVVENTURA and the 1966 BLOW UP, both of which present largely unresolved mysteries in order to make thematic statements. In the case of BLOW UP, which is easily Antonioni's best English-language film, the unresolved story is one of a possible murder captured by accident on film; the themes involved are those of reality, illusion, and the distractions that prevent us from seeing the difference between the two.Thomas (David Hemmings) is an obnoxious, self-centered London photographer who alternates between fashion and art photography. In search of a tranquil subject to counterpoint an otherwise dark collection of photographs, he takes several photographs of a couple in an otherwise empty park---and is unconcerned when the woman (Vanessa Redgrave) pursues him to his to studio to demand the negatives. Thomas agrees to give them to her, but secretly switches rolls of film; later, when he develops the photographs, he is startled to find he may have photographed a murder.The film is perhaps most memorable for its disturbing sense of irony. Near the beginning of the film Thomas is plagued by two would-be models; he escapes them by visiting an antique shop and then wanders into the nearby park. As the film progresses, he finds his meeting with the unwillingly-photographed woman interrupted by the delivery of a purchase he made at that antique shop; still later, and now aroused by the mysterious woman, he is once more visited by the would-be models and has sex with them---an incident that delays his inspection of the photographs and effectively derails him from receiving assistance from various friends who are now themselves distracted by sex and drugs. Each detail coils back upon itself in a series of frustrating interruptions, driving Thomas in directions that repeatedly delay any action he might take that could answer his questions, much less solve the riddle.The greatest irony is that we are watching pictures of a photographer taking pictures, and indeed much of the film involves looking at pictures of pictures of pictures without any clear indication of whether or not anything we see is actually real---which is, of course, exactly the nature of the illusion a movie creates. That said, if you come to film expecting a murder mystery with a neatly explained solution, you are in for a rude shock BLOW UP is not about plot; it is about how difficult it is to know anything factual from a medium that is intrinsically illusionary in the first place. Not only is the nature of film as a medium the movie's greatest irony, it is also probably it's ultimate statement.BLOW UP really is a film that tends to jack people's jaws all over the place, partly because it defeats their expectations in terms of character and plot, but more specifically because it is so open-ended that you can pretty much impose any meaning upon it that you like. Was there a man with a gun---or was it just a trick of the light? Was there a murder---or was it something else? And if so, what? And what does it all mean at the end? But there are no fixed meanings in the film at all, and if you want a strong storyline with clear-cut ideas, well, you're out of luck here. So no, BLOW UP isn't a film for every one. It will most greatly appeal to people with a fondness for European cinema and art movies.The DVD presently available is at best acceptable; it would be really nice to see this film given the royal treatment by a company such as Criterion. In any case, recommended to as a masterpiece of the art house kind.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"this film is not meant to have a plot! that's not the point!","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It seems that many people have missed the point of this film. It is not meant to be exciting (unless you find this kinda thing exciting...) and thrilling (even though it is classified as a thriller for some reason) and mystifying it's not even really meant to have all that much of a plot. Time is warped and there are lose ends everywhere for a reason! You're not meant to be focusing on that! He's making a point about the fallibility of not only an individuals perception of reality but the reliability of a photographic truth. He's trying to question if anything is real at all and also conveying the idea that everyones is in a way detached with the world (hence all the cold fleeting relationships and lack of any real connection) as they are trapped in their own bodies and therefore limited in their view and perception of the outside world. I hope this comment made a little sense... >< also even though it was all very deep and meaningful i didn't enjoy it. Studying it helped me to appreciate it a little more but i like movies that are more superficial and Hollywood XD "},{"Title":"Slickly made but soulless","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For a film that chronicles one of the most vibrant cultural eras of all time, Blowup is oddly cold and clinical. A young photographer (David Hemmings) is taking pictures in a park, apparently at random, when a young woman (a coolly alluring Vanessa Redgrave) runs up to him and demands the film be handed over to her. Intrigued, he develops the photographs and finds that they appear to show evidence of a murder. Sound like an intriguing premise? I think it does. Unfortunately to present that as a plot summary, while not exactly inaccurate, is to profoundly misrepresent the film.Blowup tries to do two things at once. It has its mystery, but first and foremost it is content to bathe in the essence of the swinging sixties. The titular photos don't appear until the film is half over and even then only nudge the film forward a tiny fraction, because there's always something happening somewhere to distract the photographer from investigating the mystery. I say bathe in the essence of the '60s rather than investigate or explore the essence of the '60s because there is absolutely nothing in the film that can be considered remotely active. The photos, when the do appear, just sit there waiting for meaning to be assigned to them from outside. Even Redgrave's character, desperate to get them back, is content merely to take her top off (very tastefully done, naturally) and wait for him to behave as she wants him to.The problem is Hemmings's character. Named as Thomas in the script (although never on screen), he is a placid man indifferent to virtually everything he encounters. The irony is that he superficially appears to be the definitive sixties stud, wearing all the right clothes and listening to all the right music. We never learn much about his profession but we know that his services are in demand, as a couple of giggling dolly birds who fancy themselves as models are so desperate to be photographed by him that they are willing to essentially prostitute themselves. Ultimately though his desire to swing with the times is down to pure narcissism rather than any genuine connection with the age; he is content to sit back and watch the sixties rocket by, taking a few photographs occasionally, and I can imagine him in exactly the same state ten years later as one of punk's foremost chroniclers.The best way to explore something is to look at it from the outside, with a certain amount of critical detachment. However, it does help to have at least a passing interest in what you're investigating and the photographer is utterly passionless about everything. Since the film is told entirely from his perspective we see what he sees, go where he goes, and learn what he learns. He just isn't bothered by learning anything ultimately, which is why the film is content to just drift towards its ending by Brownian motion. Upon discovering what's hidden in his pictures, he takes a break to cavort with some nude models (a horrible, misogynistic, unsexy scene) before spontaneously remembering that he's just uncovered a murder. At one stage he orders an antique aeroplane propeller, which ends up being delivered during a crucial moment of exposition, thereby interrupting it. After this scene it is never seen again; its only function is to disrupt the plot and divert it down one of its innumerable cul-de-sacs. If the propeller is a metaphor it is an ironic one, since there's no form of propulsion anywhere to be seen in this film. Even when the mystery is at its height the film is still more concerned with the iconography of swinging London, hanging out in a club where the Yardbirds (look out for a very young Jimmy Page) are playing the proto-punk blast of 'Stroll On' (a title loaded with meaning in context), a song which, in hindsight, looks forward while the rest of the film looks strictly inward. Eventually the same indifference the photographer feels is instilled in the viewer.Technically the film is near flawless. Every shot and scene is expertly controlled by Michelangelo Antonioni to emphasise the photographer's isolation from his surroundings &#150; there is very little dialogue, with long stretches playing like a silent film with only the ambient noises of footsteps, wind blowing and birdsong to fill the soundtrack. Dialogue, when it does appear, is sparse, clipped and doesn't tell the viewer very much. This isn't a film where ideas are expressed this is a film where some guy goes somewhere and does stuff, sort of, and that's it. It's great film-making but it doesn't make a great film.The ending, where the photographer engages in a game of imaginary tennis played by mimes, is no different to the rest of the film. The photographer just stands and watches until directly invited to participate (by throwing the imaginary ball back after it has gone out of the court), which he does. This sums up his character he is a no-person, devoid of principles or motivations, who passively allows himself to be defined by his surroundings. If he is surrounded by mimes, then he's a mime. If he's surrounded by models, then he's a photographer. If he uncovers a murder, then he's a detective. It makes the film's premise (the nature of perception versus the nature of reality) a bit of a damp squib because it doesn't strike me as a question that would bother the photographer much. Did he really uncover a murder, or did he just imagine it all? Who cares? He certainly doesn't.It's possible to admire Blowup but I wouldn't say I like it as such. Sterile and self-indulgent, it feels more like a technical exercise than a film. I'd say it's worth watching once but after that it's more of a film to own than to see. "},{"Title":"'Stroll On'","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Please notice a very young, shy Jimmy Page in the small jam session/ chase sequence. A must for any Zepplin fan. This movie also should be recommended for students of film...hand-held camera moves, groovy see-through foreground gags, and again fantastic sixties SOUNDS.  "},{"Title":"The greatest piece of existential film making in the sixties by a master film-maker","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Antonioni paints a vivid picture of London in the sixties.  The film follows a photographer through his movement from a rationalist perspective to an existential frame of mind.  By uncovering the details of a murder, Thomas finds himself questioning his perspectives on his work, truth and his life. Due to circumstances beyond his control, he becomes estranged from his original purpose and looses any semblance concrete evidence.  In a dramatic finalé he embraces existential ideas of truth regarding corporeal objects and his own authenticity.  A moving and intellectual film, stunning and beautiful. "},{"Title":"culture in flux","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" (I have reassessed this movie.) Can you believe what you see? Did an event really happen if it wasn't recorded... if you don't have proof? Thomas (David Hemmings) is a photographer. His peevish, self-impressed character is established and then the movie is off and running. He visits a failing antique store he's thinking of moving into. From the moment the trees begin to rustle outside the store a viewer is in for a very deliberate, very masterful ride. 3 or 4 long striking sequences edited together advance the plot simply - without the use of words. It's pure film.Thomas stealthily follows where small noise-filled clues in the photographs lead (when not distracted by weed or women). There are so many ways to edit the sequence together but Antonioni provides a lesson on how to lead an audience with skillful edits. Points are made very clear before any wordsare spoken The couple is shown. The woman stares off in worry, to the left. Why? is that a man in the bush... a man with a gun? Thomas pieces together a narrative in which he has prevented a crime by focusing on the woman. ...But later Thomas realizes he has neglected the man's narrative. Back to the photos (Now we see a print of the man alone). Where does his story go after Hemmings stopped looking? It goes about 50 yards deeper into the blurry portion of the image where he seems to be lying dead. The image isn't clear.Again a sequence without words. Thomas heads back to the park to cehck things out or get proof. And, yes. A man is lying dead where he expected. Thomas has not prevented a murder. With little more than a crack or two on the soundtrack Thomas doubts his safety, and gets out of there.The movie seems to question the recording of phenomena by supposedly objective machines. Technology used to augment the senses is routinely shown failing, and the devices add their own noise to the system. Fact is mutable. Thomas' own past is mutable. His studio will be forgotten as soon as he moves. All of this occurs against the churn of post-war demolition/construction and the turning under of old brown English buildings for the new architecture. London's history is being negated in favor of the modern. Many lines in the movie play up the central paradox. (I saw a killing today/I didn't see it I AM in Paris) Only the mime framing device is heavy-handed. Every scene pertaining to the crime is played to be 'neutral,' to have other explanations. Technically Antonioni explores 'looking' with endlessly inventive filmic devices, and brilliantly riffing on the Zapruder film controversy.Rear Window, Peeping Tom & Vertigo are all also about looking. But I find Blow-Up to be the best of the lot, technically, philosophically and attitudinally. The swinging 60s setting provides the right amount of instability and generational tension (An older shop assistant seems to hate Hemmings on sight.) that feeds into the other ideas. It's Hitchcockian but much freer in terms of setting. This London is very alive. Most movies manage to make swinging London look like a non-stop party, but I bet this is more like how it was; Most of the youth culture and Hemmings are numb and checked out. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Reading the comments of those who gave this movie a poor review finally inspired me to register with this site so I could add my two cents.Blowup is an excellent film. Well worth watching. If you watch this movie and hate it (which seems to be the common reaction of film students who have been required to view it as part of their studies) I suggest you consider the possibility that your background, education, and/or life experiences are not yet sufficiently developed to appreciate the truths this film has to offer.Now, there is no shame or disgrace in that. If you have at least average intelligence, keep an open mind to the world, and live long enough, you will eventually get it.Good luck and enjoy the film.  "},{"Title":"Masterpieces are impossible to remake...","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Antonioni is one of the founding fathers of cinema.BLOW UP must be one of his most controversial movies, although it is hard to see why. It is a gem for all who do not toss their brain in a bin before watching a movie.Beside that, the many checkered reviews of the film here on IMDB are almost as intriguing as the film itself. Almost...Enjoy this marvelous movie !! And since IMDB wants all of us to send at least 10 sentences, asking for long and boring comments, enjoy all the other grand films of Michelangelo Antonioni too ! "},{"Title":"premise good...execution not so good","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this is one tedious movie to sit through.i did sit through it,because it held the promise of something happening.there were hints of things to come,but that's all they were.the story doesn't really go anywhere of import and doesn't really add up to anything in the end.i mean,honestly,what was the point?if anybody knows,id love to know.i like a good mystery as much as anyone,but usually there's an attempt solve the mystery,even if it it doesn't actually get solved.and the ending is a complete bust in my opinion.i wouldn't recommend this film to anyone,bu that's just my opinion.but i will give it marks for having a decent premise.it's just too bad,the rest of the film lets it down.for me,Blowup is a 3/10 "},{"Title":"Here -- let me help.","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Feel free to ignore the smart-alleck comments from the teenagers here. *Blow-Up* is a classic film -- not a masterpiece, but a very influential movie that still holds up. Let's clear the air a bit by saying at once that Antonioni's symbolism is meant to be shallow it's as shallow as David Hemmings' fashion photographer and his milieu. Antonioni is by no means trying to pull a fast one on you, so don't feel like you're the king of the world if you figure it out. *Blow-Up* is a movie whose techniques are all on the surface, as befits the Swinging London scene in which it was made. The question is how do you respond to it? If the comments here are any guide, it would seem that at least half the viewers of today have put all their eggs in the symbolism basket and have therefore claimed a triumphant superiority to the film. But that's okay -- in the Sixties, the kids assumed that Antonioni was simply digging their scene. These very different responses tend to strengthen the film's claim to enduring importance rather than the reverse. The movie somehow manages to be smarter than every audience that happens upon it.If anything, the original audience of *Blow-Up* was on the more correct track. The movie earns demerits due to its hypocrisy Antonioni DOES dig this scene, no matter how much he pretends to excoriate it by peopling the film with shallow nitwits. At least these nitwits aren't stumbling around in the malaise inhabited by the director's upper-class sad-sacks in his earlier films *L'Avventura* and *La Notte*. It becomes clear pretty quickly that Antonioni was seduced by the wild freedom of London's denizens, as the generally light mood of *Blow-Up* suggests. The director's usually trenchant commentary seems rote in this film, and the misery-index is low compared to his earlier work. But to be seduced by the Sixties is better than having exploited the Sixties, as Mike Nichols did with his *Graduate*.(And as Kubrick was soon to do with *A Clockwork Orange*, whose main character Alex bears no small resemblance to Hemmings' arrogant, misogynistic photog.)And unlike Antonioni's earlier upper-crust anti-heroes (or whatever one calls them), this film's anti-hero actually possesses constructive skills. Much of the film's famous centerpiece -- the gradual revelation of an inadvertently photographed murder -- consists of Hemmings eventually arriving, bit by tedious bit, at his discovery by virtue of his own talents in the darkroom. Imagine if Gabriel Ferzetti had taken this much effort to find his missing girlfriend in *L'Avventura*! It's as if Antonioni is conceding the overall positive value of these Swinging London kids as compared to the ineffectual bourgeois glamorpusses, trapped in their eggshells of ego, in his older films. Granted, we'll end up disappointed with how Hemmings acts upon his discoveries, but the film makes it clear that this is not entirely his fault. Whenever Antonioni shakes a disapproving finger at the characters' actions (cf. the pot-party scene, the orgy scene, etc.), we don't buy it, because everybody -- including the director -- is simply having too much fun. Decadence, after all, does not necessarily portend the Downfall of Civilization sometimes, decadence is merely hip. And that's okay! Lighten up, Michelangelo! He's on much firmer ground when delineating the paranoia uniquely endemic in our modern civilization. The movie has several classic sequences that are downright spooky, including any of the scenes at that deserted park with its ceaselessly whispering trees. Occasionally, Hemmings is trailed by shadowy figures. And the emergence of the killer's face in the bushes of the park, after Hemmings has blown up the photo, connotes the paranoia of post-Dealey Plaza conspiracy theories. It comes as no surprise that Hitchcock was deeply impressed with this movie, concerned as it is with the Master's own laundry-list of modern-day problems such as surveillance, selfishness, greed, conspiracy, murder, sexy girls, and voyeurism.But hey kids, by all means stick with more honest productions like, say, *The Lord of the Rings*, wherein the moral problems are solved far in advance.  "}{"Title":"Memorable scenes from a boring movie","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I recently rented the DVD, having seen the movie when it came out and recalling some of its scenes. The memorable scenes -- vivid photos, snappy lines, and quirky acting -- are by far the best part of the film. The worst part of the film is the worrying away at embodying a few simple ideas about perception. As with the dancing bear, the applause has not been for directors who have good ideas but for those who have any at all. Dancing bears are, to me, boring bears. I prefer them doing more bear-like things, which for directors includes building visual scenes upon a writer's script and actors' personifications. And Blow-up has a lot of wonderful bits, from Redgrave's tense murderess and Hemmings' voyeur to the dead rock audience that comes alive only when a destroyed guitar is tossed from the stage(the director's overkill on this scene comes when Hemmings fights for a share of the wreck only to discard it as worthless after he escapes with his prize). The best parts of the film are largely irrelevant to the plot (not to mention reality), such as the dynamics by which the photographer ends up having sex with two teenage model-wannabes, the pot room at a cocktail party, and the main character's refusal to go beyond immediate self-interest in dealing with people, especially with women. In each case, it is the visual specifics that are memorable, not the embodiment of an idea. "},{"Title":"long on style, short on substance","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE MILD SPOILERS This film, like much that the 60s considered great, has not withstood the test of time.  Daring and intriguing in its day (Jazzy soundtrack! Nudity! Models smoking pot!), it strikes this too-young-to-remember-the-60s reviewer  as pretentious claptrap. The plot, which many reviewers find to have some sort of Profound Meaning, meanders lazily, and has some glaring leaps of logic (like, why would the one time our hero is without his camera be the one time he really needs it?).  Also, and I can't stress this enough, there are mimes; repeat, there are mimes.  The (probably unintended) highlight is a scene of the Yardbirds performing on stage, which is clumsily interjected into the plot, such as it is. Don't get me wrong; while not the classic that aging denizens of Electric Ladyland deem it to be,  this is not a bad movie.  Vanessa Redgrave is exceptionally good.   Also, the film is beautifully  and lovingly photographed, and it does capture the mid-60s London milieu and attitude (Mike Meyers clearly drew on Blow-Up's fashion photographer protagonist  for his Austin Powers persona).   That milieu is captured just as well, however,  by better movies like A Hard Days' Night and 'Darling. "},{"Title":"Okay, am I the only one confused?","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first part is okay, the middle very good, the ending, I'm not really sure. This was a movie about a fashion model photographer who treats his models like last weeks trash. Then he stalks some people and discovers something very odd. I won't tell what just in case you haven't seen it. The first part was mainly about a butthole photographer and sex. The second part of the movie is well, about a mystery. I won't go to much into the second part because it would ruin the film if you haven't seen it. But the ending left me feeling empty & unresolved. I thought the first part of the film was just boring. The second half was good. But I don't know why this film gets the word greatness put next to it. I see it as avg. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"master piece","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blowup is not about what people see, is about what we WANT to see. First Blowup is a critic to the media. The film show us that the people behind the information, can manipulate the information.We (the audience)don't take the time to analyze if the photos or videos we see in the news are real or just fake. We assume that they tell us the truth coz if its in TV or in the news must be truth. Thats the essential of the film. Worst of all is that in this case, the photographer seems to believe his own lie. But why? thats the question. Seems that for Antonioni, the key is sex. the main character feels something for this friend's wife (the painter). the main character wants to do something like that paintings, something that can top those paintings to get her attention. an he will even if he has to believe in something he somehow doesn't know he is sure of it or not. "},{"Title":"WOW! Enough said...","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Hemmings is hip and Vanessa Redgrave is stunning, but there's more to this movie than the groovy hair Hemmings sports, supermodels, trendy clothes, the psychadelic monagesque scene, and all else that glitters. Hemmings' character, Thomas,  likes to be detached and Redgrave has a secret that keeps being defined and redefined through a photo. I loved Thomas' randomness.  I never knew randomness could be so fun and amusing!  And yet there is something so significant in his randomness. The part when Thomas crashes a club looking for Jane was great.  Where did Antonioni come up with a genius scene?  Here we have a crowd of fans and groupie wannabes at a mini concert, who go crazy after the band's lead singer throws a guitar into the crowd. Thomas, who randomly stumbles into the crowd, fights over the guitar assuming its significance since everyone else is fighting for it.  After he leaves with the guitar and realizes what a piece of junk the guitar really is, he throws it onto the ground. This scene seems random, but is the epitome of the whole film.  Antonioni weaves this scene in beatifully. The mimes in the beginning of the story seem just like a bunch of random extras (or isn't that the point?)  and then at the end their role in the film starts to make sense and becomes more significant. We may never know what the mysterious photo is trying to say... and like the woman who seems to have never existed.  Was it all like a mime... a suspension of disbelief? Redgrave's character, Jane, could be traced back to L'Aventurra's Anna... I've heard people discuss Plato and  Borges, as a way to uncover the theme of this film.  There is indeed the question of reality here. What a great film! One of Antonioni's best!   10/10  "},{"Title":"Rated Why?","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Only film schools, screenwriting classes, and 60s-trivia freaks keep this flick from dissolving in the can.It has one clever notion - a photographer uncovering an assassination - but goes absolutely nowhere and does absolutely nothing.  Antonioni wasn't a storyteller; he took a short story and surrounded it with fluff that's supposed to be film or cinema (God, I hate those words!)I don't want a study, I want a story!Know the bit where Vanessa Redgrave disappears into the crowd, and we can't see how?  Take another look at how the passing crowd overlaps her  her body shifts angles at an unnatural speed - a classic mark of sloppy editing.I mention that paragraph above to point out that this movie isn't all that clever - except to hold film students and professors constantly agog at its (and their own) pretensions for over 30 years now.  Grow up, already!For me, the only interesting part was - no, not the proto-Led-Zeppelin Yardbirds - but something pointed out by critic Roger Ebert  in its day, Blowup was a scandal in its day for its supposed frank sexuality.  Today Ebert finds it notable because the photographer treats his models like garbage and they just take it, which nobody remarked on back then.Few have remarked on it since.  "},{"Title":"Blow-up on a way of life.","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blow-up is not only a movie about a blow-up of a negative. There is a thriller story in there but that's just a distraction. This movie is in fact a portrait of a certain «way of life».Hammings' character is hideous, self-deceiving and bored to death. Other than looking for his identity or for some distraction in an antiquity shop or in a trendy party or concert, he is quite aware of the emptiness of the very social structure he (and others like him) is at the centre of. Though concient of the fraud he really is he assumes and abuses of his leadership position. Yet, his disregard towards people and the admiration he gets from them shows his awareness of the fraudulent nature of the London Swinging Sixties.That «intellectual emptiness» and emphasis on visual and social symbolism is PRECISELY the point. Miss not the painters' line on the sense of his pictures or the mimes' unexistent tennis ball.Gentlemen, whenever you watch a movie, remember it is someone else's' movie and someone else's' message it conveys. If you want one of your own you will have yet to make one. If the form appeals to you enough to make you want to copy it, that alone justifies its success.Rui Miranda DuarteP.S. As so many things in life, when you take a (particular) movie for something it is not, deception inevitably follows. "},{"Title":"Very cleverly crafted mystery","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was an excellent film, that was aptly titled. The blow up of a negative which showed a murder committed was the key to the whole mystery. I watched as the characters played and replayed the murder sequence, and never caught on to the killer's use of the weapon. This movie reminded me a lot of Hitchcock's work. An added attraction was the brief clip featuring the Yardbirds on a rave-up.  "},{"Title":"Dated and pretentious.","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My main problem with this movie is similar in some ways to what I disliked about Stalker though not on the same level. It is unnecessarily slow and the majority of the film is uninvolving (the actual blowup part(s) are an exception). It may have deeper meanings but it could express just as much as it ultimately does in a fraction of the time. The pretentiousness I feel comes from the filmmakers' notion that points have to be dragged out and force fed to the audience rather than respecting their intelligence (and appetite for entertainment). It's almost like the reverse of big, loud, stupid pop movies but nearly as bad. It is comparably superficial except that it works on more of a minimalist, artsy, abstract (but no less painstakingly obvious) level as opposed to a louder, easier, level.As a general example, consider the relative lack of emotion in the characters, the lack of personality in the direction compared with shallow metaphors that are at times pursued over the course of several different scenes. What Blowup lacks for me in this way is depth. Abstract meaning is fine with me but not if it is the surface and entire substance of a movie. The plot of Blowup lends itself to a being funny and touching and yet it isn't. I thought the leading actor was okay, but then the script was just so bland.Different movies work in different ways and aim to achieve vastly distinct results. One thing I think it is always healthy to have plenty of, however, is energy and creativity. I don't mean that a movie has to have a frenetic pace or be loud or particularly stylish; the energy and effort could come through in originality, in imaginative visuals, in little details that take multiple viewings to take in. I guess what I'm saying is that I like movies where you can tell that a lot of effort was put into them; the shots aren't randomly chosen, they've been carefully considered, etc.I definitely didn't get this feeling with Blowup. It was more like the opposite. I remember one scene in the protagonist's apartment (nothing much happening) where the soundtrack kicks in (Herbie Hancock music) only to fade out about 10 seconds later, as if the audience didn't notice that nothing is happening. This just stood out as lazy film-making to me. Other parts of the movie came across as badly dated as well, most of the earlier scenes are parodied very well in Austin Powers International Man of Mystery.Blowup could easily have been a good movie, maybe even really good. But it's far too slow and boring not to mention ostentatious for my liking. Maybe if the filmmakers tried a little harder. Or maybe I completely missed the point ( "},{"Title":"A thriller without thrills, a meaningful comment lost in 60's pretension &#150; avoid (mild spoiler)","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  1960's London is a swinging place.  Photographer Thomas is cool and laid back.  One afternoon he is in a park photographing a couple when the female half of the couple demands his film as any pictures containing her are hers.  He refuses and develops them, however things within his pictures lead him to suspect he has photographed a murder.I came to this remembering Mark Kermode talking about it's cult status about 4 years ago on Radio 1.  I always trust him so I tried it out.  At the start the film amused me as a picture of 1960's arty types but also because Mike Myers was spot on when spoofing this with Austin Powers.  The actual plot takes a while to start up &#150; it's about 30 minutes before Thomas goes to the park and then quite some time before he realises what he's got.  Of course the point is about subjectivity and perception and this point is hammered home (bluntly and clumsily) by Thomas watching mimes play tennis.The actual bones of the plot turn out to be almost ignored &#150; it hints at having thrills at one point but these are quickly lost.  Why make a thriller with no thrills of tension?  The rest of the film is a snap shot of 1960's Britain, well, for a few people at least!  My parents certainly didn't live this way in the 60's.  In fact the characters and the setting is so pretentious and so annoying that it will make you glad not to have been in London then.  Where Austin Powers (for example) takes an affectionate look, this views it as horrible and artsy with shallow people and shallow lives.Hemmings is perfect as Thomas, however that only means he succeeds in making the character a total pr*ck who I couldn't care less about.  Redgrave is OK but is lost in an array of 60's girls who pose or shout etc.  Of the rest of the cast only a very young Peter Bowles caught my eye.Overall if you're expecting a thriller or a mystery then you'll be disappointed.  If you want an affectionate look at the 60's then the pretentious bunch of `artists' here will put you off the era and if you want a deep comment then be prepared to wade through the nonsense to find it only to  be hit over the head by the tennis scene.Very much of it's time &#150; this has flaws in every area and it just didn't cut it for me. "}{"Title":"Dreadful movie. And mimes.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah, it's got Vanessa Redgrave, but that's about all this movie has in its favor. Monolithically slow paced, with many scenes in it that do nothing to forward plot, character establishment, or character development and the longest establishing shots you could ever hope to see. Somewhere in the middle, a slight hint of a plot develops, but this is quickly given up in favor of topless girls. Antonioni proves unable to resolve in a satisfactory manner even the slight plot he's presented and the whole thing is simply a mess. I suppose it's supposed to be an allegory, but it's not a very clear or telling one, certainly not enough to justify sitting through the irritating opening credits. "},{"Title":"Blowup...fizzled","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have vague memories of seeing Blowup as a teenager and thinking it was kinda neat and creepy, so I bought the DVD when it came out.I must say that 30 years later it is hilariously bad. Oh, the actual blowing up of the photographs is still neat and creepy, for sure, but the rest is just laughable.The nameless photographer is such a jerk (I'm being delicate) that no one would want to work with him. There are other photographers with talent - why do business with a total jerk that yells at you to try to get you to smile?Also the funny thing is, even when he is supposedly taking these great photos in his jerky way, he is so close to his subject that 90% of the pix would be out of focus, compounded by not using flash, so he must shoot wide open even with Tri-X film, thereby adding to his out-of-focus problem. Further, he handles his Hasselblad clumsily, and during a shoot with several models at various distances from the camera, again he does not use flash - again, laughable photographic technique. Enough about photo non-technique.Another scene has the photographer entering a nightclub where Jimmy Page and the Yardbirds are playing - and the entire audience is motionless - as in zombies - except one couple who dance (badly). Huh?There is an over-rated scene which may be the first non-porno film to show a glimpse of female pubic hair. It is not erotic, however, and in fact, could be mistaken for Daniel Boone's coon-skin cap. Don't get the movie for this.Besides the dead cat, there is much pot-smoking - also, I suppose, a film first. Big, big doobies that look like cigarettes...Other than the movie itself, there is a commentary by an Antonioni film buff. Even he has a hard time explaining some of it. However, some people like head-scratching movies. If you do, here you go.  "},{"Title":"Blowup is an explosive movie","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've set out recently to see more Palme d'Or-winning films lately (or, in this case, the equivalent of the Palme d'Or). Blowup (1966), the winner at the Cannes Film Festival in 1967, is a great find. It also made the British Film Institute's top 100 films but sadly, seems less available here in Region 1. Blowup is a sort of murder mystery, but kind of an unconventional one. It's not a whodunit- we know the woman responsible, but don't know her name, who the victim was or why he was killed. We don't even know there was any murder at all until it's cleverly revealed. Very little seems to be happening for the first 30 minutes of the film, we just follow a young British photographer as he takes pictures of beautiful women. We can tell the story is kicking in when a stranger he photographs in the park objects to her picture being taken and desperately wants the film. Then when the photographer examines the photos, blowing them up a few times over (hence the title, which doesn't refer to a literal explosion), he finds details. This drama is interrupted by a scene in which two models come over- he undresses them and they have a little cat fight. Mostly we see women's upper bare backs, but flashes of nipple and buttocks can be seen. You can criticize it as needless, but it was also delightful and erotic. Blowup is capped off with an ambiguous ending. This film isn't exactly Hitchcock, but not every film about murder needs to be like Hitchcock. In a subtle kind of way, Blowup is explosive. "},{"Title":"the blow up     ; a grow up movie","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think you should see the blow up with the other ponti productions /the passenger and zabriski point/ for a better understanding. The movie starts with a jobber after at consort road (concert or abbey) before he runs to his RR car. was this the 1966 scene that inspired Lennon to 'blew his mind out in a car' 67 ; just a day in the life. Of a rock star sort of photographer in swinging London 'murdering/plagiarizing' himself making records using the camera of yesterday and his world, the world of his original. The other 2 characters in the zabriski point and the passenger movie find their inevitable end meeting updated western culture on the border of law and/or reality too; by a gun. might be the link to the blow ups of the 'park murder without the body' the demolished relating around it included. A lot of swinging London scenes well filmed, but /grow up/ quite exaggerated. The notorious panty scene rolling stone girls wear androgynous signs of mick and marianne faithful (only 2). The propeller is probably symbol to a wooden neck guitar. Plenty of that too much to mention, well filming etc . only one crowd motorcar cheering in a vast city. You get or are pretty far away from it that way and at the end/jobber or richstar/ he throws a ball back at mimic players Wimbledon wembley outside of it. It's a very good movie and portrait of that/this time mind thinking. Suits zabriski point fine too, but that's America. Listen fi the final song lyrics. maybe you think you can do that/what sort of things /freedom/ but /grow up and see/ what happens in the Antonino movies meeting reality. I like the associative /like daydreaming and 'thinking'/ filming style in it's unstructuredness too and notice Antonino can (keep the tension up etc) ; lots more can be 'said' about it ; better watch it. See the notorious sixties ; in all it's blown up detail 'still something detail' etc. It's pretty hard to get artistic recognition a movie. grow up ; take a picture of this one. Frederick Barendse 8-5-14 "},{"Title":"Murder, Mystery, Yardbirds and Mimes...","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow-Up is a strange time capsule of Swinging London of the 60's. It's a art-house thriller about a photographer suspecting that he has accidentally shot a murder. It's a slowly paced, expertly shot art film that might not be entertaining or even very thrilling. I like films that encapsulate certain era perfectly. Blow-Up does a phenomenal job doing it and offers some cool 60's imagery. It's a 60's Hollywood film that has nudity, drug use and sex. The sheer balls of the filmmaker must be appreciated.The acting is very mixed. There are no bad performances but most of them are hardly memorable, minus the nudity. David Hemmings plays the leading character and he is very good. He plays arrogant, unlikable prick very good and his performance holds the narrative together. Vanessa Redgrave is unmemorable aside from spending half of her scenes topless.The real strength of Blow-Up is the direction by Michelangelo Antonioni. The shots are beautifully composed and he knows how to create wonderful atmosphere and tension. But the only problem is the fact that this a art film.You either like them or hate them. Blow-Up will bore you to tears or you'll love it. I can't say that it is entertaining but there are some great moments and scenes. The highlights being Yardbirds cameo featuring Jeff Beck destroying guitar The Who style and Jimmy Page. Also there is a long scene of mimes playing tennis. I like this kinda of stuff but other people might not find enjoyment out of it.Blow-Up is a classic art-house film. If you want to see film about the Swinging London, then this might be just your cup of tea. If you want to see a film that helped to revolutionize Hollywood or are a big fan of Michelangelo Antonioni it's worth seeing. But if you can't stand art films then please find other film to watch. "},{"Title":"A Sense You Don't Have Anymore","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before begin to write what Blow-up is about let's make it clear what it's not particularly about Film is not about finding something very suspicious in the shots of a mysterious beauty in a desolate park as its synopsis puts it.When you tell people that it's an art house film, most of them would have many reasons to avoid it but maybe the most brought complaint would be that art house film is pretentious. This film's protagonist thinks he has found something that is not pretentious that is real and also original. From the first frame to the last, this film questions the pretentiousness and the possibility of its absence. We as the audience feel the vibes of his quest on artistic intimacy and when he thinks he has found it after countless of unsuccessful trials we also share the joy he has; like a detective who has solved his long investigated case. But this doesn't last long and things once again start to blur like an over blown-up image. When things go out of his control he even consults his exhibitor but the outside world doesn't bring any willingness.We see clown like people who have make up on their faces driving around London cheering for something first we don't even have an idea of. But as the film unfolds and especially in the last and maybe the cinema history's one of the most famous sequences the reason of those clowns' presence is revealed. They are no longer a mystery to us. They are faceless people who lost their sincerity long ago and due to that they are wearing those look alike make up. They are celebrating a world ruled by pretentiousness. In the end our dear protagonist with a last and heartbreaking act declares that he doesn't have that feeling like before and accepts the possibility that it was indeed not what he thought it was. He rather pretends that he has a tennis ball in his hand and maybe, disappears into the void of pretentiousness.Beside its artistic query on modern cinema the film is simply an exquisite visual feast. And, sometimes this visual experience can be distracting but when you start to deny the idea that all these visuals are pretentious segments which are randomly scattered throughout the film, things start to come into focus.Deny. "},{"Title":"Psychoanalytically blown-up?","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Are we really seeing an avant-garde existential rendering of now you see it, now you don't? Just maybe, the following summation is what happened After Thomas, our self-absorbed, smug central character, takes the pictures of Jane and her paramour at the park, he goes to the café to meet with Ron re. the photo-shoot of the overnighter at the prison. While reviewing the photos, they spot a man lurking behind Thomas' car, whereupon Thomas gives chase but doesn't catch up to the man. Shortly thereafter, he drives back to his studio where he encounters Jane who again wants those so-called incriminating photos back. How did she know where he lived?...Her accomplice got the license no. from the car then ran an address trace back to Thomas' studio. She again pleads him for the photos, then leaves with some negatives in her purse. After Thomas blows up the photos, he sees something on the ground by a small clump of trees and what looks to be a man with a gun hiding in some bushes on the other side of the clearing, maybe 20 yards from the clump of trees.When he returns to the so-called crime scene later that evening, his suspicions are confirmed upon seeing the corpse of the male subject in his photographs. While he views this corpse, he hears a branch break in the background, which momentarily startles him. He then leaves the scene to tell about his discovery, but no one really cares about it. He sees Jane again, but she immediately disappears. When he returns again to the purported crime scene the next day, the corpse is gone and now he is confused and upset because now he has no real proof of a murder, in that his studio had been burgled of all the photos except for the one under the stove, which only shows a blurb of some form.It is entirely possible that someone was in the park when Thomas found the body, as evidenced by the sound of the breaking branch. He leaves and the onlooker(s) come, fetch the body and depart, leaving nothing but memories and a blurb of a form on a photograph, hardly a source of evidence of foul play.Perhaps M. Antonioni wanted us to over-analyze the tangential plot scenes e.g., the mime scenes, the broken guitar sequence, Thomas' frustrations with his female coterie, etc. Perhaps the real thrust of the film was to show the central character's, Thomas', metamorphosis from an ostensibly self-assured, pompous, misogynistic egomaniac to a man who has to more humbly accept his own personal vulnerabilities, inconsistencies and self doubts. Notice I used the word perhaps because this review is merely my conjecture of the film's contents! As other reviewers have suggested, countless other theories are entirely plausible as well. "},{"Title":"Bizarre","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This really an art or abstract film and not one with a definite plot. I'm not a real fan of those types of movies. I did enjoy the break from dialog, as I have gotten tired of the overtalkies of much of the American movies at the time. The backdrops and decors were com temporary. The camera work and location shooting were ahead of it's time. It seemed like none of the scenes were shot in the studio. The car driving scenes were ahead of it's time, as it's probably one of the few films that did not appear to employ a green screen. The movie does move very slow. But things get interesting during the second half - that is until the very end where it ends with a whimper. The lack of resolution into the discovery of the dead body was disappointing because so much of the story centered around it. I was waiting for some sort of who-done-it or an ironic twist that we never got. And as others have pointed out, a few of the scenes were questionable and did not seem to add to the story - the fan blade, the concert,the hippies, and the over-sized number 39. We don't know what the director was trying to imply. In fact, other than Thomas's confused lifestyle, we don't really know what the director was getting at. Hemming's sex scene with the two gorgeous ladies were delightful. That was my favorite part of the film. "},{"Title":"To memory of Antonioni...","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Finally I had a chance to watch a Antonioni after three months of his death. While starting, I was very excited. But I must say that I am a little disappointed. It is because there are many irrelevant scenes in the film. While taking photo, the photographer goes to the antiquary or while waiting the murderer, two girls come in and he starts to undress them or the girl in park finds his address in a way or he pushes the horn of car irrelevantly. I can count more, but I think it's enough. Why did I say lots of examples because while the director works to create tension, some scenes become nonsense. But loneliness and living far from society and of course erotism could be acted as this one.I think the director summarizes the whole story at the end of the film. Tennis court acts as interpreter to feelings of Thomas. Thomas must have realized nothing is like it seems and how his life is far away from the realities of life? "},{"Title":"there is no reality as long as we only see what we want","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In one of the many groundbreaking movies, London fashion photographer Thomas (David Hemmings) photographs what may or may not be a murder. Thomas has spent his career photographing Swinging London, but this throws everything into flux.I should admit that Blowup is the first of Michelangelo Antonioni's movies that I've ever seen, so I can't use his other ones to help explain what it shows. But I can say that it will probably blow your mind. The events put in question how much we can trust our own judgment. As for the Swinging London aspect, I can't tell whether or not it idealizes that era or looks at its possible superficiality. As for the whole thing about truth and reality vs. what we want to believe (in this case, Thomas wants there to have been a murder so that he can expose it), it works alongside Stephen Colbert's definition of truthiness what we want or immediately believe to be true.There was one scene that I thought looked a bit unrealistic the Yardbirds concert. Everyone was just standing around staring, rather than getting into the music and dancing. I would have been partying down (especially when the one guy smashed his guitar).But otherwise, I found the movie quite fascinating. Just see whether or not you totally trust yourself after watching this. Also starring Vanessa Redgrave and Sarah Miles. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read about this movie long before I ever saw it. That might explain my love for it, since I did have some idea of the themes and interpretation of Blow-Up long before I ever saw it. It's one of the few art movies I've ever seen that has engaged me on so many levels. The story, in and of itself, is classic having been remade (with changes) twice since as Blow Out and The Conversation. The music, from the Herbie Hancock jazz soundtrack to the Yardbirds imitating The Who can stand on its own. The picture of London in the swinging 60's has enough sterile disconnection from emotion to be believable. The use of color not only fits within the framework of the story, but is downright beautiful. The philosophical premise of questioning perception is incredible. Throughout the 60's and 70's it was possible to make an intelligent movie that also had an engaging story. Antonioni's story of the photographer who might have witnessed a murder has tension and intrigue, but also manages to leave me, even after repeated viewings, with me in the same quandary as David Hemming's character. And also I'm left with that sense of awe that I get whenever viewing a well crafted work of a true artist. "},{"Title":"Suspicious","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't know if my previous speaker understood the movie (I don't know it either), I have a different opinion about the story background. I guess, Thomas as a brilliant photographer is seeing everything from another point of view. He sees the beauty of the moment of the park(the beauty of the propeller), moreover, he is able to see a mysterious corp in the pictures of the park. OK, the story itself was quite confusing, but the end gave ME the hints, that it is quite possible that there was never an assassination nor a corp. At the end, there were clowns doing pantomime with an imaginary tennis ball. Thomas threw the ball back to them.. and The End.. This situation is that strange that I believe it never happened. Did the assassination happen?? I don't know.On the other hand, Thomas wants to possess things that other people wish to possess. The big car, the broken guitar, the beautiful models, whatever.. He possesses these things but he seems not happy. It's just for a short moment and then he is again unsettled and searching for sth new.. "},{"Title":"Less than the sum of its parts","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry. The lead review of this piece is brilliant - but is more a testament to the ingenuity of 'jawills' than anything in this film, which, to be charitable, is a quixotic assemblage of potentially interesting elements.There is undoubtedly a great film in there somewhere - and it reached its apotheosis in Coppola's 'The Conversation'.Prepare to be intrigued but, ultimately, disappointed.Charlie  "},{"Title":"From a philosophical standpoint...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...this film is extremely existential.  Thomas is faced with giving meaning to his reality.  Exactly WHAT is his reality?  How hard is it to find out? By blowing up a roll of film, Thomas' world becomes upside-down...he begins to ponder his existence - all from one roll of film.  Had the person who coined the phrase The eyes are the windows to the soul thought about synthetic eyes, as in a camera? "},{"Title":"Please tag the spoiler!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The primary review of this film contains a significant spoiler that destroys the impact of the movie._Blowup_ (like Coppola's brilliant 1974 homage to it, _The Conversation_) takes its greatest power from forcing the viewer to see things in a manner they do not expect to -- and one which catches them by surprise. When I first saw this flick (unaware of its status or title), I found myself drawn into the slow, quiet narrative, and then suddenly chilled by the key revelation  (again in perfect silence, like the actions of Antonioni's mimes).If you have the patience to let the story tell itself, it will quietly and without warning scare the hell out of you. That is, if some ill-approved IMDB review hasn't spoiled the fun for you first.... "},{"Title":"The film may be misunderstood.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Blowup is a subtle and much underrated film, dealing with the human condition of being alone. It is heavily disguised as a pretentious film about swinging London, and is probably regarded as such by most who have seen it. "},{"Title":"Demanding, intriguing enigma doesn't meet you halfway...","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" David Hemmings plays a tireless, exacting fashion photographer in London who accidentally takes pictures of a murder; he fleetingly gets to know a woman involved in the killing but can't break through her alienation (or, indeed, anyone else's). Dazzling piece of colorful eye-candy has a careful, studied pace and a lot of desperate, moody characters. Unfortunately, the last 45 minutes or so drops off sharply, what with mimes in the park and The Yardbirds showing up for a concert. Handsome film, sort of a cinematic enigma, will not please everyone, although swinging audiences from the 1960s really tapped into the stylish, chic confusion and isolation. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Blow Up Should Be Blown Up!!","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blow Up should be blown up!! What a total bomb. I'm amazed at all the pretentious, heavy psycho-analytical essays on this site from people who think it's a masterpiece. Give me a break, for God's sake! Yes it's a masterpiece, alright--a masterpiece of really bad film making! One of the silliest, most pretentious, pointless, dull, boring and generally stupid movies ever made. I found myself laughing throughout at the lame plot, ridiculous dialogue, and silly scenarios. If you wanted to hold a seminar on how to make a really bad movie, Blow Up would be a great example. First thing on the list the screenplay, which is just plain hopeless. Add to this the bad acting, cheesy music,and lousy editing. To be fair to the cast, however in the final analysis the one to blame for this piece of total absurdity is the director. Anyone who could make something like this and get taken seriously, must have a huge ego. Even his name Michelangelo Antonioni is pretentious. The only good things are the nifty cars and the shots of London in the sixties----and the fact that it does show how uptight and conservative things were at the time, when it was considered controversial and racy. I recently reviewed all the comments again, just to see where I rated. Boy, am I ever in the minority! Unfortunately I work in the movie business, so I don't look at movies with rose-colored glasses. Blow Up was on TV again recently, and I am even more convinced that it's one of the most ridiculous movies in history. "},{"Title":"While there might be a little less here . . .","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" . . . than meets the eye, this plot less and often aimless peek into the lives of mostly nameless, decadent Londoners is a low-rent English remake of LAST YEAR AT MARIENBAD. Though some may find BLOW UP's slow, allegorical build up to its main message (Europe is an evil cesspool) a little too tedious and arty for their taste, it's hard to argue with the director's underlying meaning. Millions of people in every country on that God-forsaken continent had recently collaborated with Hitler in rubbing out the Jews, both through crimes of commission and omission. Learning no lessons from WWII, Europe has gotten even worse since then. Vladimir Putin can slay 10,000 kids by downing three passenger jets every day for a year, as far as these trashy continentals are concerned, and double the size of the old U.S.S.R. with his New Soviet Union, just as long as they can import his natural gas, keeping their own backyards picturesque. BLOW UP tries to teach us that it's pointless to care about what happens in Europe, as everyone there is too stoned and\or inbred to give a hoot themselves. "},{"Title":"DEATH Of Cinema BIRTH Of Literature","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Society wanted to create a romanticized world as if from Literature with a quintessential hero. Cinema came in and destroyed it by realistically portraying violence and the anti-hero as the protagonist - through images and sound. Society fell and cinema become the four front for storytelling. Literature DIED, but was resurrected by the death of cinema. Who killed cinema? I believe that television and the Hollywood cinema killed the art form which in turn killed cinema overall - I mean there are still movies being made but they're movies, not cinema. Cinema is still here but not as appreciated as once was. Literature has made a comeback, literature is not a bad thing contrary to what I have been saying. I am plainly juxtaposing the rise and fall of both cinema and its counterpart - literature. I could elaborate, but I'm just trying to make a statement - not trying to create a book out of my optimism. Society will never be the same due to cinema. "}{"Title":"Neither the Best, Nor the Worst","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Blowup is neither the best of movies nor the worst. It is, however, among the luckiest. It came along at just the right time. That opening sequence of chaos arriving in the stodgy city immediately connected with the emerging 60's counter-culture. And so did the fairly explicit sex scenes (first glimpse of pubic hair on the popular screen) that at last broke Hollywood's puritanical Production Code. Then too, trendy urban audiences had glommed onto the intellectual films of Bergman, Fellini, et al., after years of the overly literal Hollywood staple. So it became suddenly hip for American movie-goers to catch a film with little plot, scant dialog, and a dislikable lead that ultimately appears to go nowhere. Without the fortunate timing, I'm guessing the appeal would have remained confined to the usual art house circuit.Forty years later, the novelty is gone and only the Deep Think themes remain. For those who like to ponder symbolism and What It All Means, the movie's still a fertile field. To me, the most interesting thread is how Tom (Hemmings) can't get beyond his pictures (perceptions) to any kind of reality. In short, he simply bounces off things, whether people or objects. Of course, alienation from others was a favorite Antonioni subject and is present here in spades. Nonetheless, much of the movie's lengthy meanderings strike me now as unnecessary and self-indulgent. Though I understand the point behind this anti-movie', I also understand why so many despise it. And now that the crowds have gone and the hoopla vanished, it stands&#x97;in my book, at least&#x97;as little more than an interesting artifact and fodder for Philosophy 101 study groups.In passing&#x97; it looks to me like Antonioni fudged a bit in our view of the corpse by establishing an objective camera shot from the bottom instead of from Tom's subjective frontal location, a positioning that would imply the reality of the dead body. Was this a slip or what since it would ruin the underlying mystery. On a different note&#x97;shame on TMC for excising the pubic hair glimpse. They shouldn't brag about movies shown in their entirety and uncut. After all, this was a landmark event in the history of popular movies. "},{"Title":"Show it or stow it!","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film tonight on TCM, after seeing it, like the adoring Roger Ebert says he did in his review, back when it first came out. I didn't like it then and I don't like it now. Why? Well, when Roger says Sarah Miles plays a neighbor across the way who lives with a painter, and I saw that Sarah played Hemming's wife, who thinks nothing of being caught in bed with another man, then I have problems with the plot, and problems with the sympathetic non-critical observations of a famous critic.It's the job of a story teller to always make everything believable in very basic ways that we all understand, and that requirement never changes, even if it's a cartoon, a horror movie, an action movie, or a farce. But this film ignores that basic rule. I know, as a photographer, that there is no way that 35mm film shot with a Nikon can be blown up beyond what reveals only silver halide grains. That Hemmings, whose look-at-me style of acting turns me off anyway, would make huge prints to put on a wall, and then check for detail with a magnifying glass, well, even an amateur would know not to try that. You need to be a big fan if you're going to fill in character details not shown on the screen. Frankly, I wasn't going to do their work. Show it or stow it! Acting that portrays emotion by way of neutral expression in the hope that the audience will provide the interpretation, is lazy and treats the audience with contempt. The shelf life of the trendy label expired decades ago. Yes, the deep focus camera work was always a beautifully designed diversion. "},{"Title":"Sixties Timepiece Of Photographer Accidentally Capturing A Murder On Film","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A successful London fashion photographer is out for a walk in the park when he takes some surreptitious pictures of a woman with an older man. The woman demands the film but when the photographer develops the images he thinks he sees a gunman hiding in the trees. Has he just witnessed a murder ?I'll admit straight off I have a problem with a lot of hippie sixties movies. I enjoy this one whenever I see it, but it's a typical example. Somebody came up with a great idea - what if a guy unintentionally photographed a murder - and then they completely fail to back that up with a believable or suspenseful story. Sixties filmmakers sometimes treated the conventions of cinema with disdain, rode the wave of cool at the time, but now their movies look weak. Okay, so there's a murder. When does it happen ? Presumably it must be while Hemmings and Redgrave are talking but there's no gunshot and the gun in the photo doesn't have a silencer. How does she find his studio ? How does she break in later to steal the film ? Why kill someone, leave their body in a public park for a day, hope nobody notices it and then remove it later ? All of this is stupid and makes no sense. Ah, say the purists, but the film is really playing with reality, symbolised by the mime's tennis match at the end. Cobblers to that - a murder plot is a murder plot. They put one in because it's exciting, but didn't have the talent to work out how to do it properly. Having said all this though, both the sequence in the park (which was shot at Maryon Park in Charlton in south-east London) and the scene where Hemmings develops the film are excellent, wordless, hypnotic, brilliantly filmed montages. The movie was shot by Carlo DiPalma (who made some great films with Woody Allen) and the photography works extremely well - it's tight, crisp and never descends into the shaky hand-held histrionics of many films of the period. Hemmings is good as the self-important snapper (inspired by David Bailey, an influential fashion photographer of the day), but both Redgrave and Miles are tedious, their stilted dialogue alternately pretentious and dull. Cultural fans can see sixties sexpot Birkin taking her clothes off, and very young uber-guitarists Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page playing with The Yardbirds. All in all, this movie succeeds better as a sixties timepiece I reckon, with its silly clothes and pot parties; to me it's a bit like the Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud III Hemmings drives - handsome and impressive but designed to exclude those not worthy enough, including me. Featuring music by jazz great Herbie Hancock. This movie won the Palme D'Or at Cannes, got two Oscar nominations and was lauded at every Film Arts festival. It was made the same year as Sergio Leone's Il Buono, Il Brutto, Il Cattivo, which won sod all and was met with critical derision from cinema's establishment. Please think hard about which of these Italian movies has lasted and really influenced film-making since. "},{"Title":"it's not just the models","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (they're frighteningly skinny, anyway) - london the metropolis looks fab in Blow-up, from the south London streets lurching past at speed, to the mazes of brick and mews and alleyways, to the haunts of the young & serious about their rock and roll (hello Yardbirds).  Alert viewers might notice that the spaces get more and more enclosed as the film progresses, as Thomas spends more time in his studio working out just what it is he has photographed. Even the open spaces of the park end up signalling interiority--as Thomas watches and, eventually, listens to the mimed game of tennis. Yes, the mimes are silly, but their presence is an effective and elegant visual way of wrapping up a film that is, after all, about the look of surfaces. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film Ever!!!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  No doubt about it, this film is the greatest film ever, often put down as being boring, these people just don't understand it. The film catches swinging London with all it's glory, great lines, great park scenes, I've been back to the park a few years ago and believe me it's a magical place, shame that the antique shop isn't there anymore. Watch it and enjoy. Stunning film. "},{"Title":"Important, probably. Boring, definitely.","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm trying to keep an open mind. I do not dispute that this movie is important for a reason. It does have important points which it makes subtly and well. Lack of plot is not inherently a problem, as long as the movie is done well. I have no desire to dispute most of the positive things people say about this film. Just be warned it is incredibly dull. This is a movie that contains murder, fashion models galore, goofy period clothing, nice cars and a menage-a-trois and still had me sorting the contents of my wallet within ten minutes. It's probably worth seeing for what it is, but don't expect to enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"Unlikable Characters, unlikable movie","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Very little in the movie adds up to a coherent narrative. It opens and ends with a group of mimes, but if you expect a story in the classic sense, you will be disappointed. The film follows a young and snobby photographer, who seems to live in a depopulated and grimy neighborhood in England. His encounters with people, first with a group of homeless people, then with a sad variety of fashion models, then with the mysterious Vanessa Redgrave character lack any development, any warmth, but bespeak tremendous isolation. There is laughter for no reason, there are sexual games that border on assault. What is the point? I enjoy the much more positive reviews and insights of other reviewers. I enjoyed the twist at the end, but unlike other movies like the Sixth Sense, the turn in interpretation does not recast the movie. Parts of it, yes, especially his examining of the pictures, but most of the movie remains disconnected and out of focus. The deep theme of what reality is, what truth is, fails to give these parts any depth, and the movie remains shallow and of no consequence "},{"Title":"Another review against the grain","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As I read the comments here and those of a certain critic I admire I find myself in the minority on this one. Yes, David Hemmings is great. Yes, the 60s England depicted is cool and interesting and at times fun. And yes, some of the scenes are gripping and thought provoking. The key word is SOME. What people don't seem to be mentioning is that overall this movie is BORING. Don't say That's because you don't have a good attention span or You must be a teenager. Neither of those is true- just face facts, it really isn't a very good movie (in my opinion of course!) There's a problem when talking about the movie and discussing the layers and symbols is better than watching it. A great film has both things- you really enjoy viewing it AND thinking about it later. Therefore this gets the obvious rating of 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and tenuous sixties piece - now a cinematic antique.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A hip photographer (clearly based on famous London fashion photographer David Bailey) finds that he may he photographed a corpse, without him initially noticing.As the arch critic Pauline Kael once noted, the kind of movie that people get very possessive about and are disappointed when you don't like it. Despite the throw away pretence about being a thriller (which it is certainly not) this is really a look at an indolent lifestyle with a jazzy score (Herbie Hancock) and a Swinging London look-and-feel.Given that it was made by an Italian (Antonioni) it is almost a film made by a tourist, trying to capture something he has read about in magazines.Star Hemmings merely drifts around London buying antiques, observing the in-people and tapping his toes to the Yardbirds (pretending to be the Who!) like a tourist in his own home town. While delivering lots of local colour, the director cannot really escape his art-house instincts and you feel the central murder (if that is what it was!) is really only a device to get the loot to make the film in the first place. If you think it makes little or no sense (even in driving this film forward) I have news for you You are right!This film implanted the idea that being a photographer was an easy profession which left all doors (not to mention a few legs) open. Even Bailey - the central character in this movie - seemed to suffer as the film makes him out to be arrogant. One of the few things that he is not, although he has faults that are the equal.This film is dated enough for it now to be an antique and treated as such, but it never delivered anything new in the first place, other than treat photography as being cool and how to use good music to let the camera wander and linger. "},{"Title":"Don't bother...","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you feel like sleeping, this film is for you.  Regardless of what your cinema professor tells you, this film is not the least bit compelling.  Unless you're an art for art's sake person, I'd recommend just about anything else.Then again, I'm one who seeks decent storytelling in a film. I read the post above re a film about being alone.  Well, I can do that without watching a snail-paced, drag, teeth- pulling film that goes absolutely no where....  "}{"Title":"Time has not been kind to this one","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Film about a British photographer (David Hemmings) who may, or may not have, accidentally shot a crime.Wow--is this dated! In 1966 this was considered a masterpiece--it was also one of the first movies to have some (very minor) female nudity. Unfortunately it has dated badly. The nudity is not even remotely shocking now; the symbolism and message are laughably obvious; the movie takes itself WAY too seriously and basically, this is one BORING film. Even the acting is off--Hemmings (a good actor) appears drugged and Redgrave isn't much better. This is only good now as a time capsule showing what swinging London was like back in the 1960s. Other than that it's a badly dated art film. I actually had trouble staying awake during this! I give it a 4. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of the Obsession for the Truth","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"17 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the London of the 60's, Thomas (Note I have seen this movie many times and I never found the name of the character played by David Hemmings. I am calling him Thomas in accordance with the information of IMDb) is a successful, dedicated and arrogant photographer. He has just left a homeless shelter, since he is preparing photos about violence, and drives his Rolls-Royce to his studio, where he is taking pictures of top-models. He goes to a park and starts randomly shooting pictures. He takes some pictures of a young woman (Vanessa Redgrave) and an old man together, and the woman tries to retrieve the negative. The woman follows him to his studio, trying to get the negative and offering even sex with him for the negative, but he gives another one to her. He becomes obsessed, trying to understand the interest of the woman in the pictures. Then he reveals the negative and blows-up some details, discovering what might be a dead body in the park. This movie is a masterpiece of Michaelangelo Antonioni. A very slow thriller, with a magnificent interpretation of David Hemmings in the role of a powerful and nasty photographer who decides to investigate a mystery seeking for the truth. The process of his investigation is slow, using state-of-art equipment to blow-up the pictures and find the truth like in a puzzle. The environment is London in the 60's in a period of changes, showing 'The Yardbirds' (with Jimmy Page and Jeff Beck), the use of drugs, Vanessa Redgrave in the beginning of her successful career and the gorgeous Jane Birkin. Only last week (28 Sep 2004) this DVD was released in Brazil. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) 'Blow-Up &#x96; Depois Daquele Beijo' ('Blow-Up &#x96; After That Kiss') "},{"Title":"This must be an art film, so I need to say it is great!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"26 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This contains huge SPOILERS and much sarcasm.OOH! Look everyone! The movie started off with a group of mimes playing in the street! This is going to be an art film!!! OOH! Look everyone! The main character of the film is a photographer! Isn't that great SYMBOLISM of the audience seeing only a small view of the world and only from a limited point of view? Isn't this fantastic art????OOH! Look everyone! The photographer is bored with his life and wants to experience something new so he decided to buy an antique store. Isn't that wonderful IRONY??? Isn't that fantastic art???? OOH! Look everyone! He is going to buy it from a young woman bored with the useless old stuff in the store and wanting to go out and do something new! Isn't that great SYMBOLISM of the world leaving behind all the trappings of time and moving on? Isn't this fantastic art???? OOH! Look everyone! He just bought a propeller - the part that makes the plane go - isn't that great SYMBOLISM that the photographer wants to go somewhere else in life, but since it is not attached to the plane, isn't that great IRONY AND SYMBOLISM that he is trapped?? Isn't this fantastic art????OOH! Look everyone! There is a couple in a pretty garden with a tree in the middle! Isn't that just like the Garden of Eden? Isn't that great SYMBOLISM? Isn't this fantastic art??? OOH! Look everyone! The 'Eve' is setting up the 'Adam' for death! OOH! Look everyone! The evil 'serpent' is hidden in the trees! OOH! Look Everyone! 'Eve' realizes she has been discovered by the photographer who thinks he is God and is trying to hide her sin! WOW!!!! Just like in Genesis. Isn't that fantastic art????OOH! Look everyone! 'Eve' has come to the photographer's studio AND TOOK OFF HER TOP!!!!! Nudity!!! Isn't that great SOPHISTICATION! OOH! Look Everyone! 'Eve' is offering sex in exchange for the photographs! Isn't that great SYMBOLISM of the fact that everyone who sins must sin further in order to cover up what we have done? OOH! Look everyone! Now she is getting STONED!!!! Now we know this is a mature film for enlightened audiences!!!OOH! Look everyone! The photographer is looking at his pictures more closely and finding hidden images in them! Isn't this great SYMBOLISM of the fact that there is much more going on than what we, the audience, see? Isn't this fantastic art? OOH! Look everyone! Two women have come in to the studio to have SEX with the photographer! This proves this is a sophisticated, mature film! I bet someone will find the symbolism of their appearance, but I am too busy watching them frolic right now.OOH! Look everyone! The photographer has gone to a concert where no one moves. Isn't that great SYMBOLISM of the people in the world just watching life rather than experiencing it? Isn't this fantastic art?OOH! Look everyone! The photographer just fought for a broken guitar neck and then discarded it after he got it. Isn't that great SYMBOLISM of his pursuing something yet not liking it once he attains it? OR maybe it means that the great 'treasure' of the photographs will quickly be useless to him. Isn't this fantastic art???OOH! Look everyone! The photographer just discovered that all the pictures and their secrets have been stolen AND no proof exists any longer of what he has discovered. Isn't that great SYMBOLISM and IRONY in that his knowledge now has as much validity and value as that of the thoughts of the vacuous models he so despises?? Isn't this fantastic art???OOH! Look everyone! The photographer has met up with MIMES!!!! ART IN AND OF ITSELF!!!!! (I think I may faint!) And now the mimes are playing tennis!! What great SYMBOLISM!!!! Could they mean that we go through life seeing only what we expect to see (in that we are following a non-existent ball because we understand the context of what the mimes are doing) and miss out on what might really be happening? OOH! Look everyone! The photographer has chased the imaginary ball and has thrown it back to the mimes!!! Isn't that symbolic of him no longer having a 'voice' for what he knows and now becoming as meaningless as irrelevant as the mimes? OR could it mean he now looks at things in a new way and sees things that aren't there? OOH! Look everyone! The photographer is now all by himself in a field. OOH! Look everyone! He vanished! Isn't that great SYMBOLISM? Isn't this fantastic art???? HEY! It just dawned on me that there was no real plot or resolution of the thin story lines within the film&#x85; and the dialogue meant nothing&#x85; and I really didn't like any of the shallow, cruel characters&#x85; and the film strayed off into a lot of irrelevant scenes... BUT it has all the snobbish critics excited because it is different and artistic, and I want to look sophisticated and above those who go to movies for something so mundane and common as entertainment SO I think I will say it was a great masterpiece or classic film rather than admit it was pretentious tripe. Then I guess I also need to think up put-downs for anyone who thinks otherwise (or just call them teenagers) to show how intellectual I think myself to be.OOH!!! WHAT A GREAT FILM!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great Acting/ Great Film","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Viewed this film years ago and I was too young at the time to fully enjoy this film which is a great entertaining film and full of mystery and suspense. Vanessa Redgrave, (Jane) played the role of a young woman who was in a park with an older Grey hair man and they were lovers kissing and hugging. While this couple were enjoying each other, a professional photographer named Thomas, (David Hemmings) was taking their picture and it was not too long before Jane realizes that she is having her picture taken and she runs after Thomas and demands having the film. Thomas refuses and rushes home to develop the film and discovers the fact that there was a murder committed on the film and this event makes the film very interesting and mysterious. There are scenes with two young females who visit Thomas's studio looking to become models and they all wind up making love to each other. You will never believe how this film ENDS. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not a Brilliant Film...I only Watched it to see Jeff Beck!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Not a bad film all in all, quite edgy and set in swinging sixties London. I have seen the film itself the whole way through only once as it was so depressing. The best moment is when Jeff Beck (guitarist in Yardbirds) smashes his guitar against the amp, then proceeding to throw it out to the audience. WHAT A SCENE!! Apart from that great moment, David Hemmings is basically a bore to watch; plastic and dim. This film does not make a whole lot of sense but it's worth watching it for that moment ALONE. "},{"Title":"Self Indulgent Tripe","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie years ago, and watched it again last night during a bout with insomnia. I had forgotten why it stuck in my mind. No wonder, it is a forgettable movie.If you like mimes driving around in army jeeps playing imaginary tennis with imaginary plots imagining that they are contributing something meaningful to the Universe, then you just might love this movie. If you enjoy a well developed plot with believable characters, then try something different. Anything would be better than this homage to artificial art. I enjoyed seeing a young Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page, but the rest of the movie is pretentious to the point of being silly. I thought I was watching a Monty Python skit based on a bad acid trip...if only.I won't get into the plot...a sentiment apparently shared by the director. I felt sorry for the actors who were often forced to freeze in awkward, artificial poses. The far out drug party appeared to be choreographed by someone who had never smoked a joint, and if they had, it must have been laced with angel dust. "},{"Title":"Real Mixed Bag","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rarely have I seen a movie so entrancing in one scene and so jarringly awful in the next.The title sequence deserves the hype it gets as a masterpiece of editing.  Minutes of silence pass by as the protagonist delves deeper into the mystery of his photographs. . .and to me it was absolutely hypnotic.  Unforgettable.And yet.The director keeps pulling back.  He seems much more interested in glamorizing the playboy swinging-60s lifestyle of his hero.I've seen comments on the IMDB boards to the effect that movies like Easy Rider, The Graduate, and Harold and Maude have aged poorly since the 60s/early 70s.  I kind of agree.  But those movies seem as fresh and vibrant as today's sunrise compared to the photo-shoot, sex scene, or rock band sequence of Blow Up.  Austin Powers almost seems like a documentary re-creation, not a send-up, of these grating set pieces.In sum, a promising mystery ruined by an attempt to graft on a near self-parody of 60s hipsterism.  And ultimately not as deep as its most loyal critics protest. . . .****SPOILER (note also that the ending is given away w/o warning by other reviews below)*****The much hyped final scene is just an art-house version of that old friend of the desperate screenwriter  it was all just a dream. . .or WAS it???????!!!!! Gee, we haven't seen that before. "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie the other night because Drew Barrymore said it was an essential. Well let me tell you that I saw this movie way back in 1966 and forgot all about it. seeing it again only confirmed what I thought all those years ago, it's awful. I lost approx. 2hrs of my life I will never regain again. This movie probably should have been viewed on Mystery Science Theatre. What a ridiculous waste of film. I suppose it was a follow up to the Georgy Girl movie that aired prior to this but there is no comparison. At least that had something that resembled a plot and that movie pushed it too. Back in the 60's , everyone ran to see this movie ( Blowup) and I can remember folks scratching their heads back then but at least half these folks were high when they saw it. so,don't waste your time trying to see it, it's just horrible. I can see the Mike Myers parody of a photographer but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Psychological Voyeurism","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 1966 film Blow Up, featuring a young, Twiggy-esquire Vanessa Redgrave, is a perfect time-capsule of the era. Not that it is an accurate one on its face, but its self-indulgent and self-conscious narcissism is a perfect snapshot of how London in the Sixties pictured itself - Piccadilly paisley and Warhol-ian. The film won the then-nascent Critics Award - most likely for the way the director languished slowly over colorful and contemplative things-of-beauty. And I do mean things - the characters have been stripped of any real humanity, and only serve as Platonic archetypes of ideas of of people. The overly clever storyline is overwraughtly presented - all is not what it may seem - and is another indication of the navel-gazing ways of the times, and perfect for the acid generation. The sensual themes - and there are many - are rendered wooden due to the soullessness of the characters. The Alice In Wonderland atmospherics set one to eye-rolling, and one is left perplexed at the sheer audacity of the director - is this a parody? No, it is not. It is simply a movie which takes itself way too seriously. Give this one a pass, unless you're a sociologist - not of 1960's culture, but of the aspirations of its psyche. "},{"Title":"Mimes","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just saw this film. 01/15/01  Any film or play that uses mimes has dug itself a very large hole.  The rest of film is more in the same mood, i.e., the director kept on digging.  At best (that is, granting HUGE concessions to premise of the film), this film is a mood piece, not a movie in the sense of having a story.  To which I say, who needs mood pieces. "}{"Title":"SWINGIN' 60s","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A landmark film from the 1960s, that certainly captures the feel and experimentation of that decade. The photo development 'middle' of the film is very tense and claustrophobic. The park scenes are equally good. Having said that, the film is much of a mystery. Not quite as good as the film snobs pretend it is. "},{"Title":"The monkey never learns","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After reading all the positive arty reviews of the film, this monkey decided to follow along and rent it.  No, I don't hate it, but if you want to be entertained, then don't bother.  There is absolutely no entertainment value here.  If you want to see art, go to a museum. The paintings will probably move as fast as the pace of this movie.  And if you don't care for climaxes, this is your flic, although who doesn't like a good climax?  Very boring, very useless, very annoying (why have the two naked chicks scream like that! ugh).  This monkey will now retire from any old artsy films, thank you.  Leave this one for the film school crowd.   "},{"Title":"READ THIS BEFORE YOU WATCH MOVIE!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had to watch this movie for my film class! This movie might be the most pointless, poorly filmed piece of trash since ....well I have a list, and your on it David Lynch! Anyway...not since the time when I was held captive to watch three men and a little lady have I prayed for death with such passion before this movie! This movie has no levels, no deep thought, no real plot not even a cast... it's just a guy with a camera, a director with the inability to tell a story and a bunch of assclowns on acid throwing around a tennis ball (that happens to be invisible to us, isn't that brilliant).. Oh, and did I mention the randomness of the scenes. Perhaps the time when he walks into a yard birds concert for no reason but to listen to a song, or the time he smokes a Joint with some woman and she has this random `Turrets shake thingy' once the music starts. My most favorite random scene isn't the pseudo rape with the two morons but rather the `groovy' way he dives for sh!t like telephones for instance...  I want the hour and 51 minutes that this movie wasted BACK! If you liked this movie, then face it....God hates you and wants you to kill your self! "},{"Title":"im sorry this sucks.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i hate to come on this site and read bad reviews of movies i love but im sorry this movie just sucks.  And for the comment which implied that film students are keeping this movie alive, I just have to say that I'm a film student and i thought this sucked.  My professors may like it, but i have never heard one say so.  It just sucks a lot.  Its dull and boring and if i want a movie that's just a study of a period of time there are a hundred movies out there that capture the time period, better and with far more excitement and pacing than this dull dull film.  Maybe you think I misunderstand it. No I don't I appreciate all the comments about the film which actually made me think more about whether i really liked the film or not, and I still decided that yes, it sucks.  And as for the comment about people wanting to go to the movies for a thrill ride, well yes that's what the movies are all about.  A slow paced elliptical movie can be fantastic, i.e. the films of Peter Weir and David Lynch, however, this film is not.  It just sucks. Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, Scandal, Shampoo, Easy Rider, these are great films which can document the sixties better than this boring ass piece of suckiness.  I hate it. And I always will.  Keep your finger poised on fast forward. "},{"Title":"An ideal vehicle for Siggy Freud.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A film which arrived nowhere very slowly.   I tried to follow whatever the plot was supposed to be but, there were so many muddled diversions I lost interest.   This film would be ideal for anyone studying psychiatry, they may find some logical reason as to why the film was ever made. What a waste of some excellent actors. "},{"Title":"Blowup","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From Oscar nominated director Michelangelo Antonioni, this was his first ever English language picture, and knowing the leading actor and it featuring in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die it had to be worth trying. Basically successful London photographer Thomas (David Hemmings), living in the 1960's, makes his living taking pictures of attractive young models in the latest fashions, and he also dabbles in a little of the pop music, free love (sex) and drugs culture. He feels however that his life is quite boring, and he tries to find ways to make some money out and about with his camera, and that is how he comes to meet photo subject Jane (Vanessa Redgrave). He captures her kissing a man in the park, and she is really insistent on getting the film immediately, Thomas is of course resistant. After buying himself a large propeller he feels he could use in a photo shoot, and dealing with aspiring models, The Blonde (Je T'aime Moi Non Plus singer - or moaner - Jane Birkin) and The Brunette (Gillian Hills), Thomas develops the photos. He gets a quick visit from Jane demanding the film, she even tempts him by taking her clothes off, but after a while together he just gives her a fake film reel. While developing, Thomas has spotted something in the photos that he would never have noticed on the day in the park, it looks like a body. He blows up the photos he has managed to capture, and close ups confirm he is looking at a body, so he has accidentally been photographing a murder commission. He goes to the park to confirm there is indeed a body on the grass, but he doesn't go to the police, he instead tries to get his agent Ron (Peter Bowles) as another witness. Unable to convince a drug induced Ron, Thomas returns to the park the next day, but the body is gone, and in his confusion and disappointment all he can do is watch some mimes play some invisible tennis, and he walks away. Also starring Sarah Miles as Patricia, John Castle as Patricia's artist husband Bill, Veruschka Von Lehndorff, Julian Chagrin and Claude Chagrin as Mimes. The most memorable scene for me is Hemmings photographing Miles (who walked out during production), going for many angles, and mounting her saying yes, yes, this was obviously borrowed for Austin Powers. Hemmings does really well as the smooth and inquisitive photographer, Redgrave is a good choice as the mysterious woman, and the film is full of a lot of then unseen territory, e.g. full frontal nudity, I think the could-have-been murder mystery could have had more added, but a good classic drama none the less. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Writing, Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best British Art Direction, Best British Cinematography and Best British Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best English-Language Foreign Film. It was number 88 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Good! "},{"Title":"heavy-handed, too ideological interpretation of empty capitalism","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i'm no aficionado, but i do see a bunch of movies and think that the depiction of the vacuous fashion world, swinging London, its pothead parties, was way off-the-mark, heavy-handed, not a just representation. society is set up as the straw man, if you will, to justify and explain the character deficiencies of Thomas, to locate him... Like, hey, how can you blame the guy for his existential emptiness? look at these dimwitted girls, look at how supposed authorities like editors are stoned out of their mindsbut consider, just as one example, that night club scene, where the Yardbirds are playing; there's this one shot of a girl who is just looking at her nails, as if she can't even hear the band rocking on. that's how out of it today's youth is, the director says. but that scene, that shot in particular is so framed, so fake and false, as i find that much of the scenes of the swinging society are. in fact you could say, society is framed ha ha by antonioni. even the guitarist who bams the heck out the speaker that isn't' working, is framed. framed for his guilt, by the director, of belonging to the decadent society. there is no real emotion there not because the kid isn't feeling it, but because the director refuses to look.actually, this idea of framing, now that i think of it, is a pretty handy waay of talking about this movie. because that's what Thomas does, remember, when he blows up the Vanessa Redgrave photo and draws a perfect rectangle around the part of the image in which he thinks a murderer lurks. i was sort of struck by the perfection of that rectangle when he takes his magnifying glass away. because that was bs. no one draws a rectangle that perfectly by hand. hey, i'm a stickler for detail. but its part of my point framing is what the movie is about, and the director is himself just as guilty of this ideological squaring off if you will, as thomas is of reimagining a world in which he can be something other than a voyeur, in which he may be able to take action.basically, i thought there was very little that was true or honest to people, to individuals, in this movie. because it wasn't really about people, their weaknesses or whatsoever, it was about the directors philosopjy. you want anti-heroes? true anti-heroes? go see sideways. "},{"Title":"A Museum movie, sped at just the right speed for the time, resonating brilliance today","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michelangelo Antonioni's utlimate movie, Blow Up, looks at the life of a swinging photographer, captured in a non-funny un-like Austin Powers manner, as he gets involved in a number of events, including a woman played by Vanessa Redgrave, who adds dimension in the intenseness in slow progression.  An essence is captured here as well, generated from these people's lifestyles, that is what Antonioni does more than anything; this was also seen in his 1960 work L'Avventura except that showed characters in emtpy detail and this shows them in fascinating observation.  Masterwork throughout, but not for the impatient at heart, film-buffs should find this a delicacy.  Kudos to the director and to photographer Carlo DiPalma.  A+ "},{"Title":"Horrible...A waste of time if you're looking for entertainemt","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't figure out to this day why Blowup is praised so highly by critics and audiences. Of course it has good camera shots but great camera shots alone don't make a great movie. There are 2 kinds of movie viewers 1.) The viewers who are amazed by technical efforts such as good camera angles, great camera shots, awesome special effects, etc. and thus say that a movie that has those things are classics fantastic or amazing even though the plot is awful and the film itself is completely boring or ridiculous. 2.) The viewers who are amazed by regular efforts such as great acting, good plots, splendid dialogue, etc. and thus say that a movie that has those things are classics fantastic or amazing even though there are not any wonderful camera angles or shots that will be noticed by group 1 viewers.I am part of the group 2 viewers...I enjoy those things first rather than the things mentioned in group 1. Most film professors, critics and scholars belong to group 1. Any movie that can satisfy both groups is indeed a great movie but not all movies satisfy both groups and Blowup definitely caters to group 1 viewers. To me, a movie does not mean a motion picture. To me, A movie means a moving picture...to be moved in some way whether it be a comedy, drama, or action movie. Group 1 basically sees movies as motion pictures but group 2 sees movies as moving pictures not because they move physically but because they move the viewer emotionally through laughter, sadness, eye candy action or intellect.That's why I didn't care for Blowup and Citizen Kane.  Take a stand! Which group do you belong in?? "},{"Title":"Tries to be artistic, but ends up as a boring and meaningless art film.","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  BlowupA photographer is running around looking to find something interesting to photograph other than beautiful women throwing themself at him, something which he hates. One day as he walks in the park photographing he photographs are murder without noticing, but then woman is so interested in getting the pictures back that he gets suspicious, as he investigates the pictures he notices how he apparently have photographed a murder.This movie is artistic yeah, but i think it's possible the most boring and meaningless artistic movie i have ever seen, and i'm quite a fan of unique movies that tries to stand out. This is not the case, for starters the storyline is just too slow to make it interesting, the ending is actually quite a thinker, at first i was very confused. How could it end like this?? But when i think about it the message of the movie stands quite clear with the end, but a well done ending doesn't make up for the movie in general, even though the movie have an interesting plot and a good message, it's just simply too boring.The movie could have been made as a short movie, there are simply so many scenes that could have been cut out it's offending, there are tons of scenes where we see our head character walking down the street, walking around in the park, or just generally completely pointless scenes. For example the one at the rock concert, a scene that i have no understanding what so ever for existing, it had nothing to do with the movie really, it felt to me like it was just there for the sake of being there.The directing is obviously one of the supposedly strong sides in an artistic movie like this, but it never really breaks through here, the work of the camera should have symbolized the story point a lot more than it did, actually i think the directing is quite weak on this one. The overdone scenes that lasts longer than they should makes it feel a bit like the directing is having problems with his self criticism, it should stand clear for anyone there are too many scenes in this movie that feels pointless. I could cut it down to 20 mins and still make the same point.For the acting i was pretty impressed with the convincing performance of our head character, who i never managed to figure out the name of, but he is pretty much the main essence of the movie, and he does quite a good job. Although he is actually playing a character who is a complete moron, but still a very convincing performance from him.To sum it all up. I was really disappointed at this movie, when i read the plot i thought it sounded extremely interesting, but when it all came down to an end it was just a bizarre and overdone artistic movie, that i will probably have forgotten in a while, and i don't expect to watch it again, should i even get the chance. I can't forget that it took one hour of the movie before the introduction was over and something started to happening. When the story finally got going i finally found an interest in the plot, but even after the introduction of the over and the point of no return had started, there never seemed to appear a climax, the movie went on to continue with useless and pointless scenes. And then a very sudden end that at first didn't make much end, and even though it's actually quite a good end when i look back, i still found the overall experience of the movie empty, partly boring and overdone.3/10  "}{"Title":"Drama? Mystery?","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film should be listed as an (unintentional) comedy, not a drama/mystery (of which it has neither).  This has to be one of the most pretentious and boring films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"What a sucky movie!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the plot of Blow-Up, in a nutshell 1.  Blank-eyed James Spader lookalike photographs blank-eyed models. 2.  He drives around London. 3.  He buys a propeller. 4.  He chases birdies in the park. 5.  He photographs a murder. 6.  Vanessa Redgrave comes to his apartment and takes her top off. 7.  He stares blankly at some photos. 8.  He ***** a couple of topless chicks. 9.  He drives. 10. He watches mimes play imaginary tennis.And that's it!  Just one hour, 45 minutes of this idiot staring/driving/*****ing.  And I say *****ing because I think this is the movie that inspired Austin Powers.  Blow-Up is the ultimate in pointlessness.  It makes me long for the depths of Pauly Shore.  Our entire film class just started ragging on it after about two minutes!  This movie is bad.  Bad.  Bad.  Did I say it was bad?  It's bad. "},{"Title":"Swinging London","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The celebrated issue of Time from which American culture appropriated the expression Swinging London mentioned that Michelangelo Antonioni was poking about London, preparatory to making a movie about this surfacy (or profound - take your pick) phenomenon. The result, Blow Up', is the drastic expansion of a short story about Latin American homosexuality, transmogrified into a mid-60s heterosexual romp. OK, Blow Up is a thriller. A cool thriller, in which there is less than riveting suspense as the imitation David Bailey photographer protagonist investigates a murder he might just have caught on film. A director with a surer hand on a nation's pulse, an Alfred Hitchcock somehow returned to the old soil in his golden years, might have made something of this. The Italian scenarist/helmsman and his multinational collaborators clearly haven't a clue - surely not a good start to a crime story. "},{"Title":"Classic movie - sucks big time","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Christ was this a stinker?! I watched this one in the firm conviction that this is a classic, it must be good and I secretly hoped for a Brian De Palma styled movie. Instead I got 60's far out combined with thriller-esque setting. Don't waste your time with this one, see De Palma's Blow out instead; same idea but that one is a real movie... "},{"Title":"Someone should remake this the right way","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Blowup last night for the first time. It's not a mystery/thriller, but it could have been. The murder was just a subplot, but it did leave me wanting more. It was a late 60's modern arts film with a murder thrown in. I enjoyed some of the arts scenes and the cinematography, but a lot of the scenes were unnecessary and too lengthy. Like the antiques store scene, which was pretty stupid. And you could elaborate on the female neighbor who had a guy, but loved the photographer. The two girls who come over and rip their clothes off. I liked that, the sexuality, the tension, the way he treated them like toys. I'd like to remake this the right way. Someone should remake this the right way. It has the potential to be a good movie if written well.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After watching the film Blow-Up I was shocked at the absolute joke that it was. The film is not even a comedy and yet I laughed harder than I've laughed for any film in a long time just at its sheer stupidity. There is absolutely no plot to Blow-Up whatsoever. Somehow the director managed to take a 2 minute beer commercial and make a full length feature film out of it. Amazing!!! There is no editing in this film at all. I believe that they just kept everything they shot! What is the need to show him driving around town by himself? Or staring blankly back and forth between pictures for 5 minutes? The writing was absolutely pitiful as well, I believe a 10 year old could have done better. The ending was ridiculous, what was the significance of the mimes? The film was just a jumbled disaster with absolutely nothing to gain from it. Blow-Up is a disgrace to moviemaking. "}]