[{"Title":"Unsentimental spy thriller","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The Ipcress File introduced us to Harry Palmer, the anti-James Bond. This movie is even better than the first. Both are based on novels by Len Deighton, who rivals John LeCarre as the most sophisticated thoughtful spy novelists.  Michael Caine's Palmer has a cockney accent, avoids fights, can't afford the finer things in life, has no fancy cars or technological gimmicks. What he has is the brain to figure who's triple crossing all the double crossers in Cold War Berlin's espionage underground. It helps that all the other characters underestimate him. This movie is sharp, intelligent, and unsentimental. It ranks with the very best spy movies ever made. Outstanding.  "},{"Title":"Great plot, great camera work, great characters","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I personally think that Funeral In Berlin is a great film and far better than the previous Ipcress File which generally gets the credit as the best of Len Deighton's Harry Palmer novels to make it to the big screen. Caine is excellent as the stiff but smart east end spy. The underlying suggestion that Palmer possesses the superior intellect to his privately educated 'superiors' gives the scenes for example between Palmer and Ross the added edge of annoyance on the part of Ross and frustration and arrogance born of frustration from Palmer. The hard edged 'real life'(compared to Bond) atmosphere give the film it's sense of believability through all of it's complex plot turns. The camera work is excellent with some beautifully framed scenes that have thus far not received the credit they deserve. Homolka as Stock is a particularly excellent characterisation and the whole affect of cameras and the first appearance of Stock remind me greatly of Welles introduction as Harry Lime. The whole film is very much of it's time but as such has not lost any of it's fascination. Definitely one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"Top notch thriller","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  based on Len Deighton's outstanding novel, this sequel to The Ipcress File features Michael Caine once again as the the anti-James Bond British spy, Harry Palmer. Palmer wears thick glasses, dresses in a cheap rain-coat, has a cockney-accent, and cultivates an aura of being not too bright. Of course, he is the only one who can keep track of the double-, triple-, and quadruple crosses in a Berlin where Brits, Americans, Israelis, Russians, and East Germans are all pursuing different goals. Even Palmer's superiors in the Secret Service are pursuing different goals. The plot is complex, but rewards close attention. Caine is pitch-perfect as Palmer, and spy stories just don't get any more bleak and cynical. A very superior movie.  "},{"Title":"First class and very well made","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is my favourite of the three Harry Palmer films (I don't count the 90s remake.) This film is accurately done and goes at a sensible pace &#150; however, those people looking for computerised special effects and exploding cars are watching the wrong film.The plot is really good and makes absolute sense &#150; if you follow it closely. There is also the wonderful dry wit between Palmer and his commanding officer.Palmer I didn't pick her up; she picked me up.Ross Well you'd have to say that to get it on expenses.Also, you should watch this in widescreen &#150; there are some subtle details, which are left out at the edge of the screen. Including the subtle way in which Sam first picks up Harry at the hotel. However, unlike most Spy films we are not subjected to the obligatory soft porn sequence.Listen carefully for the references to Suvorov &#150; a Russian general, part of the priceless banter between Palmer and the Russian who wants to defect.They don't make films like this anymore &#150; simply because they don't write books like this anymore. This was Len Deighton and it is first class. "},{"Title":"Top notch spy vs. spy vs. spy","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" As some other reviewers have opined, this is the best of the three Harry Palmer movies set in the '60s. Michael Caine's cavalier attitude coupled with his witty, sarcastic banter is most refreshing. All the stodgy bureaucratic types get bum-rushed by Harry Palmer's rapier tongue. His self deprecating humor, especially in some of the scenes with Samantha Steele (Eva Renzi), is refreshing, since she has the pertness and sense of humor to complement those scenes deftly. Similarly, the scenes with Col. Stock show great flashes of sarcastic wit, juxtaposed with attending to the serious Cold War business at hand.But the more serious fun is the wonderfully executed plot development, interweaving the various characters such as Johnny Vulcan, Col. Stock, Hallam, Ross (the boss), Kreutsmann, Steele, etc. into a menagerie of complicated intrigue. I'll let others offer a plot synopsis I'll just say the film keeps you guessing and wondering throughout its hour and forty-five minutes. The overall style of mixing mordant anti-establishment humor and complicated intrigue reminds me of a later film, The Russia House, with Sean Connery, an equally satisfying Cold War drama.The only knock I have on this film is the sometimes obtrusive sound track, where the trumpets blare much too loudly to proclaim a given dramatic occurrence. Could have been done a little more tastefully. All in all, a must see for Cold War movie fans! "},{"Title":" Admit it Russian, . . .  I scared you ?","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" There are a number of interesting spy novels involving British Agents, which were written by Len Deighton, but the most popular ones involves international spy Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) . That is because unlike 007, Harry is a 'thinking man's James Bond.' If you watch the movie, you'll see the reason for such a statement. Take for instance this offering  A Funeral in Berlin  is the tale of spy vs spy. During the era of the Cold War, each side (East and West) was endeavoring to gain an upper hand in the war of intrigue. The Berlin Wall or Iron Curtain separated Germany and each side sought to exploit the other side's weaknesses. Many East Germans were seeking to cross the 'wall' any way they could. To fail meant death. Harry Palmer is sent by his boss, Col. Ross (Guy Doleman) on what Harry believes is a fool's errand. A high ranking Russian Official, Colonel Stok KGB (Oskar Homolka) seeks to defect and needs Harry's help. His German friend, Johnny Vulkan (Paul Hubschmid) reassures harry of his mission as does Eva Renzi (Samantha Steel) an Isreali spy. All seems above board, but Harry is no fool and takes precautions to insure his own life. What transpires is nothing short of fine drama and the result is the foundation for Classic status. **** "},{"Title":"Funeral in Berlin- The best of the 3 'Harry Palmer' films","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Funeral in Berlin, in my view, remains the best of the 3 Harry palmer films. Dispensing with the mandatory 60's 'brainwashing'and over-played 'spy' sequences of the Ipcress file. Funeral in Berlin benefits greatly from being shot on location, adding to the authenticity and nervy cold war tension of the original novel. (Actually at least 2 other sub-plots are ditched to save on running time & viewer brain fatigue)The plot, although condensed, remains coherent and totally logical. For anyone wanting explosions, car chases and all the other dreary staples of the 'spy thriller' - forget it. Harry Palmer travels to see his boss on a bus and only receives a gun (at his request) over half way through the film! Watch it for atmosphere, razor-sharp dialogue and a great in-joke regarding Lownbrau beer... Michael Caine is at his world-weary best and supported by a fine cast, all adding to arguably the most 'authentic' spy film of the 60's. as for Billion dollar brain- Have you ever seen it? Listen to the theme tune & turn off!! "},{"Title":"Under-rated Caine/Deighton mystery","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Though arguably not as cohesive as The Ipcress File, Funeral in Berlin still stands head and shoulders above the average 60s spy movie.  The pacing could be tighter, the adaptation of Deighton's exemplary novel - one of his best - could be a little more fluid but generally the thing works well.For fans of the novels this is perhaps the most interesting of the three movies. Ipcress is a fascinating spin on the its novel's central theme, Brain is an awful adaptation of a lack-lustre book but Funeral in Berlin sticks to the original story pretty firmly until it turns on you with a very groovy twist indeed.  "},{"Title":"Perfect  Sunday afternoon pot-boiler material.","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Reluctant spy and disgraced army sergeant Harry Palmer gets sent to Berlin to encounter a Russian general that says he wants to defect - but does he? The success (and continued success) of the Ipcress Files lead to this very solid and very good (if complicated) follow-up which seems Palmer (Michael Caine in his too-cool-for-school best form) back in a cheap raincoat and dowdy clothes on a mission that he seems sure he is going to regret. Indeed he makes clear that only being on probation (still?) causes him to go on it in the first place.The use of the real Berlin and the performance of Caine and Oskar Homolka (as Colonel Stok) keeps this film going as the plot is rather too thick for my liking.I am not someone that wants to do this much thinking with my fluff - but I caught most of it or at least the main parts. Couldn't be sure totally who the lesser characters were in bed with though or even if it was not each other.When the series returned with The Billion Dollar Brain it had got past its sell-by date and seemed to almost parody what had gone before. Like all things it has hard to judge when you have gone too far before you actually have.As a footnote Howard Hughes used to watch this film over-and-over again (as many as three times a day) when locked in his own self-made lunatic asylum. Did the film drive him mad or help drive him mad. We will never know. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best '60s Spy Flick","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Questionably the best Spy Film From the '60s, undoubtedly the best of the Harry Palmer Series. Michael Caine is convincing as the reluctant hero who is only there through obligation and not pride and as a result is more believable than Bond.  "}{"Title":"The Best Of It's Kind","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Funeral in Berlin is to my mind the best spy-agent film of its kind! The film is even more appreciated if you have visited or lived in Berlin prior to 1989. I lived in West Berlin through most of 1967 and often went through Checkpoint Charlie to visit various parts of East Berlin. There was a tremendous atmosphere in West Berlin, a special buzz, an excitement, probably due to the Allied sectors being well inside the Soviet zone.Crossing the white line at Charlie for the first time was rather daunting. Border guards would train their binoculars on you and the reception received from the Vopos who were in charge of passport admin was cold.Watching Funeral in Berlin takes me back to 1967, I notice Kranzlers café on the Ku'damm where I often took coffee, the Bristol Kempinski Hotel off the Ku'damm where I lived for 3 months, the Europa Centre next to the Kaiser Willhelm Memorial Church, and of course the Mercedes insignia.If you want to know more about the Berlin Wall read the excellent Christopher Hilton book The Wall THe Peoples Story. "},{"Title":"Probably the best cold war film ever","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Second of Len Deightons's Harry Palmer trilogy 'Funeral In Berlin' Stands head and shoulders above nearly all spy thrillers ever made. Michael Caine is at his best, funny and brooding in turn. The supporting cast are brilliant, with an outstanding Oskar Holmolka working his genius as the Russian Colonel Stok.What the film does best is capture the tension and complicated nature of the cold war. Some people may complain about the complexity of the storyline, but Deighton researched his books to the finest detail and this is as near as how it ever came to be on film. The only film to come close in modern times is The Good ShepardThe look of the movie is completely stunning and the soundtrack is perfectionOften the best work will come out when there is little or no expectation- Take Marvin Gayes Whats going on Album. This movie has that same relaxed air of confidence.I cannot praise this film highly enough- I have serched high and low (Third man, The spy who came in, etc..) and i honestly cannot find its equal- 11/10After many, many viewings, it continues to shineEnjoy "},{"Title":"Buried too deep","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" During the Cold War, the real Berlin Wall provided a bizarre backdrop, and a prop that was more outlandish than any writer of fiction could ever have created. For nearly five decades, many a spy movie was set in its shadow including this laboured follow-up to The Ipcress File.The films based on Len Deighton's Harry Palmer books introduced a different kind of secret agent. As portrayed by Michael Caine, Palmer is very low rent indeed. With his Cockney accent, bland expressions and dark rimmed glasses, he is anything but glamorous. Cynical about everything, especially his superiors, he is more often than not strapped for cash &#x96; no roulette or chemin de fer for Palmer. Caine eliminated almost any kind of animation from his performance and seems to have modelled his character on an accountant or perhaps a health inspector.All cold war spy films involve double-dealing and double-crossing, and are often hard to follow. However, there is so much switching around and changing sides in Funeral in Berlin that I doubt if even the people who made the film knew what was going on.The story involves Palmer's attempts to help Colonel Stok (Oskar Homolka), a prominent Russian counter intelligence chief to defect to the West. Palmer poses as a lingerie salesman to infiltrate into East Berlin assisted by Johnny Vulkan (Paul Hubschmid) who runs a lingerie business as a cover for his espionage activities.The East German Police, Nazi war criminals, the KGB, the British Secret Service, and Israel's Mossad all find a place in the plot.Eventually, it becomes evident that Johnny Vulkan is the object of much of their attention. He is revealed as an unscrupulous war criminal who was involved in the extortion of millions of dollars from the Jews during the war.Macintosh raincoats are de rigueur for all the characters in Funeral in Berlin, and nobody is what they seem. Finally, the impenetrable plot plays out after much crunching around in bombed-out buildings.At the film's end, Harry Palmer stands before his controlling officer, Ross (Guy Dolman), totally disillusioned at the turn of events. He voices his displeasure at being used as a pawn throughout and stalks off in disgust.Palmer's long-suffering and stoic attitude is the glue that holds all these overcooked elements together. He brings to the role many of the characteristics from Alfie, which was also made around this time. With that said, Caine's Harry Palmer seems so relentlessly unenergetic that it comes as a surprise when he is involved in a love scene or lashes out with his fists &#x96; one just can't picture him working out enough to stay in shape for this kind of activity.The film has authenticity; much of it filmed on location in Berlin and near The Wall. There is even a sequence shot in a Berlin transvestite bar. The film's failings are not with its production values but rather with its plot of too many twists and credibility gaps.Funeral is not as effective as The Ipcress File and is not as flashy as Billion Dollar Brain, which reintroduced many of the same characters. However, all the films seem rather dated now with Funeral in Berlin particularly so. In the end, they seem driven merely by the whims of the filmmakers rather than by the credible motivations of real people. "},{"Title":"Solid most of the way, but loses its focus towards the end","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" While it's not the equal of its predecessor, The Ipcress File, Funeral In Berlin is still a must-see for Michael Caine fans as well as old-school spy movie fans. Berlin (and London) on-location shooting, Otto Heller's expert cinematography and Konrad Elfers' classic score give the film just the right look and feel of authenticity, while Michael Caine's dry wit is at its highest (Escaped? They probably paid him to leave!). However, the last half-hour is not as riveting as the rest of the film, as it switches focus from the main plot of a Russian colonel who wants to defect to the West to the less interesting plot of an ex-Nazi war criminal with an enormous Swiss bank account that everyone wants to get their hands on. In my opinion, that switch is the reason Funeral In Berlin is not quite as good as The Ipcress File. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"A smart, very exciting spy thriller...","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A smart spy thriller with Michael Caine as the resourceful (albiet occasionally inept) Harry Palmer. Assigned to smuggle high ranking Russian Oskar Homolka out of East Berlin, Palmer finds himself waist deep in a game of double & triple cross. Sexy Isreali agent Eva Renzi gives him a real run for his money as does creepy Günter Meisner (as a ruthless expert in helping people defect to the West). Grounding the film in much more reality than a typical Bond thriller, classy director Guy Hamilton keeps a very complicated plot moving at a really brisk pace. Caine is excellent as the reluctant hero and Renzi is dynamite. Homolka (who also pops up later in BILLION DOLLAR BRAIN) makes a terrific comic foil for Caine. The great music score is by Konrad Elfers and the cinematography is by Otto Heller, who worked on everything from Hammer thrillers to Michael Powell's PEEPING TOM. "},{"Title":"Takes one back to the cold war days","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I picked up this movie from one of the remote corners of the DVD shop. What attracted me was the picture of Caine stooping against a wall. Even after buying it, I kept the box unopened in my table for a couple of weeks. Suddenlt, yesterday it was raining, and I decided to see it. I was blown away! From the first escape sequence, I was taken back to the days of the cold war, to the rivalry, the brutal undercover violence, and all in the backdrop of post WWII Europe. The scenes are so good, the dialogs perfect. Caine is sublime as the British agent. The surprises in the movie have been delivered with an artists's touch. I wonder why we no longer make movies like this. A wonder too, how they were able to make movies like this without all the gadgets and technology that we have today. Maybe because they didn't, they could. It is a very enjoyable movie, almost making you wish the cold war wasn't over. . . . "},{"Title":"Not the Ipcress File...","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I think it's best to appreciate this Harry Palmer adventure on it's own merits.I actually liked this film better than Billion Dollar Brain and I think the story holds up better than both BDB and Ipcress File because there's no wacky hi-tech props to get in the way.Not that I mind the often outlandish gizmos and such of spy-films like these and the Bond-genre. It's just that I found myself engrossed in the story and not distracted by how dated the techno props look decades later.I also think that this film let's you explore more about Harry's relationship with the job. Especially his dilemma of doing the right thing versus serving his own self-interest. It's not a black and white matter.I'm happy that this film finally got released on DVD. "},{"Title":"The name's Palmer, Harry Palmer","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" At first glance you'd never guess this movie was produced by Harry Saltzmann, the co-producer of that other spy series. (James something-or-other......oh well, it'll come back to me.) This movie has no car chases, nifty gadgets, few ladies and a unrelentingly glum look. Still, i'd trade in all post-Connery-Bonds (that's the one!) for this low-key but effective Cold War thriller. Basically, Bond is for kids, Palmer for adults, who can deal with a plot that makes sense without resorting to cheap gags and exploding helicopters. Caine is pitch perfect as the cynical but loyal Palmer, who always looks after number One but still gets the job done. Do his superiors appreciate him? Do they heck! Ain't that almost like in real life? "},{"Title":"A disillusioned communist revolutionary turned apparatchik asks Brit agent Palmer to help him defect.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I enjoy these Harry Palmer movies not because of the action, of which there is little, but because of the characterizations, ideas and little-known facts you can pick up. I saw the film 40 years ago on its initial release although I did see snippets of it again on its TV runs in the '80s. Time has dimmed my memory of its details but not my appreciation. I empathized completely with Col. Stok when he clarified to Palmer that although he wanted to defect he was not a traitor and that the revolution remains the great romance of his life. Was it Albert Camus who said that if you are not a socialist at 18, then you have no heart. But if you are still a socialist at 28, then you have no brain? It was easy to imagine Stok's alleged discomfiture with the Soviet state. After all, he obviously knew well the illogical brutalities of the Stalin regime and the opportunism of party apparatchiks from then on to the Krushchev and Brezhnev eras. Of course at this point of the movie, I did not know he was just leading Harry on and that his intention was to ferret out those ingenious smugglers of Soviet bloc defectors to the West through the Berlin wall. Vulcan, the other agent sent to assist Palmer in smuggling out Stok as a corpse in a coffin turns out to be a double agent with a Nazi past. This reminds me of The Spy Who came in from the Cold where the East Germans had in their spy apparatus a war criminal, a Nazi who was also doubling as a mole for the West. This is why the Cold War and the proxy wars between the capitalist West and the communist East left me...well, cold to both their ideologies and agenda. Both sides played dirty.I carefully noted that scene when Caine and his conspirators in the scheme to smuggle Stok entered communist East Berlin. The east Berliners in the car got arrested while the West German was let through. It seemed that at the time, West Germans were free to get in and out of the communist controlled zone but not East and West Berliners. To explain The Russians were the ones who captured Berlin in WWII but under the terms of the Yalta agreement, the capital of Germany was to be occupied and administered jointly by the allies with each power controlling its own zone. Nevertheless, it must be kept in mind that the whole of Berlin was deep in the former German Democratic Republic East Germany). That's why Kennedy had to order an airlift of essential supplies for the Western controlled portion of the city when Krushchev tried to starve out West Berlin by closing land access to it from the West. Confused? I am too. but this film helped clarify these matters to me. "},{"Title":"No funeral","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Occasionally stilted and some what anti-climatic spy yarn still has it's moments, mostly provided by a top script. Second half is puzzling at times. Why does Palmer go to so much trouble in preventing Vulkan from going over the wall to the east when earlier he tells him he wants him to disappear? And why did he hold on to the Blume documents if this too would prevent him from ridding himself of the thorny task set him by Ross? Perhaps he had more integrity in doing his job than his laconic style first suggested. Over-all, above average commercial fodder. "}{"Title":"Cold War thriller","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" About me I'm 44 old male, so I watched a lot of movies in my lifetime.Story-Line British agent Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) is dispatched to Berlin to get the real story when a Russian intelligence colonel is reported to be anxious to defect. About the Movie The global success of the James Bond franchise spawned a million imitators, ranging from the sublime to the silly. The Harry Palmer trilogy, featuring The Ipcress File, Funeral in Berlin, and Billion Dollar Brain, were arguably the best of the lot and a close runner-up to Bond himself. Anyhow, Funeral in Berlin provides an interesting view of postwar Berlin. The movie is filled with oddball characters. Caine is as irrepressible and incorrigible as ever in the role of Palmer, matched by Oscar Homolka as the would-be defector in one of the veteran actor's best performances. The result is a film that demonstrates a narrative depth most of the James Bond films lack. It also helps that the picture was directed by Guy Hamilton, a four- film veteran of the Bond series who knows the genre inside-out and realizes what areas could use a little freshening up.Verdict The real charm of this movie lies in Michael Caine's performance as Harry Palmer and in a weird little character quirk written into the script. You may not believe everything agent Harry Palmer does, but you won't feel your intelligence was insulted.Rating 7- ('cos I like spy movies)Favorite quote Samantha Steel My name is Samantha Steel. Some people call me Sam.Harry Palmer Edmund Dorf. Some people call me Edna. "},{"Title":"Michael Caine assigned to a Berlin defection","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I watched Funeral in Berlin (1966) again last night, and it was better than ever. I was really impressed by the cinematography of Otto Heller in conjunction with the direction of Guy Hamilton. This is a beautiful looking film in darker colors with excellent framing of shots. The cast is very smooth, with an impressive list of professionals on hand. The Cold War spy story is still fresh.It would be hard to single out any one actor, because all project their characters so well from a script that sharply delineates characters so well. Evan Jones wrote the screenplay from the novel by Len Deighton. The pacing of the movie is very skilled.Clearly a spy story, it is also has noir characteristics. It is replete with subterfuge, hidden plans, double crosses, and manipulation. The Harry Palmer character corresponds to the lone detective. However, he aims to outwit others and not be outwitted, and this is even more noir than coming into the battle for the sake of some internal moral compass or obligation. Fate doesn't determine outcomes in this movie. They depend on the clashes between strong-willed people with individual agendas. "},{"Title":"More trouble with Harry","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Second outing for Len Deighton's agent Harry Palmer, with Michael Caine reprising his role from The Ipcress File in another convoluted spy yarn set, obviously in Berlin marrying the then topical subjects of East-West defections and Nazi-hunting in another tense, Cold War thriller.As you'd expect, everyone, apart from Harry and his taciturn boss Ross, isn't who they seem but as before, our bespectacled, rain-coated hero manages to get ahead of the game by the end, with the usual trail of dead bodies in his wake.Atmospherically shot in location in West Berlin, Funeral In Berlin might lack the in-vogue 60's brain-washing gimmickry of its predecessor and that film's nail-biting (or should that be hand-gouging) conclusion, but its emphasis on realism works to its advantage. Cleverly directed by erstwhile Bond director Guy Hamilton, even the Palmer-girl gets to keep her clothes on and there are of course no Q-type gadgets to rely on.Caine is, as before, very good in what may be his best role. Some of the other acting isn't quite up to his standard, however with veteran Oscar Hamulka in particular, serving up an overdone slice of Russian ham as the Eastern general. Guy Hamilton directs in a cool, assured, anti-Bond and therefore highly effective style.Less well-known than The Ipcress File, but I think it's superior, Funeral In Berlin was probably the best of the three Harry Palmer films and stands out itself as one of the best spy-thrillers of its era. "},{"Title":"Sequel to The Ipcress File","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Harry Palmer (Michael Caine) is a British agent who was essentially drafted into his line of work due to some misconduct on his part while serving in the army. So when a top Russian officer named Colonel Stok (Oscar Homolka) secretly announces his decision to defect Harry is sent to East Berlin to facilitate his escape. Unfortunately, his mission becomes a bit more difficult when he discovers that an Israeli spy named Samantha Steel (Eva Renzi) has another assignment that parallels yet conflicts with his own. In essence things get quite complicated as the story progresses. Now, as far as this movie is concerned I must admit that it managed to hold my attention pretty much from start to finish as the story successfully meandered from one situation to the next. I especially liked the performance of Michael Caine who seemed tailor-made for this role. Likewise, the appearance of Eva Renzi certainly didn't hurt the scenery in any way. In any case, I enjoyed this movie and rate it rate as above average. "},{"Title":"First rate and surprisingly multi-layered","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" First of all, I really don't buy the realistic spy reputation that Len Deighton's Harry Palmer stories have won. For that, try John Le Carre. Although Palmer is a down-to-earth creation, all 3 filmed stories take off into rather more far-fetched narratives pretty early on.That said, this middle film of the 3 offers a really tight plot, with no noticeable holes (as far as I can see) - even though some have found the shift from bogus defection (in fact a Russian plot to eliminate a German organisation that has staged various such missions) to German war criminal attempting to lay his hands on a Swiss bank account, a tad disconcerting. The film always keeps the watcher on his toes - and a brief moment of exposition from Caine just after the titular Funeral is vital.Despite his dubious employment of local criminals to provide housebreaking and forgery services, Caine's Palmer provides a vital moral centre while the people he comes across - even the amoral Ross - weave their own agenda's around him.While stylistically this film may have dated somewhat, its performances and razor-sharp story make it a cut above many films from the same era, and it's colour photography and sardonic wit make it an easier watch than the equally impressive, but altogether more grim, the Spy who came in from the Cold. "},{"Title":"Underrated.","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is the second in a series of Harry Palmer films taken from the novels of Len Deighton. I am not sure how closely these stories follow the novels, but I was very impressed at just how seemingly ordinary Palmer (Michael Caine) is in this film. He is VERY clever....but otherwise seems just like a regular guy. He wears nerdy glasses, talks like a normal guy and is not a 100% perfect spy like James Bond! No, this character is one I could believe to be real and can't dodge 1000 bullets! While I preferred the first film (The Ipcress File), Funeral in Berlin is awfully good as well. My only complaint is that the plot is a bit confusing--keeping track of everyone and all the subplots isn't always easy. But I love the realistic touches. In one example, a gorgeous woman practically throws himself at him--and he immediately knows something is amiss, as a woman like this should NEVER come on to a guy like him! In another, he's ordered to kill someone...but can't! I would tell you more about the movie but it might spoil it. Suffice to say that it's tense, well-written and doesn't insult the audience with gadgetry. Very enjoyable despite having a mediocre IMDb rating of only 6.8.By the way, if one of the characters ('Kreutzman' played by Günter Meisner) looks familiar, it's because a few years later he played Slugworth in Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory. "},{"Title":"A delight to watch, but complicated","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In Funeral in Berlin (1966) Harry Palmer's being sent to Berlin to aid a defecting Russian corporal. Harry Palmer has no passion whatsoever in his job. The only thing he likes is being kidnapped by a female agent of another secret service, and he doesn't bother at all with his own safety. He's an insult to his profession.The film is a delight to watch, in the first place thanks to Michael Caine, who already played Harry Palmer a year before in The Ipcress File, a perhaps even more enjoyable film. This role of a sarcastic, unconventional, semi-criminal spy fits him like a glove. Maybe because this character is rooted in Caine's core-character Alfie (also from '66).It's a bit of a shame that the story is so overly complicated. You regularly scratch your head in disbelief. Who betrays who? Hardly to understand. But what do we expect otherwise from Desmond Bagley, who wrote novels faster than his shadow? "},{"Title":"The cast, the dialogue, and that 60s feeling make up for some idiotic plot-points.","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Things should be fairly unpredictable in a spy thriller, at least to a solid extent, but some things were completely foreseeable in FIB. For example, having Caine, the film's lead character and hero, be so extremely suspicious of Stock's real motives made me convinced that he did indeed have other motives, because it would be absurd to make the movie's hero turn out to be a paranoid fool with bad instincts.The second predictable thing, hence mistake when preparing the outline of the script, was the Russian insisting on Kreutzmann to be the organizer of the phony escape. From the moment he asked Caine to use him, it became obvious that this Russian, who is guarding the border, wants to kill Kreutzmann, and that's what this was all going to be about, which is why the appearance of Kreutzmann as a corpse wasn't surprising at all. Which begs the question could British secret service really be THAT daft? A top-level Russian Bolshevik who works on KILLING anyone who tries to escape into West Berlin, decides to tell MI5 that he wants to defect, yet the Brits are so gullible they don't even smell a rat when the Russian asks for Kreutzmann to be involved. Does it really make sense to anyone with a smidgen of common sense that the guy in charge of the Berlin Wall would possibly want to defect himself? That would be too daft, even for an spy/adventure yarn.I do also have a bit of an issue with the writers making the Russian out to be such a lovable character almost. No man who had ever held his post was even remotely likable or normal. Communists used psychopathic sadists to work there, not jolly old cheery men who were being jovial every 5 seconds.Aside from this nonsense, FIB is a charming little 60s flick, colourful, entertaining and fast-paced. "},{"Title":"Why all the hate?","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Sure it's long and dreary and doesn't always make much sense and it's very set in its era, but it's still an entertaining piece, thanks in no small part to Michael Caine as Harry Palmer.This one has him undertaking a Russian's desire to cross over the Berlin wall legally, and discovers a dark secret about an alleged friend. Film is something of an intellectual morality tale as Palmer deals with being ordered to kill a man in cold blood and the other various cloak and dagger techniques that come up in the world of spies, along with the whole right to identity argument.Eva Renzi (Caine's lover) and Paul Hubschmid (Caine's friend) were later married in real life for a while.All sorts of dry British humor abound. "},{"Title":"Poor sound quality hurts narrative","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Thrillers are often very detailed, cerebral, and slow-paced. This film proves no exception, but does not deliver the taught sense of peril that creates the payoff for this style of film. Part of the problem is the sound. The dialog sounds hollow and detached, so the story feels flat and unengaging. The characters don't seem like they are invested in their lines and the sync is imperfect and distracting. Another problem I had is the silly womanizing. This film is not sure if it wants to be Alfie, or Ipcress File. It's serious and foreboding and then has Harry (the main character) blatantly ogling some girl who is fake-ogling him back, as though any chick other than a hooker would act that way. But it's not played for cute-ness as in the Bond films. "}{"Title":"Grave Mistake","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Guy goes in a Diner and says give me bacon, egg and mushrooms. The counterman says we're out of mushrooms, the guy says, okay, give me bacon, egg and mushrooms without the mushrooms. There are grounds for thinking the customer was producer Harry Saltzman, who hired director Guy Hamilton and said, shoot me a thriller without the thrills, so Hamilton did and the result is Funeral In Berlin. Several people here seem to be labouring under the impression that this is not only a good movie but also the best of all the Harry Palmer movies, if that is the case I'd hate to see the other two. What it is essentially is Michael Caine being insubordinate in between a lot of double and triple crossing in both Berlin and London. THIS is a movie? "},{"Title":"If you try to understand the plot..headache ahead..","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Guy Goldfinger Hamilton did a better job,in my humble opinion,than Sidney J.furie in the icpress file which featured Michael Caine in his first Harry Palmer movie.This latter movie made me yawn my head off and I left before the end.Funeral in Berlin is nervier-everything is relative!- and Guy Hamilton took advantage of the location his movie is a lot more palatable than Furie's .The problem lies in the plotit's really a mess where ,any old how,you find a Russian who wants to fly west ,a nazi who stole a lot of dough from the Jews,a handsome man who is not what he claims to be,a gorgeous girl who naturally has got something to hide,actually nothing new under Berlin's sun.The spy who came in from the cold (Martin Ritt,1965) had also a labyrinthine story,but its bleak black and white cinematography,its miserable hero -who was not a hero as Palmer is he was mortal-and its top notch cast -Claire Bloom,Richard Burton,Peter Van Eyck,Oskar Werner-easily made up for it.Main interest is Berlin before die Mauer muss weg.Hamilton has a good sense of space,which will emerge again in Goldfinger ,even if James Bond and Harry Palmer are worlds apart. "},{"Title":"Dont watch it! Bury it!","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The weakest of the three Harry Palmer movies the best being Billion Dollar Brain.This one lacks the style of the Ipcress File and the ingenuity of BDB. Like me you may well fall asleep before the end. It is standard spy fare at best and the confusing plot irritates.Don't watch it! Bury it! "}]