[{"Title":"One of the greatest thrillers ever made, and one of the most overlooked American movies of the 1960s.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"99 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You could make a strong case for the late John Frankenheimer being the most unappreciated American film director of all time simply by mentioning his two astonishing 1960s movies 'The Manchurian Candidate' and 'Seconds'. Frankenheimer made many others movies both good and not so good, but these two are amazing pieces of work and rarely get the praise they deserve. 'Seconds' is one of the greatest thrillers ever made. Intelligent, complex, and extremely depressing. It doesn't talk down to its audience and perhaps this is the reason why it was a box office flop and is still all but ignored today. Rock Hudson isn't an actor with much credibility to most film fans but he is brilliant in this film in easily his most powerful and believable performance ever. The rest of the supporting cast are excellent, especially the underrated character actors John Randolph ('Serpico'), Will Geer (TV's 'The Waltons') and Jeff Corey ('Mickey One'). 'Seconds' is a minor masterpiece. A very disturbing story with an unforgettable climax. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Seconds  a realistic tale of suffocating paranoia","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"83 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Seconds is a fascinating and engrossing realistic fantasy tale  that deals with the question of the identity and above all,  the exploration of madness symbolized by the search of material happiness and the search of eternal youth  which leads to the most claustrophobic fate. Please be yourself ! can be the warning of this film. The innovative and the post-expressionist cinematography of James Wong Howe (the use of the 9.7 mm fish-eye lens, extreme chiaroscuro, tilted low angle shots, hand-held camera shots) combined with the stylish graphic work of Saul Bass and a cold, taut and harsh music of Jerry Goldsmith makes it like a Faustian tragedy with a Kafkaesque approach. The whole film is about distortion. The twisted vision of the main character trapped in his own nightmarish world, full of re-borns and employees. But the real nightmare is the dreary routine of his existence. For instance, the scene of the train when Arthur Hamilton is reading his newspaper and feels suddenly sick with his life. We see very short shots of the train window and his sad face. The more oppressive scenes are silent just extreme close-ups of faces. Perhaps, the best film directed by John Frankenheimer and the best paranoiac film ever created. Classic is a weak word to define this masterpiece of modern terror. Seconds is the last film of the John Frankenheimer's paranoiac trilogy, without forgetting  The Manchurian Candidate and Seven days in may.  "},{"Title":"Depressing as they get","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"65 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph) is a middle-aged man. He has a nothing job and feels he has no purpose or direction in life. He can't even make love to his wife anymore. He is offered a new life by the Company--a secret organization. They will kill off Arthur and give him a new face, a new body and a new identity. He comes back as Tony Wilson (Rock Hudson). However, can he be happy in his new life?Exceptional black and white cinematography by James Wong Howe; great direction by John Frankenheimer (all the extreme closeups and off kilter camera angles keep you uneasy); a perfect score by Jerry Goldsmith (the organ fits perfectly)...but this is almost unwatchable.It's VERY depressing, very downbeat and (at times) way too slow (the beginning). It's easy to see why this was a box office bomb--it's way too depressing for the average viewer. The things I mentioned above help make the film bearable as does the acting.Randolph is superb as Hamilton--you feel his pain and misery. Hudson, surprisingly, is pretty good. Sometimes he's not that good but there are certain sequences when he's exceptional--particularly at a wine party, a cocktail party (where he actually got drunk to play it realistically) and he explodes during the harrowing ending. The ending is one of the most horrific sequences I've ever seen. I felt like bolting from the theatre.A one-of-kind horror thriller. I can't say I enjoyed this, but I'll never forget it. It has a big deserved cult following. "},{"Title":"the best midlife crisis film","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"56 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Midlife crisis films are rare beasts, but everybody loves them.  Look at the success of American Beauty, probably the most stereotypical depiction of middle-class America that I've ever seen.  Quite shallow in its way, Beauty was a hit because of its subject matter - it tackled some taboos and had the nerve to portray the problems of ordinary people.  But you know what - it had been done before, and better, here.Seconds is the story of a middle-aged banker who undergoes surgery to become - this part is really a gas - Rock Hudson!  He's given an outlet to escape from his loveless family life and tedious job, and he becomes a swinging painter/playboy with a beautiful house on the coast.  Of course, he soon finds that good looks and money are no substitute for what he really wants - some kind of genuine intimacy in his life.Is this message a bit too predictable?  Oh, I dunno - we all seem to agree that the pursuit of wealth is an empty one, yet we indulge in it all the same.  The social problems explored in Seconds are still very much with us, and our awareness of these problems certainly hasn't solved them.  The film ultimately acts as a powerful, sobering reminder that most of us aren't doing what we really want to do.  Plenty of great style on display here from director Frankenheimer.  There's a wonderful wobbly camera drunk scene that is so realistic, you'll feel as though you've been hitting the bottle yourself.  There's also consistent effective use of point-of-view shots and unusual angles.  In terms of subject matter and directorial flair, this film is incredibly innovative...it's taken years for us to catch up to this kind of material, and yet we still haven't topped it.  Definitely in my top twenty. "},{"Title":"Where do I sign up?","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"37 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS.The director, the late John Frankenheimer, once commented that the problem with this movie is that it doesn't have a middle act, and he's right.The beginning and the end are gripping, in a Twilight Zone kind of way. The use of fish-eye lenses, although sometimes excessive, helps lend a surreal quality to the proceedings, which is apt.Here we have John Randolph, a nonentity, with a face that has all the appeal of a hard-boiled egg. He's converted into Rock Hudson, which is a considerable improvement, in appearance anyway. But both the organization and Hudson have botched it. Under hypnosis Rock has revealed that maybe his true desire is to be a painter, an artist.He winds up at a very nice beach house in Malibu, with an understanding servant, a studio with all the amenities, and Salome Jens as a woman he picks up on the beach. Not bad, eh? And all this for a mere $30,000. (The house alone would run 30 or 40 times that much now.)Well, to tell the truth, Rock seems a little unhappy in his new life. He dabs perfunctorily at his canvas. He doesn't smile much. He doesn't seem to be having a good time.So far, so good, but then we enter the befouled middle act. Salome Jens hustles him off to a Saturnalian bacchanal in the forest. Everybody gets drunk, strips, plays musical instruments, and dances around in a vat full of grapes. Rock is at first repelled but is dragged into the vat anyway and gets drunk and ecstatically happy.Fine, right? But then later, Rock is urged to give a party for his neighbors, all of whom turn out to be retreads like himself. Rock begins to drink cocktails and gets loaded. But what is the reaction of his guests? This time it's disgust. Jens cautions him to take it easy on the booze, but why? It's the only time we see him happy, and what's so worrisome about being drunk at a party where everyone else is drinking too? Disgust turns to a deeper concern when Rock begins making allusions to his previous life. He's a Harvard graduate and you can't keep them down. Finally he realizes that he's not really made out for this kind of life, for reasons never made entirely clear. Well, not made clear at all. Not even explored in the dialogue. Was his dream of being a painter just a childhood fantasy, like wanting to be an astronaut? What is the source of his dissatisfaction? There is a good scene in which he visits his wife, who now believes her husband to have died in a fire. He asks about some watercolors he'd done in his previous life and discovers that they were thrown out. No question about his original identity having been dismal.So he complains to the organization that he wants yet ANOTHER identity. The very sensible and reassuring Will Geer handles him and tells him that everything is fine and they'll re-do him. Geer, in a perfect performance, doesn't tell him that a second renovation involves his death. Rock will provide a cadaver as a substitute for a new guy entering the program. Nothing is more scary than the doctors, having strapped Rock down, lowering a bone drill onto his skull behind the ear. How does Rock perform? Pretty well. It's certainly his best dramatic role.And the supporting cast is flawless. The logic behind the middle of the story is its greatest weakness. The rest is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Abre los ojos,thirty years ago.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some movies which failed when they were released became sleepers ,and in the case of seconds quite rightly so.It predates Abre los ojos (and thus Vanilla Sky so to speak) by 30 years !Carnival of souls did the same for Jacob's ladder and the sixth sense.Those two works did morethey invented what we call the indie cinema and David Lynch's first -and best- two works owe them a great deal.By far Rock Hudson's best performance -with the eventual exception of ,in a diametrically opposite style, all that Heaven allows-,seconds is what we can call a movie ahead of its time.The weakness some users are complaining of -the lack of psychological depth - is intentional;and if some sequences may seem long,this length inspires their vital nightmarish side -the drunken revel ,the bacchanalian dance are so unexpected that they pack a real wallop.The camera uses disturbing angles and Frankenheimer does not need a ton of special effects to exude pure primal fear.This movie ,the Mandchurian candidate and Birdman of Alcatraz are enough to make Frankenheimer go down in History of seventh art. "},{"Title":"Unnerving and Claustrophobic","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SECONDS decries the dehumanization of the middle class.  The protagonist is a successful banker, though successful at banking, in late middle age finds his life devoid of purpose.  Given an opportunity to completely start his life over he jumps at the chance even though it means he must die and be reborn in a new body.Filmed in black and white SECONDS has that unsettling jumpy-jangly editing and sound track I associate with 50s film noir.  It keeps the viewer off balance and out of kilter, like the banker who slides slowly, effortlessly into a more ominous dehumanized existence than the one he left.  An oddly (but successfully) cast Rock Hudson gives a great performance as the 'reborn' banker.  Recommended when in the mood for something different.  "},{"Title":"A downer to watch, but upon reflection, very rewarding...","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is so chilling & depressing to sit thru, because, from the first frame to the last, it is totally devoid of any life and human spirit. Anderson is, from the beginning, a walking dead man with no values, no real love, no meaning to his life, and he takes that with him into his rebirth. Only this is no spiritual rebirth. All poor Anderson can do now is party and get drunk in order to escape from this new reality, which is even more soulless than his original one. Character is destiny. That's why the company has so many failures. Even the Old Man can't see this. He thinks the failures are due to mistakes. It often gets categorized as a thriller, but to me it's a tragedy and a very profound one at that. It's about the tragic results of life lived without meaning, without real values, without love, without spirit. Like all real tragedy, SECONDS is cathartic. I had to go for a long walk after I saw this one. Its depiction of spiritual emptiness, though depressing to sit through, is ultimately rewarding. "},{"Title":"If   You  Had  A  Choice","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" During one's life, there comes a time when the wisdom accumulated during the early years does not serve to make a choice any easier in later life. There are not too many films which offer the viewer a choice to finish watching or not. When one is a youngster and watching a monster film, one can always run screaming from the theater if the scenes get frightening. That will be the reaction when you're watching this film. It starts easy enough when a middle-age man, John Randolph (Arthur Hamilton) decides to accept an offer to 'exchange' his given life, and trade it for a more youthful one. The transition is casual enough, but director John Frankenheimer, adroitly uses the Black and White images to lure not only the audience, but the subject into a false sense of security and tranquility. During the fantastic transformation from old John Randolph to youthful, handsome and attractive Antiochus 'Tony' Wilson, (Rock Hudson) he and the audience is gently beaconed and eased into the new, but alien life by a calm and compassionate guide, called the Old Man. (Will Geer) It's his job to ally the fears and reassure suspicions that 'everything is going to be alright.' The fact is the film is so tranquil, one hardly suspects the new life, unless the subject and the audience want to go home. John/Tony choose this option. The way back however is impossible, but only the audience is privy to it. The subject is removed from his 'second' life and given a quiet room, to collect his thoughts. It's here, the subject and the audience are once again joined by the Old Man, who will ease us not to the comfort of a New Life, but to make us aware that escape and the exit doors are twenty feet away. It's time to choose again, but you'd better hurry. The end is terrifying in it's finality. ***** "},{"Title":"A real downer","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" but that's not a bad thing. Someone on this board says they are remaking it.Will they have the courage to avoid punching up the ending so that all walk out happy? Probably not. The opening tells us something is wrong; camera angles are unsettled, and as John Randolph walks, the shots from his shoetops give us the feeling that he is moving his upper body, but not his feet. The crowds look so threatening.Btw, how many films have been set in Grand Central Station? Randolph finds his way into the office of the chief honcho, but no one appears and he wanders off down the hall, goes through double doors into a room where people sit at tables, with a monitor in the front, as if they were taking their mid-terms. No one listens to his questions. I don't know about you, but I've been there, done that before and it is frightening.The saddest scene is that of Hudson returning to his former home, to the wife who does not know that Mr. Wilson is her husband, the late Arthur Farrell. As she paints a warts-on picture of her departed hubby, Wilson sees he cannot go back, but that he hasn't changed in his new guise and thus his infatuation that somewhere, in some place, there is the character he wants to be.A truly chilling story which gives the viewer little hope, but we knew that early on, when we saw the interrogator from Manchurian Candidate serve as Wilson's guidance counselor. "}{"Title":"Even though The Manchurian Candidate has it beat for entertainment value, Seconds is overall a superior film","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seconds is the other masterpiece of Frankenheimer from the 60s, the other being The Manchurian Candidate. It manages to be even more underrated than that classic. The film was far to grim and depressing to find an audience when released, and its still unjustly ignored. This is a shame, because its one of the most stunningly original and uncompromising films to come out of Hollywood. Even though The Manchurian Candidate has it beat for entertainment value, Seconds is overall a superior film. The protagonist is fascinating and sympathetic. One of the most impressive aspects is how his personality and emotions manage to remain consistent despite being played by two different actors (John Randolph and Rock Hudson). Hudson is an actor who is considered by some to be simply a matinée idol, but occasionally he managed to turn in a good performance. This is easily his best work.One of the most effective aspects of the film is that its science fiction that is both intelligent and not implausible. Its a shame that in the post Star Wars era, mature science fiction films are a rarity. It also works as a paranoia thriller but without the dark humor and satire of The Manchurian Candidate. The only real flaw I felt was the hippie orgy scene in the middle. It stops the film dead in its track and I get the feeling its inclusion was simply to make the film more relevant. Its the only dated aspect. Outside of that blunder, this film is a masterpiece. The terrific supporting cast of character actors includes familiar faces such as Khigh Dhiegh (The Manchurian Candidate), Wesley Addy (Kiss Me Deadly), and Murray Hamilton (Jaws). (8/10) "},{"Title":"A rare bird -- a science fiction film that comments just as much on the human condition as it does technology.","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...it's difficult to review SECONDS without turning into a spoiler right away, but I'll try. From Saul Bass' opening title sequence through to the next-to-last shot, SECONDS is a perfectly-realised vision of unrelieved discomfort and anxiety. Throughout the picture, the lead character is in one circumstance after another in which he distinctly does not want to be. And yet, every step he takes to extricate himself simply leads into another disagreeable circumstance. Much of the cast certainly knew how to convey that feeling, as three of the most important roles were taken by actors (John Randolph, Jeff Corey and Will Geer) who were blacklisted during the McCarthy Era; indeed, for two of them (Geer and Randolph), this was the first major studio production they'd appeared in for fifteen years*. For many, this is a depressing film, because so much of it can be related to out of our own lives; even the plastic surgery aspect that made it science fiction in '66 is science fact in this day of Michael Jackson. And, to say the least, it's one of the few times Rock Hudson was given truly demanding material, and he rises to the occasion, giving perhaps the finest performance of his entire career...*Geer had appeared in ADVISE AND CONSENT four years previously, but that film was produced independently and distributed by Columbia. "},{"Title":"A Second Chance","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The psychological thriller has been twisted, contorted, and mangled as of late. The main attraction seems to have changed from the thrill aspect to the gross-out and disturb factor. How these movies have strayed is a testament to a new generation of filmmakers and audiences. The thirst for blood as it appears on the screen isn't what thrillers used to be. Blood was reserved for the horror movies. It used to consist of all mind games.John Frankenheimer's premise behind his classic thriller Seconds is just that a mind game. Seconds is the journey one man takes into a new life. Arthur Hamilton is a depressed, boring, and trapped individual. His life revolves around work. He has become virtually asleep at home, not saying much or doing much. His wife seems bothered by his silence at home and in the bedroom.While taking the train home from work, Arthur is given an address. What he will find there he doesn't know. That night he receives a strange phone call from his old tennis buddy who was presumed dead. He tells him to go to the address and everything would be alright. Upon arriving at the address, he is told to go to another location. From the new local he is taken by meat truck to a different location. This is where his life would change forever.Arthur is given the chance millions would kill for the chance to start a new life, a rebirth, free of all previous ties and problems. Confused and frightened at first, Arthur is reassured that the procedure is reliable and affective. The recovery process is long and difficult. The operation itself is a full body makeover, using a cadaver for physical transplants, a new voice, and even a new signature. Arthur Hamilton is transformed into Anthony Wilson. Now it is up to Wilson to change his ways and become his new self. This all leads to one of the most dramatic endings in cinema history.The film's opening sequence of credits is a thrill to watch itself. Using different, almost uncomfortable camera angles on one man's face. Throughout the film there are awkward close-ups and shots, but this is intended. It is almost like a normal person's point of view, fixed on one thing at a time, not just a scene. The lighting too is intended to have an impact on the story, throwing shadows in all directions. The shining quality of the film hands down is the cinematography. James Wong Howe, whose previous work include Hud, Sweet Smell of Success, and Yankee Doodle Dandy, goes above and beyond, making the film exciting to watch and hard to look away from. Howe uses a host of camera angles and techniques to get the emotion of the characters across. Rock Hudson as Arthur Hamilton post-operation as Wilson gives his best as the confused and altered patient. His character obviously wants to change, but he is held back just out of his sheer nature. He hasn't been capable of living life freely, no strings attached in a very long time. His performance couldn't have been better for the role. Also giving note worthy performances are John Randolph as Arthur pre-operation and Will Greer as the man at the company who convinced Arthur to proceed with the procedure once he was informed of what his intent was.Nominated for an Academy Award for Best Cinematography, Seconds breaks boundaries in film-making and storytelling. Seconds is a trailblazer, setting the mark for thrillers and what they are capable of. It is rare to find a film so moving and at the same time make you think long after the film ends. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, but dated","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Only in the 60s could a movie like this have been made. That's a statement I've used both as a positive and a negative. With Seconds, I'm somewhere in between.The beginning is unbearably slow. The audience is expected to deal with this massive concept, but we're saddled with a character who doesn't ask even the most obvious questions. Arthur Hamilton is given the opportunity to fake his own death, undergo plastic surgery, and start a new life. While some attempt is made to convey why he would agree to this, it still feels too easy, as if they just want to get it over with and bring on Rock Hudson as Hamilton's new self. Characters tell Arthur what he's going to do, but we don't dig much deeper into why he's being offered this opportunity.Things do improve some when Hudson arrives, but it's not really until he begins to question what his life has become that things take off. Hudson does a great job in this film, and the critical and commercial panning he took was unwarranted. There are flaws in this film, but Hudson's performance isn't one of them.By the end, we see Hudson coming to the realization that too much of his life has been spent chasing material things, a conclusion that just seems trite in view of the larger issues here. In fact, the whole concept seems underthought. Yes, these people get younger-looking bodies, but aren't they still the same age they were before? Perhaps my view's tainted, because for years I had thought this was a movie about group that made people younger, sort of a fountain of youth treatment, an idea I found interesting. After finally watching it tonight, the reality felt like sort of a letdown.Still, the film does have some genuinely disturbing moments, and the ending is chilling. It's something of an ancestor to films like `The Game', and shows like `The X-Files', with its conspiracies and shadowy concepts. It's definitely worth checking out, but I can't help but feel that there's a better film buried in here somewhere. "},{"Title":"I'll be your friend in a second, just sign here","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Every one of us has at certain points of our lives come across the question if I could do it all over again, how would I have done it? What would you do if you was able to change your identity, get the job of your dreams, and the world would not even know it? You may have asked yourself this question plenty of times. However, after viewing SECONDS, your answer would perhaps turn out a bit different. Based upon the novel by David Ely, the movie presents us to a successful banker named Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph). Middle-aged and married for several years, he lives on a nice property. Sadly, however, Hamilton's professional success is not enough to solve his dissatisfaction in himself. The marriage has produced a daughter who is by now grown up, but communication between child and parents is almost non-existent.Dog tired of boring routines and unhappiness, Hamilton suddenly faces a unique opportunity when he gets in touch with a secret organization whose profession consists of providing wealthy people a chance to, that's right, start all over again; for a certain amount of money and access to your private property, the client choose the looks, profession and every other external change he may desire, and the organization, in return, fakes your death and do the rest of the job for you. Hamilton picks the identity of handsome Tony Wilson (Rock Hudson), and decides to become a painter. As another person, Hamilton now believes to be free of all his previous troubles and is ready to begin a new life. However, things do not turn out as he expected.Many reviewers have expressed puzzlement in the fact that Hamilton --or Wilson-- remained miserable even after the operation, which frankly surprises me. I may be wrong in many things, but there is one thing here I feel convinced about the reason why Hamilton did not feel any happier as Tony Wilson was because his new identity had not changed him as a person; he was his old self in an alien body. Remember that his transformation was based upon quite stereotypical wishes --a handsome face, fascinating profession, friends who express interest in your work-- and these external changes were hardly qualified to improve the internal conflict within himself.In fact, it was after the operation that he slowly began to realize that he was, in the end, fond of his family, but as is so often the case, he had not been able to understand this until he saw his previous situation in retrospect. He'd changed his surroundings, but HE still knew who he was, perhaps more than ever; which might have made it frustrating that nobody else knew. After he discovered that the apparently lovable woman he'd met at the beach simply was hired by the organization to show interest in him, he also realized that even though only a limited group of people was informed of his true self, these were enough to destroy his ability to do what he longed for.If you need confirmation from others that you're good in something to feel satisfied with yourself --which Hamilton obviously did, even as Tony Wilson-- you're not satisfied with yourself but dependent on which values others regard as important, and bases your life and behavior upon that. A person satisfied with himself finds his own values and pay attention to them instead. Hamilton had the chance, along with his wife, to be a nice husband and father, but he did not know what he wanted, or what others wanted from him. Hence he decided to be false to himself, resulting in more loneliness than ever.SECONDS was not a commercial success when released in 1966, which doesn't exactly astonish me; the film is very dark and depressing. However, that is just why it should not be ignored; it is a psychological thriller brilliantly acted, written and directed. Rock Hudson shines as Tony Wilson, but people who remember him from light bed-room comedies should be prepared for a mild shock; this actor had more potential than you'd guess. This film stands as one of the most unforgettable explorations of mid-life crisis that I've seen. "},{"Title":"Second, but not Third Chance in Life","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In Scarsdale, the bored banker Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph) is contacted by his former friend Charlie Evans that supposedly died several years ago giving information about a secret organization that offers for US$ 30,000.00 a second chance in life to wealthy people. He visits the company and they explain that they use a cadaver with the same characteristics to stage the death of the client and give a new identity after plastic surgeries with new documents. The reborn Arthur is the painter Antiochus 'Tony' Wilson (Rock Hudson) that lives in California with his butler John (Wesley Addy) that helps him in the transition. Tony meets the lonely Nora Marcus (Salome Jens) on the beach and they have a love affair. But sooner Tony realizes that his fake world does not give satisfaction to him and he returns to the company requesting another life. But the rules are not so easy to be changed.Seconds is a weird film by John Frankenheimer with potential of cult- movie. The creepy and disturbing story is quite absurd, but the screenplay never uses clichés and it is impossible to guess what will happen with the lead character. The conclusion is totally unexpected. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Segundo Rosto (The Second Face) "},{"Title":"A middle-aged man faces vanity","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I 've seen umpteen movies and i didn't expect that there are films to shock me anymore. But it is exactly what happened when i sow seconds. I cannot forgive myself for not having had seen it till now. This film is certainly an experience! How pessimist a movie can be? I think i found the measure! At the beginning of it, i thought that it was nothing more than a longer twilight zone episode. But after the first half of it, i was perfectly sure that film was going to haunt my dreams. The most vicious guys of the story, talks like an affectionate father. The dizziest scene of all seems to go on forever. The protagonist is a pure Greek Tragedy hero. How could they do it in 1966? Why can't they today? How clearly they could look into human soul! Oh, sixties! Age of art! Give us your lights!... "},{"Title":"Another key unturned","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Welcome to the most chilling science fiction movie you will ever see. 'Seconds' is based on a quite plausible premise, that somewhere out there is an underground organisation known as 'The Company', which specialises in giving people new identities, fresh starts in life.Arthur Hamilton, a middle-aged businessman, is approached by a Company employee whilst commuting, and gets offered the chance to begin his life again. Trapped in a loveless marriage, and with nothing to look forward to save retirement, he opts to be reborn.After extensive plastic surgery, he emerges butterfly-like as 'Antiochus ( Tony ) Wilson', professional artist. Wilson is given a lovely home near the sea, a live-in manservant, and strikes up an affair with a beautiful neighbour, Nora Marcus.But he realises too late that his new life is just as empty, as meaningless as the one he threw away. Returning to The Company, he asks to be given yet another identity. Unable or unwilling to nominate another candidate for rebirth, he unwittingly signs his own death warrant...'Seconds' was directed by the late John Frankenheimer, then at the peak of his powers as a film-maker, with classics such as 'Birdman Of Alcatraz', 'The Manchurian Candidate', and 'Seven Days In May' to his credit. He brings a Hitchcockian feeling of suspense to the early scenes, while the post-rebirth section could not have been bettered by Kubrick. James Wong Howe's cinematography is breathtaking; the 'Company' scenes are chillingly stark, while the infamous wine festival is soft focus. Speaking of which, the scene is carefully edited so that even though people are running around naked you never see anything explicit ( you do in the European version though! ). Imagine what it might have been like had the film been made five years later.For Rock Hudson, the film was a welcome change of direction after those romantic comedies with Doris Day. He gives a moody, powerful performance which surely must rank as his best. According to Danny Peary's book 'Cult Movies 3', the party scene where Wilson breaks down and pleads for the right to his identity hit the actor so hard he could not stop crying. Hudson's homosexuality was at that time one of Hollywood's best-kept secrets.The excellent supporting cast includes Salome Jens, giving a hypnotic performance as the free-spirited Nora, Will Geer as the president of 'The Company', and Murray Hamilton as 'Charlie', who by nominating his old friend Arthur Hamilton as a candidate for rebirth inadvertently sets in motion the wheels of his destruction. The most impressive performance comes from the late John Randolph as 'Arthur'. He is simply brilliant, particularly when he realises he has nothing to live for, and one wonders why he did not bag an Oscar for best supporting actor.Lewis John Carlino's script is a little talky, but its ideas ( derived from David Ely's novel ) are solid. Who is to say that a story like this could not happen in real life? How do we know there isn't a 'Company' out there right now? The late Jerry Goldsmith surpasses himself with a magnificent score, as bleak and foreboding as the film itself.'Seconds' also has the most horrifying ending of any film I have ever seen. A guaranteed nightmare inducer.Not a picture for those who like their science fiction drenched in C.G.I., 'Seconds' ought to be compulsive viewing for young people who think plastic surgery is the key to a better life. "},{"Title":"Deeply Disturbing Thriller, Honest, Compelling!!","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the late fifties, Rock Hudson was seen through the eyes of middle-aged women and teenage girls as the all-American Alpha male, the hero, a luminary of the melodrama genre. While Hudson's performances were exceptional in nearly all of his films, his performance in Frankenheimer's frenetic psychological thriller Seconds, is nothing short of amazing. Another notable, albeit overlooked performance was that of Francis Reed as Emily, Tony's original wife. Reed's final scenes of the film were beautifully and eloquently articulated, and her emotions, while restrained, were catching, you could feel her sense of loss and confusion. The film's commencing images of Authur's distorted/warping face, accompanied by Goldsmith's dark, piercing score gives the viewer a sense of confusion, of not knowing exactly just what is happening, and a lingering air of dread and disgust. The film in an elemental analysis is rather uneven, some scenes are over-drawn, lengthy. Take for example the duration of the wine stomping festival. While this sequence is significantly important to the understanding of the main characters, their thoughts, their ideas, and their behavior (a spiritual and personal releasing of the central character's concealed emotions and inner tensions) it's simply far too long, and at times confusing, due to the jerky camera movements (hand-held?), making the scene almost laughable. Another example of a needlessly linty scene is the party episode at Wilson's new Ocean-front domicile. Once again, the camera movements are highly unstable, and the scene, overall, far too long. The scene comes across as an over lit, neurotic parody, rather than a significant watershed in the narrative. Other than these few weaker elements of Seconds, the film as a whole is surprisingly powerful. Once again, Hudson's performance was very authentic, and while his character was not the most reasonable man, Hudson's heartfelt performance makes him very sympathetic. Overall, Frankenheimer's unconventional foray into the Paranoid Thriller Genre is very memorable, and one of the more honest, deeply compelling films of it's time. The final 20 minutes are harrowing, and the ambient orchestrations by Goldsmith access at perfectly calculated moments. Unconventional in it's approach, moving in it's deeply felt themes, and haunting for it's difficult questions toward's a perhaps superficial, covetous modern society. "},{"Title":"A very disturbing film...","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After just seeing Seconds, I can't fully describe my feelings about it.  For its time, it was VERY innovative and its no suprise that it didn't do well at the box office.  The camera angles, especially the ones where it was 'pinned' on the actor's shoulders were genius.  I'm amazed that movies back then, even in black and white, look better than most movies in color today....the cinematography was excellent.  There's something very appealing about black and white films when they're done right.  As far as the story, I was very suprised at how the film ended.  Its a suitably depressing end to a very depressing and disturbing film.  I'm curious as to why the lead character thought he failed at his 'second chance'.  But like Mr. Wilson said, maybe he never had a dream to be fulfilled, which is why he ultimately failed.  This is a film that I wish could be exposed to more people.  This is very effective and daring filmmaking, something we need more of today.  Although, this film is only for people who like to think.  Seconds is a wonderful film that I was privileged to experience.  *** out of **** stars. "}{"Title":"The question of death selection may be the most important decision in your life.","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seconds is directed by John Frankenheimer and adapted to screenplay by Lewis John Carlino from the novel of the same name written by David Ely. It stars Rock Hudson, John Randolph and Salome Jens. Music is scored by Jerry Goldsmith and cinematography by James Wong Howe.Arthur Hamilton (Randolph) is a middle-aged business man who is tired of his mundane existence, but that is all about to change when he is coerced by a mysterious organisation into faking his own death and letting them create an entirely new look and lifestyle for him. He becomes Tony Wilson (Hudson), a talented artist with a beach front home, things are looking up...Feverish, haunting and dripping with dread, the quintessential ingredients of the paranoid thriller. Seconds has them all. From the nightmarish opening Saul Bass credit sequence to the stunning denouement, Seconds is a film that slowly crawls under your skin and stays there for days like an insect tick burrowing away. It's the sort of film that has you wondering if somebody slipped some dubious pill into your drink when you wasn't looking, such is the claustrophobic atmosphere, weird imagery and the use of the SnorriCam. Wong Howe's Oscar nominated black and white photography keeps things bordering on the realm of the surreal, while Goldsmith scores it suitably unusual like, with low rumbles and avant-garde tinkerings flitting in and out of proceedings.Upon release it was met with very mixed reviews and received a critical mauling at Cannes, a shame since it has since become something of a cult classic. It feels very much ahead of its time, or at the least it's a film where the boldness in themes has mistakenly been viewed as moralising. True, it has a message, the parable is clear, while the mixture of sci-fi, horror, neo-noir and borderline psychedelia often is an uneasy fit; though not being able to pigeon hole it keeps it from charges of lacking initiative. There's also a flabby middle section, the pace stops and the film threatens to lose the dread that has been built up to that point. There's a hippie/pagan wine and sex sequence inserted into the plot that isn't (I believe) in the novel, I understand why the makers did it, it's to establish Tony Wilson's change into a carefree member of society, but it doesn't sit right and Frankheimer has to work hard for twenty minutes to wrestle back the paranoia ambiance. Thankfully he does get things back on track whilst garnering a terrific lead performance from Hudson. The support cast are great, too.Think what happens when you mix Welles' The Trial with The Twilight Zone, add in some dashes of film noir visuality and Stepford Wives like literature, and you get something like Seconds. An itchy viewing experience, sweaty and unique, you certainly will not forget it once viewed. I can still now, some three days after having watched it, hear the screams that form part of the deliriously savage finale. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Modern Faustian Tale in a Little Depth","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't think the movie's definition of 'reborn' is exactly what the popular meaning has in mind. Nevertheless, it's a heckuva sci-fi movie from beginning to end. Frankenheimer pulls out all the stops in his camera work. The angles and effects are weird even for the close-ups, while that hectic bacchanal still has me panting for breath. We're kept off balance the whole time by those angles, which is as it should be. The style fits the material perfectly.Poor Arthur (Randolph). He's a dutiful husband and breadwinner, but he's also terminally bored with his life and wife. It seems he's grown old, even at middle-age. So, now he's ready for the big change the Company provides for a price. Still, he should have known when he signed up that he was in for the wrong kind of rebirth. After all, he first has to go through an infernal steam cloud at the pants presser, then through carcass-strewn meat lockers in a slaughterhouse. It's all this just to get to the Company offices. That should have told him that the price of a new identity would be more hellish than the 30,000 in dollars.But then, what guy wouldn't trade a 45-year old tired mug for Rock Hudson's handsome features and a new chance at life, especially the swinging kind. Okay, so maybe there's something sinister behind the smiling bureaucrats of The Company, especially when Mr. Ruby (Corey) scarfs down the fleshy edibles. But not to worry, they'll fake his death with some poor soul's cadaver and his unexciting former life will be left behind for good. So, after a lot of bloody plastic surgery, Arthur gets his new chance with a handsome new face, reborn now as Tony Wilson (Hudson). Plus he gets to move from his boring old house in the suburbs to where else but swinging Malibu, CA. The Company, it seems, fixes up everything. Then there's that adoring young playmate to help (Jens) him settle in. She's sure a long way from the drab wife he's left behind. Okay, maybe there's something odd about John (Addy), the hovering house servant of his beach cottage. Nonetheless, he waits on Tony's every need, and now Tony can live life as a king.And get a load of those merry- making hippies snaking up the canyon to their wine-soaked retreat that Nora's roped him into. Trouble is you can change a person outwardly, but it's not so easy inwardly. Besides, as Arthur, Tony has a whole lifetime of habits and hang-ups to overcome. So now he just sort of stands there, uptight, amid all the naked wine-stomping bodies. A real party-pooper until playmate Nora strong-arms him into drunken abandon. Now he's got what he thinks he wants, a new swinging life to replace the glum old businessman. At last, life is good, but is it. I'm not surprised the film has a big cult following. On the whole, it's that good. The cast is superb, even Hudson who I suspect gives a career performance. That's along with the Walton's Will Geer as the kindly old head of The Company, his perpetual smile a mask for what turns out to be a Faustian bargain. To me, the movie's final third lacks the kind of clarity that's gone before. But maybe that's as it should be. That way the sinister undercurrents remain clouded in their exact depths.It appears the plot pivots at this point on the question of personal choice, certainly a defining feature of personal fulfillment. But without giving away too much, it seems The Company has engineered everything, right down to guaranteed unhappiness. So the Company program perhaps amounts to a recycling of clients through pre-planned stages that Tony too must go through. The movie doesn't spell out what The Company is really up to; instead, we have to piece things together. I guess my only gripe is with the ending. Frankly, the kicking and screaming may raise the viewer's dread-level, but I think the ending should come as a sudden surprise with kindly old Will Geer looking on.Nonetheless, the movie appears to be an original reworking of the Faustian legend of selling one's soul. But whether taken as a Faustian parable on middle- class discontent or not, it's still a riveting 100-minutes. "},{"Title":"Word Of Mouth Into A New Life","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In Seconds life's become pretty boring for John Randolph, no interest in the little woman any more, a dead end job, all the money in the world, but no interest in spending it anywhere.So when he gets a call from an old friend who he's heard has died, the possibilities are intriguing. Start over with a newly reconstructed body and a little more spring in your step so to speak. As you can gather this is a service that only the people that Robin Leach talks about can afford. It's kind of hush/hush and news of it is passed on by word of mouth. We just don't want any slug out there being able to have something like this. Imagine going in for some heavy duty surgery going in John Randolph and coming out Rock Hudson?Of course not everyone quite takes to the new life, but The Company that provides this new life and identity has their ways of dealing with unsatisfied customers.John Randolph/Rock Hudson plays the man seduced by the promise of eternal youth and health and pleasure. It's one of Rock Hudson's most highly rated performances and deservedly so.Production wise, Seconds does resemble a rather long episode of the Twilight Zone, but that's not a derogatory comment. The Company provides some people to help newbies transition. Two of the best performances are Wesley Addy as a rather creepy factotum assigned to Hudson and Salome Jens as a woman who evinces interest in the new man that is Hudson.Seconds is not a feel good movie, but it's a great horror story told without any of the usual monsters, blood, and gore associated with the genre. If you see Seconds, it will raise some disturbing questions. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Brilliant, Difficult to Watch","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There are far too many reviews about this film that discuss the plot, acting, and directing in-depth for mine to add anything, so this is more of a comment about how this film affected me when I watched it many years ago.This is one of the most difficult films I have ever watched. A slasher film marathon with in-your-face gore would be easier to sit through than this, because they don't affect you on a personal level like this film does. You can laugh off the blood and fake violence in a slasher flick, but there is nothing to laugh at in this film. It brings up disturbing feelings, hopelessness, claustrophobia, the feeling that no matter what you do, even if given a second chance at life, you are still trapped by the decisions you made in your first one, or will make the exact same choices you did in your first life, bringing you to the same point again. I hope the message of this film isn't you're doomed to make the same mistakes and decisions over and over again no matter what you do, so don't even try. If there is a message in this film, or a statement it makes, it's don't pretend your past didn't happen, and walk away from it, thinking you can start over with a new life and new lessons. Instead, embrace what happened to you, good and bad, and that you learned a lot from it, good and bad. Then go on with the rest of your life with those lessons that your life, including your mistakes, taught you. It's one thing to move to a new place and to a new career and even a new family; it's another to abandon everything you learned up to that point, which is your identity. That's the cautionary moral this movie seems to make.At least, I hope it does. The movie is so bleak and so stark in its presentation, it leaves it entirely up to the audience whether there's a statement there at all.I think this is just the kind of movie that Roger Ebert liked and would have recommended. I'd like to know what he thought of it..... "},{"Title":"Don't Look Now","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie that Rock Hudson considered to be a horror story and a big gamble for his otherwise steely screen persona, Seconds from 1966 is a stark black-and-white parable o the dangers of wishful thinking. A dark side to the same theme that made It's a Wonderful Life so potent a story for the working class, Seconds makes the same statement for the urban professional who after climbing the corporate ladder to succeed finds himself deplete of the very thing he was competing for, namely his vitality.Next in line for the top job at his bank, Antiochus 'Tony' Wilson (Rock Hudson) is disturbed when he gets a late night phone call from his old tennis buddy and school chum whom he thought was dead for many years. What he discovers is an organization that will give him a new youthful life and lifestyle for a fee, and he accepts after some coercion. Tony gets a new life but finds an empty existence inside him after he has left his wife and old comfortable surroundings. When he requests to return to his former life and start over he finds that those in charge demand an even higher sacrifice than he had imagined.This is one of those dark films that stand today as one of the landmarks of the sixties, when real disappointment was rising in the working class, and those dropouts from society who saw the formal institutions of home and family and career as vapid social constructs. It's a bold statement, a protest film in a way because it highlights how society functions on a base of empty values, yet the filmmakers offer no real alternative. When Tony attempts to recover his place and start again, the organization demands severe loyalty.There's also the supposedly new community that Tony enters. As an artist, he lives the free-spirited life admired by all his neighbors. The real test comes when he is required to follow though with his new identity, something in which he discovers is to demanding to support. Knowing what we know today about Rock Hudson, the layers of meaning in the film run deep making this one of those quintessential Hudson vehicles for any academics classroom.The stark imagery highlights the noir qualities of the film. This is certainly film noir at it's most existential, as the fantasy-like atmosphere of the world of the film contains enough everyday trappings to keep us identifying with the characters, even as the action veers off kilter and meta-horror situations occur. "},{"Title":"Seconds review","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At some point, everybody takes a good look at their lives and wants to change something about it. Maybe you're unhappy with your job. Maybe you wish you could have a hotter girlfriend. Maybe you're worried that life is passing you by, and you want to be young again and live it up some more. Maybe it's time to reinvent yourself. In this film, a guy reinvents himself to rectify all of these things. The big twist is, he does so with the help of an ominous and mysterious corporation.This film has a pretty interesting premise. Combined with its style, it comes off as a fairly gripping thriller; there is a sense of anxiety that permeates key scenes and keeps you wondering what will happen next. The film drags in just a few spots (mostly in the middle), but it is interesting and sobering to watch this guy go through an artificial rebirth and live a second life.The story is pretty well-structured. The momentum sputters a bit in the middle, as the character wanders around in his new body and figures things out. However, the set-up and conclusion are solid, and the characters overall are fairly well-developed. Above all, this is a film that boldly holds a mirror up to the 1960s culture and shows a rather eerie reflection. I could see it as the man's transformation mirroring the transformation of culture, moving from the conservative 50s to the radical free-loving 60s counter-culture movements, but the film makes it out to be a total nightmare. As such, the film challenges the notion that people have to be young and successful to be happy. It also puts a pretty ominous spin on corporations, using people like putty to shape them into whatever they determine, all for the sole purpose of making money.The film is phenomenal, for it boasts some incredible photography. There are a ton of wild and unusual camera angles, many of which seem less like what you'd find in the 60s and more like what you'd see in modern films (especially when the camera tracks a person's head or body, keeping it still while the background moves; that is very much the same kind of thing you get with webcams, which many modern movies use, and I think it's an awesome achievement for Seconds). Camera moves are especially fluid and interesting. Editing is really great, especially with some of the more surreal scenes. Acting and writing are impeccable. This production has some great-looking sets, props, and costumes. The music score is pretty effective too.Despite a few slow parts, Seconds is a bold film with a bold style and a ton of bold messages. I'd gladly recommend it to anybody.4.5/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Very Good | Film Perfect) "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A fantastic existential nightmare. A middle aged man (John Randolph) is contacted by an old friend whom he thought dead. The friend offers him an opportunity to escape his ho-hum life and start a new one. For a hefty sum, an underground company gives him plastic surgery (turning him into Rock Hudson) and set him up with a new identity, faking his old identity's death. What the man quickly learns is that you might be able to change your face, but you can never change who you are. Unfortunately, the company that has provided him this opportunity isn't too keen on that discovery, and is secretly watching his every move. I feel like the second part of this film maybe needed to be a bit longer, because there are some narrative progressions that didn't quite work for me (I'm interested in reading the original novel to see if it's more fully developed). It doesn't matter too much, though, because, as cinema, this is just tremendous. It's most notable element is James Wong Howe's revolutionary black and white cinematography, which is amongst the best ever done. It really heightens the paranoia of the film. Jerry Goldsmith's subtle and sad score is also masterful. And enough credit can't be given to Frankenheimer himself! I'm woefully unfamiliar with his work, I now realize, despite being a huge fan of The Manchurian Candidate. I need to rectify that mistake immediately! The performances are also great. It's probably Hudson's best work ever. The rest of the cast is uniformly terrific, as well. A great movie. "},{"Title":"The slippery slope of evil","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's probably an update of Faust. It's in many ways one of the most depressing movies I have ever seen. It's a portrayal of how a weakness can make one prey for evil, sucked in by someone weaker already fallen, and how far they can pull you down.It was odd how quickly the man was willing to give up his old life without questions, but it may be explained by his 'sponsor's insights about him, and the immediate blackmail that was put in place before the decision.The 'grapes' scene was a time capsule of mid 1960s 'forced freedom', but it went on way too long.The scene where he visits his old wife was one of the most depressing movie scenes I have ever seen, both for it's frank, but not unkind portrayal of his old self, and the coldheartedness of his new self to intrude on her after what he'd done to her. It may be a brilliant scene, in that he could come back into his old house and life and have no recognizable soul that would give him away - maybe that was the point.It was in some ways brilliant how universally cold hearted everyone was once they entered this world - surgeon, businessman, new 'girlfriend', friend, minister. Will Geer as the ringmaster really gave me the creeps.For the movie buff, it' worth seeing, it's a different idea, the acting/actors/actresses are good. As a horror movie, it is in many ways brilliant, and the most terrifying. What really makes the movie work, is that it's somewhat plausible, and that the central character is participant in his own destruction.Seeing it a second time, I thought more highly of the movie, it was more tightly crafted than I had given it credit for first time around. Some very nasty foreshadowing, in his entry to the company. "},{"Title":"A chilling alert to one's own superficiality.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I always thought that Oscar Wilde's 'A picture of Dorian Gray' would make an excellent feature length episode of ' The Twilight Zone'. It sounds sacrilegious to suggest splicing such a classic piece of English literature with a schlock American television series but that's essentially what's happened with 'Seconds' and the results are certainly remarkable and next to astounding.The Wildean moral of 'be careful what you wish for' echoes around the winding caverns of this story and it points a chilling finger in the direction of the viewer's own superficiality.In our world, it is easy to derive a fake 'meaning of things' from the sparkly-cool objects that we buy in the mall these are our of-the-peg raison d'etre and in the film, the main character is given just that but without the pretension. He literally buys into a new life and is later forced to come to terms with the mistake he has made. This in turn is a warning to the viewer that real meaning is not derived from cute wall hangings or designer sandals.Frankenheimer directs up a storm in this film. In select scenes we are allowed to depart from reality a little and enjoy a more conceptualised vision, prompting nausea and vertigo and a rolling contempt for mundanely.Neo-surrealism and anti-materialism are perhaps two of the most prominent themes here, wrapped up in celebration of both youth and life's winter.Aside from a slouch in the middle, 'Seconds' is clever and beautiful a real treat for the amateur philosopher, a visual feast for the artist and a kick in the backside for the braindead youth and the wasted aged alike.  "},{"Title":"Effectively sinister, if imperfect","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERSEffective mindf*ck thriller, informed in terms of style by the German Expressionists and (especially) by Polanski's `Repulsion,' and in terms of thought by Rod Serling's `Twilight Zone.'   The first hour or so is gripping, stylistically elegant, and exquisitely shot--Frankenheimer creates an impression of sweaty paranoia from the very outset (with the help of mock-Buñuel credits by Saul Bass and a mock-Handel score by Jerry Goldsmith).  The quiet scenes of poor old Arthur Hamilton at home with his wife capture his choking dissatisfaction beautifully (with John Randolph's great sweat beads tipping us off as to where the true ugliness in his situation lies).  Then, after a horrifying/funny trip through a cramped laundry and a gigantic abattoir, we arrive in an even more horrifying (and even funnier) environment, with peckish Jeff Covey, giggling Khigh Dhiegh, and folksy-old-grampa type Will Geer forcing their sinister services onto Hamilton in the most cheerful way possible.  After Hamilton's Rebirth (and a great horror segment of him in a gauze mask, softly shrieking through transplanted vocal chords!), we have some effective scenes of Hamilton/Wilson's alienation on the gloomy gray California coast.  Unfortunately, Frankenheimer seems to lose his way in the second act, with the orgy and cocktail-party set pieces completely mismanaged--both are thematically confused and painfully, painfully long.  The final section brings us full circle (with a terrifically awful conversation between Wilson and his own widow), and the cruel denouement is fairly well realized too (even if we've already guessed what's going to happen to ol' Arthur/Tony).  But by this time the rhythm has been so broken up that we don't care as much as we should, and for all Frankenheimer's fine technique, this might actually have made a better `Twilight Zone' episode than a full-length feature.  Still, the overall effect of the film remains strong, and the very fine acting from Randolph, Geer, Rock Hudson and Frances Reid makes this more than worth a look.  7.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A One-Of-A-Kind Movie","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a most unique film. They say that at the time, Frankenheimer was influenced by the French New Wave, but Seconds looks like nothing I've ever seen. The photography is exquisite. The camera angles are EXTREMELY disorienting; they really combine with the creepy story to cause the viewer to feel uneasy. The music by Jerry Goldsmith also does this. The acting is fabulous-understated, but powerful. Every role is played with a morose conviction. Character actors whom you'll recognize (John Randolph, Will Geer, Jeff Corey and others) make each role important. Depressing? Yes. Thought-provoking? Yes. Psychologically terrifying? Yes. This film was booed at the Cannes Film Festival in 1966. I can only think that the reason why is 1) It was ahead of it's time and /or 2) The French suck. If you're a fan of the offbeat, and are an admirer of Frankenheimer's, and 60's films altogether, you HAVE to watch Seconds. Letterboxed is a must...This film, along with The Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days In May prove just how powerful a filmmaker John Frankenheimer was in the 60's. "},{"Title":"A unique, surrealistic, great film with some flaws","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are many good comments here, including numerous synopses, so I won't re-iterate the plot.  I'll just add a few personal opinions.I saw this movie in the theater in the Fall of 1966, as a high school senior.  As I walked out of the theater, I had two strong feelings1.  I was blown away by the movie and loved it.2.  The movie would sink without a trace in a week or two.  It was clear that I was about the only one there with whom the movie resonated.Since then I've watched it periodically.  For years it wasn't on TV, or at least VERY rarely.  Still hard to find.I respectfully disagree with the comments about the movie dragging.  Maybe it's a case of Frankenheimer being in love with every second he filmed, but the pace is a big part of what made the oppressive atmosphere of the movie. Would the bacchanalian scene or the cocktail party have had the effect if they had been edited shorter?  I don't think so.I have two disappointments1.  Although the point was clear that (probably) EVERYONE fails (because you can't really change who you are), I would have liked a bit more about why Tony felt he had failed.2.  My second comment isn't really Frankenheimer's fault. (Believe it or not, there was SOME editing!)  Towards the end, when he visits his wife, he makes some comments that make no sense in the context of the edited film. Apparently there was a scene where he visited his daughter as well, which was edited out.  It provided a context for the later comments.I wonder if there is a director's cut version?Of the entire movie, about the most painful part for me is where all the folks are waiting, just waiting, for another chance.  And I think the scene that sticks with me the most is when Charlie goes in for his second (third) chance, and is crying; and shortly you realize that he was crying for two reasons  Happiness/relief at having another chance; and the conflict because HIS chance is due to Tony being sacrificed. (Gee, interesting metaphor I never thought about He gave his life, that you might have life everlasting. HMMM!)BTW, there have been a lot of comments about Rock Hudson's performance. For what it's worth, I heard a tape of an interview with him where HE said he thought it was about his finest performance, or words to that effect.Paul "},{"Title":"Every man has inside him, a key left unturned.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Seconds, directed by John Frankenheimer, may be perhaps one of the greatest American movies that no one has ever seen or heard of. It's obscurity is a real crime considering that the inferior (but still very good) American Beauty and the absolutely retched Eyes Wide Shut have enjoyed greater notoriety while dealing with exactly the same material. In fact a great festival would be to show all three films together. Although one may want to shoot themselves afterword.  Seconds, like all the great tragedies, truly is a pessimistic and depressing film on one hand, while on the other hand managing to elate the viewer in terms of the incredible mastery of storytelling craft that is displayed. The acting, script, direction and photography all blend perfectly together to create a shattering and unforgettable experience.  The narrative, dealing with a middle aged suburbanite getting a chance at a new start via a shadowy company with real Satanic overtones, is filled with haunting, frightening and utterly truthfull revelations about the fragile human conditions. Arthur Hamilton/Tony, the sad protagonist (expertly played by both John Randolph and Rock Hudson(!)) finds all too late that there is no place like home, and once you're gone, you're gone.  Every man has inside him, a key left unturned. is a lesson that Hamilton/Tony doesn't learn until it is too late. This great quote is fact of our existance that ultimately we all must come to face and accept. Our choices will then lead us to either making our present state better or diving off into changing what  cannot be changed the past. I don't want to give away too much of the plot but that is my over riding impression.  Watching this film is not escapist entertainment. It is challenging, disturbing and creepy. It is however, a work of art. Don't miss this. A 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Life is like a box of Slim Jims.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Life in America, according to this John Frankenheimer directed film, is like a meat market, a Tupperware party, and an Amway pyramid scheme.  Perhaps this is the cynical way that those in Hollywood who were disenfranchised by black-listing following the McCarthy witch-hunt (circa 1952) perceived America by 1966?  This film asks the audience a simple question -- Anyone for seconds?  However, the simple question leads to an array of complicated answers and complex resolutions.  After feasting on your first helping of this film, you might want to come back for seconds -- maybe this film improves with age like a fine wine?  Yet, don't look for fine wine in this film -- it isn't there (just like the disappearing airline pillow in minute 45. Watch carefully!).  In fact, you may never want to sip another glass of wine again after watching the vineyard scene. Witnessing filthy people trampling upon grapes brought to mind Upton Sinclair's novel about the maltreatment of the working class, The Jungle.  Sinclair's novel is credited with inspiring the unintended consequence of government reform of the unsanitary meat-packing industry.  Pitifully, the primary concern of lawmakers at the time was that the meat they personally ate be as fresh as possible, not a concern for the maltreated workers.  View Seconds as a new take on The Jungle, but this time the author gets the primary message across -- the maltreatment of human beings is of paramount concern, not the unsanitary processing of wine.The plot of this film raises many questions (and many red flags) about American life for the viewer.  Fundamental values of American society -- love, friendship, loyalty, marriage, material wealth, Capitalism, business ethics, medical ethics, cosmetic surgery, art, and the cliche-ridden American Dream -- are called into question in a  cynical manner.  I suppose that Seconds is meant as a wake-up call or a warning sign to those who take life for granted.  There's a signpost up ahead... -- the grass is NOT always greener on the other side.  Rod Serling likely appreciated this film. "},{"Title":"One of the most striking endings in movie history","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are moments when John Frankenheimer gets it spot on as a director, and those times he's streets ahead of any other film maker before or since.  He did it on Manchurian Candidate, Seven Days in May, The Train and here, with Seconds.  The cinematography by the legendary James Wong Howe is fantastic, Frankenheimer's love of the wide angle lens just gives the story a genuinely disturbing edge.  Before people were raving about Scorcese using chest mounted cameras in Mean Streets, Frankenheimer was there in Seconds.  This is edgy, thought provoking and dangerous film making from a man who, in my opinion, is in the same league as Orson Welles and Stanley Kubrick...two other directors who loved low angles and wide lenses! "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankheimer directed this dark thriller about a man who gets a new identity and life through a secret company.  It's well made and incredibly disturbing.  Every frame of the film has a sense of uneasiness about it, and the viewer never really becomes comfortable.  This works sometimes but fails at others &#150; regardless of final result it means that the viewer is probably going to have an unpleasant experience along the way.    The premise feels like an episode of the Twilight Zone (in fact, it does bear something of a similarity to one), and if the film were tightened up a little more in would've been incredibly effective.  The beginning is slow going but absorbing, and at the end it becomes fascinating and disturbing.  However, the midsection of the film lags and meanders, with extended sequences such as the hippy party and the other party dragging on for far too long.  Very flashy direction by Frankheimer -  while many of the compositions are immaculate, others are simply showing off.  For all its flaws, it is definitely original, and among the weirdest films ever made. "},{"Title":"The Twilight Zone did this type of thing cheaper, faster and about as mean...","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seconds plays like an elongated episode of TV's The Twilight Zone. While that isn't particularly a bad thing, it does point out the fact the series may have done this story some justice simply by paring down its excesses. Rock Hudson is convincingly benumbed playing a handsome artist in Malibu whose life is a lie, whose friends are a fake, and whose real history haunts him. At first I thought the extended preamble with John Randolph as an elderly banker seemed a little sluggish, but it builds momentum carefully, deliberately. Still, there's no reason for the rest of the picture to be so slow except to prolong the inevitability of the very slim plot. Hudson's performance is good though not great--this due in part to the writing; by the time he arrives on-screen, Seconds has already used up most of its resources and has to fall back on filler (such as the grape-stomping bacchanal, which begins as cinematic eye-candy and then goes on forever). It's a handsome piece of work, startlingly photographed and with a haunting ambiance, but eventually the movie drops its own big red ball. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Convincing, noiresque, nightmare of modernity.  Superlative camera work and probably Rock Hudson's best performance.","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Just had to add a note of admiration for this greatly overlooked masterpiece of modern angst. I saw it when a student in Glasgow in 1969. That is probably why it has stayed to haunt me - possibly to the grave. Beyond that, I really don't know.I'm no film critic but like several of the cinema cognoscenti, I was surprised Rock had a movie like this in him. Probably his best. The camera work takes you right in. You don't remember willingly suspending disbelief. It is as plausible and convincing as a good nightmare. Bleak, black and white, terse like John Boorman's Point Blank. Round about the same time as Blow Up appeared. Also a surprisingly mature performance from David Hemmings, matched the mood of powerlessness and fatalism that pervades Seconds.A little further off it recalled the Incredible Shrinking Man. The same mood of fatalism pervades but from a different perspective. In the latter, the isolated individual is redeemed by some metaphysical union with the universe. In Seconds the isolated, narcissistic self implodes.John Frankenheimer's modern Frankenstein. Or another parallel universemight be Dorian Grey. It is a multi layered movie. "},{"Title":"There was never a struggle in the soul of a good man that wasn't hard.","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A middle-aged banker (John Randolph), unhappy with his life, is given a complete makeover by a mysterious organization. They fake his death, give him plastic surgery and a new identity. The result is that he becomes a younger, more handsome man (Rock Hudson) with no responsibilities. But he soon finds this new life isn't what he expected it would be.An interesting 'sort of' sci-fi film with a lot of eerie moments and some thought-provoking ideas. I say it's 'sort of' sci-fi because while the non-existent body-changing surgery is in the realm of science fiction, the rest of the film plays out as more of a reality-based fantasy. The actual process to change the man isn't even very defined. For example, though his outside clearly becomes younger, nothing is said of how his insides are changed. Anyway, it's a very good film with terrific performances from Rock Hudson and John Randolph, backed up by a fine supporting cast. Will Geer is sufficiently creepy in his few scenes. Shot by the great James Wong Howe and expertly directed by John Frankenheimer. This is the third of what is considered Frankenheimer's paranoia trilogy from the '60s, with The Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days in May. All classics. "},{"Title":"An Interesting John Frankenheimer Experiment","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An unhappy middle aged banker (John Randolph) agrees to a procedure that will fake his death and give him a completely new look and identity (Rock Hudson) -- that comes with its own price.I see some people have seen this as a look at midlife crisis, or even closeted homosexuality (which seems like a stretch). In general, it definitely is a look at personality and identity -- a philosophy class could have a field day debating whether Arthur Hamilton and Tony Wilson are the same person.What I found interesting about this film is how artsy or experimental this film is. While it is not unusual for a director early in their career to try different techniques (De Palma and Cronenberg were much more bizarre in their early years, for example), Frankenheimer was already established when he made this one... "}{"Title":"An overlooked classic","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seconds was probably Rock Hudson's best role. Not monetarily, but as an example of his true potential as an artist. This fact will be lost on succeeding generations, but to those who knew and understood the sixties, it's a signal event. This Frankenheimer work encapsulates the ennui and confusion of the sixties, especially the chasm between the 50's generation, and the generation of the 60's, who were just joining the scene. This film, at a subliminal level, carries and exposes the burdens of the post WW2 generation. It is a hidden American gem that should be required viewing in any theater of higher learning.For no other reason, than to promote quality film, I invite younger talents and producers to visit this unique film - a time capsule, so to speak. Believe me, it is worth a 21st Century remake. "},{"Title":"Why haven't you seen it yet?!","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It is very modern the setting, the style, the story, the characters, very little feels outdated. It could be a movie made last year with period 60s clothes. There is some minimal cheesiness here and there but it doesn't affect the experience, unlike in Hitchcock movies.The message was a tad too much in my face but I can live with that, as the movie was thoroughly enjoyable. There's a little bit of everything thrown in nudity, drama, romanticism, mystery and whatnot.So many movies have borrowed from this one it's shocking not one director got sued over stealing ideas. This piece is in a class of it's own and it hasn't been topped yet. Watch and learn how gripping cinema is done. "},{"Title":"Seconds","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Rock Hudson may be best known for his romantic roles, but his own favourite of his performances was reportedly the starring role in John Frankenheimer's thrilling Seconds. The story begins when a middle-aged banker Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph) receives a strange phone call from his old friend who he hasn't seen in ages. The voice urges him to contact a mysterious secret organization that offers people a chance to start their life all over by staging their death and undergoing extensive plastic surgery to make them appear much younger &#x96; in exchange for a hefty sum of money of course. Hamilton, having grown disillusioned with his bourgeois life, accepts the offer and wakes up as a youthful art painter named Tony Wilson (Rock Hudson). But can the newfound bohemian lifestyle make him happier after all and is the perceived freedom really there?Right from the warped opening credits designed by Saul Bass, the film's distressing atmosphere is highly evident. The black & white photography, the unusual camera angles and close-ups, quick editing and menacing organ music are used with skill and style whenever necessary. Be it a surreal rape dream sequence or a wild hippie festival with naked bodies jumping all around in hypnotic states, the strange scenes are in balance with the more traditional conversations that describe the new way of life to the protagonist. The impersonal corridors and rooms of the organization's headquarters carry a feel of great emotional detachment that is only emphasized by the casual behaviour of the employees who think nothing of what they do.Alienation in modern society, a major theme in the film, has been examined in many works of fiction, but not often this effectively. Rock Hudson plays his role solemnly; it is always obvious that the tired old man is still behind his rejuvenated eyes despite the efforts to escape Arthur Hamilton's numbing life. The new, tailor-made life may seem cool at first, but the nagging sense of being trapped cannot be made to disappear by changing appearances because the old person, or soul if you like, remains inside. The attempts to re-find what's important are doomed, and not even the organization itself has been able to live up to their originally noble goals. The final minutes of the film are truly excruciating upon revealing the ultimate fate of those who wished to flee their dull lives... In the end, freedom is what matters.To recap, Seconds is not only a visually excellent and well acted piece of cinema, but also a thought-provoking tale of urban anxiety, alienation and longing for freedom. Under the thriller and sci-fi flavoured icing, the film is primarily a drama, still every bit as poignant as it was upon its original release &#x96; not to be missed out by any fan of these genres. "},{"Title":"Thank God For Cult Followings.","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seconds is a constantly disorienting experience and an edgy, daring film for its time. It unravels from the first moment with strange, ominous image after image after image. It bookends by first blurring, stretching, compressing and pin-wheeling the image of an eye, eventually becoming lucid to begin the story and then blurring the film's final shot into the same pattern of disorientation, as if the movie were all a dream or a stream of subconscious thought. Nearly every shot is filmed with very rare and radical technique or from a spying perspective. Deep-focus and angles galore, and at times what we see on screen changes in our minds without changing physically before it transitions.Sometimes considered a third in a Paranoia Trilogy of movies directed by John Frankenheimer made close together in the very paranoid mid-1960s (the other two being the Cold War thrillers The Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days in May), Seconds however prioritizes delving into the psychological dimensions of alienation over the sociopolitical conditions of the other two, as well as that it is distinguished from the other two as a science fiction story. But it doesn't tell us that by brandishing strange technologies or creatures, or any special effects at all, or anything remotely overt in the sci-fi regard. It is purely based on what the main character is told, and what he believes and thus what we believe.Frankenheimer's knack for capturing the complicating nature of social situations while still delving into the psychology of his characters is a rare and unique skill. A middle-aged man has grown distant with his wife. His only daughter is married and virtually out of his life. Even his work, which was the centerpiece of his life, has become tedious. A bizarre call from a friend he thought was dead beckons him to a certain place. The boredom and relative apathy bred in American suburbia is handled as a bleak, illusory inner monologue. There is no profound metaphysical epiphany, any authentic one anyway, but the feeling of going to the doctor's with dread, then finding out you're in great shape, only to learn later that more tests need to be done, then that you may go broke waiting to be reimbursed by your insurance company.As a rule, wouldn't you sedate someone before wheeling them into an operating room to kill them, instead of having some employee just tell them to chill then gag them while having a priest recite last rites? Unless it would deprive a fine actor of an effectively disturbing losing-control scene, of course. And that's precisely what it is, so I let it go. The entire film is subversively designed to get under one's skin. Be absorbed by cinematographer James Wong Howe's hand-held work in certain scenes, mainly two parties that are so riskily visceral and carefully haphazard, in how he infuses that coarse, naturalistic texture of the '60s and '70s with the more calculated, detailed compositions of cinematic surgeons like Hitchcock and Lang. The fearful score. And the sound, particularly that of a faint drill, is horrifically pacifying. "},{"Title":"Frankenheimer Directs Unique Sci-Fi Film","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" John Frankenheimer continued his extensive run of quality pictures in the 1960's with Seconds, a science fiction film. Frankenheimer carved new territory for himself and other filmmakers with Seconds, one of the rare films in the science fiction genre that does not appear to be confined to or about a specific time period. Indeed, in watching the film, it appears as fresh and contemporary as it did when it was released.John Randolph, in his first credited film role, is Arthur Hamilton, a man who has reached the is that all there is stage in life. He receives a phone call from a long dead buddy named Charlie who pleads with Arthur to make an appointment with a secret organization which can provide a new identity and a new life. As usual, Arthur gets more than he bargained for, although he really did not appear to know what he wanted in the end.Arthur emerges as a rejuvenated Rock Hudson, proceeds to meet a woman, and then gets hung up with a different lifestyle. He begins to have doubts and grows dissatisfied. The film strikes a chord with one of the more prominent themes of the sixties and that is a growing sense of dissatisfaction with traditional living. The film reminds us of a Twilight Zone episode entitled The Trade-Ins made only a few years before the release of Seconds. Although the film strongly resembles a Rod Serling script, it was written by Lewis John Carlino based on the novel by David Ely.Frankenheimer's use of low angle lens shooting fits in well with the theme of confusion and disillusionment with one's life. James Wong Howe's Oscar-nominated cinematography is terrific as usual. On location shooting in Grand Central Station, a train, on a beach, and in a residential neighborhood are effective. Rock Hudson gives a good performance in a role that he probably felt stretched his acting skills for once. The supporting players are all fine and contribute greatly to the film. It's a unique yet oddly contemporary film. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"The Same River Twice by Thomas J. O'Connor","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In this 1966 psychological thriller, director John Frankenheimer (The Manchurian Candidate) explores the dark side of human longing.A surgical procedure transforms a fifty-something working class man drained of any passion for life, into a youthful new existence, identity and all. Cosmetic alterations, no matter how stunning, still leave the mind of our main character struggling with his personal dilemmas of inadequacy and unhappiness. Actor Rock Hudson confidently embodies a man awakening to an unalterable reality in this broad psychological and emotional landscape of a film. An intricate script provides fertile ground for existential and metaphysical discussions. The use of black and white and pristine lighting uniquely brings forth a safe as Leave It to Beaver feel, yet portrays opposite ideologies, evoking the spirit of a Twilight Zone episode.Seconds is a haunting study of one man's shattering universe and ultimately the terrors our own mind can create. "},{"Title":"Seconds (1966) ***1/2","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Amazing. Disturbing. Haunting. A True Cinematic Work Of Art. And with Rock Hudson? Whod'a thunk it? I loved this movie, and it had everything going for it - fine acting from not only Hudson but also John Randolph, Jeff Corey and Will Geer; masterful direction from John Frankenheimer; breathtaking camera-work courtesy of James Wong Howe. I was hooked into this bizarre story from opening credits to end credits. Aside from a slight sag somewhere in the middle of the proceedings, it was very consistently effective and often times haunting and disturbing. Worthy of the best Twilight Zone episodes, and it's now one of my all-time favorite films. I can't recommend this movie highly enough. I liked it so much that I immediately re-watched it with the audio commentary. Frankenheimer was a very insightful speaker, and he made the experience very interesting. He said that the nude sequences in the film were also shot with clothing (and he's relieved the proper version was issued here), and he discussed a sequence he always wanted to include which was cut from the finished film, much to his regret; he was unable to locate the negative while preparing this version. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"warped ahead of its time","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this was on tv, and I thought for sure I must be watching the Twilight Zone.  But it kept going on much longer than any episode I had seen. Yet that is the impression one gets from watching this, even after multipleviewings.  It is hard to believe something this twisted and bizarre could have been made in 1966, surely that is a mistake and it was made within the lastdecade in a black and white hommage.  But no it is no mistake.  It is all the more unusual that an actor like Rock Hudson stars in it.  I don't discuss details to much for fear that I might spoil the movie, for this one takes on a wild ride from the get go.  The lessons implied here are careful what you wish for and watch out what road you take, it maybe just a little bit bumpy.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Thriller!!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brilliant thriller as timely today as it was when it was made given our obsession with youth and cosmetic surgery. As one of the folks has proven w/ his silly commentary much of this film is in the subtext, character motivation is not explained in big bold black letters. Frankenheimer sets the stage and the background along with help of excellent performances by John Randolph, Will Geer, Jeff Corey and of course Rock Hudson giving maybe his best performance.Of course, if one is inured to intelligent filmmaking by the steady diet of heavy handed, simple minded films that pass for what are called psychological thrillers than I suppose this film will fly over your head. If you happen to enjoy an intelligent and understated approach as well chilling mood and atmosphere, then this film is for you! "},{"Title":"a weird, surreal tour de force of paranoia and unspeakable horror","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i found this movie unforgettable.  every time i see it i find myself wondering why it's been so overlooked.  maybe my so called 'critical sensibilities' are poorly developed or completely non existent, but to my mind this movie is an unfairly neglected gem.  it is, admittedly, not to everyone's taste, and will in all probability make more conservative and less artsy people than myself a little uncomfortable or just plain 'weirded out', to use a cruder term. rock hudson's performance is so convincing as the somewhat pathetic and truly sad Arthur Hamilton/Tony Wilson that at times it becomes downright disturbing and eerie.  a chilling tale of utter defeat and more of a predictable tragedy than anything else, hudson's character discovers that no amount of external change or superficial alteration can make up for a life doomed to unhappiness by painful lucidity and self mistrust.  i would personally interpret it as an unflinchingly pessimistic commentary on the human condition as a wholein the end, all of our opposed values and dichotomies (liberal vs. traditional, pedestrian vs. creative, etc), and varying degrees of outward success are basically relative and equivalent in an existence that is at bottom one of despair and perpetual discomfort.  Frankenheimer's message is not a pleasant one, but is relevant and in some ways perhaps even accurate.  absolutely not to be missed.       "}{"Title":"Heart-stoppingly powerful","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film about 20 years ago, and was stunned by it.  I recently saw it again, and it was even BETTER than I remembered it, and had lost none of its power. It is a chilling, disorientating and, ultimately, terrifying film, beautifully filmed and acted -- Hudson gives what is arguably his best performance, and there are glorious turns from veteran character actors such as Jeff Corey, Murray Hamilton, Will Geer and, particularly revelatory, John Randolph.  The pervading sense of menace and paranoia is fully realised, and the final image is one you will never forget.  Magnificent. "},{"Title":"Scary paranoid nightmare","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a way to go!  This morality play about the dangers of greed and vanity leaves an indelible stamp on the minds of all who see it.  The story follows a man through death (the end of his old life), rebirth (the newly redesigned man), and his ultimate fate.  The last 20 minutes of this film could give Blair Witch a run for its money.  The crowning horror in this film, though, is reserved for the last five minutes. I often wonder how Rock felt about acting in this film.  It must have had some effect on him.This movie is a damning indictment of modern society, as far as the worship of youth and beauty go. "},{"Title":"Good concept, not well developed","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really intriguing concept for a movie - a man offered to start his life again with his new identity, and the new one pulled out of his old memories of what he wanted to be.So how come some stuffy banker would want to be an artist when he doesn't even have the talent?  I was too obvious that the man's new role was so against who he really was, that it couldn't have been what he really wanted.I think it'd have been a better movie if his second chance in life was something really natural and good for him, but he still got confused in the conflicts between his old and new life, as he did in this one.I had to fast forward through some really obnoxiously loud and annoying scenes of his new life in the middle, otherwise it was pretty enjoyable. Worth taping rather than just watching so you CAN fast forward though. "},{"Title":"One Of My Top Ten Faves","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankenheimer's SECONDS is one of my top ten favorite films.  A man (played by once blacklisted actor John Randolph) with a successful but empty life accepts the mysterious offer of a way to break free.  Through the secretive operations of a well-guarded corporation, the man is reborn into a new identity and a second chance.  A terrific script with every line meaningful, the man makes some existential revelations and makes a daring turnaround.  Reportedly, Rock Hudson had to fight to be cast in the role of the second identity, and has said that this was his favorite film.  Trust me, this is far and away unlike anything else he's done.  This film is one of the three or four that have ever given me the genuine creeps thanks largely to the great James Wong Howe's cinematography, the opening scene in NYC's Grand Central Station is actually nauseating (in a good way).  And the final sequence is one of the very few in the history of film that have genuinely frightened me.  The video release (finally!) of appx 1996 contains a scene that I don't remember being in the film the first time I saw it the bacchanalian wine-making orgy.  I'm unsure whether I like this scene or not it fits the storyline, but its tone is grossly out of tune with the rest of the film (but maybe that was intentional, given the context and theme). Performances all around are perfection, and thanks to Frankenheimer for allowing two great actors - John Randolph and Will Geer - to play a crucial and emotional scene of five (or so) minutes continuously (that is, with no cuts).  That's the best way to prove to an audience which actors can really act!   "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic, but. . .","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Seconds has the theme and plot line of a classic, but doesn't quite make it in presentation  Problems appearing after rebirth are virtually 100% anticipatable and lack focus and relevance. Anyone taking the first steps out of a customary life-style experiences similar confusion and fear.While the cinematography is considered Academy Award quality, the overuse of special-lens shots is boring and burdensome.Despite these flaws, Seconds is a must-see for everyone interested in ground-breaking shockers. "},{"Title":"Frankenheimer does it again. An underrated classic thriller.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankenheimer, the famed director of now classic movies such as The Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days in May made this forgotten sci-fi thriller Gem (Diamond) in the late 60's. Although it was widely ignored by critics and fans on it's initial release it has gained a reputation over the years as a cult classic. For once this is a movie that deserves it's legendary status.What if you had the opportunity to start you life again? What if you could be young again? What if you could totally change your life and become someone else? Would you do it? That is the question is posed to Arthur Hamilton. (John Randolph) Arthur is a disillusioned businessman. A man who seemingly has it all but is dissatisfied with his life. His marriage is stagnant. he and his wife love one another but their love is distant, fading. He is equally unfulfilled with his career as well.Seconds is one of my favorite movies of al time. The story is intriguing and original(based on the novel by David Ely). What an ending! The cinematography (James Wong Howe)is excellent. In particular I love the first scene when the man in the train station is following Arthur. Even the acting was good. The old man (Will Greer) who convinces Arthur to become a second and later muses on the fickle nature of man is excellent.  An unrecognized science fiction classic.P.S. I hear that there is a remake of this film in the works. "},{"Title":"Devastating and brilliant","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Give this ten or fifteen minutes - then you'll be both intrigued and hooked! The theme of the movie is clear you can change the person on the outside, but you can't change in the inside. One warning though this is a VERY depressing movie. However, it's a brilliant experience, and one that you'll NEVER forget. It's a movie that both entertains, and makes you think.  "},{"Title":"Words Cannot Express","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This one is as creepy as it gets. It improves on the novel--which is also terrific--mainly because, on film, it gets a chilling, Gothic score from Jerry Goldsmith, plus an opening- credits sequence that trumps whatever cover they could ever possibly put on a reprint of the book, and a specific cinematography approach that probably outdoes anything a reader's imagination could supply for visuals. As a bookworm, it's not often that I get to say a director's vision for a horror novel turned into a movie is better than the horrors I could see in my head while interpreting nightmarish text. Director John Frankenheimer, in collusion with a genius cinematographer, got Seconds, the ultimate be careful what you wish for chiller, absolutely right.The weak spot maybe could have been the casting of Rock Hudson in the lead, but apparently Hudson insisted that he not play the earlier version of his character in the beginning stages of the film--and what this means is that Rock Hudson understood this material and his place in it. This means that Rock Hudson knew that Arthur Hamilton's transformation into Tony Wilson should show, above all, that Arthur Hamilton is lost. We don't get some actor who wanted lots of screen-time getting worked over by the Make Up Dept. to look older, just so he can then become young and beautiful in the reboot of his life. Arthur Hamilton, weary old banker, is obliterated (on the outside, anyway), and the fact that two actors who of course bear no resemblance to each other play the same character--a Before version, and a supposedly happier After version--means that what we have a Miraculous Transformation that is really more of a Brutal Slaying, an Obliteration. My point is if Rock Hudson could figure out that he should not play the earlier version of the main character, then it's not surprising that his deep understanding of what this character undergoes (or, unwittingly subjects himself to) means that he should provide us with an amazing performance. And that is exactly what he does.So we have a secret organization that takes money to transform disillusioned older men into younger, handsomer men with the chance to start over and make their dreams come true. The movie is insidiously subtle in its constant hints of what this shadowy organization is really up to; the first telling point is the fact that the head of the Rebirth organization is a really old, wrinkled-up dude who needs glasses and has a creepy smile that doesn't seem to end at his ears (played magnificently by Will Geer). Hmmmm. I mean, how come this old guy has not partaken of his own fountain of youth process? As the film slithers along--old dude's smile notwithstanding--very few truly happy scenes take place. Tony Wilson (formerly Arthur Hamilton) seems stuck in some dreary rut right from the start of his rebirth, and then later, when he has met a charming lady who lures him to a rowdy Bacchanalian naturefest so he can loosen up, Rock Hudson finally lets it all hang out and smiles in pure joy. Every iota of the film had been so sinister up to that point, that it's like a breath of fresh air when the main character actually seems happy. Heck---IS happy!It is a fleeting, ephemeral moment. An indication that there is the slightest chance that Arthur Hamilton/Tony Wilson can turn the corner and do what his secret benefactors want him to do don't worry be happy, for goodness sake! And above all, don't regret. But, at a cocktail party, the smile is less convincing as it comes in a sea of alcohol that can make lips smile, and make lips loose. The movie inevitably shifts from constantly unsettling to, of course, actively wicked. And the ending mercilessly beats down with a big stick any other entries for Creepiest Last Scene. Anyone not feeling total dread as the film bleeds out to the end credits is a, I dunno, is a toaster.One of the great achievements in disturbing film-making. You have to see it. "},{"Title":"Hidden Sci-Fi Gem.","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Arthur Hamilton is a man who should be proud of the life he's created. He's expecting to become president of the bank he works at any day now, he has a loving wife, a home, a boat, a daughter in the Ivy League, and yet he feels incomplete. Here is a man who made the choices that society told him to instead of following his own intuition. With seemingly nothing to lose, Arthur makes a Faustian deal with a shady company that affirms him a new and happy life for the meager price of $30,000 (adjusted for inflation, nearly $200,000 today.) However, if a man leads a soulless existence, even the most attractive and wealthy one will feel empty.There's allegory galore here including the yearning for a fountain of youth, existentialism, the cons of materialism, the impersonal nature of modern society, and man's search for meaning. Is ultimate freedom really the secret to happiness? Is having a family, routine, and stability the pillars on which to build your life? These questions are up to the viewer to decide. I can't help but wonder if Rock Hudson himself identified personally with the story, seeing as he was a gay man hiding his lifestyle for many years. He had to have drawn on his own personal fears of living a life for other people, only to mournfully regret this decision later in life.Seconds is a genre film that was far before its time. There was no audience ready in 1966, but this will live on in discussions of cult cinema. Frankenheimer never cheats the viewer or condescends to them, which adds an authenticity that's not standard of this genre. This is an excellent paranoia piece that always carries an undercurrent of dread that's inescapable. The score by Jerry Goldsmith is incredible and adds an even thicker layer of delusion to the manic direction. Dark, cynical, and refusing to let the audience off the hook at the end. My kind of movie. Time to read the book. "},{"Title":"John Frankenheimer Doesn't Score with This Creepy Thriller","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Rock Hudson deserves credit for stretching himself and taking on this unflattering role, far from the matinée-idol roles movie audiences were used to seeing him in, but the movie itself is a mixed bag. I've always been a champion of John Frankenheimer, and I think just about every movie he's made is underrated (even The Manchurian Candidate, now considered a classic, was underrated at the time), but Seconds is one of his weaker efforts. I liked the sterling black and white cinematography, always one of the greatest assets in any Frankenheimer film, but I just didn't feel that the movie itself held together as well as some of Frankenheimer's efforts. Part of this is due to Hudson, who, though one admires his effort, was simply too limited an actor to pull a role like this off. But much of the blame lies with Frankenheimer himself, who was just off on this one.Grade B- "}{"Title":"Unique Film, Great Hudson Performance","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Rock Hudson, who built his career on fluff-type movies in the 50s and 60s, takes on a completely different role in this fine--and very startling--film. A middle aged banker (John Randolph), inspired by a friend from his younger days (and who only speaks by phone), finds himself at a mysterious institution that returns older men to youthful times through surgery, and eliminates the older man's persona through a contrived death.Randolph is transformed into Hudson, who finds himself with a new identity, a prearranged servant (Wesley Addy), and a prearranged girlfriend (Salome Jens). He revels in his new and youthful lifestyle, but eventually tires of it, and yearns to return to his former life and his loved ones. He eventually is returned to the institution, and begs to be sent back, with shocking results.Anyone who knows Hudson only from his harmless movies with Doris Day will find his performance startling, and outstanding. Also good are Will Geer, Richard Anderson, and Jeff Corey, who play the unsavory, smarmy institution representatives. Addy and Jens are also very good in their roles.This film is intriguing and well acted, but is not very pleasant. The final scenes with Hudson strapped to a gurney made me squirm with anxiety. For those with open minds, a very good film. "},{"Title":"Deeply Disturbing...","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankenheimer's 1966 film Seconds is a deeply disturbing psychological thriller with a strangely strong sense of paranoia and repression.The story involves a strict, live-life-the-same-every-day businessman who goes to a company that fakes his death, gives him a makeover and creates a new persona for him. The man turns into the late Rock Hudson, and lives life out in a beach condo and still has a strange sense of paranoia around him. But then problems ensue as this morality tale cautions not to play God.From the opening credits to the end, Seconds is very strange, and disturbingly demented at a psychosis level. The photography focuses around a man's face in the beginning. It closes in on his ear, up his nostril, near his pupil. It's very odd and disturbing. And then the film opens with some typical John Frankenheimer techniques. We see shots of a camera pinned over a man's shoulder. We see him sweating like a pig. We see people rushing about around him in fast motion and the camera focuses on him all the while.Sometimes the scenes go too far (the grape-crushing scene was a bit prolonged), but others were cut perfectly.Seconds creates, perhaps, the biggest sense of paranoia I have viewed on screen for a long, long time. It's completely original, disturbing--to say it the hundreth time--and involving. But, unfortunately, some parts of the film are just so odd and demented that it's hard to really enjoy it.Something about Seconds creates a sick sense in your stomach. The same feeling I get when I watch the end of films like Se7ven and some psychological thrillers is in Seconds, only it's there the whole way through. I'm still scarred by the effects of this movie.It's deeply disturbing and creates the grandest sense of paranoia I have ever witnessed on screen for a long time. However, some flaws and odd bits in this film lower the rating to a four (out of five) stars--it's just a bit too odd at times for my tastes. See this if you liked Being John Malkovich and/or Deliverance it's odd, and creates sick feelings in your stomach like those films. In fact, it's ever more odd and disturbing than those two combined.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Faust in the 20th century","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You can watch SECONDS either as a straightforward  sci-fi thriller, or a modern-day, high-tech retelling of the Faust legend.   Either way, this is a fascinating  and terrifying film that delivers a powerful  message about looking for happiness, fulfilment,  and salvation in all the wrong places.  It also shows  that Rock Hudson could play a fully-developed,  three-dimensional, tragic character.The modern-day Faust is married, middle-aged  businessman Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph),  who most definitely doesn't want to be who and  where he is in life. The Devil is incarnated as  a soft-spoken, elderly gentleman (Will Geer),  who turns out to be the CEO of The Company,  an underground organization that offers Hamilton  a chance to be reborn.  But this offer has  absolutely nothing to do with what Jesus was  talking about when he spoke of being born again.  (I'm betting, however, that the allusion is deliberate.) For a huge sum of money, The Company will  (1) stage Hamilton's death, actually planting a cadaver that everyone will mistake for his  decomposed body (2) take Hamilton apart on  the operating table and put him together again to  look just like Rock Hudson  (3) send Hamilton off to a new life and a new  identity. Hamilton eventually goes for the deal, and  becomes handsome young Tony Wilson (Rock Hudson, of  course).  But Hamilton/Wilson ultimately learns the  hard way that trying to cheat God was a lousy idea,  and that the Devil doesn't play fair.  The final  minutes of SECONDS terrified me more than many other  scary movies I've seen.But I was fascinated and terrified by the time the  opening titles were finished.  First, there's Jerry Goldsmith's music, which uses an idea he would  develop further ten years later in THE OMEN -- a  deliberate parody or corruption of the lyrical and  the sacred.  Accompanying Goldsmith's score, was a  montage of twisted, distorted images of body parts.   The climax is a blurred image that at first appears  to be the head of an infant baby, but clarifies itself into the head of an adult wrapped in surgical bandages.SECONDS is filmed in black and white -- a deliberate  choice by 1966 -- which strengthens the Satanic metaphor. The grim humor that runs throughout emphasizes the  demoralizing nature of The Company, because the jokes are pointedly at Hamilton's expense.  For example,  Hamilton is driven to his initial meeting with The  Company in a meat delivery truck -- in the back, with  the meat.What I found particularly effective was the elderly  Devil's use of despair to persuade Hamilton.  In  particular, I remember Hamilton raising the issue of  his wife, and the Devil asking him, What are you to  her now?  The despair angle is effective both from a  spiritual standpoint, and from the practical  standpoint of making the story believable.Speaking spiritually, I think despair is the most  powerful means of leading someone into moral, ethical, and spiritual ruin -- partly because it's also  the most overlooked.  There are plenty of stories out  there about people who fall from grace over promises  of power, physical pleasure, wealth, fame, and all  that good stuff.  You can read such stories in the  Bible, rent them at your local video store, and find  them everywhere else in between.  And because we've  all heard those stories, we've all got our strategies worked out for how to avoid starring in one.  But you don't hear nearly as many stories about people who  stray from the path of righteousness purely because  someone convinced them that path contains nothing  worthwhile -- maybe because those stories aren't quite as exciting.  Because we don't hear many stories like this, we're not nearly as prepared for this to happen  to us.  In any case, would it be hard to keep fighting for something after someone convinced you it was worthless?Returning to Earth and to practical matters,, the  despair angle is also helpful because it mitigates  what I feel is the only major flaw in the story.   Everything that goes wrong for Hamilton/Wilson is  something anyone with any sense should have  anticipated  -- especially a shrewd and maybe even  cynical businessman.  But when you're desperate, you  tend to act rashly without thinking things through --  especially if someone who's out to take advantage of  your desperation gives you a little push.So if SECONDS was such a fascinating, gripping, and  spiritually significant film, why has it fallen into  obscurity?  I mean, you seldom see it on television,  and it wasn't released on home video until 1996.   I think it's because the message is one that  Corporate America doesn't want you to hear.   SECONDS tells us that the worst mistake we can  make is to go chasing after some glamourouss  dream existence we weren't meant to have --  and which doesn't exist in any case.  Instead,  we need to understand that the only path to happiness, contentment, and fulfilment is  to embrace the role God  gave us to play.  But Corporate  America doesn't want you to embrace that role.   Corporate America wants you to chase that glamourouss  dream existence so it can promise you, The dream will be yours if you buy what we're selling.  And Corporate  America has the power to decide which movies get promoted and which don't  -- and which movies get remembered  and which don't.  SECONDS didn't get remembered because it spoke out 100% against the corporate party line.   But its message do you a lot more good if you're  willing to listen.       "},{"Title":"What a colossal bore!","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had high hopes for this film. It boasted a prestigious director and cinematographer, had a premise that seemed ahead of its time, and was given the full Criterion treatment. So what's wrong with this picture? Everything. It's slow as molasses, really shows its age at the hippie orgy, becomes intolerable at the drunken house party and only heats up for a very few minutes at the end. I had a hard time accepting that anyone would be unhappy suddenly looking like Rock Hudson and living in a beautiful house in Malibu. That alone stretched suspension of disbelief far beyond the limit. The whole thing left a sour taste in my mouth (Could have been those filthy grapes!). Can't figure out what all the praise for this film is about. Should have been cut to 30 minutes and shown as a Twilight Zone episode. It would have stood a chance. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A masterpiece featuring some of the best acting Rock Hudson ever did. The movie is full of camera tricks by cinematographer James Wong Howe and director John Frankenheimer. From the creepy Saul Bass titles to the horrifying medical procedures, the film keeps the viewer off center for a lot of the time. Frankenheimer makes a film even more subversive than his earlier masterwork, THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE. John Randolph plays a disaffected middle-aged man who gives up his life to become young again. He's transformed into Hudson, who is expected to never look back...but of course he does and therein lies the tragedy. Hudson is very good but there are times when his character comes across as a bit lifeless when it should be full of life! Randolph is great as always and the supporting cast includes the deceptively nice Will Geer, Richard Anderson and Jeff Corey. Salome Jens, in a rare lead, plays Hudson's understandably befuddled leading lady. "},{"Title":"What a crock","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't usually review films that over 100 others have reviewed, but occasionally -- when I feel strongly about a film, either positively or negatively -- I will waive that guideline. And I obviously feel strongly about this film.For starters, the initial premise that a businessman will voluntarily get into a completely dark meat truck to be taken to some secret location for a purpose he doesn't know. Ridiculous. The only thing good about the film's early scenes is the performance by character actor John Randolph.And then we have the nude hippie wine festival. To what purpose? I'll tell you what purpose -- merely to slip some pop culture into the film.The beginning and end of the film is very Rod Serlingish, which reminded me that this film had all the substance of a half-hour teleplay...well, okay, maybe an hour.The supporting actors are mostly from television...and it shows. Salome Jens...really...the female lead??? It was slightly interesting seeing Will Geer in a non-Waltons role.You may think I'm not into Rock Hudson films. Not true; Hudson made many fine films; this is not one of them. Similarly, director John Frankenheimer made a number of particularly fine films; again, this is not one of them.This is just a film that had potential, but never quite made it. Hudson was beginning his career decline right about this time, hence the better films were not going in his direction. I'm not into cult films...and this is a cult film that was unsuccessful upon release. And it's clear why. "},{"Title":"How, how&#133;HOW can this film not be listed among the greatest classics?!?","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As much as I love cinema, it can be such a hypocrite business. Take Seconds for example&#133; it easily could have been one of the greatest sci-fi classics of all time, but instead it flopped and got terribly ignored over the years. Why? You tell me!! Probably audiences weren't ready for it yet back in 1966, which is only partly reasonable. Seconds is a brilliantly compelling and thought-provoking thriller with an interesting theme. *** SPOILERS*** Through his friend Charlie, Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph) is approached a secret organization that has an entire new identity to offer him. Bored with his job and fed up with his marriage, he grabs the opportunity. So, John Randolph becomes Rock Hudson and starts a new life down in sunny Malibu. Arthur's death has been faked and plastic surgery transformed into the young, handsome Tony Wilson. However, this new `freedom' doesn't turns out to be the treat he expected he and he demands a second operation. The organization foresaw this could happen... Right from psychedelic opening credits, you know this film by John Frankenheimer will be something special. Seconds &#150; with an eerie black and white photography &#150; is a complex and disturbing film that really puts things into perspective. The screenplay (adapted from David Ely's novel) is so ahead of its time that it almost becomes petrifying! Seconds is realistic and involving nightmare, brought to life even more by terrific acting performances of Rock Hudson and John Randolph. The film suffers from a slight dip near the middle, with a tedious and stereotypical portrait of the careless, hippie-like beach community. No worries though, because after that Seconds comes into a dazzling acceleration, resulting in an unforgettable climax. The ending is one of the most stunning ones in American cinema history, for sure! I highly recommend this film to anyone who's fed up with the mainstream, Hollywood feel-good films. The late John Frankenheimer should be remembered for this film and Six Days in May a lot more instead as for his last stinkers like Reindeer Games and the remake of Island of Dr. Moreau. These are the ones that really prove his talent as a filmmaker.   "},{"Title":"Only one life per person.","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When a quiet middle aged man decides that his life isn't for him, he decides to start all over. New face, new identity, new career, new outlook. But is that really feasible? In the cold, cold world of new wave director John Frankenheimer it is, and the shock of a new existence takes its toll, especially as he finds it difficult to let go of his old life.Character actor John Randolph becomes hunky Rock Hudson, leaving behind wife Frances Reid, his home, career and occasional visits from his grown daughter. What? Walk out on Alice Horton? Yes, the sands go through the hour glass but as the younger looking Hudson, he can't help but re-visit his old life, basically disgusted by his new one.This created a lot of shock in its day, the fear factor of society having this as an option from evil scientists who mess with nature and have no regards for the ethics of birth, life and death.The life Randolph/Hudson gets isn't what he dreamed of, ending up in an amoralistic society where he meets mystery woman Rita Gam. Veteran character actor Wesley Addy is quietly creepy and icy as Hudson's butler in his new life, and Murray Hamilton is the morbid head of the agency Hudson switches his identities in.Like dramas about eternal youth, this has many disturbing, moralistic warnings, and often, it makes you wonder if there are agencies buried deep in society doing this exact same thing. "},{"Title":"You're not acting yourself","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A middle-aged man accepts a creepy offer of a change of identity and a new life, but turns out it ain't that simple.Hmmm. Lots of interesting stuff going on with the camera, but the story is muddled and lacking motivation. I suppose it's about the search for an identity always beyond the individual's grasp, so the distortions and off-kilter close ups play a role.Starts off with Hitchcock mystery menace, switches to Kafka paranoia, followed by stick-it-to-the-Man liberation mixed with free-love silliness, then back to Kafka. The hero's final line is not, Just like a dog, but a muffled aaarrrggggh! All along the dialogue is never really engaging, and gets daft in the California scenes where the actors seem to be in a panic over the weakness of the material. Hudson is well cast, because you get the uncertainty and lack of direction in his face, and there are some other interesting actors in there too - although the love interest is unconvincing. And I really would not recommend quaffing the wine - earthy with a hint of cum and ... touches of jam and chocolate? Music is good. Pace is OK, but the whole thing feels odd because the second act is so different.Overall - laboured historical oddity, worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Terrific visual style","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dear John Frankenheimer,first of all what a terrific visual style. It is films like yours that makes American cinema such a pleasure to watch. Though you did overdo it a little bit. Some of the images like when the plastic surgery was going on, were truly scary. The visuals conveyed the anxiety and paranoia of the characters. The train sequence at the beginning was simply terrific. The weird camera angles and the jolty editing created a terrific effect.It is an extremely depressing film. I still do not understand why the protagonist was unhappy with his new life. The guy had everything. I would have gone for it. But then, you Americans have to prove to the rest of the world that you guys are unhappy no matter what. I mean, what did this guy not have? But I loved the story. You made the film nearly ten years before Antonionini and more than 20 years before Singeetham Sreenivasa Rao.Rock Hudson was probably a bit too good looking for the role. But he does not take away anything from the film.Best Regards, Pimpin.(8/10) "}{"Title":"A Chilling Story That Send Shivers Down My Spine","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Have you ever thought about starting it all over again? What if I tell you that there is a firm that specializes in transplanting your entire consciousness into a new body and you can then live your perfect self-designed life? Would you do it if money is not an issue?John Frankenheimer's Seconds (1966) feels like an extended Twilight Zone episode and you know there will be no good outcome. It is a chilling story that send shivers down my spine. It concerns a middle-aged banker, who dissatisfied with his suburban existence, elects to undergo a strange and elaborate procedure that will grant him a new life. But not everything goes to plan and he becomes disenfranchised with his new life and seeks a return to his old self.What makes the film go on a waking nightmare plane is the stylistics that accompanies it. The weird camera angles, fragmented editing and uncanny sound design give the movie a lot of sinister atmosphere. It really feels like a lucid nightmare. Rock Hudson is a revelation too in this outstanding paranoia dark film. "},{"Title":"A disturbing and depressing experience","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The opening scene of John Frankenheimer's massively overlooked thriller Seconds follows everyman Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph) as he ushers along a familiar railway station seemingly heading to another day at work. Through Frankenheimer and Oscar-nominated cinematographer James Wong Howe's eyes, this is our world but not quite as we know it, but how a lot of us will no doubt feel it. Obscure camera angles and extreme close-ups invoke a deep sense of paranoia, like someone is subtly observing from afar while the walls of our world feel like they're closing in. The man looks like the kind of pod-person Mad Men depicted so well, but who is he and where is he going? Eventually the man is handed a note from a stranger baring an address.Seconds is the last and least well-known of John Frankenheimer's so- called 'paranoia trilogy', which began with The Manchurian Candidate (1962) and was followed by Seven Days in May (1964). Paranoid thrillers of the highest quality, Seconds is arguably the best. Dismissed by the majority of critics and unseen by audiences upon its release in 1966, it has been frequently re-evaluated over the years but has never achieved the level of recognition is surely deserves. It tries to answer the questions no doubt pondered by many middle-aged men caught up in the mundaneness of modern life, of what it would be like to be offered a clean slate - to change your appearance, be given the money to conquer your goals, and have your former self completely removed from the world. Will you achieve happiness and live the life you have always desired, free from the constraints of marriage and a 9 to 5 lifestyle? Or will you simply make the same mistakes as before?Arthur Hamilton is contacted by an old friend he believed to be long dead, who tempts his old school buddy into a radical - and highly secretive - procedure that will transform him into a completely different person. Arthur cannot resist and visits the address he was handed by the stranger, and is soon transformed into a handsome and younger man, and is given a new name, Antiochus Wilson (played by a career-best Rock Hudson). Arthur's death is faked and he is whisked off to a warmer climate, where a swanky new pad and the tools to pursue his dream life as an artist await him. Is this life-changing reset merely covering up the underlying cracks deep within in his soul? Antiochus is soon indulging in trendy cocktail parties and the attentions of neighbour Nora (Salome Jens), but as the drinks are consumed his old self starts to bubble over.Although he only appears around the hour mark, Hudson is nothing short of mesmerising here. Retained his handsome features but gaining a world-weariness, the man best known for his screwball comedies seems to perfect fit to play a man hiding his true self, given the double- life he was forced to lead to improve his public image and which eventually damaged his career. Wilson's drunken antics during a long party segment of the film are filled with pity and embarrassment, and it's here that Frankenheimer starts to lose his grip on the story. The narrative sags, but it only adds to the whole disorienting experience. Though technically a thriller, Seconds also works well as a horror, hiding the surgeons ready with their scalpels behind thick walls and shrouding the organisation offering the services in secrecy. Deserving of far more respect in the world of cinema, Seconds is a disturbing and depressing experience, but one that is drenched in irony, featuring one of the most unsettling closing lines I've ever heard. "},{"Title":"A film years ahead of its time - not that tired cliché, I actually mean it","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When one starts to watch Seconds one automatically watches it being aware of Rock Hudson's life. Very few of us watch it as a film by John Frankenheimer or as a film based on the novel by David Ely. We're instantly shocked to see Rock Hudson playing a very unusual role for himself. He was the romantic of Hollywood, he did big roles, starred in epic melodramas such as Douglas Sirk's Written on the Wind and George Cukor's Giant. All of us who know Rock Hudson know that he was a homosexual and the first celebrity who had aids. So he was not only important in the history of Hollywood, but many historians claim that he had a huge impact on the aids awareness. Back to the film; Seconds is a very unusual sci-fi thriller for its time, it is a story of unsatisfied people who desperately want to get a second chance to live.An old man living a wealthy American life with his wife suddenly gets a phone call from his long lost friend, who he thought was dead. The man on phone tells him to come to a certain place under the name, Wilson. There he arrives to a mysterious office and is told that he has a chance to start a new life with a whole new identity with the help of plastic surgery. In addition to the actual surgery this agency provides help to frame the death of the client, built a new reputation, a new life, a new past and future. When the man starts living his new life, he meets new people and finds out that the new life isn't much better than the last one. This realization leads him back to the agency where he is about to find out something quite shocking.There are several things that make this an unusual film. First Rock Hudson had only played commercial, romantic roles - roles that people could easily fall in love with. He gave life to characters teen girls could put up on their walls and read articles about. Now suddenly, he plays a role of an old depressed man, whose bourgeois life - built on the American dream starts to crack up. He starts to realize the sadness, loneliness and the dissatisfaction in his life. Second the subject is very agonizing; it's a story of people dissatisfied with their lives, everyone wants to get a second chance to fulfill their dreams. Because in earlier life making money seemed like the most important thing - now when you don't have to worry about the money, you can focus on the things that you really love. Third the cinematography, in the late 60's almost all films in Hollywood were color films, black-and-white wasn't good anymore. The cinematography is very artistic and at some points metaphorical. So basically the overall atmosphere of Seconds is what made it so unusual for Hollywood.Well as one can guess, these kind of, surrealistic, absurd films about dissatisfaction don't make much money. The film was played in the Cannes film festival and the people hated it, as did the critics. But now days many film historians say that the subject was far too daring for the time, Hollywood wasn't ready for that. People didn't want to see the misery and agony in life. In Europe these kind of films were already very common and many artists had dealt with these issues. When watching Seconds one cannot forget the situation Hollywood was during the time. In 1960's the studios collapsed and filmmakers started to make more personal films, such as Easy Rider, The Graduate, Alice's Restaurant, Midnight Cowboy and Five Easy Pieces. Even that Seconds isn't directly part of this group, movement I think this period had a huge impact on it.The role played by Rock Hudson is his finest performance. Even that I adore his roles in Douglas Sirk's melodramas, I think he really found his talent in Seconds. Probably because of the unique role, which was perfect for him. Rock Hudson was forced to live a double life his whole life. It wasn't even a possibility to come out of the closet, many people in Hollywood knew that Rock was a homosexual, but it was a complete different thing to tell it to the audience. When he first started acting, his agent told him what to wear, how to act and to change his name - Roy Fitzgerald, I guess it wasn't hot enough for Hollywood. When everyone noticed that Rock was around 30 years old and still wasn't married, he had to find a girl. So he married a lesbian and lived a double life. This brief introduction leads us to his role in Seconds, where he starts a new life, someone else builds an identity for him. This clearly is an autobiographical allegory, or at least an allegory for Hollywood. If you're interested to know more about Rock Hudson and his personal life, I'd suggest a biographical documentary; Rock Hudson Dark and Handsome Stranger (2010).There are several ways to look at Seconds, I think it stands out as a brilliant unusual sci-fi thriller. It was very important to bring up an issue like this to Hollywood in the time. Dissatisfaction and the personal problems that lie deep under the gorgeous American lawns. "},{"Title":"Striking Sci-Fi","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The title refers to second chances, as a middle-aged man is given a chance to return to his youth and live another life. A fascinating premise is well executed for the most part, although it tends to drag in the middle. Hudson has one of his best roles as reborn business man, well played by Randolph before the transformation. With his striking camera angles, Frankenheimer creates a stark, threatening atmosphere. There is an extended scene of hippies making wine that is quite daring for its time in terms of its unabashed nudity, but was apparently deleted from the US release. The cast features a host of familiar faces, including Geer, Hamilton, and Anderson. "},{"Title":"Be Careful What You Wish For.......","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have only read a few comments on this, but those I did hit the mark pretty well....If any movie can have you running from the theater screaming, this is it. Especially if you stayed for the ending. If you have run out of prozac do NOT watch this!!! Everyone goes through a mid-life crisis, made worse by the media's love of youth and beauty. This turns all of that inside out, especially for at least one cast member.Ah, the cast....It reads like a who's who of people on McCarthy's famous Black List. I never thought much of Rock Hudson but here he channels being a macho leading man tortured with being a closeted homosexual into on screen agony. He was never better than here. The rest of the cast also does a brilliant job.Part of the horror for me was my fear of doctors...even though they've saved my life more than once. I think it's the super clean environment and all those needles. Here, the Hippocratic Oath is window dressing for a business. You see that at the end.You could not re-make this in color. It would loose EVERYTHING and Howe's use of the fish-eye lens just magnified that druggie,it's not happening to me feeling. Same for the music. Simple but dreamlike. And the sound of the cranial drill hitting bone was totally over the TOP!!! Thats it. See it at your peril and try to remember all that has happened since 1966. "},{"Title":"Seconds and Film Noir","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" John Frankenheimer's SECONDS--one of the most original and disturbing studio films from a decade of original, disturbing and innovative cinema. This is a movie of many qualities-- dramatic, paranoid, and nightmarish. Some have compared it to an extended episode of The Twilight Zone. Some have called it a Faustian science-fiction parable, or a thinking man's thriller. Not a true science-fiction film (science of any kind is never discussed in it). It's an existential nightmare. Perhaps it could be called an adult horror film.But a question may arise at its presence here is SECONDS a Film Noir?Obviously, SECONDS does not immediately appear to fit the Film Noir genre ideally. It's not a crime drama, and a typical dark visual style does not dominate the film. It's not easily termed a Neo-Noir either for similar reasons. Yet SECONDS does have components drawn from Film Noir that work to create an overwhelming sense of fatalistic doom. This is not a crime film, but at its core is a deep transgression the tragic betrayal of the self.Synopsis Let down and bored by a stereotypical, suburb-living, Manhattan-working lifestyle, a 50-something business man decides to exchange his body, and thereby his entire life, for a new one. Thinking he will give himself a second chance at happiness, Arthur Hamilton realizes only when it's much too late that he will always remain who he is, despite any outward alteration of self. This deeply unhappy man is trapped in his miserable identity and there is no escape.No escape. This is a common Noir theme, a pervasive sense of entrapment. Sometimes dark, and often disorienting black-and-white camera work by James Wong Howe creates a universe of paranoia in SECONDS. Whom can Arthur trust? What exactly is going to happen to him when he gives his body over to the corporation with whom he has made a life-altering pact? Every person he encounters before his change is ambiguous Mr. Ruby (brilliant Jeff Corey) who eats chicken while detailing Arthur's contractual obligations, Charlie Evans (Murray Hamilton), Arthur's old friend who is waiting to undergo a change himself. Along the way, there is a drug-induced episode in which Arthur appears to display indecent behaviors. A film of these behaviors, he is told, will be used against him should he back out on his contract. Arthur is trapped. He is threatened with blackmail, and his own death is faked by the corporation (evidently using some unfortunate victim in his place). After the operation, and now re-named Tony Wilson, Arthur meets Nora Marcus (Salome Jens) and The Old Man chilling Will Geer), neither of whom give him any feeling of stability or comfort. But there is no turning back. As Tony Wilson, Arthur thinks he may have found an idyllic new life but Nora just leads him into a bacchanalian lifestyle that feels like a betrayal of his inner self. After a very dramatic breakdown at a cocktail party (attended only by other seconds) Arthur decides he wants to go back to his old life. We already suspect it's too late. Tony/Arthur is calmed by the strange, sinister, yet oddly soothing speech of The Old Man and then led to his final change, from which there will be no return of any kind.As Arthur Hamilton, John Randolph gives an unforgettable performance, showing a perfect understanding of the weary, disappointed man he portrays. Early in the film there is scene with his loving wife (Frances Reid) he rejects her physical advances and the moment perfectly conveys Arthur's dissatisfaction and sad resignation. Rock Hudson gives what is surely one of his best performances as Tony/Arthur. There is a palpable sense of discomfort and alienation in his performance. A new, handsome exterior means nothing to this man who realizes he has betrayed himself and given up everything that truly mattered in his life. It's a profoundly tragic situation, and Hudson deserves a lot of credit for making it believable. One of the film's best scenes comes when Tony pays a visit to Arthur's widow. She never realizes who he is and the scene is filled with pain and regret. (In the DVD commentary, director John Frankenheimer tells us that he had intended to include an even more painful scene of Tony/Arthur going to see the daughter he has left behind.). As for Frankenheimer himself, this is one of his best films by far, never exceeding its ambitions and remaining true to its serious, adult viewpoint.Not a true science-fiction film (science of any kind is never discussed in it) SECONDS is a disturbing, thoughtful and frightening experience. It's an existential nightmare. Perhaps it could be called an adult horror film. It's not a Film Noir in the most literal sense, but its powerful feelings of entrapment, paranoia, self-betrayal and doom--all enhanced by a Howe's disorienting black-and-white cinematography and Jerry Goldsmith's eerie score--give us a prime example of one direction the elements of Film Noir took after the classic period. "},{"Title":"Frightening; Somewhat of an Omen of Our Society Today","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had the opportunity of seeing this over the summer and believe me, this is an electrifying movie. With due respect to The Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days in May, I think Seconds is director John Frankenheimer's masterpiece, bar none.John Randolph plays a middle aged banker who feels that his lust for life has left him. Of course, he has a wife, a daughter, and a great job, but none of these things help to ease his pain. With some advice from his close friend (Murray Hamilton), he visits a mysterious organization called The Company, which can provide him with the chance of being young again. The salesman Mr. Ruby (the always invaluable Jeff Corey) goes over the basic details Your body will be reformed and your identity will be new. Randolph accepts, and for the remainder of the film, he assumes the identity of Tony Wilson (Rock Hudson; his finest hour). Tony now has a new home, a new occupation (painter), and a new love interest (Salome Jens). Unfortunately, his new life takes a dark turn when he realizes that his new identity was taken from a person killed for his young look. Troubled, he decides to get his old body back, but what happens is truly terrifying...When first released in 1966, it was dismissed by critics and flopped at the box office. Today, it has garnered much praise and is considered a classic of modern sci-fi. Great performances from Hudson, Randolph, Corey, and Will Geer are just part of the reasons for its popularity. James Wong Howe's Oscar-nominated camera-work gives a claustrophobic feeling and Jerry Goldsmith's score (perhaps his most frightening) enhances the dark tone. A must for any film buff. "},{"Title":"A little tidbit of trivia on this classic chiller!","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At the beginning credits of the Marlo Thomas That Girl series (first season), there is a montage of Times Square and Broadway Theatre marquees that flash by pretty fast. I had taped a few episodes of this on TV Land once, and I paused the intro to see what was on some of the theater signs. Lo and behold, Seconds can be see on one of the movie theater marquees! The series began in 1966, so I assume this movie came out before the fall of 1966. I love Seconds and fear it will be remade soon and Hollywood-ized with a happy ending. P.S. I do agree with some posters here, the middle sags because of the prolonged and over-stated Grape Crushing Festival sequence. If it was shortened by a mere 3 or 4 minutes it would have been perfect. "},{"Title":"Second Chance","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS**** Getting calls all hours of the day and night from this Charlie Evens, Murray Halilton, middle-aged banker Arthur Hamilton, John Randolph, feels that the person calling him is playing some kind of joke on him. Charlie Evens a very close friend of Arthur has been dead for over a year.As the calls get more frequent and annoying for Authur Charlie,in order to convince Arthur that it's truly him , tells Arthur a number of things about him as well as himself that only the Dead Charlie would possibly have know. Getting interested in Charlie's stories about really being alive Arthur is told by Charlie to go to Grand Central Station. It's there that he's slipped a note by someone there giving him an address 34 Lafeyette St.With his curiosity taking over Arthur goes to the address he was given and then using the name Wilson, the name Charlie told Arthur to use, he's taken to this building. There Arthur is told by the director and founder Mr. Ruby & Will Geer, of the firm that's located there, that their involved in a secret project. The project has to do with giving people like Charlie, who feel that they have nothing to look forward to in life, a new start in life with a new and younger body.Rock Hudson is the new and reborn Antlochus Tony Wilson after shedding his old and worn-out body of 50 year-old banker Arthur Hamilton in Seconds. Though at first Tony is very happy with his new life, as an artist living in a seaside home on Malibu Beach, he starts to become a bit disturbed when he realizes that his life is nothing more then a scientific experiment with no real meaning to it. While walking along the beach Tony runs into a thirty year-old hippie and also artist Nora Marcos, Salome Jens,who at first is anything but impressed with the tall strapping and handsome Tony. Yet within minutes she fall head over heels for him and within days the two become almost inseparable.Tony trying to suppress his emotions like he did when he was the older Arthur Hamilton, while around Nora and her hippie and artist friends, is pushed by Nora to attend a wine festival that quickly turns into a wild drunken orgy. Where he as well as Nora strip off their clothes and, together with dozens of other party goers, jump into a large vat of grapes. Stomping the grapes into wine and sloppily getting gloriously drunk by drinking them.As the party goes from the festival area into Tony's home, still drunk and almost unconscious, Tony suddenly lets his real feelings out about his disenchantment with his new life and start to spurt out stories about his existence as the late Authur Hamilton. Tony doesn't realize that everyone at the party are reborns like himself who are, together with Nora and his butler John(Wesley Addy),there to ease him into his new life as Tony Wilson and have him forget that he ever was Authur Hamilton.The film later has Tony, now determined to get a new body change, going back home to Westerchester NY to see his wife Emily, Frances Reid, for one last time telling her that he knew her late husband Arthur as an excuse to see her. Rock Hudsons brief scene with Emily is so moving and at the same time unnerving that it by itself is worth watching the movie Seconds. Sad and at the same time happy to see Emily, who has no idea that he's her late husband Arthur, Hudson made you feel just what was destroying Tony Wilson from within and how he knew that he can never have the life that he just threw away with Emily and his two grown children.The bleak and almost unwatchable ending may be too much for most movie-goers to sit through but it's the only ending you can expect in a movie like Seconds. Tired of his new life and wanting a second, or third, chance Tony is then taken back to the reborn agency's secret hospital ward to get a new and improved body. The body, to Tony's shock and surprise, that he's to get is not for himself. It's for another waiting in the wings reborn client who isn't as picky as Tony is and is willing to pick up, in his new and forthcoming life, what Tony is so eager and willing to throw away. "},{"Title":"a true 1960s classic..... to admire and study","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i love this film as someone that works in the film industry,i have nothing but admiration for all the key elements.. the original David ely novel,the black and white photography is by a true master..great low key subtle acting...the whole atmosphere created, the slow pace is perfect and works so well..take the scene with arthur hamilton,bank manager with his wife,they are in the bedroom and she attempts to kiss him...a simple slow scene,but it tells you all you need to know about that dead sterile relationship..it is bleak and pessimistic, and a true dystopian vision of are meaningless existence..it asks dangerous questions and gives us answers,that are at odds with the fluid smooth running of are capitalist societies..see this film.... "}{"Title":"Time is not the subject.","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this was on a Saturday afternoon matinée on TV. I didn't see the beginning but I think I saw most of it. I couldn't figure out what the title was all about. Maybe Rock Hudson only had 'Seconds' left to save himself. Maybe it had something to do with time. I was left with these impressions for almost 3 decades. When I was able to rent it, I didn't think too much about the title because I wanted to immerse myself in the film itself. It is truly one of the most under appreciated films, I think, of all time. I think Hudson was wanting to be taken more seriously after this and he did deserve to be but probably wasn't in the long run. This is his best film. It was almost at the end of the film when the horrifying truth began to dawn on Rock and everybody else. I loved these types of film. Manchurian Candidate, Seconds, Fail-Safe. Stark, foreboding, shadowy, secretive, ominous, you just didn't know where the director was taking you. You could bet you were in for a roller-coaster ride and this film was no exception. "},{"Title":"A classic psychological thriller.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film, a classic of the psychological thriller genre, uniquely confronts the struggle between man's desires and his acceptance of the consequences when those desires become manifest. Our hapless protagonist, in a sequence of events not all of his choosing, changes not merely his identity, but his very body and persona. But what he cannot change is himself, and as he eventually gives in to his desires and accepts the decisions he has made, he cannot live with either. It proves his undoing. Additionally, as a staid, conservative banker whose stallwart image held his inner demons in check, he was able to maintain a steady existence. But as a swinging artist, able to relax and to allow his restraint to fall by the wayside, he was more suceptible to these character flaws and found it impossible to control himself. Interestingly, his condition is also, I think, a rather poignant commentary on alcoholism, as this is the crux of his downfall. The first time I saw this film, on late night television, and quite by accident, I was amazed. The cinematography as well as the use of black and white are exceptional. The performances of the cast, particularly Will Geer and Rock Hudson are also quite excellent. It took me over a decade to find it, but I now have it on DVD - a prized possession. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A chilling reminder that life is not always greener on the other side of the fence. Is it just coincidence that the first person Rock meets when he decides to start a new life is named Ruby?  The cinematography is the best part of the picture. "},{"Title":"Mindscrew, avante garde, philospophical thriller??","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Director John Frankenhiemer (Manchurian Candidate, Ronin) helms this inventive, thought provoking thriller that deals with mortality, morality and purpose in life.Rock Hudson stars in arguably his finest bigscreen performance as the mature man who wants to do it all again differently.James Wongs Inventive B&W cinematography adds a surreal edge thanks to inspired camera angles and hand held urgency. (Think David Lynch's Eraserhead)The films score adds a hypnotic edge to the fascinating tale that unfolds.Fans of the deep thought provoking cinema could do far worse than pick up a copy of this influential film. "},{"Title":"Shocking in detail","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read a lot of comments about this film and some are eithernegative or positive in their reviews. However,the performances inthis thriller by John Frankenheimer are very good,especiallycoming from Rock Hudson in a power-house performance and itsalso one of the finest piece of acting in his film career. A lot ofpeople know Rock Hudson from his films with other Hollywoodstars but in this film Hudson gives his most emotional part ofacting ever done. And it shows.  The ending of this movie willshock you. Check out the foreign theatrical version avaliable onvideo. "},{"Title":"A++","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I got the chance to see this film in a modes of film communication class, and i now regard it as one of my top favorites of all time.This movie delves deeply into the realm of Identity vs. The underlying qualities that make us concious human beings (what some consider a soul.) At first this black and white, somewhat boring start, and almost completely uninteresting flick, makes you want to tear your face off just for fun... But then it starts getting really twisted and bizarre, unlike most hollywood movies today.  It leaves you with a not so happy ending, and a desire to understand more about the inner part of human conciousness.Who am i really?  Is the question that keeps appearing in my mind.  I mean, we all can just look at ourselves and say who we are...  Im a boy, i have brown hair, i enjoy movies...  But are these qualities what really makes us unique?  Would i still be me, if i could all of a sudden become someone completely different?In all, this movie got me thinking deeply, a most important quality. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Film","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a sad tale of a man unconsciously (and quite possibly sub-consciously) burying himself. At the beginning, a man named Arthur Hamilton(played by John Randolph)leading an unhappy little existence is given another chance...to lose his current identity and become someone else but what he fails to realize was that it takes more than surgery to provide him with what he wants. The film features outstanding performances from two different actors who in essence are playing the same man. A fantastic piece of work with a terrific ending you won't soon forget. I recommend it to all fans of psychological Horror. "},{"Title":"A magnificent shock!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's an old saying (which is totally illogical to me) that statesThose who can't do teach.) I must retort by stating that Those whocan't do or have no talent, critique!!) I must admit that critics havegiven my 50 or so plays, that I have directed, excellent reviews. Seconds was derided when first presented. I knew it was a totalsuccess meaning direction (Frankenheimer, Hudson and all members of thecast with standouts by Will Geer and Jeff Corey eating the cheesecovered chicken.) Different, tense, haunting, shocking and all theelements that produce a sta "},{"Title":"Excellent performances by John Randolph, Frances Reid and Rock Hudson!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you like those cult classic B-films dealing with the story of one man, you will throughly enjoy this above average film.  Filmed so excellently and in such a way you will be sucked right into the story.     John Randolph is an actor we all recognize from television and many films, but this is probably the best dramatic performance I have seen of him.  Frances Reid (Alice Horton on the NBC serial Days Of Our Lives) offers a serious performance.  If you enjoy Frances Reid, you most definately must see this film.  Rock Hudson delivers an emotion-packed performance on the line of confusion, lonliness, enjoyment, and being terrified.                                                                                                                                        This film does contain nudity and the foreign theatrical release version, with additional scenes, is available on Paramount Home Video.                                                                            This film was nominated for an Academy Award in Cinematography by James Wong Howe.  "},{"Title":"Intense, down-beat paranoid thriller","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had never heard of Seconds until I looked up details about it, after seeing it listed in a TV Guide. When I saw it was by John The Manchurian Candidate Frankenheimer, I decided to watch it. And I enjoyed it.The movie starts off at a slow pace. John Randolph plays Arthur Hamilton, a man bored with his life, who wants to escape it. This chance comes about when his old friend introduces him to a company that can give him a whole new life - literally. He'll have his death faked, get a new body after intensive plastic surgery and be set up as someone else far away. The person he becomes is Antiochus Wilson but, alas, the transition to a new life doesn't go as smoothly as possible when he realises his true problems have not been addressed..Hudson is the most admirable here as he gradually loses control on his new life and feels the pressure to go back and address why he was unhappy in the first life. He's constantly on edge, expecting something to happen and Frankenheimer conveys this well for example there's a hippy, wine-making scene where, as the dance gets more sexual and frenetic the camera-work grows more and more intense and claustrophobic as we're dragged down into the madness. There's a decidedly gloomy air to the whole thing as Wilson/Hamilton never finds his true happiness and the final result of the affair is quite shocking (and certainly not cheery).The movie is intensely paranoid because here the characters even have to doubt themselves - who are they *really*? What makes you *you*? Is it your body, is it your belongings, your friends, your interests? Frankenheimer can't answer all these questions but can give us something to muse over. Seconds is not a comfortable movie, but unsettling and makes for a movie that will give you pause as you think about it afterwards. "}{"Title":"The worst thing that can happen-","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILERS* The worst thing that can happen to you sometimes is to get exactly what you THINK you want. The main character sees his life as dull, stultifying, and completely unsatisfying. He eventually makes his way to the Company, an organization which promises to give him a completely new appearance and identity, PLUS the sort of exciting life he dreams of. In order to cover his tracks, they will procure a corpse and fake his death.He gets it all, but it doesn't take long before he finds that the happiness he thought would be his has eluded him. He realizes that he has been set-up and that the Company is making his decisions for him- in a sense he is a slave to this new life. Even worse, he makes his way back to his old home and chats with his former wife (who of course doesn't recognize him,) and finally realizes that the unhappiness in his marriage was due to his failure to communicate with her.In the end he returns to the Company- he wants yet ANOTHER new beginning and in a sense, perhaps, he gets it HE ends up as one of the cadavers which will be used to fake a death for the next client. As there is some talk about him going to the next stage, I found his final vision while dying oddly soothing he sees a beach, with a man carrying a child on his shoulders and a dog playfully running about with them. Perhaps it is only an hallucination, or perhaps he is seeing the next stage he is entering at death. Perhaps he is the man or -as I like to think- the child, now reborn forever.  "},{"Title":"The Acceptance of Fate","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At 50, even with a new face, new circle of friends, new career, new love interest, our antihero has no idea what to do with the bounty of goodness when it arrives. After a lifetime of practicing acceptance of defeat, resignation has actually become comfortable, his relied-upon vehicle for processing experience. Victory, arriving far too late ever to feel anything other than strange, contains no savor, and in fact only serves to make him withdraw further into his troubled self-questioning. (--As if the poor sap wasn't born to over-think his existence, anyway!) The central character of Seconds is not Everyman. But he is enough like you and me to make Seconds a suffocating thing to watch. I have seen it all the way through a few times, and can honestly say that knowing the ending-- quite the opposite of spoiling the surprise, as it might if this were a cheap thriller-- only makes all that we see reverberate from the opening moments with a genuine sense of tragedy.The film is pretty much as joyless as anything that forces you to examine the flaws and failings of your own existence closely could be expected to be. But it is a singular film, in a lifetime of movie-watching. As other classics are assimilated in a postmodern cultural context, and their mystique dissipates, the entire experience of Seconds remains true and disquieting. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Hitchcock-type of film...a winner! score 9 (out of 10).","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here is one of those classic films that just didn't make it to Oscar.  And it's a damn shame, too, considering the cast, director, screenplay, and cinematography.  This is the type of film that one might expect to see on an episode of The Twilight Zone, but the excellent James Wong Howe cinematography proves that it belongs on the big screen.  I have seen many performances of Rock Hudson (i.e. Giant and Pillow Talk) in my time, but this one is his BEST and why he wasn't nominated for an Academy Award is beyond me.  This is the type of film that echoes the hysteria of Frankenheimer's The Manchurian Candidate (1962).  With a name like Seconds, one might just think that the movie is about time travel, or anything related to time, itself.  In this film, there is no brain washing or time travel, but simply one man's desire to be given a second chance at life. ****WARNING MINOR SPOILERS**** Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph - excellent performance), is a bored, wealthy bank executive,   He lives a dull relationship with his wife (Frances Reid).  Hamilton has been hounded by phone calls that are coming from a friend who died.  He is given the address as to the location of the phone prowler by a mysterious man at a train station (Frank Campanella).  After Hamilton is transported secretly from location to location, he is taken to the whereabouts of The Company.  One of The Company representatives (Jeff Corey) offers Hamilton the chance of a lifetime - he will have his identity erased and be given a new body and life of his choice.  Hamilton accepts the offer for a price.  After the plastic surgery, Hamilton is given the second identity of Antiochus Tony Wilson (Hudson), a successful playboy-type painter.  When Wilson finds this second life to be much worse than his original existence as Hamilton, he wants to reclaim his former existence - but, again, for a price.   Seconds was unjustly ignored by Oscar or even the Golden Globes.  It was one of the top five films of 1966.  The plot is slow paced, but other classic movies like Vertigo (1958) and The Conversation (1974) suffer the same fate as well.  I love movies like these because it lets you explore the characters more in depth. Strengths  Characters, screenplay, direction, cinematography, score. Weaknesses Sluggish, you need to pay attention to this one!Is it worth the wide screen DVD purchase?  You bet.  Score 9 (out of 10). "},{"Title":"New print in circulation","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had the extreme privilege of seeing a brand-new print ofSeconds in a theatrical showing at my local film archives lastnight.  This new print from Paramount may be making the roundsof film festivals -- watch for it.Some of the info that was given before the showing included, thatwhile Rock Hudson was not Frankenheimer's first choice, heaggressively pursued the role until he got it.  He convincedFrankenheimer that he was the only actor who could play the role. This is especially poignant when you consider the facts ofHudson's own life -- being a deeply closeted gay man known forhis comic-romantic leading roles.  I thought he delivered the lineabout a two-faced phony with a little extra bitterness.Interestingly, when Frankenheimer completed the film, both heand Paramount knew it was something really special.   Frankenheimer decided the studio should enter it in the CannesFilm Festival.  Incredibly, however, the Cannes reviewers totallypanned it, focusing in particular on Hudson!!!Because it was panned by the festival it never got any box-officelegs.  From that point on, Frankenheimer distrusted film festivalsand, sadly, both he and Paramount decided they had made amistake about the film and it wasn't all that, after all.Motto  Never, EVER listen to critics!  Hudson was probably thestrongest force among all the excellences of this fine film.  In thescene where he visits his widow, I was amazed that she couldn'tjust look in his eyes and see John Randolph in there.If this comes to an archives, festival, or art house near you, don'tmiss it! "},{"Title":"So glad to be one of those that can say they saw this one","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent and disturbing from start to finish. Rock Hudson's best role. Even watching this film out of the context of the 1960s, today's viewers will have the same questions regarding their happiness and satisfaction with their life. - After watching this one I turned to my wife just to tell her how important she is to me. Get it, see it! "},{"Title":"The Most Terrifying Movie Ever Made","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you thought you knew Rock Hudson, watch this and come away with the greatest performance of his career. You will finally know he was an actor of the highest caliber.Which is not to take away from John Frankenheimer's brilliant direction, Jerry Goldsmith's music and a collection of smaller roles that shined particularly well starting with John Randolph, Will Geer's and the eerie Salome Jens.This is horror of the highest degree and oh so subtle!The last five minutes rank with the most terrifying moments in all cinema.See it.  You will never forget it. "},{"Title":"Superb little gem, almost unknown","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  At first I thought Rock Hudson must have been a box-office decision, or a second choice. Clearly, I was wrong -- he was the perfect choice, and the most surprising aspect of this film is that it's almost unknown outside a small circle of film buffs.This is one of Frankenheimer's best -- certainly Hudson's best -- and should be on anyone's list of quality films.  To miss finely-crafted, tight little thriller would be a shame. I'll bet it was one of Hitchcock's favorites (besides his own, of course). "},{"Title":"Stick around for Seconds","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If there was ever a doubt that Rock Hudson could act, this film should set the record straight. Hudson turns in the best dramatic performance of his career in my humble opinion.The story revolves around a middle-aged man (John Randolph) who is unsatisfied with his lot in life and is transformed into Rock Hudson (we all wish) and set up in a new life with a new identity by a mysterious organization known only as The Company.Hudson as mentioned above is excellent in the role of the reborn painter. John Randolph is also good as the man who wants a new life. Also in the cast are Will Geer as the founder of The Company, Jeff Corey and Richard Anderson as various members of The Company and Salome Jens as the Hudson character's love interest.Director John Frankenheimer keeps the story moving and keeps us guessing as to the final outcome. The stark black and white photography of James Wong Howe sets the dark and dreary mood of the story throughout.This is one time that you should stick around for Seconds. And don't miss the ending. "},{"Title":"why has this film not received recognition?","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought a really good film, one that a man of certain age could identify with. Rock Hudson was very real. Why doesn't it get credit for a good film in its genre?  "},{"Title":"Grim, Creepy but brilliant story, intelligently told","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've often felt I was happier for not being Rock Hudson.  Now I know why.The Saul Bass credits set the tone and the theme, brilliantly as always, of this genuinely creepy, downbeat, kafka-esque (sorry) and thoughtful film. The mysterious nightmarish opening scenes lead one, intrigued into one of the most fascinating and interesting stories I have ever seen.  The ending's no fizzer either.Seconds is similar in tone and mood to Gattaca, another paranoid sci-fi cautionary tale, and the melancholy Dark City, so don't expect a knee-slapper or 'Carry on Identity Crisis!'.  It lacks the black, sardonic humour of Frankenheimer's greatest film, 'The Manchurian Candidate' to it's detriment.  He did seem to undergo a humour bypass which showed in all his later films. The rewards of Seconds though are considerable, not least in the brilliant cinematography by the veteran James Wong Howe and in excellent set design.I don't know how Hudson got involved in the project, another cautionary tale perhaps given it's lack of box office success. Critically its reception was mixed ranging from wild acclaim to virulent hostility.  That along with the involvement a director at the height of his powers makes it intriguing viewing.Like Soderburgh's much neglected and already forgotten 'Kafka', this film deserves a full cinema re-release and a video issued at a price humans can afford. "}{"Title":"If only I could live my life all over again..","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankenheimer is one of my favorite directors, and its not because he makes edgy films.  When I first saw Seconds, I was amazed,..confounded.After cutting his teeth on Playhouse 90 and the like, Mr Frankenheimer made films that tended to be very mainstream, very formula, and early on, very successful. His collaboration  with Burt Lancaster produced hits like Birdman of Alcatrazz, Seven Days in May, and The Train.His direction of `The Manchurian Candidate' in 1962 strayed from formula and pretty much assured carte blanche for Frankenheimer with regards to projects of the time. Success of that magnitude brings about a certain confidence, a cockiness,  and by 1966 there was no challenge too large-at the time, SECONDS was a tremendous challenge. From the David Ely novel, Seconds takes a marvel premise--back your life up 30 years and start again, with all your experiences intact-and struggles and stumbles through weak plot progression, shallow characterizations  and benign story.A black and white movie in 1966? In the era of Lawrence of Arabia, technicolor and cinemascope? No wonder it failed miserably at the box office. Alas, this film has been unavailable on video or laser until recently.After all this knocking, you might be surprised that I next say Seconds to me is one of the most memorable films I have ever seen. The cinematography of James Wong Howe far belays any script and story problems. The music of Jerry Goldsmith is integral and never better.Probably not the director's first choice, Rock Hudson is strong  in the lead&#133;Will Geer, John Randolph, Jeff Corey and Wesley Addy are all excellent in their supporting roles.A mesmerizing premise, a daring attempt at filmmaking for 1966, or 1996-watch this movie on an evening you don't mind thinking a little, don't mind be challenged by a film.And what became of John Frankenheimer? After some 25 years of slippage, the advent of made-for-HBO movies, revived his career-Against the Wall, Burning Season, Andersonville, and George Wallace have all benefited from Frankenheimer at the helm, as we benefit from watching them.  "},{"Title":"Dated, weak. Very disappointing","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was first attracted to this movie as it was reissued, following its digital restoration. The premise sounded so good I even tracked the original novel only to find readers dismissing the style as poor. So the movie was better, apparently. Movie buffs on IMDb and movie critics (for what they're worth) praised a forgotten gem. They never actually spoke of a forgotten gem but the distribution company here in France is named Lost Films, so I should have known.There might be a couple exceptions, but I can summon up none right now. Exceptions always exist for a good reason movies get canned for censorship issues or legal intricacies. Citizen Kane bombed (maybe in part due to the Hearst smear campaign), Nosferatu was to be entirely destroyed for it was just a blatant plagiary of Bram Stoker's Dracula, but both ended up reappraised for their quality in subsequent years. A movie can also be too innovative for its own time (Citizen Kane, again), yet it is definitely not the case with Seconds.Seconds goes slowly and unwinds its storyline heavily, overstating every dot in the plot. This already feels like a very outdated movie. Seriously it was made in 1966 but it looks umpteen times less sharp that good old noir films made one or two decades before. Worst yet, Frankenheimer was never a great director, even if some of his movies are good, unfortunately here he certainly doesn't help the heavy storyline to bloom. Visually it feels like those TV series of the sixties, with a couple of visual tricks that look horribly obvious (ah the ugly trolley shot - which has been reused with similar bad taste, only 40y latter by the even more notoriously overrated Spike Lee Inside Job), included the Saul Bass titles which look less creative than Maurice Binder's work on the 007 franchise at the time.Once and again, there are no hidden gems. Movies who get a proper release may shine more or less brightly to a wider audience but they never actually are forgotten. The only forgotten movies are... forgettable movies weak, unoriginal, unbalanced and hardly reaching an average level of quality in creativity at putting moving pictures together. Seconds still has a great premise, but with so little else that it could be remade without even caring about securing the rights. "},{"Title":"A profound warning against the face of evil","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When you see this film, you are never going to be the same person again for the rest of your life. When viewing this, don't miss one moment from the very beginning to the very end. This work by John Frankenheimer may well be the best directed film of all time, and where on earth were the Oscar nominations for John Randolph, or Salome Jens, or Jerry Goldsmith, or any nominations at all? Now, as for the grape pressing orgy for ten minutes during the middle of the film, could this have been an ominous warning against one Aldous Huxley and his ilk? This might also mean that if you thought that the Satan existence theory was outdated, well apparently so did Mr. Ruby. Back to Huxley, was there symbolism when Arthur Hamilton was walking through the cold storage room?Concluding, at least James Wong Howe did get an Oscar nomination for best photography, and this may have even surpassed the photography of Citizen Kane. It has also been said that the completely unexpected impact of this film came about from the working relationship that existed between John Frankenheimer and James Wong Howe. "},{"Title":"Time's up","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This stunning mix of sci-fi and thriller was never likely to attain the audience it deserved. Downbeat from the off, it tells of an elderly business man, disillusioned that the American dream doesn't add up to a hill of beans. Rather than going quietly he instead enters into a Faustian pact with a mysterious organisation that promises a second chance - in this case coming back as Rock Hudson. But the existential angst soon piles up as the now younger man tries to come to terms with the 'transfer'. Ace cameraman James Wong Howe superbly captures the air of menace, while Hudson is surprisingly convincing as the man who isn't quite what he seems. "},{"Title":"Be Careful What You Wish For","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw Seconds way back in 1966 upon its release. I had a rotten cold but I was anxious to see this movie which was dumped by the theatre chain in a large theatre in the middle of nowhere. The theatre was virtually empty. Even at my tender age I was getting to know my directors, and John Frankenheimer's two earlier thrillers of the 60's - The Manchurian Candidate with its surrealism, wicked humour and a deliciously evil Angela Lansbury; and Seven Days in May - made a big impression on me. You'd think that, between my cold and the raw weather outside and the uncompromising bleakness of this movie, I'd be severely depressed. Not a chance. Good, intelligent movies never depress me. But let me tell you, I was unprepared for Seconds. It scared the hell out of me. It's like a really, really bad dream.John Randolph gives his character, the middle-aged Arthur Hamilton, a world-weary demeanour and hang-dog face. He looks as if he's been drained of all life and hope and is just existing day by day, retracing his steps over and over again. He has acquired all the trappings of the American dream, but he is empty inside. The scene in the bedroom where he pulls away from his wife's affections is brief but devastating. In an infomercial pitching a new you - new body, new identity and new life - Arthur would be the before person.Antiochus Wilson, as played by Rock Hudson, is the after product. Wikipedia lists a line of kings, many self-proclaimed deities, all named Antiochus, ruling an ancient Mediterranean empire. A power name for a recycled man. The casting of Hudson seems especially serendipitous. This is the actor who was the cinema's noble, square-jawed hero, the iconic swinging bachelor (ie. wolf) of that era luring hapless chicks into bed in those Doris Day comedies. As Antiochus, Hudson is handed the same swinging lifestyle with all the trappings, but without the burden of responsibility and without having earned them. Hudson subverts his carefully contrived screen image and presents the dark side of this fake world which, in Seconds, is indeed fake. What do you give the man who has everything?. Perhaps only faded dreams and the loss of one's soul? As they say, be careful what you wish for. The people who changed the man on the outside make one mistake - they didn't't change the man on the inside. "},{"Title":"Would had absolutely loved this movie if it got done as a thriller.","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Actually I have never been too big on John Frankenheimer but that is because I used to be only familiar with his most recent work. However the more I see of his early movies, the more I start to really appreciate him. He really did some absolutely amazing stuff in the '60's and '70's, which I don't just like but I absolutely love, this movie included...only for its first half that is.In the end I just can't help feeling somewhat disappointed with this movie. It has such a great premise and the movie starts off more than promising enough but the movie half way through decides on being a drama, rather than a tense thriller, with some science-fiction tendencies. I understand the movie was trying to create some deeper meanings and underlying themes but it just didn't worked out too well, or interestingly. At least not to me.It's not like the movie is being bad during its second half, it's just not all that interesting. The movie headed into a direction I didn't wanted the movie to head in to. I was so in love with the movie its first half and the movie its main premise that I just couldn't help feeling disappointed with this movie, though again, the second half in itself really isn't bad. It left me however constantly waiting for a twist and dilemma to kick in but what the second half mostly does is showing how Rock Hudson is trying to adept to his new life and his new identity. Really not that interesting and it's then that the movie turns more into a much slower character drama, while the rest of the movie got build up as a tense, paranoid, thriller, with plenty of mystery- and great thriller potential in it. This could had been a movie in the vain of some great paranoid thrillers, such as Three Days Of The Condor, Marathon Man and John Frankheimer his own The Manchurian Candidate, or a great, suspenseful, Hitchcock thriller. Such a shame!But despite the disappointments and problems I have with this movie, it still remains a real great and interesting watch. Not only just interesting because of its great and original main premise but also also because of the way it got shot and directed by John Frankenheimer. People only think of the '70's when thinking about experimental camera-handling and storytelling but this style already already started out in the late '60's actually. This is an 1966 movie, so I'll have to say that this has got to be one of really early ones to use an experimental style, which Frankenheimer continued to work and expand on with his later movies, during the '60's and '70's, most notably.It's really a beautiful looking with some great and unusual camera-work, that often really puts you right in the middle of all the 'action'. It also deliberately got shot in black & white to add to the movie its overall atmosphere. The cinematography also actually received an Oscar nomination and it's really not hard to see why.Another thing that this movie really impresses with is its acting. All of its acting feels very natural, as if they weren't even working with a script but coming up with their lines naturally, as the movie went along. Even Rock Hudson, who was, lets fact it, somewhat of a soap opera type of actor is really great in his role and has to carry the movie for most part.And lets please not forget the great, early, Jerry Goldsmith musical score, that also suits the movie really well.A good movie, that could had been fantastic! I really wouldn't mind seeing another movie featuring a similar concept like this movie did, only done truly as a thriller that time.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"a very intriguing film, stylistically and thematically","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Having just watched this film, it seems like the anachronistic love child of the twilight zone, Fight Club and Total recall. The main character's struggles to redefine himself, his agony over his wasted life, spent chasing things he was lead to believe would make his life complete, and the inevitable full circle return to the beginning that is forced upon him by the company made this a thought provoking and fascinating film to watch. I'd put this on my must see list. While the pace and cinematography might be a bit slow for a 21st century (instant gratification) audience, i was enamored with it. At times it did feel like the director and company were trying too hard to copy someone else's style yet, Seconds at it's core remains a thoroughly original work of art, expression and vital commentary on present day humans' sense of frustration with the ever elusive happiness that we all seek in some form or another. "},{"Title":"A difficult film to watch because it exposes something lurking within each of us","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An uncommon role for Rock Hudson, his first feature after he left his studio contract.  A painful, gloomy, sometimes shocking story that grips the viewer immediately with frightening images behind the opening credits, about a man who wants a new start in life, the limits to which he will go for that chance, and the moral compromises such choices engender.  At times, the movie is itself an ironic (though unintended) commentary on Hudson's own life and the secrets he held back from his public until almost the end of his life.Though it's hard to think of a more relentlessly downbeat motion picture, it's well-directed by John Frankenheimer, perfectly acted by John Randolph and Hudson, and filmed in razor-sharp black and white by James Wong Howe.  A difficult film to watch, perhaps because it reflects something lurking, unspoken and in the shadows, within each of us. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing that film when it first came out. Until that time, I had poor opinion of Rock Hudson's acting ability. He seemed a lightweight. I thought his ballyhooed acting in Giant was stiff and poor...never understood the Oscar nomination for that.After the movie, I felt Rock Hudson was a wonderful actor who was not challenged enough.The movie was great. It is in b&w which heightens the impact.It did not have a long run, and it seems to be forgotten. If you come across it in the DVD bins -- get it. You will not be disappointed. Definitely Rock Hudson as you never seen him. And John Frankenheimer out-Hitchcock's Hitchcock.You will love the ending....or hate it, but it will hit you. "},{"Title":"The Truth Will Set You Free...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Rarely are thrillers used as an expression of pure, unadulterated, dreaded fear. Nowadays, most so-called thrillers are comprised of cheap shocks mixed with bad special effects. It's a giant cliché, but it's also a true one They just don't make 'em like they used to anymore.John Frankenheimer was one of Hollywood's most overlooked directors. He's created a bundle of terrific films, yet Frankenheimer himself has never achieved the coveted worldwide recognition of great mainstream directors such as Spielberg, Lucas, or Kubrick. Frankenheimer worked with some of the best actors of all time, and made some splendid motion pictures, yet he only has a small circle of true die-hard followers. Recently a reader of mine noticed my review of Frankenheimer's solid thriller Ronin, with Robert De Niro, and invited me to join his John Frankenheimer Internet Dedication Group. I explained that I don't have enough time to be active in any type of small Internet group, particularly at this time in my life, but the idea that there are some people out there who admire his work as much as I do is always an uplifting thought.Frankenheimer's Seconds (1966) is one of his best, a deeply disturbing blend of psychological thriller with a hint of paranoia and repression thrown in for good measure. It involves the adventures of an everyman who gets to re-start his life by literally re-shaping his facial attributes. But playing God is going too far, as we soon learn as the film progresses onwards.In the disturbing opening credits sequence, we meet the man on his way to work. Frankenheimer uses low angles with an occasional close-up to get us into the mind of this man--and it works splendidly. It is a sublime feeling, as rare an effect I've ever seen, and without these camera tricks the effect of the film would be somewhat dulled.Tired of his routine lifestyle, the man receives a phone call from his old friend--who is supposed to be dead. But his old friend isn't dead, and lets him in on a little secret His death was faked by a special company that gives you the rare opportunity to start your life over again. They faked his friend's death, gave him a facial makeover, and moved him to a faraway location where he was able to start over from scratch.After a brief pondering, our character decides to do the same, by leaving his wife behind, faking his death, getting his face altered, and moving far away from his current life.After it's all said and done, the man transforms himself into a handsomer, stronger, bigger, better Rock Hudson. For a price this entire operation is completed and the man moves out to a beach condo, living life over again with a butler and a girlfriend and money and everything we, as humans, have ever thought was a necessity in life--or things that we couldn't have before but we'd surely wish for if a magical genie appeared out of thin air and granted us a wish or three.But then the morals kick in. The film's main character doesn't feel content with his surroundings and new lifestyle. He can't forget his past. It keeps catching up with him, and it begins to drive him towards insanity ever so slowly.From the opening credits to the end, Seconds is very strange, and disturbingly demented at a level of psychosis. The photography focuses around a man's face in the beginning. It closes in on his ear, up his nostril, near his pupil. It's very odd and creepy. And then the film opens with some typical John Frankenheimer techniques--as I mentioned before. We see shots of a camera pinned over a man's shoulder. We see him sweating like a pig. We see people rushing about around him in fast motion and the camera focuses on him all the while. Perhaps the pioneer of the modern-day mystery-paranoia you see today (e.g. Memento), Seconds is as chillingly effective as it is strangely subdued. And it pioneered more than just distinct tones of character expressions that would later be delved into by such dark artists as Christopher Nolan and David Fincher--this must also be one of the earliest (if not the earliest) mainstream films to show full frontal nudity (in the only scene of the film that gets a bit too prolonged). Yes, this film was surely far ahead of its time. Even by today's standards this is disturbing and eerie--to fathom that these camera techniques and expressionist feelings were exhibited in 1966 is simply mind-blowing. Frankenheimer was a genius behind the camera--and here's more than ample proof.Seconds creates the deepest and largest sense of paranoia I have experienced in years. It is completely original, strikingly bold with its visuals and feelings, and ultimately an unforgettable motion picture. The movie is odd, and sometimes it's almost too odd to even enjoy as a popcorn picture. This is a movie you really must prepare yourself for. Don't expect a tame film. It's terrifyingly hardcore.Indeed, something layered beneath the surface of Seconds creates a sick sense of nausea in the bottom of your stomach. It's that same feeling I get when I watch, say, the grand finale of Se7en and other such motion pictures. But this is the pioneer of all of those films, and--to be quite honest--it's even more disturbing than Se7en. (Although I enjoy Se7en more for what it has to offer on the whole.)This movie has scarred me. It's a milestone motion picture, filled with dementia and paranoia and odd feelings. It's film evocation at the height of its abilities to master the audience. There's a true artist behind the camera on this film--and perhaps in the years to come his work will become subsequently more popular, and the truth of his excellence will finally be as renowned as Kubrick's or Scorsese's.4.5/5. "}{"Title":"It Isn't What It Seems","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There are few things more interesting than a good movie that doesn't work. By good here, I mean projects where all the participants know their craft and the thing has some sort of coherence and sense, Doesn't work is a fuzzier notion and possibly in this case has to do with personal preferences and vulnerabilities.First the personal. Frankenheimer shares one of my interests, techniques for merging dramatic conveyance with how the eye reaches. He's unafraid to experiment with angles, lenses, placement. This is a special interest of mine.He comes at it first by looking at the immediate drama the way an actor would. This means that he doesn't think of the whole project only specific scenes. It also means that he is interested in getting the message across. The result is that he thinks in unsophisticated ways. For example, he'll want to convey that the lead character at the beginning is troubled and alone. A different director may trust the actor to do what actors do and then surround and support him with things that only a director can do, worrying about all the tendrils between the viewer and the actor. But this guy decides to get in the vehicle of the actor, so all the camera tricks are designed as enhancements of actorly devices.Aronofsky does this today, with somewhat better effect, but that's largely because he had material that was written with this in mind. Frankenheimer didn't and doesn't seem to know the difference.So when you view this, you'll see only half a movie.That half is worthwhile in its own way quite apart from the wasted work with the eye. This uses lots of blacklisted actors. It &#151; for its time &#151; was relatively bold in the use of nudity and an implied orgy. It has an interesting story a man is not who he appears to be and he himself is in a situation that is not what it appears. There are two Rod Serling-inspired twists in this latter deception.You might find this rewarding if you believe that movies are centered on acting more or less exclusively. I don't; I think the art of film has so many other elements that have been overlooked here, so watching this makes me shake my head over the missed opportunities.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Seconds","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I found this film listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I had no idea what it was about, but it had good reviews, and I was willing to try it, directed by John Frankenheimer (Birdman of Alcatraz, The Manchurian Candidate, Ronin, Reindeer Games). Basically in Scarsdale, New York lives middle-aged banker Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph), he is married, but their love has dwindled over the years, and he has a grown up daughter, who he hardly sees anymore, he is generally disengaged with everything in life. Hamilton receives a series of phone calls from his supposedly dead friend Charlie Evans (Murray Hamilton), and following this he is drawn to a company that provides him with a second chance at life. The company convinces Hamilton that he has little to live for in his current life, his rebirth will include a new body to replace his current body after he dies, enough money for his family to live comfortably after his departure, enough money for him to start his new life, a surgical makeover, and a new identity based on his desires is his subconsciousness. Hamilton goes ahead with the procedure, his new identity is Malibu painter Antiochus Tony Wilson (Rock Hudson), a counsellor of sorts is provided for him to assist in his transition, acting as a housekeeper named John (Wesley Addy), who to make the transition successful attends his emotional requirements. But even with John's help, and despite or perhaps in spite of meeting and falling in love with Nora Marcus (Salome Jens), Tony is finding it difficult to make the transition, also despite or in. Tony decides to try and see where he went wrong in his life as Arthur Hamilton, where he went wrong in his transition to become Tony Wilson, and where to see where he will go next, it is unclear whether the company will help him get what he wants. Also starring Will Geer as Old Man, Jeff Corey as Mr. Ruby, Richard Anderson as Dr. Innes, Karl Swenson as Dr. Morris, Khigh Dhiegh as Davalo and Frances Reid as Emily Hamilton. Hudson was an underrated actor, perhaps due to his roles in romantic comedies like Pillow Talk, here he gives a good performance as the disturbed man going through drastic plastic and personality surgery, this film makes good use of black and white colour, it is very strange and often complicated, with the idea of spiritual and physical rebirth, almost ahead of its time, but it is overall an interesting cult science-fiction thriller. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Cinematography. Good! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie but based on weak premise","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Excellent movie about a middle-aged man being given a second chance in life. It is not as good as Manchurian Candidate or Seven Days in May, both of which maintained a constant tension. This movie is more notable for its surrealistic style and its excellent Jerry Goldsmith score. Unfortunately the whole movie is based on the premise that it would make sense for a company to go to enormous expense (surgery, expensive living quarters, and a large entourage of accomplices) in order to bring about and maintain Arthur Hamilton's transformation, and the screenplay never gives sufficient reason to justify this, nor does the hero ever seem to be concerned about it. Nevertheless, good entertainment. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Though it goes somewhat downhill as it progresses, the good parts of this film are excellent, including interesting camera angles and eerie Jerry Goldsmith music to establish a sense of discomfort and the foreboding. The ideas are fascinating in the first third of the film, which is both intriguing and intense. The second third is not quite as an intriguing, but it is still intense and it has a number of well done bits. Towards the end of the film however, it becomes predictable and rather silly. A number of sequences (particularly the nudity) seem excessive, and it just does not match the quality of the rest of the picture. Overall, the film still packs a punch, with such an excellent visual side, such a creepy aura, and so many interesting ideas. The end might not hold up the potential that the beginning had, but it still comes together quite well. "},{"Title":"Classic Paranoia From the Sixties","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  John Frankenheimer's Seconds is an extremely well-made sci-fi thriller that taps into the same kind of Sixites American middle-class paranoia as Rosemary's Baby and The Stepford Wives. In fact, even though it is marred by an ill-conceived and now very dated second act, Seconds is by far the most intelligent--and best--film of the three.Superb dialog, wonderful conception, fascinating story, unsettling photography, great acting--this film has too much going for it to be only a cult phenom for film students to drool over.  "},{"Title":"The Grass Is Always Greener","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seconds is a marginally interesting make-over film that, regardless of its high production values and excellent cinematography, suffers significantly from way-way too much talk-talk-talk (yawn) and just not enough worthwhile action to happily satisfy this ardent Sci-Fi/Thriller fan.Seconds stars the 1960s super-hunk/movie-idol, Rock Hudson who (at the height of his career) plays the youthful, handsome Tony Wilson, a highly-successful, but totally talentless artist now hobnobbing around with all the hep-cats and jet-setters of beautiful Malibu, California.Prior to some extensive cosmetic surgery, Tony was once the aging banker, Arthur Hamilton, who was seriously going to middle-age waste.Desperate to escape his dreary, dead-end existence, Arthur succumbs to a mysterious organization's enticing, but ambiguous, offer of a spanking new identity and fresh start.Soon enough Tony's heady exhilaration spirals him (due to the fact that he can't seem to keep his big mouth shut) into a terrifying reality check when he discovers that his newly purchased life carries with it a devastatingly dangerous price. "},{"Title":"Despite this effort not being bad, the upcoming remake just might be good","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is one of many who'll be up for a remake / update soon or have been remade / updated already like The Time Machine, The Amityville Horror, The Evil Dead, Get Carter, The Italian Job, The Manchurian Candidate, Walking Tall, Dawn of the Dead, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, War of the Worlds and so on and so on. Since this is in essence is not a bad film, I have hopes that the remake will be good. But that's not the only thing that has fueled my hope. The fact that Jonathan Mostow, the guy that didn't completely screw up the Terminator franchise, but instead pulled off a decent sequel, is attached as a director does so also. Getting back to the original, I must say that I was very impressed by the first hour of the film and the last 20 minutes. This was indeed pretty intriguing and thrilling cinema and for that I'd like to compliment everyone involved. The thing that ticked me off about this film though were minutes 60 to 80 (an uneducated guess) in which we see a (wedding?) party in the woods and a dinner party. These two bits (about 8 to 10 minutes each) I presume were edited into the film to show some character development, but at that it utterly failed. The scenes were too long and just didn't fit the general 'feel' of the rest of the film. Also I felt that the scenes did not show as much development in Rock Hudsons character, as to explain his future behavior in the film. These two scenes actually make up the one and only flaw in this film and it is really a pity that this one flaw takes up about one fifth of the film. Hadn't it been for that 'incident' I'd voted a 7 out of 10. There were some other small issues that made me give this film a 6 instead of a 7 though. One other was Salome Jens, who played Nora Marcus, and who I felt was miscast (or just couldn't act good enough). Then there was also the fact that the film was a bit on the predictable side, but that is just nitpicking and really the difference between a 7 and an 8 out of 10. Had it not been for the 'party incidents' I'd said this was a pretty good film. Now it's just an OK film with a lot of potential.6,5 out of 10 (with a 6 given upon voting) "},{"Title":"Great but not that great","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The greatest things about the movie was the unpredictability and bravery to explore a sharper level of style, but I guess a lot of times when filmmakers try to deal with broad concepts, a lot of content gets lost. There were little signs of confusion from the beginning, when Charlie's first phone call wasn't contained to us what it was, and too many logistics wasn't to be identified. What exactly does he mean by we get along with his wife? Why is the decision made so swiftly? What happens to Hamilton's physical property? Where did the tape from the guidance advisor come from? Why is the company deciding so much aftermath for Wilson? Then, why exactly is he getting so annoying for the other reborns and why are they so protective about him? Also, the reason why he wanted to change again just wasn't clear it was frustrating. Now suddenly, after 2 chapters of obsure purpose and the lamely served purpose of the wife's confession, the ever-changing goal of the story becomes simply the horror repetition pattern, based on the mechanics of consumerism and all characters being undefined, which was dissapointing, considering how inventive and brave it was meant to go. Overall, the movie couldn't decide for itself whether it should be a dream or a reality, but even as a dream, the story doesn't really follow the character's heart and desire anyway. I could see why the film was dismissed by the whole environment, but still, it served a great cinematic trip by way of superb techniques and concept. "},{"Title":"identity swinging","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A middle aged business man, contacted by a secret corporationgets a second chance at life. Softly discomforting, distorted photography, sweaty paranoidrepression. When those desires become manifest, dissatisfaction inbusiness, identity-swinging, only for the rich. After a successful operation and psycho-adjustment, dimlyshrieking through transplanted vocal chords, emerges a groovyartist. Freedom is a dodgy life. Dissatisfied with the California coast, grape orgy, cocktail party,`greener on the other side of the fence' mortality/morality;purposeless swinging artist life is not always greener. So he goes back for thirds&#133; Waiting for another chance, haunted by his past&#133;but you can't letthe mistakes jeopardize the dream.  "},{"Title":"A film (way) ahead of its time perfect double bill w/Jacob's Ladder","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" SECONDS (1966) **** Rock Hudson, John Randolph, Salome Jens, Jeff Corey, Will Greer, Murray Hamilton. Intense and creepy Twilight Zone - ish drama with middle-aged businessman (Randolph) discovering a secret organization promising a second chance at life and after a successful operation awakens to be Hudson. Some things don't gel for our man Rock and that's when things get downright eerie. Shot in beautiful black and white and oddly enough parallel's Jacob's Ladder. Not surprisingly, this art film was an initial failure but has cult movie written all over it. Expertly directed by John Frankenheimer who also directed the controversial classic The Manchurian Candidate. "}{"Title":"Very enjoyable paranoid sci-fi despite a rather weak middle section","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Following a call from a supposedly dead friend, 50-something Arthur Hamilton leaves his usual dreary life and follows a message to a meat warehouse. Once there he is taken to a strange building where he finds himself interviewed, drugged and filmed 'attacking' a young woman. With no way of saying no, he undergoes 'rebirth' and is given a new face and a new identity while The Company stages his death. Now called Tony Wilson, he is moved to a house to help him adjust to his new life, but despite initial enjoyment and fun, he begins to regret his actions and begins going against company wishes.Opening with a very memorable and disturbing title sequence this film immediately launches us into the world of Arthur with a slight impression of a dreary old man who is soon pulled into The Company. This is effective as he, like us, has very little idea what he is getting into and the ideas presented to him are interesting and gives the film a very strong opening. However what then follows is at least 20 minutes of 1960's hippy-style parties that are exaggerated to the point where it feels like the film is mocking them or commenting on the futility of that life style. This is rather dull and goes on for too long with little happening, but happily it picks up after this with much better action when Wilson begins to act out of the requirements of his new lifestyle. The final half hour is good from here onwards and leads to a very memorable ending. As a comment on the desires of tired 50-somethings looking for youth and the banalities of this youth this is OK but it really works best as a sci-fi thriller &#150; a fact shown by the fact that it's start and ending are it's strongest points.The reason that the ending is so effective is due to a startlingly real performance from Rock Hudson &#150; a man who I never really considered to be a great actor so much as a studio beefcake type. Here he is very effective in the latter stages of the film even if he gives a very unconvincing portrayal of a drunk at a party. He really delivers the grief and character in the final 40 minutes and he makes the narrative work. The support cast are good &#150; all slightly sinister even when being nice (and includes Murray Hamilton) but it is really Hudson's film and he rises to the challenge and dominates even with his late entry into the film.Overall this is a good sci-fi thriller even if it has a distinctly weak 20 minutes in the middle. The opening credits and the story's conclusion are very memorable and the film does very good business off an interesting and intriguing set up and an interesting and chilling final 30 minutes. Well worth a look (as are the other two parts of Frankenheimer's paranoid trilogy).  "},{"Title":"Unusual film with striking close-ups","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The filming and editing of this movie as well as some of the performances are what make this worth watching. The story line is bizarre and depressing and frankly not all that compelling. Rock Hudson is surprisingly not what you would expect. This is one of his standout, while odd, roles.The way the camera zooms in on faces and has them fill the screen is unique. I cannot recall seeing this technique very often. In one sense this was distracting, but since I found the plot so disturbing I began focusing on dramatic, technical aspects of this work. I think it might have been a better film, and one that would have received more critical recognition, had the plot been reworked some, perhaps demonstrating more clearly why certain choices were made. As it stood it had the feel of an expanded Twilight Zone episode as opposed to a powerful full length suspense film. "},{"Title":"an amazing little film with only a few flaws","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is one of the creepiest films I have ever seen. It gave me the shivers because it seemed so real and so paranoid at the same time.The story begins with a middle-aged man being approached by what seems like a total stranger. The stranger identifies himself as a on old friend, but this friend is DEAD and a lot older than the stranger. The stranger then convinces you he REALLY is your old friend--he had faked his death and was re-created as a younger man by a secret organization with the best doctors and plastic surgeons. And, if he'd like, he too can join this club--then fake his death and assume a newer, younger and more handsome identity.When he awakes, the man is now played by Rock Hudson and he seems to love his new life--at first. Over time, he misses his wife and kids and his adjustment doesn't go perfectly. How this is handled in the end and the amazing plot make this movie a must see. The only negative part? Shortly after he becomes younger and handsome, our lead character runs amok and goes to some sort of Bacchanalian orgy. This orgy sequence just doesn't fit the film and it's done VERY stupidly--like some sort of hippie sequence on acid. It just doesn't fit into the rest of the film. If this were removed, the movie would get a score of 10.PS--Will Geer plays an incredibly complex and horrible character that you MUST see for yourself. In my opinion, his is the standout performance in the film. "},{"Title":"Too Long","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie would not have been out of place in the Twilight Zone. It would have made one of the better episodes, but the story is a bit too thin to be stretched out to feature lenght.Interesting enough to watch, but hardly anything I would recommend as essential viewing.  "},{"Title":"Too terminally depressed to find the energy to be a good film","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoilers...The History of Mr. Polly is the story of someone who simply walks away from his old life, adopts a new one, and makes a success of it.  In Seconds there is an entire shadowy organisation offering to help people do this (with fake deaths, plastic surgery, etc.), and we learn that Mr. Polly's case is the rare exception; that if you fail in your first life you'll probably fail in your second.But we're not told why.  Is it that people make the same mistakes over again?  We don't see this happening (we don't even know what Arthur's original mistakes were).  Is it that the artificial nature of the new lives provided by the shadowy organisation, prevents anyone from properly living in them?  Is it that the organisation provides too little freedom?  Is it that Tony fails to do what Mr. Polly realised he had to do, and FIGHT for his new life?  Is it the quicksand pull of Fate?  (That's certainly what it FEELS like.)  Is it just that some people lack sufficient inner resources to enjoy themselves?  This last explanation seems as likely as any, since Arthur and his second self Tony do nothing but shamble around like zombies, which is one reason the film is such a cold, lifeless, excruciating downer.  There's not a single scene that ignites.  I'm sure this was deliberate, but really was this the most that Frankenheimer could make out of his delicious premise?  Just because the central character lacks the energy to care, that doesn't mean that either the film itself or the audience should.  Even the conclusion fails to be in the least bit chilling.  How can it chill us, when it doesn't seem to have happened TO anyone - and when we've been falling by imperceptible degrees into a state of numb hypothermia for the past hour and a half?The grimy fish-eye cinematography is really nothing to brag about - just one more manifestation of Frankenheimer's single-minded purpose to make us shiver and yawn under the weight of a wet blanket. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I put off a viewing of this for a long time. Clips I'd seen suggested a style job. Also, there's simply no way it could be as good as the extraordinary Manchurian Candidate. To put it lightly, I had NO idea. This is barren land. Whereas Manchurian Candidate is overflowing with content, Seconds is vacuous. At best, it's an idea with half an hour of life to it, stretched out unmercifully long until the threads start ripping. The stupid, sub-par script doesn't help things. It doesn't entertain, doesn't present any complexity, doesn't build, etc.. The movie is a series of barely-scripted, weakly-connected, too-long montages, seemingly because there is such meager content to cover. There's no there there. But studio product Rock H (who would be ridiculing 2001 just 2 years later) is trying his best to be part of something counter-cultural. 2001 is as indelible as Seconds is forgettable. "},{"Title":"Seconds More Miserable By the Minute *","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Incredibly bad, brooding piece with an older man, dissatisfied with life, who is turned into Rock Hudson by an organization that gets its business from word of mouth.Trouble is that the grass isn't always necessarily greener on the other side of the track. At age 40, Hudson looks more like 50, as he attempts the Malibu life with a swinging party. Trouble is that he gets too drunk and you don't have to be a rocket scientist to discover who those guys are who are trying to restrain him.Obviously, the company has failed in attempting to recreate Hudson. There is only one alternative and a priest, rabbi, minister, all in one, says the words as Hudson is led down the halls.This is a colossal bomb by director John Frankenheimer. What was anyone thinking when they made this awful film? Life isn't a bowl of cherries, but stay with what you have. "}]