[{"Title":"Walter Matthau Steals the Show in His Oscar-Winning Role.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amazingly original and intelligent comedy by Billy Wilder that has CBS cameraman Jack Lemmon injured one day by a football player while covering a Cleveland Browns game. Lemmon is rushed off the field and to the hospital but other than a few bruises he is just fine. Enter  brother-in-law lawyer Walter Matthau (in a very well-deserved Oscar-winning role) who convinces Lemmon to fake various injuries so the duo can sue CBS, the NFL and the Cleveland Browns all for negligence. Lemmon is not too sure but when he realizes that he can get back with his ex-wife, he finally agrees to the charade. The biggest problem is that all-around-great-guy Ron Rich (the Cleveland Brown who collided with Lemmon on the sideline) feels lousy about the situation and starts to develop a bad drinking problem when he sees how poorly Lemmon is supposedly doing. The title refers to a strange message that Lemmon receives after eating some Chinese food. A great film that has lots of upside. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The First Successful Comedy Teaming For Movies Since Martin and Lewis A Possible Suggestion on Origins","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When THE FORTUNE COOKIE came out in 1965 it proved a remarkably successful comedy. Of course it was directed by Billy Wilder, still at or near the height of his film career with a string of great successes from THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR, THE LOST WEEKEND, and SUNSET BOULDVARD through SOME LIKE IT HOT and THE APARTMENT. Of course there had been less successful films for Wilder, most notably THE EMPEROR WALTZ and THE BIG CARNIVAL, but most of his films were widely respected by critics and the public. And when he made it in 1965 it was to star Jack Lemmon, who had demonstrated his comic qualities in three other Wilder films SOME LIKE IT HOT, THE APARTMENT, and IRMA LA DOUCE. So the public was quite interested in this film, which was to tear into the American habit of suing for injuries, and into shyster lawyers. In fact, the screenplay was originally supposed to be MEET WHIPLASH WILLY, the final name of the film when shown in England.What surprised many people was the casting of Walter Matthau as Whiplash Willie Gingrich, the shyster brother-in-law to Lemmon's Harry Hinkle. Matthau was a widely respected actor, with great stage experience, but his performances in movies had been mostly as villains. From the whip happy tavern keeper in THE KENTUCKIAN, to the Machiavellian government adviser in FAIL SAFE Matthau usually played unlikeable sorts. There were some exceptions. In A FACE IN THE CROWD he is one of the television people who assist Lonesome Rhodes (Andy Griffith) on his way up, but who are appalled at the monster they create. When, at the end of the film, Griffith is starting to think of how to overcome the huge gaffe he created over the airwaves that have sent his career into the dumpster, it is Matthau (a terrific figure of decency here) who tells Griffith that he won't be coming back, but will be lucky to be remembered in a few years as a has-been. But A FACE IN THE CROWD was a rarity for Matthau. If he played comedy it was as a villain, most chillingly in CHARADES as Mr. Bartholemew. In his scenes as an embassy official he had some good comic bits, like when he offers a cigarette to Audrey Hepburn, and she takes two puffs and puts it out - Matthau is put out by this waste of one of his pricey cigarettes!It is Matthau's appearance in THE FORTUNE COOKIE that changed his public persona and his career. He went to town as Whiplash Willy, threatening to sue the United Fruit Company for failing to put a printed warning on their bananas after Howard McNear fell and broke his pelvis tripping on one. His careful manipulation of brother-in-law Lemmon/Hinkle, his calculating in how to force a major law firm to surrender unconditionally in his demands, his snide comments about great lawyers of the past (Lincoln, Darrow), all build up a to a great introductory performance. It really showed the Matthau that the public would grow to know - a cynical type who could make others (especially the more decent Lemmon) do what he wanted them to. He would also be quick to get into deeply pseudo-intellectual speeches, voicing his opinions and points of views. It was the Matthau who would entertain movie audiences for the next three decades. As a sign of his success in finding his persona, Matthau won the Best Supporting Oscar for THE FORTUNE COOKIE.Lemmon recommended Matthau to Wilder, who was pushing either Frank Sinatra or Jackie Gleason. It is quite hard to imagine either the Chairman of the Board or the Great One as effective as Matthau. But I have long wondered if Wilder and Lemmon had had someone else in mind, someone who was no longer available. The Hinkle - Gingrich relationship was a close one due to their family relationship, and Wilder certainly had discussed the issue of the casting with Lemmon. Up to 1961, Lemmon had appeared, most often, with one actor in the movies - in comedies. He appeared in BELL, BOOK, and CANDLE, IT STARTED WITH JANE, and OPERATION MAD BALL with his close friend Ernie Kovacs. Lemmon had been so close to Kovacs that he appeared (in the disguise of a monkey suit) as one of the Nairobi Trio. There are some lines in THE FORTUNE COOKIE that sound ready made for Kovacs - for example, when he writes a figure down as a settlement figure, and when the other lawyers make their counter-offers Matthau repeats it each time, looks at the paper, and says, very quietly, That isn't it! One can easily see Kovacs saying the same thing the same way.If, as I suspect, THE FORTUNE COOKIE was an idea of Wilder's and Diamond's for a few years, it is just possible that Lemmon suggested Kovacs for the role of Gingrich. But after Kovacs died in a car accident in 1962, Lemmon had to find another actor of similar type. And then he noticed Matthau, who in 1965 was well received for his performance in THE ODD COUPLE on Broadway. Kovacs' bad luck may very well have been Matthau's good luck.Today we think of the Lemmon-Matthau partnership as really based on their films with Wilder. They did four films with Wilder, but after THE FORTUNE COOKIE it was their joint appearance in the film version of THE ODD COUPLE directed by Gene Saks that made the partnership viable. Otherwise it might have seemed a flash in the pan. THE ODD COUPLE was to prove that the chemistry between the actors did not solely defend on the artistry of Wilder. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch for the first time","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Finally caught it on TCM yesterday, and was able to watch it fresh, compared to The  Odd Couple or The Front Page, which one might already know all about.A fine study in contrasts at work here; Matthau, as the shyster lawyer has something  resembling a family life, while Lemmon, ostensibly the nice guy, is shown to be very  lonely, still stuck in the apartment his wife left him in (and aren't those exteriors filmed  in Cleveland? I don't think those buildings on his street were seen in any other  Hollywood backlot, and they looked a touch more shabby than ordinary). So we have Boom Boom as the real moral center of the movie. He's racked with guilt  over having injured Hinkle (Lemmon), so much so that he sees to Hinkle's recovery, even  carrying him around like a wounded puppy, letting his game suffer, and he's the one  who's most hurt by the scam.The movie also shows a hopeful light on race relations in the mid-60's Ron Rich gets to  play a character with some feelings and some ambition beyond the NFL, and it's he and  Lemmon's characters who become buddies at the end. "},{"Title":"Matthau and Lemmon work effortlessly together","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of these days I am going to watch a bad Billy Wilder movie...so far I have not even come close. Each year we observe the passing of great talents (this year, 2003 has seen an extrordinary number of death), I begin to realize we will never again see the likes of Lemmon and Matthau who passed away in 2000 and 1999 respectively. These two are great actors in comedic or serious roles. Matthau's sleazy lawyer is played just right, not too over the top and Lemmon plays the victim in this movie who is basically going along for the ride. As the movie progresses Lemmon gets further disenchanted with the pending cash settlement for his fake injuries and in his own inimitable way blows the whistle on his brother-in-law, Whiplash Willie (Matthau.) I found Wilder's use of Cliff Ormond and Noam Pitlik as the bumbling private eye surveillance team to be reminiscent of Jackie Gleason and Art Carney on the Honeymooners, or even a latter day type of slapstick in the style of Abbot and Costello. Also, the supporting role of Boom Boom the Cleveland Browns running back who accidentally injures Lemmon on the sideline at a game was played with depth. All in all another wonderful treat this movie is to watch. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all time. Don't miss it!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love Walter Matthau. He is one of the greatest comic actors ever to grace the screen. His ability to turn a Jewish complaint into a laugh has a life of its own (like Woody Allen) and Lemmon of course is the perfect foil. This is why they were The Odd Couple. In fact, this movie includes three of the greatest film makers to ever work/play in Hollywood Bill Wilder, Jack Lemmon and Matthau. See this movie to have fun with the perfect comedic chemistry of Lemmon and Matthau and also to enjoy the intelligent humor of Wilder's writing. As those of us who have ever created a film or written a story or music know, such endeavors are always an experiment; there's always the (big) chance that what you're busting your butt on will just lay there in the end. Well, when they came up with this story formula, with Matthau as scheister and Lemmon as border line skeptic/fool for love, it just hit, you know? As in, it's a classic winner! Hollywood comedy literally doesn't get any better. The proof? Study up on your dark comedy history It started with Wilde (The Importance of Being Earnest), was carried on with Wilder (this film) and every single piece of satire that has been written since these masterpieces of comedy owes itself to them. "},{"Title":"Mix a shyster with a nitwit...","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Little-known, but has fine performances by Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. Lemmon is a not-too-bright sports cameraman who gets knocked over by a football player (Ron Rich) and is persuaded by his crooked, ambulance-chasing brother-in-law lawyer (Matthau) to fake an injury for the insurance money. Lemmon tries to go along with the scam, but is consumed by guilt because the guilt Rich feels for the injury is quickly wrecking his life. Added to this is the return of Lemmon's ex-wife (Judi West), with whom he is still obviously in love. He is completely oblivious to the fact she is a gold-digger--in his case, love truly is blind. Everything resolves itself as it should, but not as you might think. It's a funny, dramatic, and touching film. "},{"Title":"One Bottom Feeding Lawyer","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In The Fortune Cookie, Billy Wilder took on the great American legal system and twisted a lot of laughs out of it. It's the underside of the great American dream, sue someone with deep pockets and you can be a millionaire. It's why we have too many lawyers in our society, it's what creates Willie Gingrich.In three previous Wilder pictures folks like Fred MacMurray in Double Indemnity, William Holden in Sunset Boulevard, and Kirk Douglas in Ace in the Hole all had some similar notions about a get rich and/or famous quick scheme and they all ended in tragedy. Interesting that protagonist Jack Lemmon as TV cameraman Harry Hinkle has more strength of character than those three before him. Not at first though. Jack Lemmon is a TV cameraman who is covering a Cleveland Browns football game in Municipal Stadium when running back Ron Rich takes him out when Rich goes out of bounds. That's where attorney and brother-in-law of Lemmon, Walter Matthau hears about a previous spinal injury Lemmon sustained and he hatches a scheme involving Lemmon who is supposed to now act paralyzed so he can sue CBS, Municipal Stadium, and the Cleveland Browns for as much as he can wring out of them. Matthau won his Oscar for Best Supporting Actor playing bottom feeding lawyer, Whiplash Willie Gingrich. With that kind of nickname in the profession it's no wonder that the white shoe firm representing the defending parties goes all out to trip him up. They get private detective Cliff Osmond to shadow Lemmon night and day. The results he gets from his surveillance are not unexpected, but a lot of laughs come along with them.Matthau is so good as Gingrich that you can literally see his mind at work as he hears about Lemmon's childhood fractured vertebrae from his wife who is Lemmon's sister. Watching his kids skateboarding in the hospital waiting room you kind of wonder what kind of ethics he's been teaching them at home. Note that when you last see Willie Gingrich in the film, he's down, but not yet out.There's a couple of other good performances here. Ron Rich as the Brown halfback who really is concerned that he permanently paralyzed Jack Lemmon. Also Judi West as Lemmon's ex-wife who when she hears about Lemmon's possible windfall, she's ready to reconcile with him. Matthau is ready to use her of course, but even he gets kind of put off with her ethics. This is also the farewell performance of Sig Ruman, who Billy Wilder liked to use when he could, both of them being refugees from Hitler. Ruman is one of the specialists brought in and the only one who's not fooled by Lemmon's performance.The Fortune Cookie even after 40 years still has plenty of laughs for this generation. That is sadly because this is part of the American legal system that if anything has increased exponentially since 1966. "},{"Title":"One to remember Walter Matthau for....","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If I had to buy a single movie showing Walter Matthau's genius as an actor, this may be the one, for as good as Jack Lemmon always is in a movie, Walter shines here as the shyster brother-in-law lawyer, and the Best Supporting Oscar was awarded to him rightly for this role.  Matthau, always the man who acted through sicknesses went through a heart attack during this one.  The scene that he runs up the stairs after receiving the settlement check, a keen eye could notice that he is thinner at the top of the stairs.  That was because he shot that scene after his attack. This movie begins the long association with Lemmon/Matthau.  The next movie was to be The Odd Couple.  What a great bunch of entertaining movies they were.  And this was the first one. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are some lagging gaps in the film, but overall this is a delightfully written comedy, with clever ideas, good jokes and colourful supporting characters. Walter Matthau won an Oscar for his flamboyant role in the film, and he has a number of good moments, although Jack Lemmon also shines, bringing in his usual charm to every scene. The film is divided into a number of different chapters, and set to some wonderful music, giving it a vibrant feel. And, above all its other virtues, the film manages to say some things about greed and the consequences of lying. It is not a large flashy production, and it may not be a perfect film, but I found it quite charming and it comes recommended, especially to fans of Wilder's comedies. "},{"Title":"Matthau saves what could have been a tragically dull film...","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Fortune Cookie is a light, lovable con/slapstick film about Harry Hinkle (Jack Lemmon), a sports cameraman who is accidentally knocked down by NFL star Boom Boom Jackson (Ron Rich) at a football game.  Hinkle suffers a minor concussion but his lawyer brother-in-law, Willie Gingrich (Walter Matthau) is immediately on the seen.  Willie thinks that they can sue for millions of dollars if Harry plays that he's got a compressed vertebrae, and Harry reluctantly agrees.  Meanwhile Boom Boom is feeling desperately guilty and is taking care of Harry to make himself feel better.This movie is labeled as a comedy but most of the humor is dry and subtle.  I'd go as far as to call it out-dated, it was probably considered a lot funnier when it first came out.Though I guess the only character that is supposed to be actually funny is Matthau's, and he is.  Hilarious, in fact.  He never misses a beat, every movement and line is delivered in perfect accordance to his character.  And considering the guy had a heart attack while working on the film, his drive and proffesionalism is admirable.Aside from Matthau the movie is a little bland, but not bad.  The other performances, from Lemmon, Rich and Judi West as Hinkle's gold-digging ex-wife, are all well-played, Rich gives the most notable performance as the guilt-ridden Boom Boom.The style, direction and other componets of the film are well too...but in the end Matthau's performance is the only real benefit of this film, but it's a big benefit, and gets a 7.5/10 from me. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but a disappointment","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes enjoyable comedy would have been greatly helped with a shorter running time, for it really drags after a while.  The story is funny enough, and the performances are terrific, but considering how basic the plot is, this film should have been far less than two hours long.  It wasn't a bad movie by any stretch, but whenever Lemmon and Matthau team up, I expect results that are better than this. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Wilder effort; a funny comedic set-up, but it loses its way...","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sentimental cynicism TV cameraman is injured while covering a football game and his brother-in-law, a shyster lawyer, persuades him to exaggerate his injuries for the extra insurance money. Well-made, handsomely shot Billy Wilder-directed comedy, which he also co-wrote with I.A.L. Diamond, that doesn't quite pay off after a surefire opening. The script falls into a stale, one-joke pattern, and the first-time teaming of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau curiously fails to ignite. Matthau won a Supporting Actor Oscar for his cheerful mugging, but it's Ron Rich as a sympathetic football player who gives the film's best performance. ** from **** "},{"Title":"You Can Fool Some Of The People Some Of The Time, But....","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Favorite movie quote - Marriage is like being in the army. Everyone knocks it, but you'd be surprised just how many guys choose to re-enlist. Yes. The Fortune Cookie (from 1966) may have been noticeably overlong at 2 hours & 6 minutes, but, for the most part, it was a surprisingly engaging, little comedy that was clearly power-driven by Walter Matthau's over-bearing, dry-witted performance as the cynical, All-American, shyster-lawyer, Willie Whiplash Gingrich.When Willie's brother-in-law, Harry Hinkel (cameraman for CBS) is accidentally knocked over a barricade by the 220 lb. halfback Boom-Boom Jackson and rendered unconscious during an action-packed football game between the Cleveland Browns and the New York Giants, Willie cries Foul Play! Without missing a single beat, Willie cleverly convinces the reluctant Harry to feign a crippling spinal injury following his collision with Boom-Boom. And together these 2 greedy charlatans make big plans to split a cool million in phony insurance claims.But, as anticipated, nothing of this sort ever goes as planned. And when Harry cracks open a fortune cookie whose ominous message reads - You can't fool all of the people all of the time.- This, like a sudden turn of fate, serves as the writing-on-the-wall for the outcome of this seemingly fool-proof scam.Filmed in stark b&w, The Fortune Cookie was directed by Billy Wilder whose other notable films include such titles as Some Like It Hot, Sunset Boulevard and Double Indemnity. "},{"Title":"The Better Mousetrap","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Whereas these days a successful movie series means endless spin-offs and sequels, there was a time when there were brilliant creative teams who got together time and again, producing a kind of motion picture brand that you could trust. The series of comedies written by Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond, directed by Wilder and (many of them) starring Jack Lemmon are such neat works of professionalism and congruent talent that during their heyday in the 1960s they provided a guarantee of smoothly intelligent yet undemanding entertainment.Billy Wilder had one of the most apparently laid back directorial styles of his era. He barely moves the camera, and his shots tend last as long as is practical. But within this fixed frame he juggles everything with expertise. He uses the cinemascope ratio to keep various elements on the screen &#x96; for example the camera and microphones which keep stealing into shot as a reminder of the private eyes that are bugging the flat. This idea of keeping things in view without making them centre of attention also applies to Wilder's presentation of comedy. There's a great example where Walter Matthau is on the phone at one edge of the frame, while the rest of the screen reveals the interior of his home. His children skate around while his wife prepares dinner, which culminates in an incidental gag, punctuating the scene, while Matthau's phone conversation remains what the scene is about. This is very much Wilder's way &#x96; not to make the jokes leap out at you but to weave them into the background, noticeable but never forced.Lead man Jack Lemmon was by now a familiar piece of Wilder furniture, and you can see why. He has a slightly exaggerated look, with a duck-like face and a manic way of moving, and yet he can also do normal and convince us that he is an everyman. Still, this time around he is upstaged by an exuberant Walter Matthau. There are many great facets to Matthau's performance &#x96; his sudden overt gestures, his ability to move his hat as if it were part of his body, the way he paces around, managing to get closest to the camera as his voice reaches a bizarre crescendo or his facial expression is at its most absurdly comical. However I think what really makes him fit in here is the way, although he gets all the funniest lines, he doesn't show them off, simply delivering them as if they were the natural thing for his character to say, which of course makes them all the funnier. It's also a lot like Wilder's style of weaving the comedy into the narrative material rather than hammering the jokes home.But what about this narrative material, sharply scripted by Wilder and Diamond? The Fortune Cookie is ostensibly about an insurance scam, but gradually the friendship between Jack Lemmon and the football player who accidentally injured him emerges as the main story arc. It's almost like a love story between two men. I'm not implying anything homoerotic here, simply that the story is structured like a romance with a friendship taking the place of the love angle. The fact that Boom Boom (played by the little-known Ron Rich) is black is not drawn attention to or made an issue of, and this is rather interesting. This picture was made at the height of the civil rights movement, but it is not making an overt point about race, nor is it even a political picture. But it works as a nicely harmonious accompaniment to what was going on in the streets at the time. Wilder comedies could calmly cover areas other pictures couldn't even touch without making a mess. "},{"Title":" When they build a better mouse trap, .. . . . the Mice get smarter ","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the course of Hollywood legends, there emerges a great chemistry when certain scripts, actors, and directors are combined to make a movie. In this immortal Black and White film, we have such a combination. Herein we have, the late, great Jack Lemmon playing Harry Hinkle, a standard cameraman working with a TV crew covering a Cleveland Browns football game. As the game proceeds, a celebrity running-back Luther  Boom Boom  Jackson (Ron Rich) accidentally runs off the field and directly into the filming cameraman, knocking him out cold. Fortunately for Hinkle, his wily Brother-in-law, William Gingrich, attorney-at-law, (Walter Matthau) leaps into his life and proposes an insurance lawsuit which, if Hinkle goes along with, will net them $1.000.000. Hinkle explains to 'Whiplash Willy,' there is nothing wrong with him and will not participate in the scheme. The plan is doomed, until Gingrich uses a trump card, Hinkles' ex-wife Sandy, (Judi West) whom Harry believes still loves him. The plan is flawless despite the fact, the Insurance company hires the Purkey (Cliff Osmond) Dectective Agency to spy on him 24 hours a day. While Gingrich is busy with the Insurance lawyers and Hinkle is attempting to win his wife back, by pretending to be an invalid, no one notices Luthor Jackson is miserable, drinking and becoming despondent. The movie is wonderful as Lemmon and Matthau are a superb team under the direction of their favorite director Billy Wilder. This is a great movie and certain to become a Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Mildly Successful","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No need to recap the plot. Mildly amusing comedy with serious overtones. Considering the talent involved, the film's something of a disappointment. The one-note plot simply can't carry 2-hours of run-time, especially when the middle sags with too much exposition. Then too, the visuals are a dour brand of b&w that clash with the comedic part. Still, I don't know that Technicolor would have been appropriate, but at least brighter shades would have helped. Of course, there's the incomparable Lemmon and Matthau in their first pairing. As a result, I suspect the writers didn't realize the comedic potential they had on hand, and thus couldn't decide whether to play up the sociological element (race relations, bogus litigation) or the funnier parts. Consequently, the movie becomes a stretched out patchwork of the two, despite the intermittent chuckles. I realize my take is a minority, but I'm trying to judge the results strictly apart from the reputations involved. "},{"Title":"Funny Insurance Fraud.","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemon is a TV cameraman photographing a football game in Cleveland. A runner, Ron Rich, is knocked out of bounds and propels Lemon into an obstacle. Lemon isn't hurt bad but is being checked out in the hospital when his brother-in-law, Walter Matthau, a shoddy personal negligence lawyer known as Whiplash Willie, decides that Lemon should fake a partial paralysis so that the insurance company can be bilked. The ruse is elaborate. Every move the insurance investigators make is anticipated by the sedulous Matthau. We know what they know, but they don't know we know. Ron Rich, the football player, is stricken with guilt at having injured someone. He spends all his time caring for the phony paralytic, neglects practice, and begins drinking. Lemon's wife, Judi West, has run away with a band leader but now, in anticipation of a juicy settlement, returns to him to share his good fortune. Lemon thinks it's love.Most of the movie has Lemon trying desperately to fake his injury, while at the same time being ashamed of doing it. Matthau is grimly determine. Rich is pathos itself. West is slinkily feminine and wily.The movie really belongs to Matthau. He's marvelous as the slimy lawyer. He works out of a cubicle in a huge building and treats his office the way he treated his apartment in The Odd Couple. A shameless slob, before important visitors arrive he flings some dusty papers out of the way and empties a waste basket on the floor to offer them a seat, meanwhile cheerfully humming a tune from The Barber of Seville. But Lemon is more than just a straight man. He burns with outrage and humiliation as Matthau coaches him through the performance.The premise is great, and so are Matthau and Lemon, but the movie isn't as antic as some of Wilder's other comedies of the period -- One, Two, Three or Some Like It Hot. It's closer in its intent to The Apartment, an attempt at blending comedy and poignancy. Maybe in some ways it takes more skill to fuse the two than it does to stick to pure comedy. Annie Hall, possibly Woody Allen's best movie, succeeded. And Howard Hawks' Monkey Business was a serious treatment of a disturbed marriage cloaked in farce.The Fortune Cookie, for all its jokes, doesn't quite cut it. It isn't that some of the jokes are dated, though they are. Well -- having brought up ludic obsolescence, I'll give an example. When Matthau discovers that Lemon's apartment is bugged and being photographed by investigators across the street, their eyes and ears open for any signs of fakery, he begins to play for his audience -- how terrible Lemon's plight is. It's like the tale of Little Red Riding Hood. An innocent young person walks through the woods and is attacked by a wolf pretending to be Grandma and so on -- the last line delivered with a portrait of Whistler's mother behind him. Lemon protests that he'd rather die than be paralyzed. Better Red Riding Hood than Dead Riding Hood, replies Matthau. Kids, in 1966 we had this thing called the Cold War. We were the good guys and the evildoers were the communists, or Reds. There was a genuine threat of a nuclear holocaust, which some of us were willing to risk, and a few were eager for, because, as the expression went, Better dead than Red. That's the slogan Matthau builds his joke on. Ha ha. Fortunately for everyone, the Cold War ended in 1989 and there has been world peace ever since. Alright. You may now return to your Gameboys.I love the comic theme of Lemon's posturing and Matthau's reckless pursuit of a million dollars, but the melancholy story of Ron Rich's decline and Judi West's low-level cynicism don't really carry enough passion to grip us. Shirley McClaine's hopeless affair with the married phony Fred MacMurray in The Apartment, though trite, was presented as genuine enough to make us care, but not enough to depress us. But here, Ron Rich's character is depressing and Judi West's is tiresome.A good movie. I wish it had been better. "},{"Title":"Takes Too Long to Crumble","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A greedy lawyer convinces his cameraman brother-in-law to sue after the latter is inadvertently hit by a football player while filming an NFL game. In the first of several films to pair Lemmon and Mathau, the actors play roles typical of their collaborations, with the former a decent, neurotic fellow and the latter a shyster. After The Apartment, Wilder never quite achieved the success he experienced earlier in his great career as he was churning out one classic after another. This is a product of his declining years - not bad but not very funny either and far too long for a comedy. Whatever happened to West, the attractive actress who plays Lemmon's ex-wife? "},{"Title":"Morality and cynicism not quite the bedfellows Wilder intended ?","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wilder's response to his previous film Kiss Me Stupid's criticism, was intended to be a bitter attack on American morality, yet many critics of the time felt Wilder coped out by sweetening the finale. If he did this is obviously down to each individual viewer to decide, but in my case I just feel that it comes together nicely to finish off a very funny and sharp film indeed.Camerman Harry Henkle is working the sidelines filming a Browns/Vikings game when he is flattened by running back Boom Boom Jackson and taken to hospital. His crafty chiseller brother-in-law Willie sees an opportunity to make big money by suing all and sundry for negligence, that Harry is actually OK is a minor inconvenience. This sets us up to watch the dynamic duo of Walter Matthau Willie & Jack Lemmon Harry try and fake major injury to garner a big pay out. Naturally there are many problems along the way as Harry fights with his moral fibre and a burning torch for his ex wife Sandy. While convincing the doctors and insurance people that he is actually injured is not going to be easy, thus it makes for some truly funny sequences.As you would expect from Wilder & I.A.L Diamond, the script sizzles with wit and cynicism perfect material here for Matthau who won the best supporting Oscar, and although the running plot strand of Boom Boom Jackson's guilt and subsequent career jolt tamper the film down a touch, it's still a winner that can be pleasantly sampled from time to time. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not Bad But Too Long","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was the first pairing of Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon, and they work together well, with an especially good performance by Matthau as an unscrupulous lawyer who convinces his brother-in-law Hinkel to exaggerate the nature of his injuries he sustained as a CBS cameraman at a Cleveland Browns football game when a black football player accidentally runs into him. Not a bad premise, but the movie could have told the story in less than two hours.The movie also isn't helped by the joke of Hinkel's mother always uncontrollably crying, a joke that stops being funny after two minutes, and the football player's personally helping the supposedly maimed Hinkel didn't work either. A celebrity athlete wouldn't be acting that way; even if he felt guilty, he wouldn't make himself a manservant. Perhaps the movie makers wanted to make some sort of statement about race relations, but it lacked credibility. The scenes where Hinkel's ex-wife has come back are overlong and unnecessary too; we already know she is insincere about wanting to get back to him.Not a bad movie, but it could and should have been better. "}{"Title":"A moderately pleasant comedy.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are undeniably some bright moments in The Fortune Cookie, and the much-praised performances were indeed excellent. But this movie is fatally overlong! Its one-joke premise cannot really sustain 120 minutes, so the second half too often seems to meander. Combine that with the static nature of the plot and with the fact that this is the kind of comedy that produces only mild amusement (and moral messages), not belly-laughs, and you'll end up with a rather middling flick.   (**) "},{"Title":"Not exactly a comedy....but well made.","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Fortune Cookie is a very dark comedy--with an emphasis on serious drama as well. So, if you're looking for a rollicking comedy, this is not the film for you. Now I am not saying there's anything wrong with the movie...but it's just a very different sort of film and has a sharp edge to it.The film begins at a Cleveland Browns game. A player, Boom Boom Jackson (Ron Rich), is returning a kick and accidentally plows into a cameraman on the sideline. The poor schnook (Jack Lemmon) is knocked cold in front of tens of thousands of fans and find himself awake in the hospital. However, before he can even try to get out of bed, his sleazy brother-in-law (Walter Matthau) tells him of his scheme--to exploit a childhood injury and pretend it's from the football tackle. Then, this sleazy lawyer (am I being redundant?!) plans on suing everybody for a million bucks--a ton of money back in 1966. To get him to agree to the lawsuit, the sleazy lawyer convinces him that he could use his injury to get his ex-wife to return...and when she smells money, she's quick to come running. The scheme seems to be coming off perfectly...until the real damage of all this starts to become apparent.The film is well written and very well acted. Is it a fun or feel- good movie? No way...but it is an interesting lesson about human nature and greed. And, sadly, it's a story every bit as timeless today as it was back in the day. By the way, the film might surprise you a bit with all the cursing for a 1960s movie. This isn't so much a complaint but an observation about the earthy style of this incredibly cynical film. "},{"Title":"Matthau and Lemmon's first film","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In any other hands the two lead characters could have been pretty unlikable, after all they are pulling off a scam. However, in with Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon in the parts it become a comedic master class and a classic black comedy.Matthau won an Oscar for his role here and it's easy to see why. In every scene he sparkles, playing the sort of lovable grump that he played so well.As with all their collaborations the chemistry between him and Lemmon makes the film, and more the compensates for the slower moments in the film.'The Odd Couple' maybe the film that these two are most remembered for in terms of their collaborations, but 'The Fortune Cookie' is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Walter Matthau's Tour de Force in Billy Wilder Classic","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemmon, sports cameraman covering a football game, get tackled by player. That's the headline, and what the spectators saw. What they don't know is that he is instigating a personal injury lawsuit - at least, under the influence of his attorney brother-in-law, whose reputation has earned him the nickname Whiplash, played mercilessly by Walter Matthau. The elaborate hoax must be maintained to get a million dollars. But detective Cliff Osmond has his duty to watch the victim in question at all times. Such begins a very dark and cleverly-written movie by Billy Wilder and collaborator I. A. L. Diamond. Jack Lemmon is one of my favorite actors, who can play Mr. Everyman, but it is Walter Matthau who literally steals the picture out from under everyone else. Lurene Tuttle as Jack's mother and Walter's mother-in-law has a great bit as she cries hysterically throughout the film and Cliff Osmond gives a very believable performance as the devoted detective. But when Walter is in the scene, he takes over. Ironically during the making of this film, he suffered a heart attack. But you wouldn't know it from his full force, no holds barred and loving-every-minute-of-the-kill performance that won him a very deserved Oscar. But what happens? Does Jack Lemmon get a last-minute conscience? Do they get a million dollar check? Jack's wife, who left him for another man, shows up &#x96;oddly enough- when she hears of this lawsuit. And then, there's the football player who's miserable for running into Jack and is almost the only decent person in the whole movie. What you're about to do is go ONDEMAND and find the fortune cookie. Confucious say beware of people named Whiplash but enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"I feel so lucky that I got to see this movie! The Fortune Cookie was a lot of fun.","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Marked as the first pairing of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, who subsequently worked together on 11 future additional films, the Fortune Cookie directed by Billy Wilder, was a tasty delight. The movie tells the story of a crooked lawyer, Willie Gingrich (Walter Matthau) whom persuades his brother-in-law, a CBS sport-cameraman Harry Hinkle (Jack Lemmon), to feign a serious injury, so that, both can receive a huge indemnity from the insurance company. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, while it's not the funniest movie, in Billy Wilder's filmography, but it's by far, my favorite John Lemmon & Billy Wilder film, they shot together. Jack Lemmon was near-perfect in this film. He wasn't so over the top, here, like his previous roles. The way, he acted like he was injury, honestly made me believe, he was indeed stuck being wheelchair bound, at times. Walter Matthau as Willie Gingrich, was just as hysterical and wonderful as Jack Lemmon. Matthau won his Academy Award Oscar for Best Supporting Actor playing bottom feeding lawyer, Whiplash Willie from this film. I think he deserve that win, big time. Walter Matthau really put, everything in this role. Mad props, go to the fact that Walter return to the role, after suffering a heart attack. He had slimmed from 190 to 160 pounds by the time filming was completed, and had to wear a heavy black coat to conceal the weight loss. That's shows, how driven, he was, to this film. Despite, his character being a shyster, Walter had enough charm with his attitude, to make Whiplash Willie, a bit likable. The chemistry between Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau is so far, the best thing in the film. They bonded so well. So, it was no surprise that they would remain friends the rest of their lives. The snobbish Lemmon and the bad-tempered Matthau provided the perfect counter-point. The supporting characters were pretty good, as well. While, his character was a bit underdeveloped, I kinda Ron Rich as Luther Boom-Boom Jackson. A lot of people, criticize his character as a man-servant, but I don't think it, that way. He felt guilty, for 'injuring', Harry, so he just wanted to help. He had that All-American Boy-Scout charm. It hasn't nothing to do with his race. One of my favorite characters in this film has to be Cliff Osmond as Chester Purkey, Private Eye Insurance investigator. I love the whole cat-and-mouse game starts between him and Gingrich. The only character that I didn't like, was Judi West as Sadie Hinkle. It wasn't, because her character was one-dimensional selfish or the actress portraying her didn't do a good job. It was, because how late, in the film, she appeared. For somebody, that supposed help, the good nature, Harry to go along with the scheme. She really doesn't get, much screen-time for odd reason. While, this movie has some of Billy Wilder's most famous trademarks, such as feature characters who try to change their identity, women often represented as dangerous, lust, greed and manipulative, and last often cynical but humorous, sweet and sour dialogue. There was one thing that this movie was missing from the great Hollywood provocateur. It didn't have that great narration. With no narration, the movie moves like a book, instead of a film; from chapter title screen to chapter title screen. While, this seem like nitpicking. The way, the film does its story-telling, makes it seem like the source was taken from a famous book, than an original work. It was a bit weird. This movie might be one of the very earlier films, that I can remember, that had product placement. Like Wilder's previous film, 1961's One, Two, Three, which feature the Coca-Cola company; this film has the National Football League (NFL), and Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) intertwining with the script; giving the movie, a sense of realism. While the film does somewhat make those companies look bad, due to how stubborn, their insurance companies were; it does give some insight, of what these companies were going, through at, the time. The first Super Bowl was only a year, away after all. I like how Billy Wilder shot the opening sequence during an actual Vikings-Browns game on October 31, 1965. Surprising, this might be the only footage of that game, as networks at the time, commonly wiped broadcast sports tapes at the time, and recorded over with different content to save cost. So, if you ever, like to see an old school football game, before the 1970 merger. Between the NFL and AFL (American Football League). Here is your chance! Even if you're not a football fan, this is a great film. The movie had a great story that influence other works, such as 1990's TV Shows like Simpsons and Wing's episodes, where they tackle a similar premise. Overall The fortune cookie is worth a bite, into. It is poignant as it is funny, and I highly recommend it to any generation. "},{"Title":"The Fortune Cookie marked a great film breakthrough for Walter Matthau especially since he won his Oscar for it!","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While Walter Matthau was quite in demand on TV and movies before 1965, this was truly his breakthrough year in terms of his profession. First, he was cast on Broadway in Neil Simon's The Odd Couple as Oscar Madison. And then, Billy Wilder cast him here to play shyster lawyer William Whiplash Willie Gingrich opposite leading man Jack Lemmon leading to a fruitful collaboration in movies for the next several years that paired Lemmon and Matthau together with Wilder making at least one more good film with them (The Front Page as the next one after that he made with them-Buddy Buddy-marked a less-than-glorious-end to his directing career). Lemmon is a CBS cameraman who gets knocked down by football player Ron Rich though he doesn't suffer much. Matthau is Lemmon's brother-in-law who wants to exploit his malady to get large amounts from an insurance company. Judi West is Lemmon's ex-wife who comes back to him when she hears about it. And Cliff Osmond plays a sneaky investigator for the insurance company. Plenty of cynical laughs are provided by Wilder & I.A.L Diamond's script with most of those punchlines said by Matthau though when Lemmon is alone with the Rich character, there are also some touching scenes of them talking. In summary, The Fortune Cookie was one of the better comedies from a period-the late '60s-not always known for great funny films with Matthau winning his well-deserved Oscar for this role. "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As with most Billy Wilder movies this appears to be tackling issues way ahead of it's time. A lot of reviews i have read have accused this movie of racism but at the end 1 white and 1 black man are the only 2 people who share morals. A fantastic Walther Mathau demands attention throughout and Jack Lemmon plays the fall guy again as he does best. With a magnificent cast and attentive direction this masterpiece is proof that not all modern movies with millions behind them are the best. This ageless beauty will still be a classic in a hundred years. God bless both Jack and Walter,,,what a gift to leave all modern movie makers. "},{"Title":"The Fortune Cookie (1966) ***1/2","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau's first of many funny pairings together, a funny yarn where both actor's personalities are perfectly suited to their roles. Lemmon is a TV cameraman covering a football game who suffers an accident on the field when a star player charges into him. While convalescing in the hospital, Jack's unscrupulous brother-in-law/attorney (Matthau) sees dollar signs in his eyes and persuades Lemmon to fake extensive damages to milk the insurance company. Lemmon's against the plan until Matthau convinces him that it's the perfect way to win back his ex-wife (Judi West) who Jack still carries a torch for, but who doesn't care anything for Lemmon except getting his money. Ron Rich is an asset as the remorseful football player who injured Jack and feels the need to take care of him. This is almost perfect, except for being a little longer than necessary. Billy Wilder directed, and Walter Matthau won the Best Supporting Actor award for his sleazy con man performance. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"With Wilder, Lemmon and Matthau you can't fail","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemmon is Harry Hinkle, a CBS cameraman, who gets injured when football player Luther Boom Boom Jackson (Ron Rich) runs into him.Walter Matthau is Harry's lawyer brother-in-law Whiplash Willie Gingrich, who realizes they could make some dough with the minor injury by making it look like a bigger injury.In The Fortune Cookie (1966) we have the power trio Billy Wilder, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau.You just can't go wrong with these three.This movie started the partnership of Lemmon and Matthau, who appeared in 10 films together.And the writer, alongside the director, is I.A.L. Diamond, who wrote 12 films together with Wilder.Other performances in this movie include Judi West, who's fantastic as Sandy.Ron Rich is superb as Boom Boom.Cliff Osmond, who appeared in four Billy Wilder films, is great as Purkey.Marge Redmond is very good as Charlotte Gingrich.Sig Ruman, who passed away the next year, is terrific as Professor Winterhalter.One of the funniest scenes is with him, where he makes the diagnosis fake.There are many other funny scenes in this movie.It is also a very intelligent movie of a topic that has some reality basis.There are those sleazebag lawyers out there working on their schemes.Of course those sleazebag lawyers aren't quite like Walter Matthau, who makes the character somewhat likable.Lemmon's character is also very interesting, who is forced to deal with moral issues.It's a real delight to watch Jack and Walter together for the first time. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still a great comedy.","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First let me say that nobody handles the combination of pathos and comedy like Billy Wilder.  One need only view classics like Sunset Boulevard, Stalag 17,and The Apartment to become convinced of this. And, as well as he handled the seriocomic, he was just as good at straight comedy (Some Like It Hot, One, Two, Three). Once in a great while, however, Wlder directed a film in which it appears that he was unsure of which way to go. I give as examples Irma la Douce and this film, The Fortune Cookie.The Fortune Cookie is a seriocomic turn that is just aching to be a straight comedy. The wonderful, over-the-top performance by Walter Matthau as Whiplash Willie Gingrich clashes somewhat jarringly with the serious plot line of the troubled football player, portrayed rather woodenly by Ron Rich. And, while we are used to flawed protagonists from Wilder, Jack Lemmon's character, Harry Hinkle, is difficult to root for, as he is almost as venal as Willie, but not nearly as funny. The overall effect is that while you may count your fingers after shaking hands with Willie, you still wish him well because he makes you feel good, but with Harry, you get a slightly distasteful feeling, even when he is being heroic. Judi West and Cliff Osmond deliver finely tuned, restrained comedic performances that complement Matthau's Fieldsian shyster, but Ron Rich's Boom-Boom Jackson is sadly underdeveloped and one-dimensional, as if Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond were reluctant to have an African-American character made light of. When one puts the film into historical context, this is understandable, yet one can't help but think that the viewing audiences of 1966 were probably ready for a less than dead serious black man, and had Boom-Boom been included in the fun, this could have been, if not a breakthrough film, at least amuch better one, and possibly another Wilder/Diamond classic.All that having being said, this is a very funny movie, delivering plenty of outright horselaughs, and it is worth seeing for Matthau's performance alone. The black and white cinematography is also a standout. This is one of the last few feature films to be shot in black and white not consciously attempting to be retro, and Joseph LaShelle's handling of the medium in both location and set shots helped make the drab environs of Cleveland almost beautiful, earning him a well-deserved Oscar nomination. "}{"Title":"Boy, how times have changed..................","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ......and not for the better, either. Movie NOT recommended for anyone under fifty, (I'll tell you why in a minute.).Showing my age here, but I saw this movie in 1966 with my parents. Believe it or not, the premise of this movie was a COMEDY in 1966. I mean, suing the NFL and the City of Cleveland cause a cameraman got knocked down by a running back? A lawsuit like this was considered OUTLANDISH in those days, which was why the picture was almost unbelievable in the 1960s. Nowadays it would considered routine, and that's why no one under 50 should see this film- they'd say, What's wrong with that? Great acting by Matthau, almost every line hysterical.Always a pleasure to watch, again and again........ "},{"Title":"The problem is predictability","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The problem with this film is that it is very predictable. What's the mystery? Anything surprising (at least at this point in his career) with Walter Matthau playing a shyster lawyer? Don't we know that in the end Jack Lemmon will rebel and ultimately refuse to go along with the scam? So the question is, why watch? Well, how can you resist watching the acting abilities of both Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, even more so when they are appearing together.And, there are some fine performances by supporting cast members, including Judi West (with whom I was not at all familiar) as the sort-of ex-wife who is out for $$$. And, Cliff Osmond, as the sleazy detective. I was particularly interested in Ron Rich, whom I was also not familiar with...does a nice job as the football player here.In fact, although mostly overlooked, it is the relationship between the Rich character and the Lemmon character that is most interesting here. Interracial in a time that you didn't see that quite so much, and the scene where race suddenly rears its ugly head is, arguably, the best in the film.This is not Billy Wilder's best. And, there are a number of other films where one can better enjoy the interplay between Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau (this was their first match-up, I believe). But, this is a very good film...just not a great film. "},{"Title":"A nice glimpse into the world of Wilder","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Like the best Wilder films, The Fortune Cookie is full of interesting characters who aren't a major part of the story being told. Wilder and his co-writer IAL Diamond didn't just use minor characters or passers-by to further the plot, they made it clear that these people had other things going on, that they weren't just standing around waiting for someone else to come by so they could say one thing. A perfect example of this is a scene near the end where Harry Hinkle (Jack Lemmon in one of his many collaborations with Wilder) interrupts a couple of laundry men betting on whether random team jerseys will have even or odd numbers on them. This is exactly the kind of thing men with a boring job like that would do, and we even see that one of the guys is slyly trying to increase the odds in his favor-this also ties the short scene in with the rest of the film thematically.The entire film is about people who try to manipulate their situations to come out ahead. First there's Hinkle's ambulance chasing brother-in-law Willie Gingrich (Walter Matthau in an Oscar winning performance) who wants him to pretend to be more seriously injured than he really is to get a big insurance settlement. Hinkle isn't a greedy man, though, and he only gives in to Gingrich's scheme because he thinks it means a chance of winning back the wife who already left him for a chance to come out ahead in show business.Gingrich's attempts to keep Hinkle dishonest are constantly threatened by the presence of Boom Boom Jackson, the honest football player who feels terrible about knocking Hinkle down at a game and landing him in a hospital bed. The film is really about Hinkle's moral dilemma should he choose to play it fair like Boom Boom or should he just try to get ahead like his ex-wife and Gingrich? Regardless of the eventual outcome of the film, it's always fun (and often hilarious) watching the schemes of the quintessential dishonest lawyer as they come and go. The Fortune Cookie may be late period Wilder but it's just as deserving of it's classic status as any of his films. "},{"Title":"Matthau and Lemmon directed by Wilder in a Wilder script - who can ask for anything more?","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When a cameraman is knocked over during a Cleveland Browns game, the sharks move in - or should I say shark - in the form of Whiplash Willie, his brother-in-law, in The Fortune Cookie, a 1966 film written and directed by Billy Wilder.Lemmon plays Harry Hinkle, a television cameraman, who is involved in a freak accident during a football game, when he is knocked over by Boom Boom Jackson. As soon as his brother-in-law, attorney Willie Gingrich (Matthau) hears that Harry suffered a compressed vertebrae in his youth (from jumping off of a garage roof without opening his umbrella), he warns his hospitalized victim not to get well. He has a paroled dentist come in and shoot him up with drugs so that he can pass the insurance medical tests, puts him in a wheelchair, a collar, and a corset, and takes him home to recover. Meanwhile, the insurance company has a camera on him and his apartment bugged. Harry's tramp ex-wife (Judi West), an aspiring singer, comes back to him as soon as she smells money to jump-start her career. The guilt-stricken Boom Boom becomes his servant. Boom Boom's football game suffers, and he turns to drink. Whiplash Willie, in the meantime, is negotiating a $200,000 settlement.Insurance fraud and ambulance chasers are still very topical. One has only to look at the number of commercials for attorneys telling you an accident is worth big bucks. Leave it to Billy Wilder and partner I.A.L. Diamond to write such a witty, cynical script about a man with a conscience up against a man who will stop at nothing to cheat the insurance company.Walter Matthau is an absolute riot as Willie, and won the Academy Award for his performance. Willie is an obvious cheat who knows all the angles and is able to get around them. Lemmon is great as a lonely man who goes along with the subterfuge with the carrot of his ex-wife returning dangling in front of him. Ron Rich gives a natural, sympathetic performance as Boom Boom, the devastated football player.The script is very witty and the performances are great. Billy Wilder was one of film's greatest writers and directors, and in The Fortune Cookie, he shows he's still got what it takes. "},{"Title":"Turner Classic Found Semi-Gloss Gem Here","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a period piece story where Jack Lemmon(Harry Hinkle) plays a Network TV Camera man who is hurt in a sideline collision at an NFL Football game. Then the legal game begins as Walter Matheau plays the shyster lawyer who sues the Insurance Company for his clients injuries & suffering. Watching Matheau operate is a sight to behold.The feeling of the 1960's Cleveland Browns which were featuring hall of fame player Jim Brown in this era is evident in this film due to the full cooperation of the NFL in making the film. This was near the end of the city of Cleveland's glory era which started in Pro Football with a record 7 straight Championships from 1945 through 1951, and then other championships & great teams due to the guidance of the great coach Paul Brown and folks on the field like Jim Brown and others.Luther Boom Boom Jackson, a Browns punt returner who hit Lemmon gets a guilt trip out of the circumstances. There is a lot of good performance here and of course the great Billy Wilder is behind the cameras. Race relations of the 1960's are in plain evidence. The humor is sharp and focused. When everything comes unraveled there is some really funny stuff as the characters are very well drawn.While not a classic, this is much better than the average film from this era of film making. "},{"Title":"Funny Film","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy Wilder produced a great film and also wrote this screen play which featured Jack Lemmon, ( Harry Hinkle) who was a TV Camera man working on a football field and is accidentally knocked over by by an all star team player and suffers injuries. However, these injuries are magnified by his brother-in-law, Willie Gingrich, (Walter Matthau) who is a fly by night lawyer always looking to make a buck off accidents and going to court for large amounts of money. Willie convinces Harry to fake his injuries in order to make one million dollars and so poor Willie has to stay all braced up and in a wheel chair. The insurance companies decided to have his apartment bugged and a man with a camera is watching him from a building across the street to catch him in his lies. This situation continues for a long time and even Harry's wife Sandy Hinkle, (Judi West) decides to visit him and when she finds out he is a fake, she wants him to continue his deception in order to get all the insurance money. There are lots of laughs and Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau hold this entire picture together. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"He's so full of twists. He starts to describe a donut and it comes out a pretzel.","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The comedy partnership of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau remains one of American cinema's finest, continuing to entertain audiences with a string of successful films &#150; such as 'The Odd Couple (1968)' and 'Grumpy Old Men (1993)' &#150; throughout their distinguished careers. However, their legendary pairing had to start somewhere, and no director but the great Billy Wilder could have put the two to greater use. Though Wilder and Lemmon had already worked together on numerous occasions including the classics 'Some Like it Hot (1959)' and 'The Apartment (1960)', Matthau was relatively new to the comedy game, and was cast in Wilder's latest at Lemmon's insistence, after both Frank Sinatra and Jackie Gleason were considered as possible candidates. 'The Fortune Cookie,' like many of the director's previous films, boasts a cynical edge towards modern societal ethics, satirically exploring the lengths to which dishonest citizens will go in order to make an unearned living. Just like the classic noir 'Double Indemnity (1944),' characters attempt to undeservedly extort indemnity from an insurance company, an optimistic scheme that is doomed from the beginning.In 'The Fortune Cookie (1966),' Lemmon plays Harry Hinkle, an honest sports cameraman who accidentally collides with an imposing but kindly American Football player, Boom Boom Jackson (Ron Rich), during a game. Hinkle's crooked brother-in-law lawyer, Whiplash Willie Gingrich (Matthau) hatches a brilliant scheme to fraudulently claim $1 million from the insurance company. Though he is at first dismissive of the plan, Hinkle's resistance is eventually weathered down by the promise of his ex-wife's (Judi West) return, and so he agrees to fake a serious spinal injury. As the compensation money comes closer and closer within reach, the apologetic athlete responsible for the accident arrives to help his victim cope with his disabling injury, and, in the process, steeps into an alcoholic addiction that threatens his sporting career. The skeptical insurance company issues round-the-clock surveillance at Hinkle's apartment, but Whiplash Willie is always one confident step ahead of them&#133; but how long will the guilt-tormented Hinkle hold out?'The Fortune Cookie,' with a screenplay penned by Wilder and regular collaborator I.A.L. Diamond, is one of the director's underseen comedic gems. Sporting that cynical tone that is characteristic of many of his comedies, the film deliberately distorts the audience's sense of morality by creating sympathy for the film's only criminal protagonist Willie Gingrich has such deliciously evil ethics that he's an absolute joy to watch, and viewers will relish his never-say-die personality in the face of seemingly-irreproachable odds. Also evident in the film is a streak of misogyny, evident in many of Wilder's film, here represented in Hinkle's ex-wife, who returns to care for him following his injury, but ostensibly did so only to claim her share of the compensation. Both of the leads do a wonderful job, delivering their snappy dialogue with impeccable comedic timing. However, it's hard to deny the Matthau stole the show, the incredible success of his performance most evident in the following observation Whiplash Willie might not have won the $1 million, but he did manage to coax an Oscar out of the Academy! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film--look for the details","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this film several times when I was a kid and always enjoying it. Seeing it again about thirty years later was not the complete disappointment that the reviewing of old favorites often is. Walter Mathau's seedy lawyer is the center of the movie, but he does not carry it as some have implied. What makes the movie enjoyable for me are the supporting characters, asides, and throwaway lines. I still laugh at the German professor's Fake! and popping monocle and I still remember the little game the equipment men are playing toward the end of the movie. As a nursing student, it's also entertaining to see the medical uniforms and equipment from that era. This is not a great film, but it's great fun and well worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"I Leica","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Another brilliant movie from genius Billy Wilder. Aspiring screenwriters would do well to analyse the painstaking construction of this great screenplay from the way the principals are introduced - Lemon as the CBS cameraman covering a football game, docilely moving up and down the touchline as instructed, freezing cold but asking for coffee only half-heartedly; in short, a decent guy, easily controlled and not self-assertive; next up is Matthau and even seen from the back, as he is in his first appearance, he is a coiled spring of cynicism, quite happy for his own child to break a leg in a hospital and already bullying a young doctor (William Christopher, later to become Father Mulcahy in M*A*S*H); last up is Judi West as Lemon's ex wife, seen initially in a sleazy apartment, telephoning for news of her ex husband while her new lover sleeps in the background and leaving us in no doubt that her prime interest is in the possibility of compensation - to the brilliant 'planted' gags that pay off later - for example Willie (Matthau), explaining about new breakthroughs in surgery which are written up in Time Magazine says 'don't you think doctors don't read Time magazine' and about one and a half reels later one doctor says to another about a new technique 'I read about it in Time magazine'. This is not to overlook the brilliant double-meaning lines, for example when Harry (Lemon) finally realizes that Sandy (West) has only been pretending concern in order to gain the $25,000 to mount her 'act' at the Persian Room, he says, almost as an aside, 'yes, you can put on a pretty good act for $25,000'. The screenplay is liberally laced with solid observations like these so that the acting is just the frosting on a beautifully baked cake. "},{"Title":"Mathau  and Lemon -the start of something great","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clever (long) movie from Wilder... Jack Lemon doesn't over-act in this one, unlike most of his movies. Walter Mathau plays the smooth, scheming, singing character, similar to his roles in Hopscotch or Charade. Jack Lemon is injured, and is talked into filing a lawsuit, as a get-rich quick scheme. The story keeps you wondering right up to the end whether they will get the money or it will all fall apart and they would end up in jail. This movie is pretty LONG... 125 minutes. also has a HUGE cast, in spite of the simple plot. Another funny show from Billy Wilder, with some subtle double entendres that you miss if you don't pay attention. "}{"Title":"Matthau and Lemmon's first pairing","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite the slow pacing, THE FORTUNE COOKIE is a fine little comedythat helmed the beginning of the fantastic series of team-ups of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. The latter won his Oscar award for best actor in this movie portraying the conniving attorney Willie Gingrich, or better known as Whiplash. Whiplash convinces his brother-in-law Harry (Lemmon), a sports cameraman, to fake an injury after anaccident on a football field. The two veteran actors are top-notch, and THE FORTUNE COOKIE paved the way for Lemmon and Matthau to appear in even bigger and better hits, such as the original ODD COUPLE. "},{"Title":"The first of many classic film efforts from Lemmon and Matthau","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Fortune Cookie was the beginning of a classic film pairing of Jack Lemmon with Walter Matthau.  These two gifted actors collaborated on many film projects, and it was obvious their friendship abounded for each other.  One can only wish that their careers were not ended, but all good things must pass, yet their work together will live long after them.This film has Jack Lemmon playing the role of Harry Hinkle, a CBS sports photographer, who is mildly injured at a professional football game when a running back is tackled out of bounds, and plows right into Lemmon's position, flattening the cameraman at the same time.  Lemmon is rushed to the hospital to recuperate from his mild injury, but enters his scheming lawyer brother-in-law, Whiplash Willie Gingrich, portrayed with great aplomb by Walter Matthau.  Whiplash Willie sees the opportunity to  gain some major cash payouts by the network for endangering his client and from there, the laughs abound.In watching this film, one can give credit to the actors, Lemmon and Matthau, and also show some gratitude for the efforts by Billy Wilder in writing and directing this film.  It is to be enjoyed.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Walter Matthau at his best","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw The Fortune Cookie in its entirety for the first time, and in general it was an enjoyable movie.  Jack Lemmon is good as the cameraman who reluctantly agrees to lawyer brother-in-law Walter Matthau's lawsuit scheme. Lemmon is bowled over on the sidelines by a football player played by Ron Rich.  Matthau sees dollar signs, and he milks Lemmon's injury for all it's worth.Matthau is great in this movie, his cynical ambulance-chasing attorney was a role that won him a well-deserved Best Supporting Actor Oscar.  The only thing is, Matthau is in a starring role here and dominates the movie from start to finish.  He should have been nominated for Best Actor in a starring role.The movie seems dated at times and over-long, it could have been edited a bit.  On the whole though, the movie is quite enjoyable with many fun supporting characters.  One thing I noticed were the demographic breakdowns for the ratings on IMDB.  Female viewers rated this much lower than male viewers.  It doesn't make too much sense, it's not as if this is an action movie or macho movie.  It is entertaining and well-written and well-delivered.  Curious. "},{"Title":"Worth watching but well below Wilder's best work","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This Billy Wilder film is slightly above average but well below his best work. The reasons for that are both because of plot problems as well as common flaws in Wilder's later work.(Warning spoilers follow) Plotwise, the main problem with this film is that its entire basis &#150; that Jack Lemmon's Harry Hinkle character goes along with his brother-in-law's scheme &#150; is never believable. Hinkle comes across as far too decent a human being (as was the case of the majority of Lemmon's performances) to even consider being part of such a major deception. Therefore there's no real dramatic tension on whether Harry will eventually expose the fraud.Also, the finale where Hinkle and the gridiron player Luther 'boom boom' Jackson reconcile is sweet, but its just not believable that Jackson would be so forgiving to Hinkle considering the dishonest scheme he was a part of has done him such personal damage.And it has a lot of problems that were common in later Wilder films &#150; overlong, cynicism for its own sake, and humour that, while often amusing, is also brittle and wearisome.But as usual with Wilder, there are always compensations. The supporting characters aren't just by-the-numbers compositions, they provide their own source of humour and interest, like Cliff Osmond's beleaguered private detective.Matthau's Oscar-winning performance is what this film tends to get remembered for and while it's amusing and enjoyable, I think it's somewhat over-praised. In terms of performances, what was most interesting is that Ron Rich and Judi West give two impressive performances but their careers went nowhere after this. A pity.Despite its flaws, this is an agreeable, occasionally very funny film that is worth watching at least once.It should also be said that the title is well chosen as the reading of the message in the actual fortune cookie is the funniest moment in the film &#150; a great piece of comic timing. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This Billy Wilder comedy indisputably pales in comparison to such great films as The Apartment and One, Two, Three. Although the dialogue is frequently sharp, Lemmon and Matthau's delicious teamwork is the only thing that makes this drawn out, only occasionally amusing film worthwhile. Judi West is quite impressive as Lemmon's scheming ex-wife. "},{"Title":"Simply a great film bettered by great acting","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most thoroughly enjoyable, well-made, and well-written films I've seen lately. The Fortune Cookie stars Jack Lemmon as a reporter injured while covering a football game and Walter Matthau as the wise-cracking lawyer trying to sue the hospital and football player by faking the injury to be worse than it was. They cannot shake the feeling, however, that they cannot fool everyone all the time, and much of the film consists of spies sent out to prove that they are faking it. There is excellent character development in this film, which comes mostly from Lemmon's interactions with the football player who must endure the guilt of the injury. What keeps the film entertaining is the constantly brilliant humor that fills every scene, though the plot is not overly funny by nature. If you like Jack Lemmon, you will enjoy this film, as he does a great job as always, but the film is a must-see for Walter Matthau fans, as this is the role that won him his supporting actor Oscar, well deserved. He wisecracks the entire time, which makes him one of my favorite actors, but in several of the scenes in his office, he even gives somewhat of a Groucho Marx-like role as he talks to himself and his co-workers. This is likely my second favorite film directed by Billy Wilder, behind Sunset Boulevard of course. Close to perfect, and only slightly flawed by the unnecessary plot elements of Lemmon's ex-wife. A unique, intelligent comedy that teamed up Lemmon and Matthau, and highly recommended to lovers of comedy, old movies, and just about anyone.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"The Fortune Cookie- Snaps Well ****","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Another wonderful Billy Wilder comedy where an unscrupulous attorney, played by Oscar winner Walter Matthau, sues the pants off an insurance company when his brother-in-law is injured at a football game.The wonderful cast consisting of Matthau, Jack Lemmon, Judi West and others are just perfect here.This is a definite film of soul searching and doing in the end what is right.A heavily smoking Matthau(he would suffer a heart attack after finishing the film) suits the bill perfectly as a lawyer who can't be trusted. He is up to all sorts of chicanery during this film only with the intention of gaining the all-mighty dollar. Ditto for Judi West, who portrays Lemmon's ex-husband. She is now ready to stage a comeback with her ex-husband so that she can get part of the money to pursue a singing career.As for Lemmon, he shows that basic same vulnerability that we saw in Some Like it Hot. He was always such a good natured victim, exploited for his kindness. "},{"Title":"An Extraordinarily Entertaining Billy Wilder Comedy","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What separates Billy Wilder from the other film-making icons of his day is that an actor has a bigger chance of making a goofy face in one of his films than he or she does under the helm of Otto Preminger or William Wyler. In spite of his brazen sense of humor, he could enrapture a broad audience of common filmgoers with suspense or melodrama with a haunting movie like The Lost Weekend, a legal drama like Witness For the Prosecution, a noir like Double Indemnity or an eerie piece of meta-Hollywood like Sunset Boulevard. I believe that, while I've begun to consider him primarily a director of comedies, he learned a great deal from the apparent zeal of said classics. In an unprecedented surprise like The Fortune Cookie, he presents us with a rubber-faced farce, but he takes his time and builds drama and moral dilemma that projects toward us beyond the comfortable arm's-length distance of slapstick. The charm is that these curious instances of eyebrow-curling don't permeate the subsequent laughs with a breach of comic tone. They simply enter and exit on the cues of the story's character arcs.This extraordinarily entertaining comedy takes its time by building scene by extensive scene. They are even given headings like chapters in a novel. Each scene is like its own self- contained play, beginning with Jack Lemmon's CBS cameraman Henry Hinkle covering a Browns game in Cleveland. Before disaster strikes, setting the scene for the progressing story, Wilder gives tremendous definition to the scene in and of itself, the game, the sportscasting, our protagonist's job and his attitude towards doing it. Such is the manner in which each and every story advance is treated, given whole substantial scenes, as Henry is visited in the hospital by his conniving lawyer brother-in-law Whiplash Willie Gingrich, played by a hilarious Walter Matthau in a much-deserved Oscar-winning performance, who convinces him to pretend that his legs have been paralyzed so they can make a killing off the insurance company. Of course, the insurance company suspects that the paralysis is a fake one, and so a cat-and-mouse game begins. The trouble is, Boom Boom, the football player responsible for Henry's hospitalization turns out to be a nice guy. Too nice, in fact. Almost like a samurai, he invests most of his time in taking care of, even pampering, Henry, whose guilt begins to take its toll as he witnesses guilt doing the same to Boom Boom.Wilder was one of the great smugglers, as Martin Scorsese would call him. Censors were still breathing down Hollywood's neck to some extent in the 1960s in spite of all the steps forward American movies were beginning to take. Wilder knew how to signify something considerable to the audience without directly telegraphing it, most of the time anyway. What The Fortune Cookie does is impose a bold move in favor of the era's civil rights movement. Boom Boom is black, played by Ron Rich, who was known very little elsewhere save for his performance here. For much of the film, he is overwhelmingly servile, almost saintly, to the white man he injures, and Wilder allows us to become slightly concerned with such a portrayal. Could this film be interpreted as demeaning? we think. However, the way the story proceeds, it is a ballsy storytelling tool that makes Henry's guilt significantly more poignant than it would've been had the character been less conspicuously defined.This doesn't exactly seem like smuggling, but the trick is that Boom Boom's race is never treated as an issue by Henry or Willie, and thus the character is not dependent on race as a story issue or plot point. Every one of the movie's characters is so richly drawn by the script and cast with foreshadowing, one-liners based in a character's telling of half-truths about themselves, and a definite physicality. Indeed, Lemmon's character is based entirely upon whether or not he will move certainly parts of his body or not before the lawsuit is carried out, yet it's also Matthau who gives Gingrich a hilarious loose-jointed embellishment, a caricature of the sort of shady, get-rich-quick-obsessed uncle. Judi West, a little-known blonde with an appealing physicality of her own who plays Lemmon's ex-wife, lends a certain ambiguity on which Lemmon's teetering moral scales hinge. It's easy to be blinded by curves, even if they belong to someone who's proved distrustful in the past.The film is special in its then-innovative employment of intercutting television footage, which is a technique that has become common since that is very difficult to do without nearly shattering the visual feel of a movie. Wilder, who doggedly refuses to make the audience conscious that anything exists but the forces within the frame, welds the two together gracefully within the subtly important black-and-white grain of the cinematography. Like the Woody Allen of his day, Billy Wilder had a knack for taking complicated, troublesome dilemmas and tragic social states and handling them smoothly and accessibly. We are sucked in, and whatever Wilder wants to tell us, we trust it, because we enjoy it so much. "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Matthau debut as a team","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In this, the first movie starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau as a comedy team, reporter Lemmon gets injured at a football game, leading his lawyer friend Matthau to seek a massive settlement (that is, if Lemmon can pretend to be badly injured for a long time). Like other movies of the era - such as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and Who's Minding the Mint? - The Fortune Cookie shows how greed can send seemingly ordinary people absolutely nuts. I liked how they did the movie like chapters in a book; a very clever device indeed. And who else but Billy Wilder could do it? But above all, this was a sign of things to come, as JL and WM would co-star in another ten movies after this. All in all, we're very fortunate that The Fortune Cookie exists.Watch for a young Noam Pitlik as the man across the street. "},{"Title":"The Fortune Cookie","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THE FORTUNE COOKIE is Billy Wilder's last Black & White feature and marked the first collaboration of the comedy two-hander Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau (ten more times would follow). The story rotates around an accident prompted insurance scam, plotted by Walter Matthau, the brother-in-law of our protagonist, a sport channel cameraman (Lemmon) who has to feign his spinal injure to ascertain a grand indemnity from the insurance company. It may reminisce of Wilder's noir chief-d'oeuvre DOUBLE INDEMNITY (1944, 8/10), but it is a self-aware comedy, plays out effectively with a scintillating performance from Mr. Mattau (which deservedly earned him an Oscar).The picture may be eclipsed by Wilder's other more orthodox great works as aforementioned DOUBLE INDEMNITY, THE APARTMENT (1960, 9/10), SOME LIKE IT HOT (1959, 6/10), WITNESS FOR PROSECUTION (1957, 9/10), which are on my viewing lists only. Nevertheless itself is a well-intentioned conscience and guilt parable, the script derives from Wilder's whimsical idea and feels cosseting its audience with an overdone happy ending, which is too saccharine and slackens the frisson which has been accumulated since the dawn of the swindle (we all know it will receive an anticlimax, the only question remains is how). Jack Lemmon is as studious as usual, painstakingly exerts great sympathetic effort from his (mostly) wheelchair-and-corset confined character, which doesn't have any cinematic idiosyncrasy to churn out, an ordinary guy who falls victim of the manipulation of his chiseled lawyer-cum-brother-in-law and the sex-driven chimera of his money-grabbing ex-wife's comeback. Walter Mattau excels the rest of the cast with his eloquent showboating of his professional acumen and satirizing punchlines. Judi West is also very competent in playing the double-faced ex-wife, lends her role a whiff of intricacy against the stale women- derogation assumption. Ron Rich by comparison, although serves as a game-changer player in the plot, is a green banana and wanting the charisma needed to persuade viewers to (at least) believe in his side of story. The character actor Cliff Osmond, as the private detective, launches many gags which leave some indelible impressions too. Texturally speaking, the Black & White images emit a gloss of richness and sentimentality's, the melodic, sporadic score by Andre Previn goes smoothly with the context, not Wilder's best, but still an appealing comedy from the Hollywood golden epoch. "}{"Title":"two steps under Billy Wilder's best work","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Without Jack Lemmon and Walter Mattau, both pretty good, this so-so and dull storywould have been a real flop, compared to Billy Wilder director's best work.The gags are quiet flat, and frankly I expected much better...I admit it is nevertheless pleasant to look at, and only for the acting...but the whole movie in itself is nothing special, almost boring.I doubt I'd like to see it again, even in a far future...Nothing to be compared to the fantastic One, Two, Three or Kiss me Stupid ! speaking about top notch comedies...Those ones I could almost see them every few months (even if I don't !)Concerning Billy Wilder one should not to forget that he also was the screen-writer of many everlasting great films,check the list on the site, and you might understand why I am more than slightly disappointed...So, it happens to the greatest too, to have weaker works...We can easily forgive him, almost choose any other he made or wrote the script, and then have real fun !7*, and for the acting only (without good actors, it would have sunk under level) "},{"Title":"Fast paced psychological comedy.","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I agree with the experts that the combination of Matthau, Lemmon & Wilder is key to this film's success. the structure of the film, with its chapter numbers and titles reminded me of a later movie with a great combination of Newman & Redford The Sting. both movies are fast paced with underlying psychological motivations pushing the action along. And both rely on use of the chapters' titles to help the audience clue into the inside humour. Newman and Redford are undeniably a more handsome duo than Matthau & Lemmon but both combinations have winning personality chemistry. I think that The Sting built its ragtime pacing and catchy chapter titles on this great predecessor. "},{"Title":"Passable Billy Wilder comedy; the first pairing of the Jack Lemmon-Walter Matthau team","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a huge Billy Wilder fan. I love Some Like it Hot, but was never too impressed with Double Indemnity and I really disliked Stalag 17. I'm rather ambivalent towards The Fortune Cookie. I laughed a bit, but was also bored some of the time. It actually kind of lacks successful jokes. Walter Matthau, who won a deserved Oscar (thought probably a sympathy Oscar, since he had a heart attack during the making of the film), plays the crooked lawyer who plans to milk an insurance company after his brother-in-law, Lemmon, a cameraman for the Cleveland Browns, is run down by a football player. Most of the best jokes are Matthau's. He has a lot of energy in the role and has a lot of great one liners as well as extended speeches. Jack Lemmon himself is good but had many better roles in his career (look no further than to Some Like it Hot). He is still in love with his ex-wife who ran away with someone who promised her a singing career. She comes back to take care of Lemmon, but she's clearly a gold-digger. Ron Rich plays the football player who knocked Lemmon down. He's a little stiff, and, really, could they have found a whiter black man on Earth? Much of the film's dramatics rely on his situation. He feels guilty for the injury, and Lemmon feels guilty for faking the injury and thus damaging the player's own confidence. These dramatic pulls never work well, though, since Rich is not all that good. There're also a lot of racial issues that are raised matter-of-factly - this was made at the height of the civil rights movement - and the casting of Ron Rich, who is so wimpy, sensitive, soft-voiced and light-skinned, is rather disingenuous. Still, at least the film is trying to show a friendship building between Rich and Lemmon. The film loses further pith because of the story. It's nothing special and it becomes, through the film's course, excessively predictable. Billy Wilder's direction is decent, but ordinary. The cinematography is pretty good and crisp black and white, but it may have seemed better in color. Really, all of my attention was focused on Matthau and Lemmon. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"One of Wilder's BEST!!!!!","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hard to believe this was the first Lemmon/Matthau movie.  Those two were born to work together, like Laurel and Hardy.  Only Wilder could write and direct so brilliant a comedy and then be so lucky to have Jack and Walter make it so perfect.  I wish it had been done in color, after all it was released in the mid-sixties.  But that really doesn't matter, since the movie is so absolutely great.  And wasn't Cliff Osmond (Purkey) just perfect as the insurance investigator?  Most of my votes are 7 and lower, but this one got my NINE (9)! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After watching the film I think that it is unbelievable that the memorable quotes section is empty, when during the film we can listen great sentences, and all the script is a masterpiece. This is another geat film of Billy Wilder, and the Walter Matthaus performance is astonishing. A must see. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE GREAT COMEDIES OF THE 1960'S","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy Wilder's film The Fortune Cookie is just like a real fortune cookie. When you open it up and read the fortune, you may not understand it at first, but it grows on you after some thought. It also contains the very first teaming of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, who would make ten more films together over the course of 32 years. Wilder's later work (including the overlooked Kiss Me,Stupid, The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes and Avanti!) was not accorded respect upon initial release. This was probably due to the clueless critics and moviegoers who did not have the emotional capacity to understand it. But I'm making The Fortune Cookie sound way too serious. It is one of the funniest comedies I've seen. I don't think I've laughed harder in a Wilder comedy, with maybe the exception of One! Two! Three!The plot of the film revolves around a football game. But it's not about football; it's about what happens off the field to Harry Hinkle (Lemmon), a CBS cameraman who receives a minor injury on the field. His brother-in-law Whiplash Willie Gingrich (Matthau) sees this as the icing on the cake. His plan exaggerate Harry's injuries and sue CBS for a million dollars and run off with the cash.Now you may say, Bill, you just gave away the movie here! Let me assure you that I did not give away the movie. This is just the first 15 minutes! Wilder throws in many complications into their scheme that lead to some of the funniest scenes he has ever filmed. I won't spoil THEM for you because part of the fun is watching it all unveil before your eyes.What's wonderful about The Fortune Cookie are the performances and dialogue. Lemmon and Matthau are a unique combination that will never be equaled again. What may surprise many is what a great actor Matthau is. He may have tons of funny one-liners (the line he says to his skateboarding kids is a gem), but there is a depth to his portrayal of Whiplash Willie that garners a certain sympathy. It's quite a feat and was worthy of the Oscar it received.They don't make comedies like The Fortune Cookie anymore. Today, most comedy scripts are preoccupied with T&A and sex and violence as well as grossout gags (as such so called comedies such as Tomcats and The Animal prove). What these filmmakers forget is that you have to create characters people want to care about in order to make the comedy work. Wilder never forgets that and the result is a wonderful comedy treasure that more people should know about.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Brilliant Wilder Comedy With Edges of Pathos","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Matthau is, as he exclaims in song, a genius in a definitive portrayal of Whiplash Willie.  The entire supporting cast is brilliant with Cliff Osmond a standout as a dogged private investigator.  Jack Lemmon manages remarkably with the thankless role of the hopelessly lovesick, wheelchair-bound Harry Hinkle who is talked into the scheme by his brother-in-law.  Judi West is ruthlessly efficient as the ex-wife whom he still loves.  Lemmon also handles the (gay?) subtext brilliantly concerning Boom-Boom Bailey that the love shown him by this tortured soul is far more genuine than the love he desperately seeks from his ex-wife.  I see that some reviewers were looking for an unabashed screwball comedy and were unprepared for the brilliant mixture of pathos and irony that director Wilder mixed into the pot.  Watch it again on its own terms and revel in the brilliance. "},{"Title":"The Mice Just Get Smarter","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A wonderful wonderful movie. Talk about comic timing! Matthau is perfect. Everybody's worst sleaze. Of course Jack Lemmon is great in this, their first pairing.There are so many hilarious lines in the film, it's hard to find just a few. Among my favorite is (to paraphrase) Whiplash Willie's comment about buying on credit; Take the government, do you think they pay for the billions of dollars of hardware they send up into space? It's on all on Diners' Club! and his statement that insurance companies have so much money, they've run out of storage space, they have to microfilm it! I could do with less smoking by Sandy, it got irritating after a while. But I loved Ron Rich as Boom Boom Jackson. What ever happened to him?Well, a perfect movie for everyone. Thanks Billy Wilder, Jack and especially Whiplash Willie himself. "},{"Title":"Racism Bad. Misogyny Good! But Matthau is Brilliant","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Warning This review will refer to, but not reveal in detail, the endings of The Fortune Cookie and The Apartment. I recently rewatched Billy Wilder's 1960 Best-Picture, Academy-Award winning The Apartment. I followed up by rewatching Billy Wilder's 1966 movie, The Fortune Cookie. There are obvious similarities between the two. Billy Wilder wrote and directed both; Jack Lemmon starred in both. Both are largely set in the dingy, refurbished Victorian-era apartments of bachelors. Both are black and white. Both involve deception for ill-gotten gains. In both, Lemmon yearns for a woman it appears he can't have. The Apartment is a masterpiece, and The Fortune Cookie is worth watching only for Walter Matthau's Academy-Award-winning performance as an hysterically funny ambulance-chasing, shyster lawyer, Whiplash Willie Gingrich.Some might think that The Apartment works because it is not as dark as The Fortune Cookie. One is bittersweet, the other only bitter. I don't think that that's it. I think that The Apartment is sharp and smart and The Fortune Cookie has a rotten, misogynist, preachy, twistedly sentimental core.The evil in The Apartment is beautifully done. And scary. Fred MacMurray as Mr. Sheldrake is a very bad man. And his badness is very artistically rewarding.In The Fortune Cookie, Harry Hinckle (Jack Lemmon) yearns for his ex-wife Sandy. Judi West, the actress playing Sandy, is terrifically convincing as a money-grubbing slattern with no redeeming qualities. She's really boring, though. (No reflection on the actress.) She's never given anything interesting to do except smoke incessantly and fake concern for her ex-husband, once it seems possible that he'll win a pot of gold.Boom Boom Jackson is a big strain. Wilder is trying so hard to depict a positive black man. Boom Boom ends up just being an icky time capsule example of how PC white directors handled black characters during the turbulent 1960's -- with gross awkwardness.Jack Lemmon's / Harry Hinckle's weakness and masochistic attraction to Sandy are also really uninteresting. Like Of Human Bondage without the fascination.What works best in this movie is the utterly amoral Walter Matthau's lawyer Gingrich.The script fails not in its bitterness, but in its sentimentality. We are supposed to feel sorry for Harry because he is in thrall to his slattern ex wife. We are supposed to believe that Boom Boom Jackson is Mother Teresa, not a projection of Wilder's white guilt and the 1960s Civil Rights era. We are supposed to think it's a bad thing that Harry might get money from a football team. Why? Would the football team really have spent that money better? We don't buy any of this.Harry's dedication to Sandy is weird and pathetic, not poignant. Boom Boom is not real. The football team could spend that money and never miss it. And would it be such a bad thing if they were inspired to practice safer procedures for cameramen? In an unforgivably, blatantly preachy scene, an insurance company spy, Purky (Cliff Osmond), attempts to bait Hinckle into responding physically when he, Purky, uses a racial slur to refer to Boom Boom Jackson. The movie is giving us a lecture it's bad to use racial slurs. The movie's attempt to be profound collapses when a male character, with great flourish and build-up, kicks a female character, wearing very tight, revealing clothing and tensely poised in position for this act, is aggressively kicked on her behind. It's a very, very, very ugly scene, all the more ugly because of the can't we all just get along sermon that directly preceded it. We get it racism &#150; bad. Misogyny &#150; part of a man becoming a man. This scene is paralleled by an earlier scene in which Boom Boom Jackson is aggressively insulting to a black woman.The Fortune Cookie's final scene acknowledges that the great era of romantic comedies like The Apartment is over. The Apartment ends with a woman offering a man an invitation to play cards. It is implied that that invitation invites much more than cards. The Fortune Cookie ends with a white man offering a black man an invitation to play football. The Buddy Movie two men who have rejected, insulted, or even battered, women, who, in this film, are only slatterns or slobbering, ineffectual mothers, bond with each other. "}]