[{"Title":"The Ay-Ay-Irish Senor","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Alvarez Kelly, Mexican national, has just sold a herd of cattle to the North during the American Civil War. Yankee Major Stedman insists he accompany the cattle all the way to Richmond where they're to feed Grant's troops besieging the city. Only Confederate Cavalry hero Tom Rossiter has different ideas for the cattle and for Kelly.William Holden as Kelly and Richard Widmark as Tom Rossiter settle down in roles familiar to them. Ever since Sunset Boulevard Bill Holden has brought us a fine line of cynical protagonists to the silver screen. Holden's good, but he's not breaking any new ground here.Richard Widmark as Rossiter is a bit more idealistic than Kelly, but only because he believes in a cause. He's no less cynical than Kelly in his methods of getting Kelly's cooperation in his scheme. The scheme being to get the cattle passed union lines to Richmond. We're not talking here about slavery and the causes of the Civil War. Just the prevention of disease and starvation.The only other larger role of note is Patrick O'Neal as Major Stedman of the Union Army. He is such and unctuous and boring man and written deliberately so by the writers that we will understand why Kelly is tempted by the Confederate offer. Of course Widmark uses other forms of persuasion, but you have to see the movie for that.It's a nice action film by two very capable male stars who were passed the peak years of their respective careers in the Fifties. Also you will not be able to get the title song, sung by the Kingston Trio over the opening credits out of your mind. Very catchy indeed. "},{"Title":"The slickest piece of cattle-rustling I've heard tell of  A. Lincoln","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Alvarez Kelly, made in 1966, supposedly tells the story of a cattle herd that was headed for Union lines during the latter months of the Civil War but was stolen by Confederate raiders, and ended up in Richmond, or so the movie says.  That brings the quote listed in my summary to bear.  While this may have been a fictitious event in the American Civil War, the movie does give a decent look at life during those turbulent years when one side was simply using might to slowly beat down the other side.William Holden plays the owner of the cattle herd who has arranged, for a price, to deliver a prime beef herd to Union lines during the latter year of the War, 1864.  As Kelly, he'll do anything that can be done, as long as there is a handsome fee at the end of the task.  Richard Widmark plays the leader of the Confederate raiders who is just as determined to get the herd delivered, but not to Yankees, but instead to starving Confederate soldiers and citizens.  His Southern accent is a bit contrived, but bearable. Widmark is able to convince Holden to change the route of the herd; however, the Union army is going to have to be contended with, as they know this herd was intended for them.An easy film to watch, just don't put much historical truth with it. "},{"Title":"How the North Almost Lost the Civil War","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a peculiar western turned American Civil War film. William Holden is Alverez Kelly, a citizen of Mexico of Irish ancestry, and a gentleman cattle herd leader. He has, we learn, had involvement with the U.S. before 1861 - 64. His father, the owner of a large estate in Mexico, was killed in the Mexican War (Holden says it has a different name in Mexico) by American troops, some of whom are now Confederates. But he is totally uninterested in the results of the war he is a foreign citizen intent to sell cattle to the best payer. This means, however, that he has to deal with the Union more than the South (at one point he is asked if he doubts the value of Confederate currency, and starts telling the Confederate Secretary of War what one could do now with Confederate currency). It is Holden's fortune that he gets a Union Army contract for 4500 steers that it takes him three months to bring up from Mexico. Unfortunately he is met by Major Steadmen (Patrick O'Neill) at the point where Holden felt he was supposed to deliver. Steadman is one of the most obnoxious men one can mingle with. A citizen of Boston, he was a lawyer before the war. He prides himself on being able to manipulate people by his brains (an example I will give in a moment). He drew up the contract, and in very fine print (he does apologize for it's tiny size), he had a clause added that the commanding General in the area that needs the meat can insist it be delivered there before payment. That is General Grant the cattle have to be brought to Richmond.Holden has no choice, but he will be paid. Unfortunately this leads to a 1,400 mile railway trip from Texas through the Midwest to Maryland and into Virginia - accompanied by Steadman. Earlier we saw Steadman as a stiff type - he had to wait an additional ten days for Kelly to appear at the point Kelly thought was delivery point, and does not like being kept waiting (even though the army would have been footing his bill in the border town). But on the ride he tells Kelly his war stories about being a lawyer in Massachusetts. The one we hear the great tail end of is about how he trumped a judge on a legal point in a case by use of a writ of certiorari (this legal document demands to know from the judge what is the statutory power the judge is using that is the grounds for his decision). I'm sure that most people would love to hear this type of story....I'd love to know who the Masssachusetts Judge was. Hopefully, for Steadman's career sake, it was not Lemuel Shaw, the Chief Justice of the Commonwealth, a man of formidable mind and presence. He looks it from his photos. He was also the father-in-law of a one time sailor and writer, later a customs house man named Herman Melville. Shaw, had he been embarrassed by some idiotic glory seeking lawyer would have swallowed and remembered the idiot. And the idiot would have paid in the long-run throughout Massachusetts' court system.The cattle are delivered at a plantation now in Union hands outside Richmond. But after Kelly is paid, he becomes a target of southerners led by Colonel Tom Rossiter (Richard Widmark). Rossiter sees all that wonderful meat nearby and wants it for the folks in Richmond and for Lee's forces. So he kidnaps Kelly (with the help of the plantation owner Charity Warwick (Victoria Shaw)), and Kelly soon is in Richmond being offered a chance to do the Confederacy a small aid by stealing the herd back. Rossiter is no sweet guy, but a genuine patriot who has already sacrificed an eye for the Confederacy.* He uses methods as vile in their way as Steadman's (including intentional minor maiming) to force Kelly to help him. The interest in the film really centers on the mental warfare between Rossiter and Kelly, as each tries to see how far they can force the other back on track or off track. For Kelly sees that Rossiter's plan is a desperate last chance - and a long shot that he has no real concern about.(*There actually was a noted Confederate Cavalry leader, General Thomas Rosser, who survived the war in tact and ended his career as an engineer on U.S. and Canadian railways. His last military action was in 1876 - he heard his pal George Custer (army differences forgiven) was killed at Little Big Horn. Rosser took leave from his job to join the U.S. forces seeking Crazy Horse's army)The film is well acted and plotted actually - far better than other mad last gasp Confederate tales are (witness VIRGINIA CITY). Kelly finds a way to avenge his maiming through an act of kindness to Elizabeth Pickering (Janice Rule) Rossiter's fiancé. But in the end he is the one who wins - by getting the cattle to the right place, and finding out his own finer senses.Also note the performances of two favorite character actors from television (usually), Howard Caine and Roger C. Carmel. Caine (best recalled as the nasty S.S. Major Hochstadter on HOGAN'S HEROS) is a northern spy who gets most of the cards in his hands, and deals the wrong answer out. Carmel (best recalled for his role as Kay Ballard's husband on THE MOTHERS - IN - LAW, or as Harry Mudd on STAR TREK) is Captain Fergusson, a clever Scotish Blockade Runner (for profit of course - like Rhett Butler was too). Both help enliven an above average adventure flick. "},{"Title":"Slow but sure","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I have just watched this movie on Spain's Canal Sur, in Spanish, which probably did not make much difference, as the Spaniards are wizards at dubbing, and the main character in any case is an Irish-Mexican. In addition, I avoided by this means Widmark's Southern drawl, said by those better qualified to judge than myself to be hilariously bogus. When I have seen him in films with English dialogue including Westerns, he has always sounded very urban to me, probably hailing from some part of New York and I have never noticed that he has attempted to change his accent before. So this was probably an isolated attempt that didn't work out. He is, nonetheless, an excellent actor, and we must recall that even our late great Sir John Gielgud made a terrible hash of this too, on the very rare occasions he was induced to speak with a different accent from his plum-in-the mouth, silver tones.If you are looking for a Western of the inferior spaghetti type (I do not include Sergio Leone in that description), with non-stop violence and a corpse a minute, be sure to give this one a miss! Although a war film, its mood for the greater part of the footage is great calm, but a calm fraught with tensions. It takes at least three quarters of an hour for the first death to occur (unless there was a fatality at the Alvarez hacienda in the first few seconds, which I happened to miss, and that is unlikely). And immediately after this fatality, a party of Blues capture a party of Greys, who with hardly a pause turn the tables on the former, but without causing any further losses to either side or even anybody getting wounded. The development of the plot is mainly without physical action, so that I must admit it does tend to drag at times. The main protagonists quietly and stealthily pitch their wits against each other that is why the incident of the severed finger(already mentioned on the general introduction page) comes as such a brutal shock. But the true nature of war, including the American Civil War, is like that much manoeuvring (Am. maneuvering) without very much happening for most of the time, interrupted by sporadic, sudden flare-ups.The main characters are well-drawn with many quirks and foibles and there is much humour in their interaction and the awkward situations they find themselves in. A good example of this is the frustration of Widmark, the one-eyed Confederate colonel, who with the reluctant help of the devious civilian,but pro tem acting colonel, Holden, tries to turn the dude grey-coated soldiers into competent cow-hands. Both Widmark and Holden take turns in being the butt of the various ironies, but the stiff-necked, self-opiniated and bumbling Union major played by O'Neill, is the object of such ironies for most of his on-screen time, including from his commanding officer.The photography is good, the scenery (supposed to be Virginian although the film was said to be shot in Louisiana) is very beautiful, and the costumery and indoor décor quite colourful and well-researched. The women,however, are rather insipid, especially when compared to those belles in a similar situation in the Wayne-Holden opus The Horse Soldiers, not to mention the vivacious Vivienne Leigh in Gone with the Wind, though that is an unfair comparison. Not a movie,then, for those Western fans who like fast action. But, if you are patient enough, there is a terrific finale with a battle, which (to avoid giving too much away), is very reminiscent of a scene from How the West was Won which also involved Richard Widmark and, now I come to think of it, also of a sequence in The Wild Bunch, starring Holden.Although I had already been around for some time when this film first came out, I had hitherto never seen it or even heard of it, despite the fact that I am quite fond of good Westerns, a fan of both the main actors, and have have often been impressed by O'Neill too. I can only imagine that this occurred because it proved a commercial flop, by reason of the faults above-mentioned, and was shelved. It had never been shown before on the channel where I saw it, and there is little that they do not repeat again and again and again. "},{"Title":"Loosely based on actual historical event","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In the early 1960's, there was quite a bit of interest in the Civil War during the centennial observances of events over the four-year period. Quite a few films were released either about the war, or which had the war in the background or as preludes to western films, which were very popular at the time. This film fits within that genre - both as a civil war film, which is also a bit of a western, considering the cattle-rustling angle.This movie is (loosly) based upon an actual event. In September of 1964, Lee's Army of Northern Virginia was besieged by Grant's forces in entrenchments which stretched along the eastern side of Richmond, then south across the James river, then along the southern border of Petersburg, Virginia. A confederate scout noticed a large heard of cattle (approaching 4000 head) located at Coggins Point on the James River, not far from Grant's headquarters. In the army parlance of the days before refrigeration or canning to preserve meat, this was referred to by the commissary services as beef on the hoof.Confederate Lt. Gen. Wade Hampton organized a raid which swung wide around the Union lines, traveled through Union-held territory to the site, overcame the small guard, and herded 2,468 cattle back into the Confederate lines where it became a welcome addition to the scanty rations the Confederate troops normally received. The Confederate losses were quite small - 10 killed, 47 wounded, and 4 missing, according to Hampton's official after-action report.The raid went down in history as either Hampton's Cattle Raid, or simply The Great Beefsteak Raid.Of course, the lead character Alverez Kelly from the movie has no real counterpart in history of which I am aware. "},{"Title":"ALVAREZ KELLY (Edward Dmytryk, 1966) ***","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is another film I decided to re-acquaint myself with in order to pay a well-deserved tribute to the late, great Richard Widmark. It’s one of the last Westerns he did and, in fact, it came at a time when the old-style Hollywood approach to the genre was coming to an end; actually, Widmark’s co-star from ALVAREZ KELLY – William Holden (here playing the title character) – would only a few years later feature in the film that gave the Western new-fangled maturity and an equally potent elegiac tone i.e. Sam Peckinpah’s THE WILD BUNCH (1969)! Anyway, to get back to the matter at hand, ALVAREZ KELLY seems to me to be unjustly neglected when it comes to discussing large-scale Westerns of the era. It may be because there is little action per se – though the climactic skirmish/chase (culminating in the blowing-up of a bridge let’s not forget that Holden was one of the leads in two big-budget, star-studded war adventures, namely THE BRIDGES AT TOKO-RI 1954 and THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI 1957) is exciting enough – or the fact that the plot is atypical (inspired by a true incident in which a herd of cattle, sold to the Yanks by neutral Holden during the American Civil War, is stolen en masse from under their very noses by the opposing Confederate side, led by Widmark and who has abducted Holden to this end!). With respect to this curious narrative, the film opens with a nice animated sequence depicting the importance of securing food at a time of war throughout the ages.The two stars’ respective parts have been tailor-made for their established screen personas. Holden is cynical, opportunistic and charming (ironically, I’ve just recalled that I used these exact same words to describe Widmark’s younger character in GARDEN OF EVIL 1954!). Widmark, on the other hand, is here a tough army man whose commitment to the Southern cause makes him ruthless above all else – alienating him from fiancée Janice Rule, and even considering drowning the entire herd in a swamp if it’s to fall back into the hands of the Yanks; sensing his unreasonable outlook early on, Holden quips “God save me from dedicated men”! They’re at their best in a couple of major confrontation scenes the first in which a one-eyed Widmark shoots off one of Holden’s fingers (while the latter is in prison) because of his lack of co-operation, and when Holden coolly explains to an aghast – and subsequently furious – Widmark that the clandestine passage he arranged for (on a steamboat which has just sailed) was not for himself but rather the disenchanted Rule! Predictably, but believably, the two men’s relationship ends in mutual respect – with Widmark even saving Holden’s life towards the end.The supporting cast is led by the afore-mentioned Rule, who does quite well by her Southern belle role (another lady – played by Victoria Shaw – proves more responsive and loyal to Widmark’s exploits), and Patrick O’Neal in the part of the Unionist Major who negotiated the initial deal with Holden, is having a hard time convincing his superiors of the enemy’s incredible plan, and who can’t fathom how the black slaves are unwilling to emancipate themselves (but rather shield those who want to keep them under their thumb!). By the way, surely one of the film’s main assets is John Green’s cheerful and memorable score (complete with a hackneyed yet agreeable title tune sung by The Brothers Four, an obscure folk group which seems to have remained active to this day).This unusual Western, then, is more than just a pleasant diversion (an epithet by which it’s often dismissed) good-looking, engaging, and certainly never boring – despite a not inconsiderable length of 110 minutes (though it’s listed officially on most sources at my disposal as being 116!). "},{"Title":"Has aged very well","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" See it - William Holden plays his trademark role as a smooth-talking womanizer caught in a war he doesn't want to be a part of. He's a rich cattle driver in the Civil War looking to sell his horses to the highest bidder. Richard Widmark plays the eyepatch-wearing Confederate villain. Some might say these two actors can't carry a movie by themselves, but together they are fantastic. The script in this movie is surprisingly sharp and smart. This is rare for a western. The dialogue is very witty and actually pretty funny at times. The movie has also aged very well, meaning that it is still relevant and doesn't have that old feel to it. For example, the things that are supposed to be funny are funny, etc. The only problem with this movie is that there's not much action until the end. This is easily forgivable because of the good story. After seeing the movie, I immediately compared it to Horse Soldiers, which Holden co-starred in with the Duke. Worth seeing once. 2 out of 5 action rating "},{"Title":"Odd, uneven, almost heroic in failure","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Most reviews here range from mixed to egregious. Except for a few shocking holes in the script and underproduced scenes (e.g. the Confederate ambush at the apple cellar and Stedman's escape with Ruthie and her subsequent death), just like a kid at the movies I felt swept up in the film's patched-together, on-with-the-show spirit. Given the production's reliance on a cattle herd as its main prop and the health problems of its aging stars, much credit goes to the film's editors. Plus one must bow to the astonishing gift of William Holden, reportedly a wreck throughout the making, but managing his horse like a pro and looking like a man you or any woman would keep giving another chance. Overall this film probably represents a pathetic last gasp of the studio system whose problems are worthy of dismay, but once again that studio system produced a work that soldiers on to some kind of colorful, noisy, almost dignified end. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Classic, Classic, Classic! Yeah, you can complain about being a bit slow nearly 50 years later, but what movie from that time wasn't. This movie is loosely based on Hampton's and General Rosser's Cattle Raid. Not filmed in Virginia, but I am from near Richmond and played as a child on some of the land the actual raid crossed over and it has the same feel. Holden and Widmark both hit home runs, hard to tell which is better. Widmark has the southern Virginia accent down pat, he sounds like a couple of my uncles which were about his age. The score and the cinematography just add to the ambiance. There are some slight imperfections with the script, but the strengths of this film tower over it's shortcomings. "},{"Title":"In every war...in every age...the forgotten weapon is food....","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Alvarez Kelly is directed by Edward Dmytryk and stars William Holden & Richard Widmark. It's written by Elliott Arnold & Franklin Coen (Dan Taradash uncredited for tidying it up), the locations for the shoot are Baton Rouge & Clinton, Louisiana, with Joseph MacDonald on photography (Panavision). Story is apparently based on a true US Civil War incident in 1864, it sees Alvarez Kelly (Holden) kidnapped by Confederate's led by Tom Rossiter (Widmark) and forced to drive a herd of Union owned cattle to the hungry Reb troops in Richmond.Slow moving and blighted by a tepid script, Alvarez Kelly relies on its stars and photography to keep it out the trough. Evidently the makers were going for a social conscious piece based around an historical incident. All that is achieved is an overly talky piece, with periods of inane conversations; that is only briefly lit up by its action packed finale. And even then it can be argued that the battle for the bridge and the subsequent stampede isn't worth waiting 90 minutes for. The acting is solid, where Holden plays a role he could do in his sleep, and Widmark, sporting an eye patch, convinces as a rough and ready Colonel. Most pleasing is MacDonald's photography, not just for capturing the essence of the barren South in Baton Rouge, but also his choice of lenses for the top notch costuming (take a bow Seth Banks) afforded the ladies of the piece (Janice Rule & Victoria Shaw). There's a lovely print for this film, where in High Definition the colours positively ping from the screen.Dmytryk (Broken Lance/Warlock), Holden (The Horse Soldiers/The Wild Bunch) & Widmark (The Last Wagon/Cheyenne Autumn) owe Western fans nothing, but this is one from the three guys that's easily forgotten once the end credit rolls. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Whose In The Know","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a movie dominated by Whitmark & Holden. To say anything other is to deny the facts of the films. The cast and acting keeps you here watching the movie. This film is for the cast's fans only.The script is another matter. This movie appears to have started shooting with out a real script making up stuff along the way. William Holden was totally frustrated during filming. He took his copy of the script & tried to stick it in his horse where the sun don't shine, he had so little respect for it.There is a bridge explosion sequence on this movie in which the bridge looks much like the bridge in the Horse Soldiers that Holden had done years earlier with John Wayne. I am not sure if they used the same set area or the same people to build the bridge as in both movies the bridge is blown up. "},{"Title":"Amigo William Holden","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Alvarez Kelly is set in Virginia, during the U.S. Civil War, and William Holden plays the title role. His character is called a Mexican National - the son of an Irish father and Hispanic mother. While clothed in a suit resembling a cross between period and modern dress, Mr. Holden is unconvincing. He certainly does not favor his Mexican side. In fact, he looks and performs as if he just flew in from a Hollywood cocktail party. At least, the velvety smooth Holden voice is pleasing. The film has some production strengths. But, watching amigo Holden get dirty and have his finger shot off is disarming. Even worse, the story is a deathly bore.**** Alvarez Kelly (10/6/66) Edward Dmytryk ~ William Holden, Richard Widmark, Patrick O'Neal, Janice Rule "},{"Title":"It could have been a great epic.","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This film starts very well showing William Holden as a man taking no part in the civil war, because he does not identify with either side. He also is better than anyone in delivering herds of cattle, being paid extremely well. Richard Widmark is a confederate officer who places his cause above everything else. The relationship between both of them could be the material for a great epic, but it finishes too soon for what it started. Another 30 minutes might have done it. There are two beauties , Janice Rule and Victoria Shaw and their brief appearance is like an appetizer for a meal that does not show up. The film is interesting and well made, but incomplete  "},{"Title":"A Dead on Arrival Film From a Studio System in Intensive Care","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A Couple of Old War Horses from Hollywood's Past Along with an Occasionally Brilliant Director are Hired to Drive This Stiff, Boring, and Virtually Worthless and Dated Anachronism. It Was Made When the Old Hollywood was Dying and This Dud was in on the Death March of the Studio System.William Holden Manages a bit of Cynicism and Richard Widmark Gives it a Crusty Go, but the Film Lacks Any Consistent Tone and Just Seems Like a Bunch of Flat and Unengaging Scenes Strung Around a Few Good Ones.Director Dmytryk is in Sleep Mode and His Better Days are Far Behind Him as This Film is about the South During the Civil War Trying to Rustle Some Beef for Starving Soldiers but has No Urgency and is About as Deep as Pile of Cow Pies. Overall, it is a Mediocrity at Best and an Embarrassment at Worst for the Seasoned Pros that Put This Together Without Much Concern Other than a Pay Day. It is Well Known, and it Shows On Screen, that the Movie Makers on the Set All Knew This One Was Dead Out of the Gate. It Was Unremarkable and Forgettable Upon Release and is Even More So Today. "},{"Title":"Civil War is still alive","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I love the movie itself; however, it does seem to keep the Civil War alive even though the event was closed out 142 years ago. I saw the movie while attending a Southwestern military academy back in the late 1970s. Some of the cadets from the Southern states like Texas didn't like it when a Union sniper up in a tree shot one of the Confederate calvary men who was escorting the cattle. After the Union sniper was brought down by Colonel Rossiter (Richard Widmark), they chapped while those of us from the Northern states booed it. One of my teachers at the school kept saying that the South will rise again. If people from the South don't like the U.S. military because they lost the war, then maybe they should not join the military because then they would have to wear the blue uniforms of the United States Air Force, the Marine Corp dress blues), and the Army (the Old Presidential Guard dress blues) since they called the Northern Soldiers blue bellies. "},{"Title":"Moo.","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I don't remember individual glasses of milk or hamburgers I consumed when I was a junior high schooler, but I do remember this modestly interesting Holstein of a movie. Directed by Edward Dmytryk, who put together one of my very favorite movies, Mirage, Alvarez Kelly tells the story of rebel Richard Widmark trying to hijack a herd of meat for his starving Confederacy from rancher William Holden.The only reason I even reviewed this movie is that, when I saw it on TV around 1972 or 1973, I thought it was pretty good.Not great. Palatable. Sort of like . . .Cud. "},{"Title":"Alvarez Kelly-Even Disliked by Mexicans and Irish **","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a true story of the civil war. It is said that when Gen. Grant found out what had happened to the cattle, the words that he uttered could not be repeated orally. I could just imagine what the good general would have said if he saw this mess of a film.Bill Holden is Kelly. The North and the South both want his sheep to feed people during the civil war. The south, led by Gen. Richard Widmark, in a totally phony southern accent, go as far to kidnap Kelly. Widmark shoots off a finger and threatens a finger a day until Kelly complies.The shocking thing is this awful picture is that by the end of it, Kelly plays along with the south. Widmark is willing to forget that Kelly has allowed his girl friend, (Janice Rule) to flee from Richmond.This film is uneven at best. There are far too many questions to ask, but why bother since it's a real clinker anyway. "},{"Title":"so bad it's bad","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Sometimes shockingly idiotic, this movie occasionally manages to entertain through the perversity of its decisions.Basically, a game Richard Widmark and a drunk, bored William Holden wait an hour and a half for a battle sequence we were told about at the top, and we know, you and I and Bill and Dick, everybody knows, that what's coming will be one of the cheapest, least exciting battles in the whole canon of mostly or completely lame Civil War movies (has there ever been a good one?); but we also know, and the sheer insanity keeps us around, that this otherwise pedestrian Civil War battle scene will be perhaps the first to make the startling inclusion of a cattle stampede. First, though, we get to hear them say clever things to each otherDamn you, Kelly! Why? Let's say I was getting even with someone for shooting a finger off. and to their women What's the matter, darling? War's the matter, I guess. We are treated to the spectacle of Confederate troops at cattle-drive school, learning to sing Dixie to spooked dogies. We are escorted in no hurry at all through a series of plantation homes, hotels, whorehouses and restaurants, all featuring the same salmon-colored window treatment on - yes! - the same French windows. For four minutes, we are stunned by the awesome vision of soldiers cutting trees to shore up a bridge. Of course, this means later we'll get to watch the bridge blow up, and we fear that it will be one of the stupidest bridge-blowing-up sequences in history. And it is, with Holden reeling half-heartedly to the middle of the span, noticing the explosion behind him, and jumping off a perfectly safe part which does not blow up, so that he can dive into the river and have planks fall on his head. Good thing there wasn't a coffee table on that bridge.This stinking potboiler of conflicted loyalties must have reminded Edward Dmytryk of the HUAC fifties. It seems to have been directed by absentee ballot. It looks like the whole crew was home by lunch every day. The dirt roads have visible tire ruts; dirty commando Rebs use knives shiny as chrome. Nobody bothered much about the script, either. We are asked to accept that, at great expense and effort, the Confederate army would rather shadow, catch and release and chase and catch again a man whom they obviously should, simply and legally, shoot as a spy (this also is a major failing of The Great Escape, which at least has other virtues). Alvarez Kelly is further handicapped by apparently having been shot during the great Culver City period uniform and prop shortage of '65 - the Union army consists of about twelve soldiers; the Rebs have maybe forty. When the big fight finally comes, it takes place in some bushes, and the soldiers hide so well, you almost can't tell that it's a really major battle. A shrubbery nearly obscures the single cannon, and Columbia manages to arm both the North and South with Winchester repeaters that would not be mass produced for about 10 years after Appomattox. Most incredibly, the whole story takes place in Virginia, and yet we hear the voice of only a single African-American in the entire picture. In a crowning touch of genius, Union officer Patrick O'Neal takes this slave woman hostage and uses her as a human shield while evading Confederate capture - and the Rebs not only don't shoot, they just stand staring, perhaps because, being the only slave with the power of speech, she is very valuable; or perhaps because this could only happen in a world gone mad. Or senile. Dmytryk directs like he's already dead.And the pretentious road-show title sequence with eponymous song Sometimes a herd of cattle... is worth more than a herd of cannon! (I swear to God), featuring lusty tough-guy lyrics sung by a gelded, milquetoast barber-shop quartet. One of the all-time worst songs in a movie, it serves as a spectacular opening to a remarkably terrible film. "},{"Title":"Amazingly bland and uninteresting considering the cast and scope of this film","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" William Holden plays the title character--a man who could NOT care less whether the North or South won the Civil War. Oddly, this character is supposed to be from Mexican and Irish ancestry and I have absolutely no idea why they wrote this back story with William Holden in mind--especially since this IS a perfect role for Anthony Quinn. Imagine a film where Quinn actually got to play his TRUE ethnic background instead of an American Indian, Philipino or so many other odd casting choices that plagued much of his early career. But William Holden?! What a stupid casting decision! Plus, this character was supposed to be amoral--so who do you root for in this film?! The Southerners are often portrayed as rather unlikable and mean and the Northerners are generally shown as being rather bland and stupid.While Richard Widmark and William Holden aren't the greatest or most familiar Western stars, they were excellent actors and with these two and a rather substantial budget, this still should have been a much more compelling picture. Even with morally questionable and unlikable characters and miscasting of Holden, the film should have generated some level of excitement. Instead, it's at best a time passer--and not a particularly memorable one due to occasionally over-done music, indifferent acting, and some portions that are just too talky and dull. Overall, this is one of the poorer films either Widmark or Holden made in the 1960s--one that is easy to skip.A final note--Although I am sure that some slaves were so brainwashed that they actually rooted for the Confederates to win the war, this surely was NOT the norm. However, in this rather insensitive film, the good Negroes conspire to save the day for the South during one supposedly poignant scene! Yeah, right! "},{"Title":"One of the worst western films I've ever seen.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Spoilers included.Alvarez Kelly takes place mostly in Virginia (so it isn't technically a western, is it?) during the Civil War.  Kelly, played by William Holden, is some kind of cow expert who is enlisted by the Union army to handle their cattle.  He is soon kidnapped by a band of Confederates.  The rebels are led by a one-eyed man (Widmark) who is supposed to be a Southern gentleman but sounds a lot like the cartoon version of a Chicago gangster. This is a forgettable movie, but Widmark's accent is so hilarious that the film is almost worth watching.  My favorite part was when the rebels kidnap Kelly. Kelly has some money in his pocket, and Widmark's character wants it.  He points his revolver at Kelly and says HAND OVER DA MONEY!.  Sometimes Widmark actually tries to sound Southern.  He'll have it right in one scene, but in the next scene he'll be back in Chicago gangster mode.After kidnapping Kelly, the rebs take him to Richmond where he is enlisted by the Confederates to help steal the same cattle he used to be handling.  Kelly refuses at first because he only wants to help the side that will pay him the most.  Kelly changes his mind when the eyepatch guy shoots one of his fingers off.  By the end of the movie, Kelly has a conscience.  He sympathizes with the rebels and is willing to fight for something besides money.I have to say that I was deeply offended by this movie.  I really can't stand Civil War flicks that show the Confederates as noble and heroic while showing the Northerners as dastardly and snobbish in the manner that Alvarez Kelly does.  Most Civil War movies seem to portray the North and the South as either equally good or equally bad, but there are also many pro-Confederate movies out there.  For once, I would like to see a movie that shows the Northerners as the good guys.Politics aside, this is a dull and dreary western that should be skipped by anyone who values their time.  There are a few redeeming values, including some truly lovely actresses (Janice Rule and Victoria Shaw) but they don't have nearly enough screen time - Did the script writer really think that the audience would be more interested in a bunch of cows than these two women?  If you like William Holden you should see some of the other movies he's been in, because he has been in some good ones.  Alvarez Kelly isn't one of them, though.  There are so many great westerns, it baffles me that anyone would waste their time watching junk like this. "}{"Title":"Good God this movie was awful","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" What's to like? The wasting of the massive talents of Holden & Widmark? The wooden and bland acting of the 2 female leads? The movie is sad, bad, and screechingly aimless. I have to say the script is godawful. Widmark & Holden must have cringing spewing out that garbage. And Widmark's accent sounds like a Brooklyn native trying his half-hearted worst to affect a rebel drawl. The hairstyles scream bouffaint. Holden looks tired here; the effects of alcoholism are beginning to age him badly, too. No more Golden Boy. Avoid this waste of time and watch one of the other movies you hve in mind. And if this review sounds like I overused on adjectives, well, yes it does. But only because the movie made me do it. "},{"Title":"Un-exciting cattle battle...","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" 1st watched 5/5/2007 - 3 out of 10(Dir-Edward Dmytryk) Un-exciting cattle battle between the confederate's and the yanks with the leader of the herd, Alvarez Kelly(played by William Holden), running it like a Vietnam anti-hero -- only going to the side that gives him the most money. This movie starts with the corniest theme song that I've heard in awhile which pretty much tells the story before the movie even begins. A swashbuckling cattle-mover who loves the ladies?? Come on, even the star power of Holden and Richard Widmark can't rescue this supposed true(and boring) event from the civil war. Kelly thinks he's done with his job as he delivers the herd early in the movie but the army has a different idea and wants him to redirect them to Richmond, Virginia where the meat is needed the most. He gets them there only to be smuggled to the other side by a confederate-loving landowner. Then, Kelly is hired(or bribed) to get them to their final destination for the southern side. He'd rather just go home, have a hot bath, and drink some bourbon with a beautiful woman by his side but he's kind of stuck in a predicament that has to be completed. So, we get to watch the job getting done. Oh boy -- unless you really love cattle -- this is definitely not a fun experience or if you really have to see everything William Holden is in, but otherwise stay away from this yawner. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  How can the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia look like the Sierras?Not enough of Victoria Shaw.Widmark a southerner?  Not believable.Music  Tales of The Vienna Woods was not composed until 1871. "},{"Title":"Not a memorable film.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film is a real, merit-less time-waster. Wm. Holden (passed away drunk, how un-Christian-like) is too old for the role that should have gone to an athletic actor twenty years younger, although the crafty producers got their money's worth action-wise from the old man, considering Holden was an alcoholic and chain smoker! Widmark is all over the map playing a non-Christian Confederate soldier something or other, but I did enjoy O'Neal as the Union Capt., or is it Sgt? Anyways, the film drags until the rousing climax, at which point I thought another movie had come on. The writing could have presented a clearer story about the moral God (good) versus the Devil (impure) conflict inherent in a nation when it goes to war against itself, but that worthy idea is never fleshed out. "},{"Title":"So bad and so offensive, it must be seen to be believed","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  One of Dmytryck's most disasterous misteps (and that's saying something), this film posits as a hero Widmark's broken Southern Colonel, who must steal thousands of head of cattle from right under the nose of Union officer Holden in order to keep the Confederacy standing on its last legs. I can't imagine that many parts of this film, particularly a scene where slaves angrily abuse their Northern liberators, would fail to offend anyone but the most hardcore Southern sympathizers, today or in 1966 when this film was made (presumably for the drive-in audience).  Unfortunately, the film's scant artistic or narrative values do little or nothing to redeem the offensive mess; it's not even a decent action picture.Worth skipping. "}]