[{"Title":"FRANKIE AND JOHNNY (Frederick De Cordova, 1966) **1/2","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is an oddity in Elvis’ filmography a quaint but pleasing musical comedy based on the popular song which had already inspired a similarly-titled film from 1936 starring Helen Morgan – apart from being featured in the Mae West vehicle SHE DONE HIM WRONG (1933) and, again, as recently as Robert Altman’s A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION (2006).The star isn’t entirely comfortable amid the 1890s riverboat setting, what with a few of his musical performances (and especially his hairdo) coming off as inextricably modern. Still, the plot – thin as it is – emerges to be quite engaging (what with its backdrop of fortune-telling, gambling parlors, variety acts and costume parties and involving mistaken identities, misunderstandings, an attempted murder and a bar-room brawl)! The cast presents three notable female roles Donna Douglas (as Frankie), Nancy Kovack as Elvis’ red-headed lucky charm and the flame of his jealous boss, and Sue Ane Langdon as a ditzy “blonde” – who, along with Presley’s long-suffering sidekick Harry Morgan, turns out to be the most likable character as well as the purveyor of the film’s comic relief.Elvis’ best ‘new’ number is “Hard Luck”; apart from the title tune, he also gets to sing the standard “When The Saints Go Marching In” (while dressed in full military regalia)! The film is short enough at 87 mins. not to overstay its welcome, but the rather low-key presentation also prevents it from being anything more than unassuming entertainment. I wouldn’t classify it among the top-flight Presley vehicles, therefore, but it’s certainly superior to some of the bigger-budgeted (yet simple-minded) fluff he made over at MGM – this being a production from independent producer Edward Small released through United Artists. "},{"Title":"Good fun for Elvis fans, Donna Douglas fans","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Romping, colorful Presley vehicle with plenty of songs and good comedy from Harry Morgan and Donna Douglas.  Johnny (Presley) is a riverboat gambler who becomes convinced that a redhead is his good luck charm -- problem is, Frankie (Douglas) is a blonde!  She goes after him with a gun, and the rest is in the song (a personal favorite of Elvis', I understand).  Edward Small's production clearly outclasses the Sam Katzman drek Presley would soon be floundering in.  Some fairly elaborate musical numbers well-executed, quality photography and decent directing.  DVD is a good one, buy it Elvis fans. "},{"Title":"A costume musical aboard a riverboat.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Elvis plays Johnny, a riverboat entertainer that has a big gambling problem. Donna Douglas, better known as Elly Mae Clampett, is Johnny's girl, Frankie. A fortune teller tells Johnny how he can change his luck. Enter a new lady luck played by Nancy Kovack and the cat fight begins. Costumes range from classy to gaudy. A dozen songs make up the soundtrack featuring Hard Luck and Please Don't Stop Loving Me. This film was directed by Fred de Cordova, director of Johnny Carson's Tonight Show. Also in the cast are Sue Ane Langdon, Harry Morgan and Anthony Eisley. A fun movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"Some Delights for Elvis Fans","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie followed Harum Scarum and was a big step up simply because Harum Scarum was arguably Elvis's worst movie. This one is actually the closest thing that Elvis ever did to a typical Hollywood musical like Music Man. There's an interesting plot and some good energy that carries through the first half of the movie, but it limps along badly in the second half. I went to sleep and had to finish watching it the next morning.The large amount of Broadway musical-type tunes simply doesn't fit Elvis' style very well. Only the title tune is really interesting and works very well. At the end, there is a gem called Please, Don't Stop Loving Me. It comes at about 80 minutes of the film's 87 minute run and I'm not sure that anybody except Elvis fans will last that long.Apparently Donna Douglas and Elvis had deep philosophical conversations on Paramahansa Yogananda and the Christian religion during the breaks while shooting this movie. This shows as there is very little chemistry between them. Second lead, Nancy Kovack provides whatever sexual chemistry the film does have. One suspects that if Douglas and Kovack had changed roles, the film would have worked much better.This doesn't fit into the category of Elvis' good movies, but it also doesn't fit into the category of his bad movies. Lets just say that it is an okay movie that only Elvis fans will find pleasurable. "},{"Title":"Better Elvis","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny (1966) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Johnny (Elvis) is a riverboat singer who is also one of the worst gamblers in the world, which gets him into major debt and grief to his partner Frankie (Donna Douglas). With no where else to turn, Johnny starts going to a gypsy for advice and she tells him that great luck will come in a beautiful redhead (Nancy Kovack) but this starts trouble with his boss as well as Frankie. I was pleasantly surprised to see how good this little film was, although it suffers from the same issues as many Elvis films of this period. The story is incredibly weak and once again we've gotta see The King fall for the wrong woman and try to get himself out of trouble while singing. What stands this film apart from the others through are the incredibly well done songs, which also feature some great musical numbers. The highlight is the wonderfully played out title song as well as several other tunes including What Every Woman Lives For, Down By the Riverside, When the Saints Go Marching In and Hard Luck. Elvis doesn't give what I'd call a good performance but he fits his role well as the dumb but entertaining singer. The biggest credit must go to the supporting cast with Douglas stealing the show and Harry Morgan adding great comedy. "},{"Title":"Frankie and Johnny (1966) **","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" At first this Elvis Presley feature felt like a breath of fresh air, as it's a costume piece set aboard an old-time riverboat where Elvis plays an irresponsible and compulsive gambler named Johnny. Donna Douglas (best known as Elly May from The Beverly Hillbillies) is his cutesy girlfriend and singing partner Frankie, and they perform as a duet on the boat (Douglas is unconvincingly dubbed). Harry Morgan of M*A*S*H fame plays Johnny's older mentor (he gets to sing too - uggghhh) who visits a gypsy fortune teller with Elvis to learn that a redhead (Nancy Kovack) will soon arrive to change his luck. Fate turns out to come true, but it creates a love triangle in the bargain. Once you get past the fancy costumes, this is fairly standard Elvis stuff. The stage songs aren't outstanding by any means, but they do fit nicely with the showtime feel of the proceedings. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Disappointing, even by Elvis standards","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Even though they have a lousy reputation I've generally been a fan of Elvis Presley films. Many of them provide breezy, painless fun with some good songs thrown in. Unfortunately, there's precious little entertainment in 'Frankie And Johnny' which is especially frustrating as a lot of the elements are there for a satisfying film such as a workable plot, good supporting cast and colourful sets.But this feels boring and lifeless from the word go. Elvis deserves some of the blame as - apart from 'The Trouble With Girls' - I can't recall him giving such a dull performance.But the real culprit is Frederick De Cordova who directs the film so lifelessly and lazily that the film never has a chance.Take for example the finale where it's been set up by a supporting character that in their staged musical number Frankie will shoot Johnnie with a real bullet instead of a blank. She does shoot him and appears to have killed him but through a stroke of remarkable luck he is unharmed. All this and the culprit is forgotten 15 seconds later for the upbeat closing musical number!Even amongst his mid to late 1960s work, you can do much better if you're searching for an Elvis film to watch. "},{"Title":"OK movie","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie was OK. Not good, not bad. Some of the songs leave a lot to be desired, but there was a pretty good supporting cast in this movie, Donna Douglas (The Beverly Hillbillies) and Harry Morgan (M*A*S*H*) to name a few. This was a typical Elvis movie, but the fact that it was on a riverboat set in the late 1800's early 1900's makes it interesting. There were a few good songs in this movie, but they were few and far between. A watchable movie, but nothing spectacular. "},{"Title":"even devoted admirers of Elvis will find themselves feeling short-changed by this one","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny is one in the long line of musicals which Elvis Presley churned out in the sixties. It has no connection with the Al Pacino/Michelle Pfeiffer film of the same name from 1991, but is instead fairly loosely based upon the well-known American folk-song. It is set some time in the late nineteenth century, probably around 1880 or 1890, although the exact date is never stated. Johnny and his girlfriend Frankie are performers on a Mississippi riverboat; Johnny is also a compulsive gambler, and as the boat has a casino on board he has plenty of opportunities to gamble. The film deals with the complications caused in their relationship by Johnny's gambling habit and Frankie's jealousy of his friendship with an attractive redhead named Nellie Bly. Johnny's interest in Nellie arises from the fact that a gypsy fortune-teller has informed him that a red-haired woman will bring him luck, but the jealous Frankie suspects that their relationship goes much deeper.One of the problems of casting a rock star in a Victorian period drama is that rock didn't actually exist in the Victorian era. The makers of this film are not really all that concerned with period accuracy- some of the music we hear sounds suspiciously like jazz, which didn't really exist in the 1880s, and even the song Frankie and Johnny itself was not published in its modern form until the 1920s. Somebody, however, obviously realised that rock-and-roll would be anachronistic, so the star gets to sing a series of bland, totally forgettable easy-listening numbers.Elvis was always fairly laid-back as an actor, but in this film he doesn't seem to make much effort as a singer either, being content just to stroll his way through the film. The rest of the cast are no better; in his film career Elvis played opposite some pretty obscure leading ladies, but Donna Douglas is one of the least memorable of the bunch. I was not surprised to discover that this was the last film she made in a brief cinema career. About the complicated and often far-fetched plot, the less said the better. Most Elvis Presley films these days are unlikely to appeal to anyone other than his many devoted admirers, but I suspect that even they will find themselves feeling a bit short-changed by this one. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Closer to Tacky and Yawny","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Falling close to the middle of Presley's film career in both quantity and quality, this is an exercise in mediocrity with only a few things to recommend in it. Very loosely inspired by the classic title song, it showcases Presley as a riverboat performer and gambling addict. He has a relationship with his singing partner Douglas, but that is strained to the limit when he encounters Kovack, a redhead who he believes is essential in fulfilling his gypsy fortune to win big money at the roulette wheel. Unfortunately, Kovack is the one-time love of Presley's boss Eisley and he isn't quite ready to give her up yet, despite his own affair with kooky chorine Langdon. More direct comedy is provided by Morgan and Christie as Presley and Douglas' married friends. The shenanigans (including mistaken identity, flirtation, drunkenness and the roller coaster of the roulette wheel) all come to a head during a performance of the title song during which Presley's life is endangered. What may sound lively and entertaining in description is only partly so in reality. The pace of the film borders on stagnant, despite the setting, and the many songs Presley performs are chiefly forgettable and unimaginatively staged. Presley is close to his physical prime here, though his performance lacks any real spark. His infamous jet-black hair (which fails to ever move except for one cowlick in front) is incongruous with the time period, as are several of his costumes. It's surprising to see Douglas in a role other than her iconic Elly Mae Clampett. She is unable to ditch the accent from that character despite obviously trying to at various points. She is lovely to look at most of the time, but is obviously uncomfortable in the musical sequences in which her voice is dubbed and her movements are lacking in assurance. Morgan does a decent job, but Christie manages to outshine him with her caustic brand of dry humor. They share some of the movies most amusing bits. Langdon is, as usual, very broad in her role though she does contribute some energy to the proceedings. Eisley is adequate. Nothing more. Kovack is attractive, but, like Douglas, far from seeming at home in the musical interludes. The songs are mostly forgettable and the one major song, the title tune which has endured for so long, is rather mangled by switching it from a narrative style to a first-person number with people singing about themselves. Few things are as uncomfortable-looking as Presley loping down the street in his marching band get-up. Though the film has many colorful costumes and settings, it comes off as pretty cheap-looking. Fans of The King will still want to watch this for his brand of light romance and comedy, but it hardly ranks as one of his best outings. "}{"Title":"Not exactly a sleeper, but....","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny wasn't half bad as Elvis pictures go- which means it was half- watchable as a movie and not just a typical kitchy vehicle to ogle the King. The musical performances we're good and the sets and costumes interesting-the high point in the film is the last performance of Frankie and Johnny--Elvis actually comes off pretty suave at times as a river boat gambler and his character played well off a nubile, young Donna Douglas. Harry Morgan does a good job as Elvis' older, more wary sidekick and the rest of the cast work well and don't detract/subtract from the main action which is of course- Elvis. Not a bad way to kill an afternoon or round off an evening of insomnia. "},{"Title":"That fortune teller has a hot cup of tea leaves! ... I'm a coffee drinker myself.","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Listless, abysmal Elvis Presley outing, loosely based on a 19th century French folk song, concerns a riverboat entertainer (and luckless gambling addict) in New Orleans told by a gypsy soothsayer that his luck will change once he dumps his blonde steady for a redhead. Filmed on the cheap, with Presley faking his way through. Two good EP songs, Please Don't Stop Loving Me and Shout It Out, though the latter number is stolen from the star by a woozy ho-daddy guitarist in the bottom left of the screen. Donna Douglas, Nancy Kovack, and Sue Ane Langdon are a fun femme trio, but Harry Morgan is a colorless sidekick and Elvis just looks beat. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I give this three stars just because it's a boring movie. I don't think it's bad. It's just really uneventful. I saw this on television once, and I switched over to the Food Network. I kind of remember what it was about, and that's about it. I have sat through probably everyone of his films, and while this isn't as bad as others (Harem Scarem!), it is pretty close. You can really tell that he was have less fun than the viewers. He looks really good (of course), but that's about it. It isn't even a fun bad movie, where you would see him as an Arabian Prince, or a race car driver. Instead of wasting time on this, watch Jailhouse Rock (the best), King Creole and even Blue Hawaii. You'll thank yourself later. "},{"Title":"Oh, my","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Yes, this is a truly bad film.  While the 1890s (?) riverboat setting is a change of pace from go-go dancers, the filmmakers still manage to make it a formulaic Elvis dud.  Donna Douglas is obviously miscast, with a dubbed singing voice that doesn't even match her speaking tones. Director De Cordova's lack of high-end filmmaking experience is clearly evident - this film indeed, as a previous user has stated, evokes a cheesy TV movie from the 60s.  The sets are designed and lighted horribly.  The film is a complete bore. The long shots of the riverboat appear borrowed from Show Boat, or perhaps Huckleberry Finn.It's a shame they rarely gave Presley a good vehicle to showcase his talents.  His sexiness and vulnerability are constantly being overshadowed by stupidity, garishness AND REALLY BAD SONGS. "},{"Title":"Boring movie with boring songs","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I generally like Elvis' music and movies, but this turkey of a movie should be permanently shelved and never shown again. The acting and dialogue are stilted, and the songs featured in this flick are far below Elvis' standards.When I first saw the movie in its theatrical run, I got up and walked out of the theater after only about 15 minutes of viewing.When I recently saw the movie again, I changed TV channels after enduring 30 minutes of the movie. Don't waste your time with this one.It's too bad that Elvis never got the chance to perform as a serious actor. "},{"Title":"One of Elvis' worst films","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Frankie and Johnny is undoubtedly one of, if not THE, worst of Elvis Presley's films.  Mind you, none of Elvis' films were Academy Award material, but this film looked as if it were a hokey made-for-TV movie rather than a theatrical release.  Donna Douglas' singing voice is obviously dubbed as is Harry Morgan's.  Presley seems out of place in a cast made up primarily of 1960s supporting television actors.  Even the director of the film, Frederick de Cordova, had his roots in TV working with George Burns and Johnny Carson - hardly credential enough to be directing a movie musical at a time when the movie musical was all but dead anyway.I walked away from the movie feeling as if I had wasted my time.  "}]