[{"Title":"The Definitive McQueen Performance","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"80 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	Steve McQueen was known for many things-- action films, fast cars, motorcycles, a charismatic presence (on screen and off), and his true `tough guy' persona.  But with this film, another description moves to the top of that list  Actor.  Anyone who doubts what a great actor McQueen was need only watch this film, because his performance here as Jake Holman is simply as good as it gets.  `The Sand Pebbles, ` directed by Robert Wise, is the story of Holman, a sailor assigned to the U.S. Gunboat, `San Pablo,' stationed on the Yangtze River in China in 1926 (the sailors aboard are known as `sand pebbles').  It's primary function is to patrol the river and thereby establish an American presence in China, a country currently experiencing a period of political unrest and impending upheaval.  It's a new assignment for Holman, and it suits him just fine; his job is to keep the ship's engines up and running, and because of the size of the ship, he's the only engineer-- it's just Jake and his engine.  And that's the way he likes it.  Holman is a loner by nature, and something of an iconoclast.  At one point, when he is asked his opinion of American Foreign Policy and their presence in China, he simply says, `I don't mess with it.  It's all look-see-pidgin, somethin' for the officers.'	Eventually, however, Holman is nevertheless drawn into the conflict through a series of events that impact him beyond all personal resistance, the most significant being when American lives are threatened throughout China, and Holman and a landing party are sent ashore to protect and escort some missionaries back to the safety of the San Pablo.  But at the mission, Holman discovers a way of life, the likes of which he's never known, and for the first time ever, he realizes a sense of belonging.  And he likes it.  For Holman, however, it may be too late; the political turmoil throughout the country has put the lives of everyone at the mission in peril, including a young missionary named Shirley Eckert (Candice Bergen), with whom Holman has made a connection he simply cannot dispel; for in Shirley, he discerns an innocence and a goodness that compels him, and in which he finds a welcome sense of fulfillment.  So what began as a routine mission becomes a salient point in Holman's life, and he is faced with the most important decision he's ever had to make.	This is the one for which McQueen should have won an Oscar.  As Holman, he demonstrates an emotional range and depth that runs the gamut from almost boyish naivete to a world weary veteran of life who has seen and heard it all.  Utterly convincing, he can say more with a slight incline of his head, a slow blink or shifting of his eyes than most actors could say with reams of dialogue at their disposal.  He communicates with so much more than words, and there's meaning in everything he says and does-- he never wastes a line or a single moment.  What he does with this role is magnificent; it's the definitive McQueen performance.  His Holman is the personification of the loner, and in creating him he delivers something few actors could ever equal  He's tough, convincing and charming-- all at the same time.  And he should've taken home The Statue for it.	As Collins, the Captain of the San Pablo, Richard Crenna gives one of his finest performances, as well, and it cemented his transition from television actor to a career on the big screen.  After this, there was no going back.  His portrayal of the somber, introspective Captain is riveting, and in him you readily perceive Collins' sense of duty and honor, as well as his overwhelming sense of futility and failure.  And the urgency with which he grasps his chance for redemption, even in the face of insurmountable odds, is entirely believable as it is consistent with the character he has created.The superlative supporting cast includes Richard Attenborough (Frenchy), Emmanuelle Arsan (Maily), Mako (Po-han), Larry Gates (Jameson), Charles Robinson (Bordelles), Simon Oakland (Stawski), Ford Rainey (Harris), Joe Turkel (Bronson) and Gavin MacLeod (Crosley).  A powerful drama, extremely well crafted and presented by Wise, `The Sand Pebbles' is a great and memorable film that will forever stand as the pinnacle of McQueen's successful career.  Jake Holman is a character you will never forget, because there is something of him-- that wistful longing to belong, perhaps-- in all of us.  A timeless classic among classics, this is one of the greatest motion pictures of all time, and is by definition, the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Perfect in every respect, The Sand Pebbles defines great storytelling.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"67 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I am watching the DVD of The Sand Pebbles for the first time. I originally saw this film as a child, during its theatrical run. Even though I have watched the P&S VHS tape many times, the DVD takes me back to that unforgettable first viewing so many years ago. This film is the definitive example of how pan and scan (laughably called fullscreen) is nothing less than a desecration of the work of those who make movies. Thank goodness there is finally a faithful transfer of this unforgettable story.I love movies, some much more than others. Even in the films that I love the most, the ones I consider the best, I can always find flaws or weaknesses. I can not find a single thing to criticize in The Sand Pebbles. The cinematography, as many others have noted, is exceptional. The detail of the sets, the ship, the costumes, the panoramic vistas, all are very convincing. As Crenna points out in the DVD commentary, there is no visual trickery, everything on the screen is real and three-dimensional. I have not read the source novel, and I am woefully ignorant of the political realities in China in this period, although I understand that the book was based on real incidents. The fact is, the story told here is compelling, and it does not matter to me how true to history it is, the world depicted in The Sand Pebbles is real and believable. Robert Anderson's script provides sufficient grounding in the political events to keep the audience engaged, without becoming all awkward exposition or political treatise. Of course, the characters express certain strong views, and therein the conflict arises.Robert Wise is a first-rank director (West Side Story, The Haunting, The Sound of Music), and his work here is superlative. This film is a blend of epic-scale scenes and intimate, poignant moments of emotional realism. The camera placement, the use of extras and props, the blocking of the actors, the use of natural light, the tracking shots of the boat, all are in service of the story. Wise lets that story breathe and the characters emerge, and the result is a three-hour movie. How ironic that the main criticism leveled at The Sand Pebbles is that it is slow and boring. Excuse me, but this is called character development, and it sets compelling moviemaking apart from the mediocre variety. The pacing is what draws you in to this world, where the actors can give their characters life and create empathy in the audience. I can only feel sadness for the modern, ADD-afflicted viewer who is trained to respond to manipulative tricks, and can not appreciate a realistic depiction of human behavior.Much has been said in these comments about the acting, and I agree with those who feel McQueen and Crenna stand out. The character of the captain could have been a rigid cliche, but Crenna gives us a person, a man to whom duty and service is everything, yet who is keenly aware of the needs and temperament of his crew, and who yearns to leave his mark in history. As for McQueen...his physical presence dominates the film. His understated style is perfect for Holman, a man who only wants to be left alone to do his work, and yet who will fight against injustices done to others. His facial expressions, especially in his eyes, allow us to share his thoughts and feelings throughout the movie. The most memorable element in The Sand Pebbles for me is the musical score by Jerry Goldsmith. Alternately stirring and heartrending, it complements each scene absolutely brilliantly, and is the most evocative score of any motion picture I have ever seen. Unfortunately, the 1966 Oscar went to Born Free, a mediocre picture whose title song was a hugely popular hit.I feel privileged that I was able to see The Sand Pebbles in a theatre, where it is meant to be seen. This DVD version finally does justice to what I regard as an unparalleled achievement in filmmaking. There are other films that I have a stronger attachment to for various reasons, but none of them hit a home run in every department the way that The Sand Pebbles does.Water belong dead stim -all same dead stim "},{"Title":"Throughly enjoyable.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Sand Pebbles was a throughly enjoyable movie.  The setting was exotic and the story engaging.  Though it starred Steve McQueen, who did an excellent job, its strength was the ensemble acting with a very talented cast including Richard Crenna, Richard Attenborough, Mako and Candice Bergen.  The story was nicely involved and, though it portrayed the sailor's prejudices, did not feel condescending toward the Chinese as many war-type movies do.  The men were caught up in the turbulent times and many of the conflicts portrayed seem to come more from troubled psyches.  It is not Ramboish macho crap. I found the portrayals of the people and times entertaining.  I had read the book so maybe I read more into the movie than others seeing it cold.  It was a very good movie and well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"The Sand Pebbles - a powerful and human anti-war film","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `The Sand Pebbles' has been one of my favourite films since I first saw it on television in 1976. The widescreen version does justice not just to the sweeping panoramas of the quite breathtaking Chinese scenery, but also to the sweeping events and themes of the story. It is in every way a `big' film, dealing with political and military intervention (clear parallels with Vietnam at the time of release), nationalism, racism, and the horrors of war. Yet for all its heavy themes, it is most successful in the depiction of its very human characters. These characters are not just the means of conveying the `messages' of the film, or fodder for the gripping and well-staged action scenes. They are individuals in their own right, involved in something far greater than their own destinies. Some are unpleasant and ignorant while others are honourable but lost in the sea of historic events surrounding them. Some, like Jake Holman (Steve McQueen), demand sympathy and respect as they struggle to come to terms with their personal challenges brought to the fore by these historically significant and politically dangerous events.Inevitably there are slow and confusing passages as the political implications are expounded, but these are more than compensated for by our emotional engagement as we become involved in the stories of the people caught up in the political fall-out. Robert Wise's direction is strong and emotionally charged, complemented perfectly by Jerry Goldsmith's wonderfully haunting and ominous music. Steve McQueen gives what was probably the performance of his career (receiving his only Academy Award nomination), and he is supported by a wonderful cast including Richard Attenborough, Richard Crenna, Candice Bergen (aged just 19), and especially Mako. But it is really McQueen's film. His very presence lifts scenes and he manages to convey authenticity and gain the sympathy of the viewer with consummate ease. Apparently misunderstood by some critics on its release, it is a powerful and intrinsically human anti-war film. It is not a happy film, but it is totally absorbing and thought provoking.  "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen's best performance.","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steve McQueen felt an affinity for this role like few others in his career.In this compelling war drama set in China in 1926, he plays American sailor Jake Holman, a man who's bonded to machinery more than people yet is imbued with a powerful sense of right and wrong. It's a part that plays perfectly to McQueen's strengths as an actor and his lifelong quest to hone performance into character, while jettisoning all but essential dialogue. All his emoting comes subtly slight shifts of gaze; the way he cocks his head to listen; his complete stillness before action. In 1966 it also brought him his only Academy Award nomination, for Best Actor (but won that year by Paul Scofield for A Man For All Seasons).Scripter Robert Anderson had a tough job distilling Richard McKenna's sprawling novel of U.S. Navy gunboat 'San Pablo' (hence her sailors called themselves 'Sand Pebbles') at the start of the revolution that would tear China asunder and ultimately transform it into the post-WWII behemoth we know today. Luckily he and director Robert Wise knew to keep the plot's underpinnings solidly on the central irony of McKenna's story that it is Jake's very alienation from his fellows that leads him inevitably to sacrifice and redemption. The ending is shocking and powerful; a reminder of better, more mature days in American film.Wise directed on locations in Hong Kong and Taiwan with his customary mastery of both intense personal confrontation and epic sweep. In excellent support are Richard Attenborough, Richard Crenna and Mako. The film also features one of Jerry Goldsmith's most memorable scores.I must again mention McKenna's novel. It is superb; sadly, the only full-length work he finished before his untimely death. It may be out of print but is well worth an online used book search. "},{"Title":"McQueen's best ever performance","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is truly my all time favorite film and not just because of the wonderful performances by McQueen, Crenna, Mako and the rest, but because I had an opportunity to experience the Asia culture first hand (during Viet Nam) and the depiction of the culture and the climate of the land is right on.  I rank McQueen's performance right up there with my favorite Newman's performance in Cool Hand Luke.  Basically, the same type of a character, a loner challenging the boundries of their society's limits.  It was a shame that the movie was released the same year as A Man for All Seasons, because McQueen should have received and Oscar for this performance.  I now own this video and I make a point of watching it once a year.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is just one exceptional movie. One of my all time classics. An examination of the little-known or understood tensions and political ramifications of being aboard an American gunboat, in the 1920's, in the China backwater.The atmosphere and the story are superb.Steve McQueen has never been better as Jake Holman, a hard-nosed American sailor, with his own code of right and wrong. His character absolutely dominates the movie. This is the type of character he was born to play. Richard Crenna's ship Captain was perfect smug, self-involved, deluded about his patriotism, but a decent man caught in a confusing, thankless, possibly deadly situation.The rest of the cast in this is tremendous, especially Richard Attenborough, Candace Bergen, Simon Oakland, and Mako.An absolutely superior film! "},{"Title":"Robert Wise's Masterpiece","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... and that's saying quite a bit, given his impressive filmography.There are just a couple of points I'd like to add to the preceding commentaryTo really appreciate this movie, you must see it in letterbox, preferably on DVD. Joseph MacDonald's cinematography is breath-taking; you could take almost any individual frame of The Sand Pebbles and hang it on your wall as a work of art.The second is that Wise himself (if you believe his commentary) wasn't trying to draw explicit parallels to Vietnam, where things did not begin to drastically escalate until near the end of filming for this movie. It's just that history has a sad habit of repeating itself.If you get the DVD, listen to the commentary at least once It's worth the time spent. Poor Candice Bergen She comes across as simultaneously grateful for the opportunity to have worked on this film, and embarrassed that -- as a 19-year-old with little acting experience -- she didn't make a better job of it.She should have credited Wise with seeing her possibilities a little better than she could. Bergen's gawky shyness is a pretty good fit with her role as a virginal, idealistic missionary newly arrived in China. Her often tentative body language works beautifully as a counterpoint to McQueen's assured and seemingly effortless performance, giving their doomed love affair great believability and poignancy.This is an example of 60s' epic film-making at its best. "},{"Title":"Strong Epic Film Which Got Shafted At Oscar Night","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a powerful story! It's hard to believe this epic movie - three hours in length - was nominated for eight Academy Awards and came away with nothing. It seems unjust. Well, not everything is just in this dramatic story, either. Good people die, bad people live. Incredible joy and sorrow are but a few minutes away. The story is well-told and thus keeps your attention, is well-acted and is nicely- filmed.My only complaint was the last 13 minutes when the film got a little too political and, of course, tilted to the Left as films tend to do. Otherwise, I throughly enjoyed the experience of watching this long movie, and sorry I didn't watch this years ago. Well, better late than never, is all I can say. This movie is worthy of any serious film collector's attention.Robert Wise directed and he did a fabulous job. I just love some of the shots and camera angles in this widescreen production, which was done justice in a recently--released two- disc DVD. The cinematography was by Joseph MacDonald. I'm sorry he didn't win an Oscar.The story has something for everyone several action scenes, two romances, a little humor, some flag waving and flag disparaging, and a lot of drama and intrigue. I also found two interesting character studies Jake Holman, by lead actor Steve McQueen, and Captain Collins-, with Richard Crenna. Both men delivered numerous surprises.There also is a lot of hostility by the Chinese toward the invaders, the Americans. China's revolution during the period this story takes place (md '20s) had two factions the Nationalists, led by Chiang Kai-shek, and the Communists. The former was generally a peaceful organization, the latter, pretty violent. Neither one wanted outsiders running their country any longer.The cast - well-known and not-so well--known, was solid from McQueen on down. I think it was odd to hear Richard Attenborugh with an American accent but he did a nice job with it. Crenna played the most interesting character, in my opinion, as captain hard to figure. As for the supporting actors, Simon Oakland (Stawski) and Mako (Po-han) stood out to me.I'm not going get into the story, as enough reviewers have already done that. Photograhy-wise, it was nice to see most of this shot outdoors, not on some studio lot or sound-stage. I enjoyed all of the shots of the ship, the San Pablo. Having just bought (7/5/10) the Blu-Ray edition of this film, I'm anxious to see it in this format now. It promises to be a treat.Overall, a memorable story and highly-recommended. "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen remains the focal point in ambitious, sometimes rambling film...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" STEVE McQUEEN makes a completely believable machinist's mate aboard a U.S. Navy gunboat who finds himself enmeshed in the politics of unrest that existed in 1926 China during the period of the Boxer Rebellion. It's probably one of the finest roles of his career--honest, vexating, and completely true to the emotions of his character whose only real concern is taking care of his engines.There are plenty of other good performances. RICHARD CRENNA is the Captain, uncertain of just how the U.S./Chinese friction should be solved, and CANDACE BERGEN is lovely as a missionary who has a tender romance with McQueen.The exotic locales (it was filmed mostly in Taiwan), the lush background score by Jerry Goldsmith, and the confrontation between the U.S. Navy and the Chinese authorities which supplies the necessary suspense before an action-filled climax, all serve to make THE SAND PEBBLES a fascinating look at a period in history that is seldom explored. And, of course, it raises questions as to our role in imperialism and our interaction with the culture of foreign countries that make the film relevant today.It's a long film, rather uneven in places, but directed with rare sensitivity by Robert Wise and richly detailed period atmosphere. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1926, in a troubled China, the efficient navy engineer Jake Holman (Steve McQueen) meets the American teacher Shirley Eckert (Candice Bergen), while traveling to take his new position in the gunboat 'U.S.S. San Pablo'. Shirley is going to work in a mission with the idealistic missionary Jameson (Larry Gates). Once in the steamship, the newcomer Jake has problems to accept the use of collies in the daily duty of the vessel, but Captain Collins (Richard Creena) orders him to replace the coolie chief of the engine room, who died in an accident while repairing a shaft bearing. Although reluctant, Jake trains Po-han (Mako) and becomes his friend, treating him equally with respect and dignity. In the crew, Frenchy Burgoyne (Richard Attenborough) becomes his greatest friend. The other crew members do not accept Jake, believing he brings bad-luck to the vessel. On land, Frenchy and Jake meet the Chinese woman Maily (Marayat Andriane) working in a brothel, and Frenchy falls in love with her and tries to get US$ 200,00 to buy her debts with the owner of the house of prostitution. In order to avoid spoilers, I am not going to extend my plot summary further than that. I bought 'The Sand Pebbles' one year ago and only yesterday I decided to watch this DVD. What I have missed along this year! This movie is a wonderful adventure, having a magnificent cast and direction. I do not know the accuracy of the historical events, but as a movie, it is a masterpiece. It has drama, romance, action, war and although having 182 minutes running time in the Brazilian DVD, the viewer never gets tired of watching it. I regret only acknowledging in IMDb that this is a mutilated version, since there are two other extended ones (UK243 min (BBFC submission before censorship) / Sweden193 min). This is the second role of the most beautiful American actress of the end of the 60s, Candice Bergen, performing a very sweet character. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) 'O Canhoneiro de Yang-Tse' ('The Gunboat Man of Yang-Tse') "},{"Title":"A Primer On Sino-American Relations","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" If The Sand Pebbles had been filmed ten years earlier it might have been called From Here to Eternity Goes to Sea. Like the James Jones novel it's protagonist is a loner type who finds a sense of purpose and order in the military. As Robert E. Lee Pruitt loved bugling and boxing, Jake Holman loves his engines. He's real happy to be on board the naval gunboat San Pablo, nicknamed Sand Pebbles, because he is the engineering staff and he takes real pride in making the naval vessel perform. Also kind of like Eugene O'Neill's Yank in The Hairy Ape.But Steve McQueen as Jake Holman, probably THE rebel character he ever played in film, finds his life getting increasingly complex by America's mission in China between the two World Wars. In 1911 China overthrew the Manchu dynasty which in its weakened state over the last century had sold off parcels of real estate outrightly controlled by European powers and later by Japan as well. The United States controlled no territory outright as other powers did, but we did insist on extraterritoriality involving our citizens doing business there. What that meant was that our citizens were not subject to Chinese laws, civil or criminal, matters involving them went to American courts. Other powers had those same treaties.That was resented, westerners were resented, Japanese were resented most of all because they were fellow Asians doing it to the Chinese. But in this story we are concerned with Americans, particularly our missionaries who viewed China as one vast mission field for Christianity.Missionaries like all people come in different shapes, sizes and intelligence. Some of them really did contribute positively to China. But when westerners began being resented, missionaries were included with the rest.Two such would be Larry Gates and Candice Bergen. Candice plays a sincere young lady who heard a church talk and filled with romantic religious notions about saving the heathen in China volunteered to go there. She and McQueen bond in the same way that Monty Clift and Donna Reed do in From Here to Eternity.But Gates is a fascinating character. He's a very knowledgeable man, quite versed on the current political situation in China. Yet he's absolutely blind to the fact that he's in grave danger. It's a peculiar thing about some liberal types, they have great insight into the terrible wrongs done in the past. But at a certain point when guns start firing, buildings start toppling, we can't worry about political, economic, and social abuses of the past. You have to defend yourself and as vigorously as possible. Still it's McQueen's film. As I said he's a rebel hero, but the military doesn't exactly favor individualism. His captain, Richard Crenna, is a by the book sailor who also doesn't understand the forces of resentment around him, but will not see his ship disgraced in any way. He and McQueen don't hit it off from the start.There's a touching side story involving Richard Attenborough and a Chinese woman, Marryat Andriane who do the unthinkable and get married. Oriental women are for shacking up with, but not to be brides. They find no acceptance in either society and meet a Sayonara like end.McQueen's performance was one of eight Oscar nominations The Sand Pebbles got including Best Picture, Best Director for Robert Wise, Best Supporting Actor for Make as the coolie who McQueen bonds with and who also finds no acceptance in either society. Unfortunately this was McQueen's only Oscar nomination and The Sand Pebbles had the misfortune to be up against A Man for All Seasons. In fact The Sand Pebbles took home nary a statue.Yet viewed today, The Sand Pebbles is a primer for one who might want a visual as to Sino-American relations in the last century. And a great performance by Steve McQueen for his legion of fans. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I get tired of hearing how they don't make them like that any more, but it's hard to imagine THE SAND PEBBLES being made today. If a current movie is three hours long, you can bet it's because the director has fallen in love with himself, not because the material merits it. THE SAND PEBBLES succeeds on just about every level It is a compelling and complex story; it is beautifully filmed; the acting is mostly excellent; and there is a tremendous score. (Can you imagine a film today having an overture? Rampant adult ADD prohibits it.) The three hours gives you time to get to know the characters, sink into the Chinese setting, and become involved in the story. Just a little thing to notice, right at the start Watch how McQueen fiddles with his napkin in the formal dining room. He's out of place, and doesn't know what to do with it; it's the kind of physical bit that McQueen does so well to elaborate his character. Credit must also be given to the late Richard Crenna. His captain of the San Pablo is a complex and conflicted character, and Crenna, while carrying off a largely formal role, delivers a very nuanced and moving performance. THE SAND PEBBLES is a movie for grown-ups, largely forgotten today but well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Ambitious epic which doesn't hit many of its goals, though the acting is good and it is, pictorially, a treat.","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Robert Wise masterminded such a box office hit in 1965 with The Sound Of Music that the executives at Twentieth Century Fox gave him virtual total control &#150; and an immense budget &#150; for his next project. That project - The Sand Pebbles - is a passable epic set in 1926 China which, while technically well done and colourfully performed, is decidedly on the long side and hampered by irrelevant allegorical links with the Vietnam War. On the plus side, the film features arguably the best performance ever given by Steve McQueen, and expensively recreates a convincing view of its period and locale despite being shot forty years after the incidents on screen. The film was envisaged as a major event movie from the studio, alongside the same year's The Bible In The Beginning and The Blue Max. But, despite being up for eight Oscars, the film won in none of the categories for which it was nominated - which tells you everything you need to know. This is one of those films that looks good, sounds good, tells a worthy story at great length&#133;. but ultimately fails to do justice to its own potential.In 1926, US Navy engineer Jake Holman (Steve McQueen) transfers from an ocean-based warship to the river gunboat San Pablo. The San Pablo patrols the Yangtze River in China under the orders of Captain Collins (Richard Crenna). Collins likes to keep his engine room crew busy, while the officers and deck sailors spend most of their time carrying out combat drills. However, Holman performs his engine room duties with such conscientiousness and gusto that he gradually alienates himself from most of the other crew members. During their journeys up and down the river, Holman falls in love with a teacher at a mission outpost, the young and beautiful Shirley Eckert (Candice Bergen). He also forms a strong friendship with fellow sailor Frenchy Burgoyne (Richard Attenborough), who has saved a Chinese prostitute from a life of vice and degradation by marrying her. The political situation in the country deteriorates and the crew of the San Pablo find themselves caught up in a difficult situation. Things reach crisis point when a Chinese crew member is captured and tortured because of his allegiance to the Americans. Worse still, the afore-mentioned mission outpost is attacked by Chinese soldiers, and the San Pablo has to smash through a blockade of Chinese junks &#150; thereby declaring an intent of war &#150; in order to rescue the missionaries and their colleagues. This act of foolhardy heroism proves to be fatal for many of the San Pablo's beleaguered sailors.The Sand Pebbles is based on a best selling novel by Richard Mackenna, who actually served in the China River Patrol (albeit in 1936, ten years after the events depicted in his story). Robert Anderson's screenplay incorporates much of the novel's complexity within its mammoth narrative, but the decision to turn the film into an apologetic Vietnam allegory is not a wise move. A film like this would be better off dealing with its own period and story, rather than dragging in heavy-handed subtextual meanings. Cinematographer Joseph MacDonald gives the film an exciting visual grandeur with his sumptuous lensing of the locations (Taiwan standing in for 1920s China), but Robert Wise's efforts to make the film succeed as entertainment generally come up short due, in no small part, to the heavy-going nature of the plot and the well-documented production difficulties (including bad weather, plus creative differences between him and McQueen). "},{"Title":"Great Movie.","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steve McQueen is usually associated with action movies. This movie has action too, but also offers a complex and compelling story about a sailor who finds himself trying to survive in a situation marked by tremendous and sweeping change. For the movie takes place in China at a time of political turmoil and unrest when China is beginning to assert its independence from the West. The result is a clash of cultures as the representatives and symbols of Western Imperialist power and influence struggle to preserve and defend their presence in a country that is becoming openly hostile to anything Western. The Chinese want the Westerners to leave ... just leave. The Chinese wave their flags, and anyone who cooperates with the Imperialists are treated as traitors and punished accordingly. Yet, Steve McQueen's character is apolitical, which makes his performance that much more notable, compelling and powerful. He just wants to get by and survive, but is not willing to sacrifice his principles. As a result, Mr. McQueen's character is heroic but without fanfare, which to me makes this movie special.By the way, wasn't Richard Crenna a great actor? "},{"Title":"An epic, one of the best, but beware...","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since Robert Wise directed one of the best musicals (Sound of Music), one of the best spook stories (The Haunting) and two of the best Sci-Fi films (Andromeda Strain and Day the Earth Stood Still), you probably wouldn't be surprised that he could comfortably make just about anything, and you'd be right! The Sand Pebbles is impressive on so many levels acting is first rate throughout and Jerry Goldsmith's music is typically masterful. Just one thing you might not expect of a 1966 film it can be brutal. The characters are so well drawn, that when the unflinchingly realistic violence confronts or befalls them, it can be very disturbing. Sand Pebbles does what few films can. It makes you feel like you've really experienced a different time and place. "},{"Title":"We're up against a new strategy of lives!","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though it was based upon a bestseller (by Richard McKenna, whose work was adapted for the screen by Robert Anderson) and runs three hours, one waits in vain for something in Robert Wise's mammoth adventure saga The Sand Pebbles to be meaningful, to hit a nerve. There were comparisons made at the time between the picture and the Vietnam War, yet it's the same type of travelogue/seafaring yarn which Hollywood was churning out ten years prior (with Steve McQueen in for Montgomery Clift, perhaps, and Simon Oakland in for Ernest Borgnine). It's Shanghai in 1926, and China is a crazy-quilt of chaos; naval engineer McQueen keeps his vessel running under the strict leadership of Captain Collins (a one-note Richard Crenna). He also has a predilection for sensitive prostitutes, but eventually falls under the spell of a schoolteacher from Vermont (Candice Bergen, batting her eyelashes to let us know she's a virgin). Screenwriter Anderson should not get plaudits for the things in the picture which do work (that credit should go to McQueen, who carries the film). Anderson's arduous expository dialogue merely makes the movie seem longer; in the first seven minutes, we get a dinner-table scene wherein two opposing political views of China are heatedly expressed...thirty minutes later, Collins bawls out engineer Jake Holman while giving him a double-helping of political rhetoric. It's an epic for simpletons. ** from **** "},{"Title":"magnificent","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not to say that this film influenced me, but about a year and a half after its release I enlisted in the Navy. I had read the book at the age of 15, when it was serialized in the Saturday Evening post, and loved it. The movie script is not an exact transcript of the book, but is a faithful interpretation of it (I recently re-read it). The male ensemble cast is a big reason that this film works. Several of Holman's shipmates are played by men who were stars in their own right, and having that foundation added great depth to the film. The coarse humor and grabass behavior are VERY true to life, as is the depiction of sailors on liberty. It must be remembered that the 1920's were not a time when men enlisted in the service to earn money for college, or to learn a trade. The enlisted ranks were made up of men for whom life in the service was an improvement upon the standard of living from which they'd come, and they were almost all lifers. The Army, Navy, or jail choice given Jake Holman motivated many an enlistment as recently as the 1960's, and may still. The music in this film is another big reason that it works. The hauntingly beautiful main theme grabs me every time I hear it, and adds to the telling of the story. This is one of my all-time favorite films, and every adult should see it. "},{"Title":"Magnificent McQueen in Robert Wise's stunning character led epic.","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" China 1926...Ravaged from within by corrupt warlords...oppressed from without by the great world powers who had beaten China to her knees a century before...China...a country of factions trying to unite to become a nation...through revolution.....The Sand Pebbles is a multi stranded panoramic story. It tells of China lifting itself off her knees, and of the Americans who were caught in the giant's bloody rousing. It tells of crewmen Frenchy Richard Attenborough & Jake Holman Steve McQueen from the U.S.S. San Pablo, two men whose lives are to be severely altered here on the banks of the Yangtze River. It tells of the San Pablo's Captain Collins Richard Crenna as he tries to negotiate tricky political waters. And also of the missionaries Larry Gates & Candice Bergen who in turn are resentful and bewildered by the US involvement in China. All molded together brilliantly by Robert Wise in this stirring drama that's flecked with romance and explosive action.Tho the film has undertaken a number of edits since its original release ranging from 170 minutes to 195, in any form the piece proves to be a lesson in character involvement. Adapted by Robert Anderson from the novel written by Richard McKenna, the film unfolds precision like, its intensity bubbling away until we reach the highly emotive conclusion. The film has often been placed as a parallel to the Vietnam conflict, something that is in truth hard to ignore. The Sand Pebbles shows the Americans meddling in affairs they don't understand. They act arrogantly towards the Chinese, they dismiss them and call them derogatory names. To them, the Chinese are an inferior race. But Frenchy & Jake are cut from different cloth, with the latter showing a cynicism and mistrust of authority that was felt by many young Americans towards their government for getting them involved in the civil war of Vietnam. Wise may be guilty of being heavy handed with his anti-war message, the aside at Imperialism boldly timed in 1966. But it does work and impacts hard, because the writing and the acting is so good. As is the many other technical aspects that are needed to tell such a vast story.It was nominated for 8 Academy Awards, but incredibly it won none. It was McQueen's only nomination in his career, that in itself is arguably unfair Papillon anybody?. But here he really should have won, I mean seriously does anyone really remember Best Actor Winner Paul Scofield's turn now? Those close to McQueen have said that Jake Holman was closest in character to the man himself. It's a riveting, emotionally nuanced performance that shows his unnerving ability to say more with his eyes and body language than with words. As anti-hero performances go, McQueen's is right out of the top draw. Attenborough Golden Globe Winner for Best Supporting Actor, Crenna and the impressive Mako all captivate and draw the viewers in, while Bergen has a winsome quality that plays nicely off of McQueen's rugged weariness. The cinematography from Joseph MacDonald is gorgeous, shot in Deluxe Color and Panavision in Taiwan and Hong Kong, MacDonald brilliantly took advantage of the sweeping Oriental scenery. This in turn is backed up by a sublime score from Jerry Goldsmith, at times beautiful & tender with a pinch of Oriental flavouring, at others powerful and sharp and landing in the chest like a force of nature.It was a far from trouble free shoot. McQueen initially clashed with Wise over how certain scenes should be shot, but the director won out and eventually got McQueen's support. Something that wasn't to be sniffed at, and something that wasn't afforded to Anderson who was jettisoned after falling foul of Blue Eyes. Bergen and McQueen also didn't get on, but with she being 19 years of age and he 36, that's somewhat understandable. But when she proclaimed that there was no talent on set! one hopes that was merely the misguided naivety of youth? Wise always said it was the most difficult picture he ever made. Expensive props, thousands of extras, low and high tides, Taiwan still at war with China! Three months of delays and $3 million over budget, Wise said that the cast and crew were heroes one and all. To be dropped into a completely foreign country, and suffer the delays and problems they did, it's a miracle the finished product is so dam good.The final word should go to Francis Ford Coppola. Who whilst suffering similar problems filming Apocalypse Now, requested a copy of The Sand Pebbles from Robert Wise. He used it to show his cast and crew what a terrific end result can come out of adversity. 10/10 "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoiler's AheadThis is Wise's Best Film in my opinion. He made many great films The Sound of Music amongst them before in his old age making Star Trek The Motionless Picture. When asked about what the movie means Wise replied how would we like a foreign power that had gunboats up and down the Mississippi River? That is the story on both the macro and the micro levels. There is beautiful artistic symmetry between Holman's story the quintessential misfit going from ship to ship trying to fit in. His technical brilliance is equaled by the trouble he gets his shipmates into usually defying protocols because he loathes authority. When asked by Shirley why he doesn't want a bigger more prestigious ship he replies Oh there you have all these people looking over your shoulder. On a gunboat they leave you alone. Sadly, no they do not. Yet see the parallel on the Macro level of how the gunboat does not fit into China; how it is resented and hated. Just as Cpt. Collins tries to be as strident and bellicose as possible running drills having the natives hosed yes how to keep a low profile in someone else's country. Yet this is exactly what is going on in the Holman story. McQueen makes a token effort with breakfast at the beginning to try and follow the customs of the ship. Frenchy warns him not to make friends or enemies with the coolies working on the ship; within just a few days he has alienated and provoked the engine boss coolie who even tries to kill him. He compounds the error by getting too attached to Po Han again against Frenchy's advice. Wise is working on both levels concomitantly; the gunboat and Holman have the same identical deadly effect on the surrounding country. He soon is defending Po Han and schisms the crew with a fight between Stawski and Po Han. Wise really wants us to see that even Maily is not an innocent victim neither was Frenchy. Is it caring to start a romance that will make your bride a hated outcast that may be killed? Maily appears more sympathetic on the surface but hey she wants out of there and she needs the money to be free. She latches on to Frenchy out of obvious desperation; I really do not think that Wise views either one sympathetically. Frankly, Wise even has contempt for the delusional missionary who thinks a piece of paper will save him from being seen as an enemy alien. The shooting of Po Han is one of the best scenes on film Collins simply does not view Po Han's life as worth any military or diplomatic risk; McQueen places friendship above all the rules he has not use for. What makes it so powerful and anachronistic today IS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF KILLING ARE SHOWN. With the powerful music blended with the image he throws the rifle into the sea and glares murderously at Collins. Well shoot something!!! McQueen detests Collins as a brainless feckless martinet in love with the rulebook and a brain dead flag waver.Yet Holman is truly a Jonah as Collins labels him. In just a short while he has put everyone in danger, they are blockaded all because Jake listens to any rules you give him and goes out and does exactly what you told him not to. Wise blends the macro and micro stories deftly what you get is a very dark film with few moments of levity if any. I consider it one of the best American Masterpieces ever made. Steve Mcqueen played himself by the way; this is who he was forget James Dean this is the rebel. "}{"Title":"Rolling Down The River","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" All Jake Holman wants out of life is a running engine, but his goals run afoul of reality circa 1926 when the U.S. Navy gunboat he serves on finds itself a pawn in a political tug of wills between the American government and the emerging nationalist and communist forces of China.Mobs, that's all I see, says a British inhabitant of the then-subjugated Chinese nation. Mobs that threaten us. And, in his defiantly blinkered way, he's totally right, at least as far as this admirably convoluted, slightly turgid, often engaging potboiler of a Steve McQueen action movie is concerned.McQueen is Holman, not surprisingly, mechanically-minded and clear about his priorities in life. Director Robert Wise makes ample use of McQueen's trademark economy of word and gesture, framing Holman as caught between the machinations of the Chinese revolutionaries and the gunboat commander, Capt. Collins (Richard Crenna). To Holman, it's all a lot of look-see-pidgen, and McQueen plays his Oscar-nominated role with a nice overlay of sympathetic disbelief beneath the trademark cool. Not his most satisfying performance, perhaps, but a layered and likable one, full of great reaction shots.Told by a bartender that gunboats are worse than nothing for assignment duty, Holman just fixes him with a sly McQueen squint. They got engines, ain't they? Then they ain't nothing'!Crenna is even better, in a role that should have pitted him against Eli Wallach's Tuco for 1966's Best Supporting Actor Award (neither were nominated). A tense, overly correct, somewhat unstable commander, Collins presents a worthy foil to Holman, less antagonistic than simply unable to appreciate a person who doesn't live by the same rules as he, however good he may be at his job. Given room by Wise and depth by Crenna, Collins is less nasty a character than one might expect in this kind of movie. There's a lot about Sand Pebbles that defies expectation.Take its politics. Is Sand Pebbles really a liberal anti-imperialist message movie on the eve of Vietnam? It plays more in an isolationist vein, the Chinese a sea of hostile faces spoiling for a fight after tolerating too many years of Western maltreatment. Even Jake uses derogatory epithets for them, a realistic but distancing devise from a modern audience's perspective. A missionary declaims the presence of the gunboats, but is told, correctly, they are the only thing floating between himself and martyrdom.The movie struggles to adjust this attitude, no doubt from the source novel, with a mawkish, drawn-out romantic sidestory between Holman's pal Frenchy (Richard Attenborough) and Meili (Marayat Andriane) that makes for the roughest passage in this long voyage of a movie. Attenborough is dull and Andriane inert. Meanwhile, Holman is also the object of a young teacher's affections, played by Candace Bergen in her pretty-but-vacant early phase.About the closest you get to a really satisfying love story is that between Holman and his engine. Watching him walk into the engine room for the first time, pausing to take in every valve, before walking up to the boiler and saying Hello, engine. I'm Jake Holman is everything that's good about the film, especially the space Wise devotes to telling it. It drags here and there, and the ending disappointed me a bit, but Sand Pebbles works fine overall in its askew, challenging way. "},{"Title":"A classy, classic war film, and more.","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those who know Robert Wise primarily as a director of big-scale musicals (The Sound of Music, West Side Story.) would be suprised to know that his best films, in many ways, were his NON-musicals. Consider I Want to Live, Odds Against Tomorrow, Curse of the Cat People, and, most especially, The Sand Pebbles, one of the best, most insightful films about men at war ever made.Set in China in 1926, this film gives an honest evocation of the period between the collapse of the Monarchy in 1908 and the Communist takeover 41 years leter, when whoever had the most firepower essentially ran the country. A tumultuous period, pictured here with an honesty and candor rarely seen in a mainstream American film. In the midst of this, the men of the San Pablo try to maintain an uneasy peace, and the result is an effective film about men at war, without a lot of gratuitious sex or vulgar language.Then there are the performances. Steve McQueen gives what's probably, along with The Getaway, the best performance of his career. His Jake Holman is a basically honest, sane man cought up in a dishonest, insane situation. He was deservedly Oscar-nominated for this performance, but lost, perhaps inevitably, to Paul Scofield's incomparable St. Thomas More in A Man for All Seasons. Sir Richard Attenborough once again proves a better actor than director as Frenchy, Holman's best friend. Always excellent Richard Crenna SHOULD have been nominated for Best Supporting Actor for his Captain Phillip Collins, a by-the-book officer who finds that you can't always play by the rules in a situation where madness is an everyday occurance. Mako WAS deservedly nominated as the tragic Po-Han, McQueen's assistant who becomes an unwilling pawn between the Americans and the Chinese radicals. And Candice Bergen proves that she can act when called upon as the young missionary with whom McQueen falls in love, and whose life he dies trying to save.They don't make 'em like this anymore. See it. "},{"Title":"Haunting movie but a  flawed classic","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always found watching this movie to be a haunting and moving experience. Having spent many years in ships' engine rooms and in the Far-East, I can almost smell the hot lube oil and steam when Jake Holman goes down to check the engines when he first comes aboard San Pablo. This was surely one of McQueen's finest performances but it and the movie would have been much better if the reasons for conflict between Holman and the Captain had been developed further. Holman bitterly resented the fact that the Chinese crewmen had taken over the operation of the engines and knew that he could do a better job. Furthermore, he saw the engine room as HIS and resented (as do all engine room staff regardless of nationality) any interference from the Deck department. What the captain (brilliantly portrayed by Richard Crenna) wants is no trouble from the engines and as many men as possible on deck to repel borders etc. This is a legitimate position because this is what the captain is paid for. Jake knows he can run the engines better and more efficiently if he can only get into the engine room for long enough to do it. The fact that the captain settles for the status quo with the Chinese Crew is the source of the ongoing conflict between him and Jake. This is only touched on in the film when the ship has to stop in mid river and the Head Chinese engine man gets killed. I suspect that the scenes highlighting the source of conflict between Jake and the captain were actually shot but ended up on the cutting room floor. If this is so it is a pity because it is the key to Jake's behaviour when he disobeys the captain's direct order not to fire the rifle. I also thought the ending of book and movie a bit pointless, but that is probably a reflection of the anti-Vietnam war and anti-military mentality of the period. A hauntingly flawed classic. "},{"Title":"Rhapsody on a theme of Jones.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  lAn exciting, curious movie, epic in scope, filmed in Taiwan.  A viewer can believe that this is what China looked like in the 1920s, from the rebuilt river gunboat to the dingy whorehouses.  The acting is good as well.  The production designer deserves commendation.  Everything seems so right.  And the technical stuff too aboard the San Pablo, every surface seems to have about two hundred coats of white paint.  (This effectively insulates sailors from the asbestos that coats hot pipes, making it unlikely that McQueen died from an asbestos-induced mesothelioma, although he did work on ships.)  The dress uniforms are neat as well.  And when I was wearing one as an adolescent I always fantasized wearing leggings, carrying a rifle, and joining a landing party.  The scenes ashore and on ship are equally good.  What images -- a flat well-armed river gunboat sailing towards a boom across the river, McQueen adjusting the sights on his BAR, flashing swords, love with a stone elephant in the background, how to get along on ten dollars a month in a Chinese port of call.  There's a good deal of humor in the first part, climaxing in the fight between Mako (a closet Japanese actor) and Stawski.The story is tense too.  Let me see.  Attenborough loves Meili, a beautiful young Chinese virgin, about to be auctioned off to the nearest glandular bidder.  McQueen loves Candace Bergen, a virginal young missionary who believes in the unity of mankind.  (And womankind.)  McQueen also loves his engines, being a motor machinist's mate.  However, there is a conflict between the rest of the crew and McQueen.  And there is a dysfunction between the crew of the San Pablo and most of the Chinese.Both the action and the love stories are appealingly done.  The problem is that much of it doesn't make too much sense.  I must have seen this movie a dozen times.  (Once in a theater in Trenton, New Jersey, which is mentioned in the film.  Trenton, I mean, not the theater.)  Why does the crew grow to hate McQueen so much?  I still don't know, unless the reason is that it just adds to the drama.  There's hardly any justification for it that follows a known chain of logic.  Why does McQueen switch his allegiance from the Navy to a social/religious/political cause against whose contamination his entire life has been designed to inure him?  I don't know either.  Even Candace Bergen, angularly stunning as she is, doesn't provide enough of a reason. What is this movie anyhow, besides a collection of tense or humorous episodes and character exploration expressed in unforgettable imagery?  I read the novel years ago.  It was published not long after the blockbuster success of James Jones' From Here to Eternity, which successfully -- well, MORE than just successfully -- took us into the U. S. Army in Hawaii in 1941.  The novel aims for more or less the same thing, and almost hits the mark, but the influence of its model is strong enough to weaken the story.  The parallels persist even after they might more profitably have been deep sixed.  Thus, McQueen's love for his engines is like Prewitt's love for the army.  Attenborough is like Sinatra.  McQueen gets mixed up with a forbidden woman, just like Burt Lancaster.  Meili is a respectable, sensitive girl in a cathouse, just like Donna Reed.  The setting is exotic in both cases.  Social dynamics of the crew or the barracks are explored.  McQueen gets the treatment, as Montgomery Clift did.  (That's why the crew dislikes McQueen; the original template calls for it.)  McQueen deserts his professional love in favor of his emotional commitment to a woman, as Clift did, and dies for it, as Clift did.  There is an exciting, momentous action climax. Absolutely nothing about this movie is boring.  There are even original elements introduced -- McQueen sponsoring a slope as an apprentice engineer.  But behind the surface events is that nagging irritation over the holes in this left-over plot.  But don't misunderstand, because I usually watch this when it's on TV.  It's like being Twilight Zoned into a more colorful past.   "},{"Title":" Hello Engine, . . .  I'm Jake Holman ","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Among the number of interesting books on China I've read was Richard McKenna's The Sand Pebbles. From first to last, the story within described a young seaman named Jake Holman. The description given created a real life image and Hollywood actor, Steve McQueen fit it to a tee. This film came out in 1966 and I find little difference between the book and the film. The reason was director, Robert Wise who brought the book to the silver screen. The tale as told by McKenna is set during China's early revolutionary period, around the beginning of the 20th century. Holman has been reassigned for the seventh time during his nine years in the American Navy. Arriving at his new Ship, The Sand Pablo, he becomes a 'Sand Pebble.' There his arrival is taken with indifference by all the crew, except the Captain. He wonders why Holman has received high marks of excellence in every category, except leadership. The adaption of the new man to his crew is one of many which the Captain sees as the coming trend to a lackluster command. He is hoping for a way to prove himself and views the emerging war in China as his savior. Unlike the Captain, the men accept Holman as just another sailor, until their easy lifestyle is altered by his attitude and increasing bad luck. These events create an intolerable situation during which the mettle of the men is severely tested. So much so, everyone wishes Holman would transfer away. Standing against the tide, Holman is alone and unable to accept the worsening situation as his fault. Then the Chinese civil war engulfs the ship, the crew and what the Captain hoped for arrives. Among the great stars which made this Academy award film are Richard Crenna who is surprising as Captain Collins. Sir Richard Attenborough as Frenchy Burgoyne, Simon Oakland as Starskey, and Gavin Macleod as Crosley. The Asian actor Mako is incredible as Po-han as is Charles Robinson who plays Ensign Bordelles. Together they create what has been accepted a modern war Classic. I agree, it's marvelous. **** "},{"Title":"A Misunderstood, Underrated, Relevant War Epic","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am personally not a huge fan of the war genre. I enjoyed the tale of Saving Private Ryan, but didn't find it all that poignant... I thought Black Hawk Down was brutally realistic, but in the end pointless...I did like Apocalypse Now, The Deer Hunter, and Platoon, but mainly because those films really weren't about the fighting and war but some existential, surreal, and exaggerated point. And as a result, they had a palpable message or point to them.All the realistic war films seem to me to be rather impactless... Pointless... And in the end, forgettable... Both old and new war films. (I've seen my share of John Wayne's and Gregory Peck's...) The realistic war films seem to be so caught up in realistically depicting the elements of war, that they forget to have a message or include a point with all their fancy editing and such... But do we need another gross set of violent situation (and I've enjoyed my share of violent films) just to show us once again... War is violent; war is hell? We already know that... And that's something you could say while saying more than that at the same time, if the director would take the time...I guess it's hard for a director to pull something original out of such an overdone genre.The long and short of it is, I believe The Sand Pebbles both accomplishes a true sense of realism and presents a valuable message. And the message is universal to boot... That alone should give it distinction among other war films... And my guess is, that's exactly why it's not given the proper recognition...McQueen plays a role he's perfectly suited for a bit of a rebel... With no particular background at all... No history that's very interesting (we find out)... No particular reason to be anything different than the next guy... And as a matter of fact... For the most part, he really isn't... It's three hours long, and for the majority of the film... He acts just about like the next guy would... He has some moments of what might define him as a good character... But not any more heroic than the next guy... Perhaps he has some human dignity and sense of pity left... He offers the girl no emotional reciprocation... And when faced with several turning points (Frenchy's dilemma and the saga of the Engine coolie...), he still remains complacent and unchanged...But at the end of this film, he suddenly changes... Apparently without provocation (or supposedly because of the events early in the film... Though I would say we are supposed to assume otherwise...), he takes the role of a hero... We are given no explanation... He, just decides to care... That's the message of the film, and it's a universal one... War film or not (and most of this film lacks fighting), the theme of what makes one man any more important among all the others (the sand pebbles)? Or why does one decide to care suddenly? And at what price does he begin to care about humanity and the other people around him? But isn't that what makes us human? Isn't that what means we have souls? (Which raises an important philosophical question... What does make us human? Why do we care? If, of course we soulless animals... We would have no reason... But I have digressed...) That being said, I found The Sand Pebbles to be a war genre film of the realistic type... But containing a message or point that other films of its kind are sorely lacking in... Worth a look.9 out of 10... "},{"Title":"I ain't got no more enemies.","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Wise's epic tale of gunboat diplomacy in the turbulent China of the mid-Twenties is hugely ambitious and hugely expensive, yet, as with the best of his work, the focus is firmly on people, the momentous political events kept in the background until their consequences begin to overwhelm the principals. Even then, they are only drawn out of the small worlds they create for themselves (for Steve McQueen his engine room, for Candice Bergen her teaching in a remote mission) for purely personal reasons. More than any epic of the Sixties it seems to draw heavily on the chaos and the confusion of the then ongoing Vietnam War. The enemy is unclear one minute it is the communists who are trying to incite an incident, the next Chang Kai Shek's Nationalists (although filmed in Taiwan with his approval, it is surprisingly critical of his actions). The only constant is Yankee go home. McQueen's engineer Holman is pointedly referred to as a symbol of his country by his ineffectual commanding officer, but what kind? He holds no opinions, preferring to put his faith in machinery rather than people or politics, yet his mere presence is divisive. Even his own countrymen and crewmates turn against him and join in with their nominal enemies in an angry demonstration against his alleged crimes. While he projects the image of the simple, honest and misunderstand ordinary man suffering a situation not of his making that America's old guard wanted to believe of their boys in Asia, he ultimately declares his independence from a fight he cannot understand (I ain't got no more enemies) and is only drawn back from desertion to save the woman he loves but doesn't quite understand. The contradictory and opposed feelings of the folks at home are made clear from the opening debate on whether China can be trusted with its own destiny to Larry Gates' missionary renouncing his own nationality as he prays for a Chinese victory he may stop short of burning the flag, but he has no qualms about cursing it (Damn your flag! Damn all flags!). Rather than setpiece battles (although it has a doozey of one in the last act), it is a film of escalating incidents, increasingly violent and all rendered impossible to deal with by the demands of diplomacy and provoking an endless source of black propaganda. Even when the American flag is obscured by a thick cloud of opium smoke emerging from the San Pablo's smokestack, the Americans remain innocent in principle but lose the moral high ground as they either exploit the locals for their own comfort or end up fighting among themselves. Even the Captain's attitude is confused. He talks of duty, yet runs a slack ship for fear of giving the discontented crew an excuse for mutiny, even turning a literal blind eye to one crewmember's desertion. When it matters most, his crew openly disobey him, provoking him to consider suicide before defying orders and endangering his crew in several efforts to die clean. The film itself has been accused of being equally confused, but it simply portrays the confusion, making no judgements. No dogma triumphs in this film, no side wins all that is left are people forced into dealing with situations that will not profit them. Robert Anderson's script manages to give nearly all of the characters a story of their own that are integrated into the main fabric of the plot while Wise isn't afraid to take the time each scene needs rather than rushing it, and that's repaid with uniformly excellent performances. McQueen is in complete harmony with his role and shows remarkable sensitivity in his final scene with Marayat Andriane, whose romantic subplot with a genuinely affecting Richard Attenborough overshadows McQueen's uneasy nearly-romance with a very sweet and very young Candice Bergen. Richard Crenna is outstanding as the Captain driven to thoughts of suicide and equally suicidal heroism, with good support from Mako and a mug's gallery including Simon Oakland and Joe Turkel below decks. Replacing Alex North, who bowed out over concerns about the film's violence, Jerry Goldsmith's score is one of his very best. From the tense and brooding main title over the strikingly simple design of a sampan dwarfing the gunboat to the hauntingly unresolved love theme he never overplays his hand or overdoes the Oriental flavor or the big, epic cues they're there when needed, but all the more effective for not swamping the picture. Kudos too to Boris Leven's production design and Joseph McDonald's cinematography which, with its good use of colour and location, makes 35mm look like 70mm. The original 196-minute roadshow version, sadly now quite faded, is now available on DVD in the USA the major restorations are - Before the repel boarders drill there is a brief scene with a coolie measuring Holman for a new uniform; a brief scene of local bandits firing on the San Pablo from the shore as the gunboat patrols the river; after Chien's accident, the scene continues to show the repair of the engine; after the crew take bets on the fight, there is a brief scene between Holman and Frenchie; before Jake shows Shirley around Changsha, there is a brief sequence where she explains why no priests will marry Frenchie and Mailly; afterwards there is a conversation between the two in a restaurant; Captain Collins' conversation with Ensign Bordelles after they see the men fighting on deck is much longer, with Collins explaining that he has authority only as long as he does not exercise it; the battle scene at the river boom is much longer, with the San Pablo taking a direct hit and having to pull out of the fight while the crew put out a fire on deck. Some other scenes are slightly extended with additional shots or dialogue.(A version of this review appeared in Movie Collector Magazine) "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen's best on-screen work","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In pre-revolution China an American gunboat (The San Pablo) is sent down the Yangzi river to protect American interests in the area.One of those films that can viewed in two different ways As a message picture (mixed race relationships, being on the sharp end of gesture politics, trying to help people that don't want to be helped) or as a simple adventure yarn. The fact that Vietnam was at its height at the time of its release cannot be ignored, but only director Robert Wise can tell us how much it influenced the project.Steve McQueen puts in his only Oscar-nominated performance as a stoker with a troubled past. He is the voice of reason and valour throughout, believing that the Oriental coolies (the locals that do the donkey work) should be given fair treatment. He even gets to like them, resulting in heartbreaking decisions along the way.Captain of the ship (Richard Creena) is quite excellent too. It would have been easy to have him as the villain of the piece, but he is a man of honour who does the best he can under orders from above. He is prepared to put his own life at risk just as quickly as anybody else's.Richard Attenborough's performance as Frenchie (who falls in love with a local) is quite the most touching in the picture. Sadly this unbalances it, because it makes the rest of the ship's crew look like cartoons by comparison. The guy is plump, short and his hair is on its last legs, but boy can he move people with his intensity. If he had been given cinematic good looks he could have been one of all time romantic greats!An impossibly young Candice Bergman puts in appearance as a Missionary and is the one character that doesn't appear on screen too long. While doing little part from mouth her words, the camera takes advantage of her flawless skin, blonde hair, slim model build and high cheekbones. What McQueen sees in her after spending months on end in a dirty ships boiler room, surrounded only by sweaty grunts, is beyond me...Robert Wise (most famous for the Sound of Music) learnt his trade under the studio system (starting with B's) as opposed to today where directors learn their trade by waving video cameras at pop stars. Boy does it show.You go overboard to put all the money on the screen When you build an expensive set, you make sure it is seen, and if possible, returned to. Angry mobs of (cheap) extras are poised ready to appear at every appropriate/inappropriate moment. When places are real locations you let the camera linger until the word real location is registered with the slowest wit in the audience.You make everything as clear and obvious as you can and you light the set as if it was your prize Rembrant painting - even if its is supposed to be a back street dive!Naturally not everyone appreciates this film-convenience world. Certainly it makes this film go on too long and passages drag and repeat. We know the crew don't consider the locals equals - now lets move on shall we? But the film does speed up towards the end to an exciting climax that cements the main characters as men of dignity, intelligence and honour.If you are a fan of Steve McQueen it would be silly not have witnessed his best screen work; although the film does outstay its welcome by at least half an hour... "},{"Title":"the romantic subplot","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The romance subplot in this film is ironic to say the least. We have the school teacher played by CANDICE BERGEN and the rough, tough, sailor played by STEVE MCQUEEN. Both are exact opposites, yet are drawn together. The woman is kind and compassionate yet, the sailor has a compassionate nature under his tough exterior that she brings to the surface......these two characters, it's almost as if they are real people. I've known people who have had relationships like this.....the ones I've known have worked out, usually because the kind nature of the compassionate one brought out the goodness deep within the mate who repressed it. This is one aspect of the story I liked. I wish to hell I could write like that. "},{"Title":"Eclectic Wise.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie when I was a child and I remember that I fell in love with Candice Bergen ,only 19 and thoroughly inexperienced,which made her a very credible schoolteacher.A schoolteacher I would have loved to have.The movie was not as big a blockbuster as such previous Wise's works like west side story and sound of music (I must confess I do not go much for the latter,but I love the former),and not as ambitious as films noirs such as the set up and odds against tomorrow and his Gothic horror film extraordinaire the haunting.Some people saw a connection between the situation depicted in sand pebbles and the Vietnam war.And everybody disagreedsome were saying that the film denounced the sixties war ,some that it approved of it.What remains today is a good film,a bit overlong, but endearing ,with strong characters ,mainly Attenborough's and Crenna's.McQueen is efficient too ,as a soldier lost in a world he does not really understand and whose life has no sense.That's why Bergen's character ,with her naivet and her compassion which pass for blandness to some people, is so important on Jake's road.Like Frenchie before him,he has found a reason to believe .This is not a racist movie ,as an user has mooted.Frenchie's and his Chinese girl's love affair is given a much better treatment than the Japanese/American lovers in Logan's tear-jerker Sayonara .And a noble man,like M.Attenborough,who would later film a memorable Gandhi (where Miss Bergen played a small part),how could he have agreed to be part of such a film? "}{"Title":"Feet of clay","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" 10 years ago I would not have considered this an interesting film. It's long and and needs patience. But having just spent the time watching it, I am struck by many themes presented here.-The foreigners control the rivers but not the land and the people. They can only stay as long as they are welcome. -Missionaries are self-deluded as to their importance. -Acts of heroism (and this film contains many) are usually unrewarded. -The Americans are ultimately doomed by their generosity. What they have to give (money, jobs) is gratefully accepted for a while, but there is not nearly enough. In the end, money is just another ugly tool used to enslave.I do not see Sand Pebbles as an anti-war film so much as an anti-imperialist one. As China convulsed to throw out the foreign devils in 1926, the Nationalist flag went up the pole. But this all preceded the Rape of Nanking, and the welcoming back of Americans to help throw out the Japanese imperialists. For me, the beginnings of Chinese self-determination shown in this film are its strongest message.As recommended further reading, Malraux's book The Conquerers provides more insight into this period in Chinese history. It is told from the foreign side as well (in this case French), but is more sympathetic to the Chinese cause. The outcome is similar the foreigners are useful as teachers and leaders for a while, but they are ultimately dispensable. "},{"Title":"One of the better films I've seen","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was a great success for a number of reasons. First, the story is beautifully written, it is superbly executed and perfectly cast. The Director, Robert Wise, was fresh off his triumph called The Sound of Music. Steve McQueen positively steals the show from everyone else in this film in his portrayal of an American Navy Engineman aboard a US gunboat in China in the mid 20's. He fell into the role so well that it's hard to imagine that he could have been anyone but Jake Holman. Right on his heels in the acting department, however, is the always gorgeous Candice Bergen, who, as one would expect, falls for McQueens character. There is a hot and cold relationship between the Chinese and the Americans. McQueen's character can't believe the system that has been devised to divide the labor between the Chinese and the Americans aboard the gunboat. Then, of course, the Chinese decide to revolt. This was a period of great unrest in China just a few years before the Japanese invaded. In truth, one of the Japanese excuses for their invasion of China was this revolution (to restore order, so the Japanese said). Naturally, the US gunboat is charged with protecting American lives in the affected area. I won't spoil the film by saying anymore about the plot. This film is well worth a watch. It is one of the better films of the 60's. Special effects are minimal so that's not an issue either. This film wouldn't feel dated now at all. Great work! "},{"Title":"Grand story of a forgotten period.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in China in 1926 is what makes this a unique film. Very few movies that feature the military were set during those years. (i.e. between the end of WWI and the start of WWII.) Although it deals with the U.S.Navy the movie however is not just a Navy picture. Political crisis, romance both accepted and not accepted (as in the Richard Attenborough character Frenchy and his Chinese girlfriend)warriors without a war, this film has a little of everything. McQueen is superb as Machinist Mate First Class Jake Holman. A career Navy man who just wants to Run the engine but politics seem to get in his way. A strong supporting cast including a young Candice Bergen who gives a dynamic performance as an educated yet somewhat naive but sincere New Englander who is in China as a teacher. Asian actor Mako as always gives a great performance.The accuracy of the life in China during those years and the Navy lifestyle and uniforms of the time period all help to make this an epic film that gets better with age.          "},{"Title":"Spoilers included, digest this movie","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steve McQueen did a breathtaking job bringing Jake Holman to life. For such a taciturn character, he was incredibly expressive and multi-dimensional, singular while not trying to make himself stand out, simple in motivation but had great capacity for tolerating complexity, unsocial but capable of deep loyalty to the people he connected with, but most of all, superbly cool and self-contained while intimately involved, uncontaminated by disdain and indifference. It is not everyday one sees a Hollywood flick with that level of character understanding and finely honed execution. As a whole, I thought McQueen's character almost single handedly held the film together and kept audience interest going through several bad stretches. The film could have used some inspired editing, and the direction dragged precisely in places where briskness and suspense was called for. Nonetheless, it was a thoughtful treatment of the morass countries, races, individuals find themselves in when reality falls prey to politics, when battle lines get drawn, whether participants were willing or not. But do please ignore the simplification of the social and international context of China in 1929 in this film. That context alone would have taken a few more films if justice were to be done.The film touched on the perennial lessons on international exploitation and identity politics in which fear becomes the social currency. The characters and events illustrated the moral slipperiness of race and identity, the falseness of political positions, the dangers of pressing self-indulgent social justifications (even when rightfully justified), and ultimately, the uselessness to which moral judgment can be rendered once power play encourage violence to escalate. Jake Holman's last words capped it all.What the hell happened? Indeed! Violence and exploitation has a way of creating mob mentality which strip nations and individuals of sense, of discernment, of ability to evaluate complexity, and steering the masses into arbitrary and false positions regardless of the facts, regardless of what most people actually think and feel. Reduced to this game of extreme, the ruling mentality becomes kill or be killed. McQueen embodied thoughtfully this dismay and ambivalence. Take heed, warmongers and pacifists alike. "},{"Title":"Superb, underrated epic with one weakness","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"          I like almost everything about this film!It is that comparative rarity, a THINKING persons epic. It explores some vital themesImperialism, national honor, alienation, inter-racial relations, and does so while telling a rousing, if depressing story. Almost all the performances are superb. Attenborough was at his best, Crenna ( best known at the time for playing naive farmers , love-struck high school students, and idealistic liberal politicians on TV)puts in a performance of extraordinary subtlety as as the neurotic and rigid, but genuinely heroic and honorable, Captain Collins. McQueen puts in the best performance of his honorable, misunderstood career.Mako  is also very good, and deserved a best supporting Oscar almost as much as Crenna. The only fault is the very pretty, but ever callow, Candice Bergen. In short, a very fine film. "},{"Title":"One of the best war movies I've seen, from the first line to the last it is excellent in every way","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a system going, I use IMDb to see if any interesting, unique actors have been nominated for Academy Awards, if so, I get the movie from the library and watch.  I realize that a movie is not good just because it's been nominated for an Oscar, but the unique actors I'm talking about always fall into the Supporting category, which is my favorite.  My point is, you can watch a variety of colorful movies this way.The main reason I checked out The Sand Pebbles was to see Mako's only Academy Award nominated performance.  Previously I'd only seen Mako in small roles like Pacific Heights and Pearl Harbor, but I've always been interested in him because of his powerful screen presence and just how damned cool his name sounds.But before I get into Mako let me address some other things about this film.  It takes place mostly on the U.S.S. San Pablo, a U.S. gunboat in revolutionary 1926 China.  Just arriving on the ship is Jack Holman (Steve McQueen), a dim but gold-hearted engineer.  He meets the Captain (Richard Crenna) and Frenchy (Richard Attenborough), among others, and tries to adjust to life on the ship.  What makes it hard is that they have a complicated system on the ship, where the Coolies - Chinese laborers - do most of the work on the ship for a bowl of rice each day.Jack can't adjust to this system because he wants to be the one running the engine, that's what he loves, running the engine.  Things get further complicated when the head coolie is killed and Jack must train a new one, the new one being Po-han (Mako) a young but hard working man.What is perfect about this movie is the cast.  Putting McQueen, Crenna, Attenborough, Mako and others on the same screen is unlikely, but it works wonderfully here.  Each actor fully realizes and carries their character, bringing them to points and development with all the focus and power an actor can have.Until now I'd only seen McQueen in The Magnificent Seven, which is a great film, but not even on the same level as this.  I wasn't expecting much from McQueen, and I was surprised of the power and skill just in his eyes - not to mention the rest of him.Crenna had immortalized himself to me in the Rambo movies before this...but they were forgotten after about thirty seconds of screen time from the guy.  Attenborough was that guy in Jurassic Park to me before this, now he ranks up there with Hopkins and Guinness as terrific actors.The most surprising here is Mako.  For some reason I always think that if an actor is old now, he must have been old his entire career.  Indeed I found it surprising that the guy was even around in the 60s - let alone an Oscar nominee - but he simply fascinated me with his youthful energy and vigor on screen.  He has some of the best parts of the film, including a white-knuckle, dramatic boxing match and heart-wrenching scene that I don't want to spoil (you'll know what I'm talking about if you see it).  One of the only Asian actors to be nominated for an Oscar, he fully deserved it.Its cast, its intensity, its drama and its message carry `The Sand Pebbles'.  It is no doubt one of the greatest war dramas ever made, a recommendation to all, 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Spectacular as well as dramatic film based on real events in which revolutionaries have begun open violence against  foreign people","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This interesting and epic film is often mistakenly described as being intended as an allegory for the Vietnam War and the political climate of American imperialism . A three-hour action/drama picture , set in China 50 years ago ; this film's opening prologue states CHINA 1926 . Ravaged from within by corrupt warlords ,oppressed from without by the great world powers who had beaten China to her knees a century before ; China, a country of factions trying to unite to become a nation through revolution . Engineer Jake Holman (Steve McQueen , though first choice to play him was Paul Newman) , arrives aboard the gunboat U.S.S. San Pablo, he is a loner seaman who is a newcomer to the crew assigned to patrol a tributary of the Yangtze in the middle of exploited and revolution-torn 1926 China when Chinese communists take on nationalists and subsequent attacks to foreign people . He become aware of the violent climate , tension and threats over crew and missionaries . As revolutionaries have begun open violence against Americans in Nanking. There he falls in love with a missionary teacher (a newcomer actress Candice Bergen) and finds himself at odds with his command structure , captain (Richard Crenna) and seamen . Frenchy Burgoyne (Richard Attenborough) is the only member of the crew with whom Jake forms any real attachment . This is a story of men who disturbed the sleeping dragon of China as the world watched in terror.This exciting as well as epic film blends noisy action , romance , spectacular sea battles , fights and results to pretty entertaining , though overlong . It has its moments combining sensitive scenes with breathtaking warlike frames . The treatment of this tale can be seen as commentary on the situation in Vietnam at the time of the movie's release . However , Richard McKenna, the author of the best-selling novel on which the film was based, served on U.S. Navy gunboats in China during the 1930's and based the book on his own experiences . The Vietnam War allegory, perhaps inevitably, was ascribed to the film by the press on it's release in 1966, although not the original intention of the author, screenwriter, or director . Very good acting by Steve McQueen as a sailor of an old gunboat now doing duty on the Yangtze river . Considered to be one of McQueen's best performance , he got his only nomination for an Academy Award , Best Actor, for this film . Also featured are Candice Bergen as an American woman who has arrived in China at a mission along with Larry Gates , Richard Crenna as a doubtful commandant and a motley plethora of secondaries as American actors  Charles Robinson , Simon Oakland , Joe Turkel , Gus Trikonis , Gavin MacLeod of Love Boat, as Chinese players  Mako , James Hong and Richard Loo . Special mention to Richard Attenborough as a seaman who falls in love for a new prostitute , Emmanuelle Arsan writer of erotic Emmanuel series and originates tense as well as sensitive moments . Richard deservedly won Golden Globe 67 support cast . Rousing score by maestro Jerry Goldsmith , when original composer Alex North fell ill, 20th Century Fox exercised their right to pull their contract composer Jerry Goldsmith from another studio's assignment- MGM's Grand Prix . Colorful as well as evocative cinematography by Joseph MacDonald , this Twentieth Century Fox release marked their switch from their own Cinemascope process to Panavisin . The motion picture was compellingly directed by Robert Wise . He was a successful director of all kind genres as musical as West side story, The sound of music , Sci-fi as The day the earth stood still, Star Trek  the motion picture , The Andromeda strain , Terror as The body snatchers ,  Curse of the cat people, Audrey Rose , The haunting , Western as Blood on the moon, Tribute to a bad man, Epic or colossal as Elen of Troy and wartime as The desert rats. Run silent , run deep , Hinderburg and this The sand pebbles. "},{"Title":"A war classic not about war","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles is an unusual war movie in that regard that it is not about the actual war, nor any battle or any actual fighting. It is about the time before that. It is about the things that leads up to war.The Sand Pebbles is the story of the gunboat San Pablo and her crew, on their mission in China in the 1920s. The country was filled with tension, unrest and discontent, much of which was directed at foreign forces operating in China, such as the American boat San Pablo. The movie intends to show all this, up to the dramatic end. We get to follow the engineer Jake Holman, played by Steve McQueen, who is transferred to the San Pablo. He witnesses the tension and division among the Americans and the Chinese both aboard the ship and in the towns and regions the ship visits.To show all this the movie has a very long introduction, to get it in detail. It does it well, but it is very much a drama, and not much action until the end. That is not really a problem, since action without a good foundation is not very good. The Sand Pebbles gives a very strong foundation. Almost too strong, even though the acting is very good, it also makes the movie very long, and at times a little slow. I wonder if any of the subplots could have been cut. On the other hand, you should never do anything halfhearted, and The Sand Pebbles certainly doesn't.At the end the tension brakes out into fighting, and the San Pablo sets out on a daring mission to rescue some American missionaries up river. They get into some action certainly, handled by the director with care. It is balanced well, and does the movie justice. The action is not the point at all in this war movie, but how humans reacts and reasons under pressure. Tension and division among nationalities is evident. In fact, the point of the movie is how to preserve humanity under dire circumstances. If you expect anything else, you'll be disappointed.The Sand Pebbles is a classic, but a little too long and slow for my taste. It is good, certainly, but not really up to that standard of entertainment that makes it a masterpiece in my opinion. Even considering the message it intends to send. Even an important message needs enough entertainment to make it across.The acting is real good. McQueen got an Academy Award nomination for his part. The cast list is also notable. In addition to McQueen it contains, Richard Attenborough, Richard Crenna, Mako and a young Candice Bergen in one of her first roles.6/10 "},{"Title":"Apocalypse Then","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's the most difficult picture I ever made. - Robert WiseAn underrated film by director Robert Wise, The Sand Pebbles stars Steve McQueen as Jake Holman, a maverick engineer on-board the San Pablo, a US gunboat tasked with patrolling the Yangtze River.Like many films from the 1960s, The Sand Pebbles is resolutely anti establishment, with its (unintentional?) critiques of the Vietnam war, its anger at misguided foreign policies, its scepticism toward duty and patriotism, and its portrayal of American diplomacy as being explicitly racist, arrogant and indifferent to the affairs of indigenous peoples.But the film is also atypical of anti war epics of this period. Watch, for example, how director Robert Wise methodically dwells on the finer details of life aboard a ship. Watch how he sketches the personal and international conflicts of the period. Watch how he focuses on the pressures placed on the ship's captain, who must walk a fine line to prevent escalating tensions and whose boat slowly becomes a floating garrison, and watch how beautifully spatial the film is, despite Wise's simple shot selection. Couple this to Wise's gorgeous location photography &#x96; he made The Sound of Music a few years earlier, and serves up similarly grand scenery here &#x96; and you have a pretty interesting epic.Most interesting, though, is actor Steve McQueen. McQueen was all about acting with the eyes and taking with his body, but here he went so far as to kick playwright Robert Anderson off script duty and to request the removal of much of his character's dialogue. The result is a low-key, and at times very riveting performance.In terms of flaws, the film is too long, its portrayal of Asians is at times caricatural, it possesses a stiffness which was just about going out of style in the mid 1960s, several subplots are handled poorly and a romance between an American naval officer and a prostitute (which Wise himself regrets leaving in the film) feels unnecessary. And like most films with supposedly rebellious heroes, McQueen's character actually does nothing to undermine the efficiency of the military he so deplores. In fact, all the trouble he causes merely contributes to the smooth and efficient running of his ship. Far from a bad boy or bad apple, McQueen is the perfect conformist, a trait common in supposedly anti militarist films.The film's behind the scenes troubles are the stuff of legend, Wise's crew braving stormy weather, a completely foreign culture, a war (with Taiwan) and the difficult handling of a full scale mock up of a war ship. Ten years later, when Francis Ford Coppola was experiencing similar problems on Apocalypse Now, he requested a copy of The Sand Pebbles from Wise. Coppola wanted to show his crew what the end result could be in spite of any problems.8/10 &#x96; An underrated film, in many respects better than The Bridge On The River Kwai, Lawrence of Arabia and Apocalypse Now, three films it resembles. The product of an era in which epics tended to be experimental and intelligent, The Sand Pebbles is only occasionally undermined by hokey moments. It was a passion project for Wise, who directed The Sound of Music in order to get Pebbles financed. "},{"Title":"To buy time with our lives","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The war movie was constantly evolving in the decades following World War Two. From Bridge on the River Kwai (1957) onwards those with a pacifist message were not uncommon. However, none were quite so harrowing or so bleak as this 1966 adaptation of the Richard McKenna novel The Sand Pebbles.The movie follows the book closely, and as such is rich with subplot in a way that few motion pictures are. Those subplots are crucial to the impact of the whole. Time and again we are lead to believe this will be some uplifting tale of the underdogs triumphing and interracial harmony &#x96; for example Steve McQueen and Mako's working friendship or Richard Attenborough's romance with Marayat Andrienne &#x96; only to see the story take another shockingly dark turn and have all hopes dashed.This was a pet project for producer-director Robert Wise, one he had worked hard to get off the ground and would later look back on as one of his proudest achievements. He brings it to the screen with his usual touch for flow and rhythm, with sudden shifts in tone, from frenzied action and rapid editing in another to languid long shots in another. We have on one hand the utter simplicity of the scene in which McQueen and Candice Bergen get to know each other on their steamer voyage &#x96; just two opposing shots, the river as a backdrop, the actors motionless as they speak their dialogue. Compare that to the boxing match between Mako and Simon Oakland, a quick-fire bout of agonising close-ups of contenders and crowd. The differences are not simply a case of editing and movement, but also the amount of business in the background, the distance the camera is from the action, and sometimes even the lighting and colour. And Wise doesn't call attention to the changes with sudden jolts &#x96; tension is built up gradually before giving way to scenes more tranquil.Of particular note here is the set decoration. Of course, the story necessarily takes place in a series of small and squalid spaces &#x96; the bowels of the ship where McQueen works, the brothel where the men spend their shore leave &#x96; but it is the incredible production design by Boris Leven that makes it all so desolate. The interiors have rough, grey walls and small dirty windows, even the small chapel where the wedding takes place, which in spite of the scene has to be one of the most depressing sets ever made.Tough action heroes like Steve McQueen may achieve stardom but they aren't normally praised for their acting skills. However The Sand Pebbles brings out something very deep in McQueen. He seems totally in tune with the picture's moodiness, bringing a lot of wordless emotion to his laconic character. At one point he breaks down in tears while shovelling coal; the camera is to his back but the moment is all as it should be in his body language. Another great but often overlooked player here is Simon Oakland. Oakland was great when you needed a small part with a lot of impact (see him at the end of Psycho for example) and was often a levelheaded authority figure. Less often was he cast as the bully, but he makes a decent job of it, being both threatening and repugnant. I'm less enthusiastic about Richard Attenborough's performance. For one thing he isn't right for the uniform &#x96; he looks like a little boy in a sailor suit &#x96; and for another he isn't right for the American accent, unless he was doing it as some kind of cultural revenge for Dick van Dyke's appalling attempt at being a cockney in Mary Poppins.The Sand Pebbles is undoubtedly one of bleakest war movies ever made, but what is so different about it is not its anti-imperialist stance or even its downbeat mood. It is the fact that the US forces are shown to lose control of the situation. It was one of the great ironies with anti-war films like Apocalypse Now and Full Metal Jacket that apparently some youngsters were actually inspired to join the marines after seeing them. However I cannot imagine The Sand Pebbles having anyone rushing down to their nearest Navy recruitment office. Even though it does not exactly condemn servicemen or even the armed forces, it makes armed service look about as glamorous as cleaning a sewer. And rather than portraying the Americans as a conquering force &#x96; for good or bad &#x96; it shows them as lost, isolated and overwhelmed. There will be no cavalry riding to the rescue this time. And it creates this impression without ever losing respect for its principle characters, whom we are lead to pity rather than condemn. It shows war not as hell or as mass murder, but as bitter human tragedy. "}{"Title":"This Movie Will Change Your Definition Of Awesome.","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles is one of the few three hour movies that never seems to drag on. There is not one boring scene in its entirety, and if anything it seemed to me that it was over too soon. Watching this movie I became both angry and happy. I also laughed, and I even felt a few tears on my face. It toyed with every single one of my emotions, and when it was over, I couldn't stop thinking about it. It was beautifully written, and the celebrity cast delivered with great performances. Steve McQueen, known by many as the coolest cat who ever lived, won his only Academy Award nomination of his long acting career in this movie, playing Jake Holman, an engineer in the U.S. Navy. Holman is stationed on the U.S.S. San Pablo, a gunboat assigned to patrol The Yangtze during 1926 China. The moment he arrives, he meets Shirley Eckert (Candice Bergen), a schoolteacher on her way to teach at a China Light Mission. After she leaves, the gunboat's presence drives the Chinese hostility towards them to the extreme. It eventually forces the San Pablo to go on a rescue mission to save the missionaries at China Light. Holman goes from engineer to soldier during this movie, a transition that you notice slowly throughout.The next time you're renting a movie, and you're mindlessly searching the shelves of the store, think of The Sand Pebbles. I guarantee you, the next thing you'll do is buy it. "},{"Title":"WELL-MADE McQUEEN DRAMA!","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of Steve McQueen's best performances and all-round good film, with fine support from especially Mako (supp. actor nom.), Richard Attenborough, and Richard Crenna. Candice Bergen hadn't learned anything about acting yet in '66, but looks right. Great cinematography, music, and direction.An 8 out of 10. Best performance = Mako. A bit long, but fascinating story in foreign land for Americans. McQueen's only Oscar bid. Jake Holman was the perfect role for McQueen's laid-back appeal in the 60's. Sad fate for some of the major characters that's quite moving. Well-received with a Best Picture nod, but I don't think it won anything. Check this one out! "},{"Title":"One of Steve's Absolute BEST! a 5-star film!","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie at LEAST 30 times-start to finish, and each time I like it more.  Steve McQueen and a 19 year old Candice Bergen (The future Murphy Brown) are superb in this story of war and sort-of romance between an American gunboat Sailor and a missionary's daughter in 1926 China.The Oriental actors are excellent as well, especially Mako, whom I have enjoyed in countless films. It is an extremely well-made film-well acted, and the scenery is gorgeous, being as it was filmed in and around Hong Kong. A 10 star rating-easily!!! "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very long but utterly absorbing film. This is probably Steve McQueen's best performance as a sailor who is followed by trouble no matter where he goes. And Richard McKenna as the suicidal captain who wants to go out in a blaze of military glory...he even sacrifices some of his men in a great battle scene as his ship attempts to break a blockade. Romance, tragedy, politics, exotic locations, war, heroism--this movie has everything. It is a must-see. "},{"Title":"The Sand Pebbles","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent film from Robert Wise about a cynical sailor, played marvelously by superstar McQueen, in an Oscar nominated role. The film runs a bit long, but it is a great combination of romance, action and drama. Attenborough stands out, as does Mako and a young and lovely Candice Bergen. Nominated for the Best Picture of 1966.  "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A great film, which truly captures human emotion. Although I am not a huge fan of Steve McQueen, he delivers a wonderful yet multi faceted performance, which is both sensitive and tough,that I feel was the best in 1966. Filmed in Taiwan, it captures the culture of the period.Richard Crenna and Richard Atenborough deliver exemplary performances as well. While a very young Candice Bergen is equally sensitive and thoughtful.This wonderful film from the mid 1960's offers much, and can be seen over and over and totally retains in integrity. "},{"Title":"Excellent Historical War Drama","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had just about totally forgotten about this film until recently, when two things happened. One I ran into a copy at Wal-Mart and purchased it for $7.50 (but I just put it away for later); and two the History Channel was showing it one morning and I just caught the beginning. That was the stimulus to pull it out of the drawer and finally watch it. What a pleasant surprise it was, like welcoming back an old friend! You see...I saw this in a theater when it first came out, and later aboard my ship, during my 4 year enlistment in the Navy.It is, in one word excellent. Cast, crew, photography, music, all tops. The story carries even more significance today as China has emerged from it's feudal state into a world class power. We realize very quickly what we are about to watch the last gasps of the old world powers to try to control China, but to no avail.Intertwined with these great events are the touching personal stories of the little people caught up in the turmoil Jake, Frenchy, Shirley, Maily, and the captain & crew of the U.S.S. San Pablo. It brought back a lot of memories of my navy days, and I found the portrayals of the crew to be very genuine & authentic.Steve McQueen delivers the performance of his career, in a part that seems to be made for him. The rest of the cast is excellent as well (and to think that Richard Attenborough went on to direct!). I will probably have more to add...just wanted to post this quickly.A great man's movie if there ever was one...!!My one complaint is that there aren't any scenes taking place inside the living spaces of the China mission. I read the novel, and the author devotes some time to describing the inner workings of the missionaries, and their hopes of turning their gifted, intelligent student Cho-Jen, into one of China's future leaders. That's why it's so ironic that he dies later, at the hands of Jake Holman. Two good men, with a lot of potential, caught in the wrong place at the wrong time, by natural events.Steve "},{"Title":"history, romance and action","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Romance between an American sailor and a missionary's daughter in 1926 China. Love story with violent backdrop has diverse, well developed characters, action, historical detail and only moderate sentiment. Balanced viewpoint adds credibility. Viewers may also enjoy Nicholas and Alexandra (1971) and Doctor Zhivago (1965). (Rating A-minus) "},{"Title":"unique film","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Romance between an American sailor and a missionary's daughter in 1926 China.  Love story with violent backdrop has diverse, well developed characters, convincing plot and fine historical detail that more than balances occasional sentimentality.  (Rating A-minus) "},{"Title":"A grand romance","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the true romances, in the grand sense, with love and pain and the whole damn thing. Steve McQueen was made to play loner Jake Holman who finds true love and a sense of purpose in 1920's China. This is one of the very few movies I own and worth every penny spent and every moment watching. "}{"Title":"grand romance","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favourite movies. Steve McQueen was born to play Jake Holman. It is a sweeping romance in the grand sense with doomed lovers, sacrifice, and death set against the exotic background of 1920s China. Everybody's wonderful, but the film belongs to Jake, and he's superb. No sex. No trite comments. No strained humour. A serious love story with lots of 'real' feeling. Romantics everywhere will love this film.   "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made.","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is my favorite movie of all time for a few basic reasons. This movie simply has it all; a great cast, superb direction, a very true to life and exciting story, and some of the best action sequences in the history of film (for both military combat and personal brawls). I also think that this movie brought out the best performances in almost the entire cast including Steve McQueen, Richard Creena, Richard Attenborough, and Mako. This film delivers excitement, emotion, an accurate history lesson, and great acting. I can not imagine anyone watching this movie and disliking it. I give this movie 5 stars in every way and I hope that The Sand Pebbles is never forgotten. "},{"Title":"A great film that endures with its sights, sounds, and messages.","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw The Sand Pebbles as a young boy from the back seat of my parents' car at the drive-in, and the visual memories of that experience are forever etched in my mind. This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The cinematography is tremendous - the sweeping scenes draw you in and amaze you. The cast is tremendous - Steve McQueen the reluctant hero, an authoritarian Richard Crenna, Mako who's more than a downtrodden coolie, a sympathetic but doomed Richard Attenborough, a youthful Candace Bergen, and all those supporting actors whose faces made '60s film and television. And the music by Jerry Goldsmith is alternately dreamy, stirring, and blood boiling. The action flows with the rivers of southern China, and the Naval background of the author of the story shines through. Being a former military man myself, I still feel something well up inside me when San Pablo's crew prepares to engage the enemy with precision drill; the music grows louder, stronger, and faster; and the battle flag is raised for all to see. This film moves me to this day, and its numerous underlying messages should not be lost on any generation, at any level. A winner all the way around! "},{"Title":"Jake Holman Meet John Russell","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came out and I was a mere lad of 11. I saw it the way it was meant to be viewed- on a big, big screen. It is one of the few VHS' I own (now DVD as well). It's among my favorite films of all time. If not for my predilection to seasickness, I might have been a China sailor too. -)That said, Jake Holman is a man always at odds with the authorities and the people around him. Unlike most Jonahs, he is accused of being by Simon Oakland's character, Jake he is morally/ethically near perfect. Despite his piety he is always being punished for what are essentially righteous acts.I see some similarity with Paul Newman's character (John Russell) in Elmore Leonard's Hombre. Newman was reportedly the first choice for the lead. When asked why he declined he allegedly said My secret.I have had the pleasure in my own life to use the wedding toast that Jake makes to Frenchy (Richard Attenborough) and his bride May Ling-  ...I hope things go smooth and easy for you.A tip of the sailor's hat to author Richard McKenna who still hadn't finished the novel by the time the movie opened. -) I read the book from 1962 -it's very long and obviously great. It cover's Jake's childhood a bit.Kudos to Simon Oakland, Richard Crenna & Mako, Candice Bergen and of course to the king- Steve McQueen.To Robert Wise for keeping the ending pure. "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wasn't really looking forward to this, as I'm not a huge fan of military/war movies, not to mention it's three hours long. Thankfully, though, it's quite good, almost great. I think it could have moved a bit faster at times, but it's a compelling story with several exceptional set pieces and fine acting all around. Steve McQueen stars as a gunboat engineer assigned to a small ship, the USS San Pablo, sailing the Yangtze River in 1926. Revolution brews in China, but the handful of Westerners in the country don't have much to do with it. That doesn't last for long, as the communist factions gain more traction and the San Pablo becomes a scapegoat of some of the factions, who try to get the Americans to commit an act of war so their own civil war can fully blossom. The San Pablo has to play the situation very carefully. The movie is quite tense. It's not very action packed, but it does build to a fantastic battle sequence which has instantly become one of my all time favorites. McQueen was rarely better, and received his sole Oscar nomination for the role. Just as good in supporting roles are Mako (who was Oscar nominated, as well), Richard Attenborough (who was not but did win a Golden Globe) and Richard Crenna as the Captain. Candice Bergen, only 19 or 20 at the time, also co-stars as McQueen's love interest. She doesn't get a lot to do, but she's fine. "},{"Title":"Great performance by Steve McQueen offset by unfocused, badly paced, meandering plot","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great performance by Steve McQueen offset by unfocused, badly paced, meandering plot.1926. China is in the middle of a revolution. US, British and French gunboats patrol the rivers, but are meant to be neutral in the conflict, though this does not stop them from being attacked. Onto one such US gunboat, the USS San Pablo (Sand Pebble to its crew) steps Petty Officer Jake Holman, newly-appointed chief engineer.Not your typical Steve McQueen movie. For the most part this is more a human drama than an action movie. McQueen here is more an anti-hero than a hero, and displays a rare sensitivity and vulnerability in his performance.The performance garnered McQueen his one and only Oscar nomination. Remember that at the next trivia night!The script, however, undermines his efforts. For the first two hours or so it meanders without any real point. Even worse, it is quite schmaltzy and trite. After a point the pace lifts dramatically and you feel that at last the movie has found its direction. This is then all undone by the last few scenes where we have naive idealism (that seemed to come from nowhere), idealism shown up (so, which side is the writer on?), implausible gung-ho military tactics and a very unoriginal, predictable and conventional conclusion. Overall, it's okay, though quite uneven, especially in the pacing and the message. "},{"Title":"Hello engine, I'm Jake Holman.","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles is the film that cemented Steve McQueen's status as a leading man in Hollywood, one in which his character is the embodiment of a loner, a rebel at odds with himself and his environment. His portrayal is so effective because it's grounded in his own upbringing. Abandoned by a self absorbed father at the age of four months, and with an alcoholic mother who had little time for him, McQueen was raised by a succession of relatives and eventually wound up in a reform school. His early bitterness with the world is reflected in his performance as Jake Holman, more at home with inanimate objects than with human beings. He finds comfort in the machine room of the San Pablo, a naval gunboat patrolling the Yangtze River in 1926 China.There's a telling moment in the movie that's quite bittersweet; it's when Holman buys a caged bird from a street vendor for missionary Shirley Eckert (Candice Bergen). Holman explains that the bird is meant to be freed from it's cage. As Miss Eckert opens the door of the cage releasing the bird, it's gone in an instant, and the viewer is visually confronted with the notion of freedom and what it might mean to the population of 1920's China, a country of factions in a period of upheaval trying to find a way to unite.Through it all, the mission of the San Pablo is to remain neutral under the supervision of Captain Collins (Richard Crenna), a no nonsense commander who takes his duty seriously, and experiences a moment of personal crisis after he faces down both his own men and Chinese nationalists who demand that he turn Holman over to them following an incident on the mainland. It's at this point in the film that motivations and actions of the crew become a bit muddled to my thinking, as the crew of the San Pablo in turn defy the Captain, and then completely submit to his authority without further consequence. This was a confusing aspect of the story for me.Shot entirely in Taiwan, the making of the film was plagued with problems related to weather and equipment loss, extending the original eighty day filming schedule to seven months. The re-creation of the San Pablo into a 1920's era gunboat cost two hundred fifty thousand dollars, and what's fascinating to me was the way it was made to look as a worn out, dilapidated rust bucket. The Sand Pebbles went on to garner a fist full of Oscar nominations including Best Picture and Best Actor for McQueen, who lost out to Paul Scofield in A Man For All Seasons. It's one of those pictures that when viewed today in relation to it's peers of the day, it becomes apparent that the major Academy Awards for that year went to the wrong movies. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites...starring one of my all-time favorites - The King Of Cool!","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Much like many movies made during the Cold War, such as Lawrence of Arabia and Doctor Zhivago; this, too, had to be filmed in places only 'similar' to the actual locations...but, who cares!?!? It's an epic movie and extraordinary adventure starring one of my favorite movie 'tough-guy' heroes, Steve McQueen.The movie also stars the legendary Richard Attenborough (Director of Gandhi and A Bridge Too Far, and, star of Jurassic Park and other greats).Richard Crenna (First Blood) also stars; as does Candice Bergen (Gandhi); Simon Oakland (Psycho; Bullit; West Side Story); Mako (Seven Years In Tibet; Pearl Harbor); Joe Turkel (The Shining); Gavin McLeod (Kelly's Heroes), making it a star-studded movie that no one should miss!The Sand Pebbles has everything - great actors; a great script; a great soundtrack (by Jerry Goldsmith); great settings; action; intrigue; and, even a love story; and, even another 'almost' love story. It's a perfect movie, but, set in a time when China was a nation in upheaval and most every other nation in the world wanted a piece of it.A great epic classic - 11 stars! ) "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen holds the screen","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a lot going on here and at 182 minutes, it could have been a slow grind. But the story flows quite well. Steve McQueen is an engineer assigned to the USS San Pablo patrolling in Chinese waters. From the start, the assignment is one of culture shock. Much of the work on board is being done by Chinese coolies. There is a lot resentment in the Chinese population against these foreign militaries. Eventually the San Pablo finds themselves blockade by the Chinese Nationals. As the ship starts to deteriorates, so does the crew.There is a love story between a crewman and Chinese girl. Although it provide a key story element, it also saddles the movie with unnecessary melodrama. There is already enough drama. Steve McQueen is a powerful screen presence, and probably wouldn't work as well with another actor. "},{"Title":"Banned in Taiwan US military sites","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is an aspect of this film that many don't know. I was in Taiwan form 11/67-11/69. We were not able to see this film in our base movie theatres as it showed the Nationalist in a bad light. We wanted to see the film, we knew of it and we were a tri-service military site (Air Force, Army, Navy) but because we were on Taiwan at the behest of their government through agreements with both governments, something that showed the Chinese or Taiwanese badly was not going to be shown. This movie was partially shot in Taiwan and the Taiwan government also didn't want a movie shown that was filmed on their island shown that showed them in a bad light..I liked the movie with the exception of the way the treatment of the locals was portrayed.I came away from Taiwan with a love of the island and it's people and a showing of mistreatment is disturbing. The treatment of Po-Han and the love shown for him by Holman is wonderful. The film has many elements that create such strong bonds between the viewer and the cast that if you are one that really gets deep within a film, then that's where you'll be with this film from the love, hate, rage, terror all of these you'll feel. "}{"Title":"Love in all its forms","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles is simply my favorite movie ... love in all its forms with family love being least represented (mother and child however briefly)... love of God (Jameson in particular) love of humanity (the missionaries again) love of country (the revolutionaries, and even the sailors and imperialists) ... brotherhood(Frenchy and Jake, some others) ... love of cause (the revolutionaries) ... love of the corps (the sailors) ... and last but not least, romantic love (Jake and Candy, Frenchy and Mai lei) ... it may seem to be an awkward forum for all these gushy themes, but on second thought, what better forum? The overall acting, writing and cinematography were excellent. "},{"Title":"One of the Best.","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my personal favorites also. I didn't read all the revues here, but almost everyone has commented on the great cast. I thought Dick Crenna was particularly devastating as the deluded, emotionally brittle captain. Along with the rest I would like to mention that R.G. Armstrong and Barney Philips probably also did career topping turns in this film as well. Larry Gates is also compelling as the naive missionary. A real Who's-Who of outstanding character actors (including the ubiquitous Gavin MacLeod). I agree with many posters that McQueen should have won an Oscar. Introspective and action packed at the same time with great visuals, what else could you ask for? "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen at his best!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (FYI - My name is J.J. Ircink and I'm filling in for Marty at work.)What can I add to what's already been said about this film, and about Steve McQueen's performance. I've always believed this was McQueen at his best...apparently I'm not the only one who thinks this. The scene in which Jake shoots Po-han, and immediately afterwards in the boiler room brings me to tears every time I see it. That emotion seems odd for a Steve McQueen movie; course, Jake H. didn't think so... "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen's Finest Effort","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  McQueen is marvelous as the isolated and cynical loner who runs the engines on a U.S. gunboat in turbulent 1920's China. He was never better, and his relations to a Chinese assistant and young missionary greatly effect and open up his character, as does that with his friend (played by Richard Attenboough) and his Chinese wife). Ironically, he remains isolated and an outcast with the crew. Richard Crenna was fabulous as tortured the ships' captain (he got an Academy Award nomination), and the scenery and epic scope of this movie make it a standout. It was released at the height of the Vietnam war and anti-war activism - and should be looked upon in that light too with hidden meanings and ironies. Was it too long as some said? Not for me. A fabulous film.    "},{"Title":"underrated grand epic","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A spacious, sweeping, grand tale that captures a sense of history and place. This gripping drama about gunboat diplomacy in early 20th century China shows off Steve McQueen's often underrated acting skills to great effect, and manages to achieve the level of tragedy. The excellent action sequences never detract from the human drama. The characters are well-drawn and sympathetically portrayed. Benefits greatly from being seen in letterbox format (thank you, American Movie Classics channel). Caveat two scenes in particular are disturbingly gruesome (the bearing repair, and the murder).  "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is without a doubt the best McQueen performance bar none. He commands the screen from start to finish, which is not easy considering the Richard Crenna performance in counter-balance(Crenna is outstanding and this film makes him a MOVIE star). Every Mcqueen scene to include the stunning and unrelenting final shot is pitch perfect. McQueen's final words come from the gut with a sad resolve and angry acceptance - stunning, truly stunning. This is McQueen's masterpiece and is the best performance by an actor in 1966 and arguably in any year. Paul Scofield (sic) won the Oscar for a great performance that year, but his Oscar should be on the shelf of the late great Mcqueen. In this movie McQueen does more with a tilt of the head and a sigh than Scofield (sic) with ten pages of great dialog. It is seamless acting to the tenth degree. The film itself is beautiful and real, I can watch it over and over again and do. Do yourself a favor and see it, buy it, own it, enjoy it. Bravo Mr. McQueen ACTOR!!!! "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The general lives of sailors, values in the Navy, and the way that ships operate are all explored well in this film. The sets are realistic and detailed, both on shore and in the ship, and in addition to a number of skillfully edited sequences, there is a significant amount to like on the visual side of things. However, despite the good insights that it gives, the politics of the time are ill explained, and some different events are not well explained either. The story is also rather minimal, with two dull romance subplots taking up a substantial amount of the plot. I did not find enough fresh material for the film to grip me for the whole of the epic three-hour length, and towards the end the directing becomes somewhat messy. This is not a bad film though. It is well made for the reasons I mentioned earlier, and Jerry Goldsmith composes a great score too. However, to say the least, I find its Academy Award nomination for Best Picture surprising. "},{"Title":"What happened? What the hell happened?","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the last line of the movie, and presumably it is Holman (Steve McQueen) still trying to create the impression the crew is with him, but movies being movies no doubt there is more to it.Well, a revolution happened but also I was thinking before he spoke those words that he became the metaphorical captain of the boat.In the '00s the line might be considered a realisation that the USA underestimated China.Or maybe that is a conclusion I've come to only after hearing one of the Anglo-centric audio documentaries on the DVD about filming in Taiwan. Chinese Punch and Judy indeed. It's opera, and it's been around since four to five centuries before Punch and Judy. And still going strong, unlike Punch and Judy (sorry Punch).The blurb on the back cover of the DVD makes a good observation a sailor who has given up trying to make peace with anything - including himself.To Robert J Maxwell who saw the film a dozen times and still doesn't get it1. Holman's attitude of equality (not to be confused with paternalism) threatens the cosy little arrangement the crew has with the coolies doing all their work for them.2. Holman has no allegiances, from the beginning.  He lets Americans and Chinese alike determine their own destiny.  His only allegiance in the end is to - well, that would be telling.  I'm sure Candice Bergen provides enough of a reason to a 'Navy lifer'.Long movie - can be watched over two nights. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Movie","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is such a wonder to behold! It revolves around a good storyline that takes place during a war that a lot of people my age wouldn`t know about. The Sand Pebbles includes a lot of drama, some humor,action,and lets not forget the suspense. Robert Wise is probably the greatest director of all time in my book. He has the ability to weave beautiful tapestries of film, and put it in our hearts, and the Sand Pebbles is one of the reasons why!  "},{"Title":"Angst on the Yangtze","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent version of a book I also thoroughly enjoyed. Steve McQueen plays a lifer in the US Navy between the wars, who gets assigned to a small gunboat on the Yangtze River in China. At the time, the country is in turmoil and a civil war is spreading. McQueen's character, Jake Holman, is a top notch mechanic who is more at home in the engine room with his boilers than with his shipmates. His experience with women is limited to the prostitutes of the various Asian ports he has been to, such that when he is faced with a real relationship, the daughter of a Missionary played by Candice Bergen, he is not able to let her into his private little world, easily. There is a well-done combat scene late in the movie when the gunboat, the San Pablo - hence Sand Pebbles - is forced to fight it's way through a line of Chinese junks blocking the river with a thick hemp cable. Holman and his shipmates are transformed from sailors to infantrymen when they are forced to board one of the junks to cut the cable. The ending, as in the book, was very touching. "}{"Title":"Excellent period piece and character study.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although this is generally accepted as a great McQueen movie, it is also a better film than most other movies of the mid-1960s and war films in general. The plot and character studies of the other players are far deeper than we see in this genre. McQueen works well with Candace Bergen. They create sexual tension without using any tawdry scenes or hot language.At first I felt it was unauthentic when Holman introduced himself to the Sand Pebbles' engine by saying Hello engine; my name is Jake. This seemed flat and trite. However, I've since spoken to a number of Navy Chiefs who say this feeling of oneness with a ship, especially for an engine mate, is real and believable. And after viewing the film again with this in mind, I see that the line is important in that it describes McQueen's character perfectly-he feels more comfortable with a machine than with people-he (Holman and McQueen in fact) is the quintessential loner.All in all, it was a superior film and performance by McQueen. The long length of this movie was more than made up by its plot's pace. "},{"Title":"Trip into the Internal Travails of China","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We know so little about this awakening giant China, that even this movie of the 60's with its echoes of our national tragedy Vietnam, sets you to thinking.  As the war lords were being slowly unified, and Chaing kai Chek was doing his nationalistic thing, the American imperialists were beginning to back off.  In the person of the very patriotic, if rigid captain, our country's policies can be seen.  As he talks about 'shedding our blood' as the last outpost of America in the peaceful Chinese scene, it gives us a rather strange feeling.  How few of us have ever had to represent our country with the flag in a land that was hellbent to destroy what we represented, forget about personal integrity or differences with those policies.  Those sailors, cannon fodder all, were committed to providing safety for the AMericans caught in the middle of many civil Chinese wars, whether they liked it or not.  Good points were made to the missionary You have the luxury to complain about US policies and our military stance, when your physical safety is assured by our very presence...the presence you deplore.  Quite true.....the same thought that occurred as I ate off our antique Hippie plates at the commune, when all of us were from middle-class homes (just like Thoreau) to which we could return at a moment's notice.Steve McQueen does the best job of his career as a lower-class Navy civilian drop-out who has spent his best years tending his first love, an engine. The way he addresses that huge behemoth in the bowels of the gun boat makes us understand the love between man and machines.  Watching Candace Bergen do her vigin teacher thing after watching her all these years on TV as the smart caustic feminist gives you quite a contrast and shows the spread she was able to make in her acting.  Richard Crenna is outstanding as the upright captain, who does indeed die for his men...ready to go down with his ship. I felt incredible empathy for the professional military man because of him.  And he even leads his men in a boarding party...that in 1926...what a surprise!!!! "},{"Title":"Under rated classic","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very good war drama film that had great production and was Steve McQeen's best movie and performance as he displays his great acting skills.This film could have been a masterpiece if it had better editing.There were scenes that was dragged too long for it's own good.The movie was long enough already and did not need to be compounded by useless stand around and do nothing shots for endless seconds.Those needed to be snipped.Get your remote fast forward button ready for those scenes.Also,it would have been nice if they had a better actress than boring Candice Bergen.Still,the spectacular acting performances,cinematography,action and story make this film a true winner for fans of war dramas and big fans of the lead actors...... "},{"Title":"Hollywood Ending Hurt","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles was an interesting experience seen on Turner Classic Movies last night. I had missed the picture when it first came out. Despite a length of three hours, the film held my attention with a screen play that moved at an agreeable speed. All of the performances were good, especially the acting that Director Wise was able to get out of the Coolie actors. Steve McQueen was less cool than he's noted for and as a result was realistic in his role. I would have scored this film higher but for the Hollywood ending that weakened the picture with 1940 bravado from the leading players McQueen and Richard Crenna. It was the old one-two punch of 'I'll hold them off while you save he girl. No you save he girl and I'll hold them off.'The film deserved a better ending from the writers than that. "},{"Title":"heartbreaking but worth it","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles, for all its sweep and pageantry, is at its core a story of the cost of human cruelty, bigotry and arrogance, and indifference to the pain inflicted by these. Just about everyone in the story is trapped--Captain Collins by his stiff-necked devotion to intangibles like honor and duty, even when this devotion drives him to ignore his innate decency, at great cost to himself and others. Po-Han, who just wants to learn how to be a ship's engineer, tortured by Communists who want to punish him for what they see as casting his lot with the enemy. Maily, viewed by the brutish sailors and the madam of the whorehouse as chattel, an inhuman commodity to be rented by the hour until she is worn out and discarded. She cannot be redeemed even by the brave, clumsy tenderness of Frenchy, who gives his life for the privilege of being with her. The missionaries, who have no argument with anyone, being forced to take sides in a stupid and unnecessary conflict. And of course, Jake Holman, the rebel with a soft heart he wishes to God he didn't have but which makes him a better man than many others. He has the wisdom to take people not in bunches but on a per-case basis--he doesn't assume that just because somebody is Chinese, he's evil or stupid or uncivilized. The comradely ease he develops with Po-Han, his unquestioning acceptance of the romance between Frenchy and Maily despite knowing the perils they face, his refusal to brutalize himself to endear himself to some of his more Cro-Magnon shipmates are what lead to his tragic and wasteful death. Much as I loved this movie, I don't think I could get through another viewing. But if you haven't seen it, do yourself a favor and get your hands on a copy. Just make sure you have plenty of Kleenex. "},{"Title":"A Rare Gem of a Film","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles is a larger-than-life film. Great acting, great cinematography, great soundtrack. The soundtrack was very moving...the subtle notes work in perfect harmony with the visuals. McQueen's very best acting performance...a simple man with integrity and compassion, tough and low-key. McQueen immersed himself in this character...he probably deserved the Oscar he didn't get. Richard Crenna was very convincing as the self- indulgent, incompetent,stubborn, power-obsessed captain. Reminds me of some bosses I've had to suffer through. The key to this movie is the magical way in which we are transported to a forgotten time and place. Attention to detail, intense acting. One flaw I noticed was in the scene at the bar/ cat house in which it just seemed like a phony, overly lit, cavernous sound stage. It seemed so phony and out of place. A dark, claustrophobic setting would have been much more effective. "},{"Title":"The Oscar that got away","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steve McQueen was rightly nominated for an Oscar, for his sterling performance in this movie. For Richard Crenna, this has to have been his finest hour. A beautifully crafted tale of American involvement in China during, I think , the Boxer rebellion. The film reunited Steve McQueen and Richard Attenborough, of Great Escape fame. However, it must be said that the character of Frenchy, who Richard Attenborough plays, is a disappointment in this production, as he is totally out of place in his portrayal of a lovesick member of the crew. The film moves at an extraordinary pace throughout, with the occasional calm respite. Totally believable from start to finish, with engineering set- pieces spot on. The Sand Pebbles remains one reason why people still visit the cinema. "},{"Title":"Still a strong film after 47 years","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had seen this film of war torn 1926 China in the theater when it first came out, and for that time period it was very different, if not shocking at times. Some would argue it is too long, and maybe some scenes are, but that helps to develop the characters very well.Looking at the film today, what really stands out for me today is that one could argue that Richard Crenna(Captain Collins) deserved an Oscar for best supporting actor, as his performance came close to upstaging Steve Mc Queen, who was of course outstanding.I bought the two disc special edition recently(highly recommended), and loaned the film to a couple of my friends and colleagues at the university where I work, and they both liked it. One, who has worked in China extensively believes it to be a fairly realistic looking film of the country and its people. My other friend, who had never heard of the film, watched it and thought it was good also.In other words, here is a film from almost half a century ago, that still captivates first time viewers with outstanding acting, direction, photography, and music. And yes, I bought the two disc music soundtrack also.The Sand Pebbles is an outstanding period film of historical fiction. "},{"Title":"Pray for an early spring... or permission to open fire.","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are films that every man should see more than once. This war film, which had eight Oscar nominations, fits nicely between From Here to Eternity and Apocalypse Now. There is so much to think about along with great action, that you will miss key moments on your first viewing. I guarantee it. There is a good argument that the nomination for Best Picture should have resulted in a win. This is Steve McQueen's only Oscar nomination and it should have definitely resulted in a win, as this is the definitive Steve McQueen film. He shows more strength and character in this film that most actors of today and established himself as a REAL MAN. Mako was nominated for a Supporting Actor Oscar. I have a hard time choosing between he and Richard Crenna for the best supporting performance. Both were way more worthy than any other nominees. All of the artistic notes in this film - cinematography, sound, music, art direction - were superb. William Reynolds did an outstanding job of editing this 179 minute film so that there was never a lag and the action was all smooth and essential. Four-time Oscar winner Robert Wise did an outstanding job of putting it all together to make a film that stands the test of time and, despite being set in 1920s China, is just as relevant to what is happening in the Middle East today. "},{"Title":"Epic Old-School Movie-making","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is all around epic and fantastic, but if you're reading this you might already know that.If not take heed to the spoiler alert above, for it is there for a precise reason. My two favourite things in this movie that made it the entertaining epic it was..1. Frenchy the human salmon. Dude is 'married' to a lady in the town, but the soldiers are forbidden to leave the boat. Suddenly in the middle of winter he jumps off the boat during the night, swims to shore and goes to his lady and mates with her. Shortly after mating and fertilizing the egg he dies in the bed... like a human salmon. 2. The Captains gusto during the breaking of the blockade. A few scenes earlier he is in his cabin contemplating suicide. Lucky for the viewers he focuses this energy instead into a killing spree where he almost approaches Rambo heights in his blood-lust. Steve McQueen is great here, he is the backbone of the movie for sure.I recommend this movie to anyone who likes an old-school epic picture, the way they used to make them in the ancient olden days. "}{"Title":"Long ago, in a land far away &#x85; men and a boat in 1920s China","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most good war movies are anti-war by nature where they show the death of friends, killing of innocent civilians, and sometimes the hero of the film. Most also show widespread destruction or other horrors of war. The Sand Pebbles is somewhat like that. And, it is also like a few other great war genre movies in that it focuses deeply on the characters &#x96; the men and women who are the subjects of the film &#x96; and their relationships. At one point in the film, Frenchy (Richard Attenborough) tells Jake (Steve McQueen) that the men who serve on their gunboat are called the sand pebbles. The boat is not the title of the movie, but is the vehicle for the film. The San Pablo (Saint Paul), is a prize of the Spanish-American war a few years earlier, and is now one of the U.S. Navy patrol boats in Chinese waters. They are there to protect American commercial interests in China. One barroom brawl scene had an American civilian involved, but that was the only visual reference in the film as to why the San Pablo was in China in the first place. But, The Sand Pebbles is much more than a war movie. It fits in many other genres as well. It is a historical look at a time of great social change emerging in China &#x96; a land far away from the west that the world was just beginning to learn about (Some of the first photos of China were from National Geographic Magazine in the 1910s and 1920s). It is a look at a land with opposing political forces arising, with growing distrust and dislike of foreign exploiters. Its people are humble, respectful yet proud, and willing and able to learn new jobs of modern technology &#x96; like running the engines of a boat. The movie takes place at a time of relative peace between wars, when military life, especially in distant lands, seemed much more relaxed. And, the military itself, in its remoteness from home, took on a culture all its own. So, The Sand Pebbles is a film about men in the Navy during a time of uneasiness in a land far away from America. Some of this film is disconcerting and unpleasant in its portrayal of servicemen. A whole boat crew wanting to give up one of its own men to a riotous crowd, rather than fight to defend him and their boat. A feverish mob spurred on by communist zealots that gruesomely tortures and carves a man to near-death. A distraught sailor (McQueen) who shoots a young Chinese boy he had befriended and taught, to end his torture. A poorly disciplined Navy crew who were lax in their duties. A bunch of sailors, most of whom seemed to live for bawdy shore leaves, with little apparent care or kindness for others. The performances in this film are outstanding by all, especially Steve McQueen and Richard Crenna. In several scenes, we see drama in the faces of the two men, as though we could almost read their minds. In spite of the disagreements we hear in the dialog, we can see much more in their expressions. Neither likes the other person, but each has respect for the other. In a pinch, they can trust one another, perhaps more than anyone else on the boat. The film has wonderful scenes of the Far East (filmed in Taiwan and Hong Kong). I sailed on the Yangtze River in 2001, and the film's river scenes look much like places on the lower Yangtze yet today. The action and battle scenes late in the film are excellent and look so very real. There is more still &#x96; McQueen and the missionaries, and his slow transformation. And, of course, the tragedy of the ending. All in all, this is a solid, outstanding movie about a group of people, at a time in history, in a place far away, with a heart-wrenching story. "},{"Title":"Timeless  Epic  Masterpiece Theater.","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, is not about politics, global or otherwise. It's not even concerned with the plight of the Chinese in their indebted servitude at the turn of the 20th century. Nor does it make a good case for or against the expansionist policies (some say 'gun boat diplomacy') of the new emerging world power the United States of America. By the way, and maybe out of pure happenstance romanticism does make some fanciful suggestions in the plot. However, its inclusion is not done in any meaningful 'chick flic' sort of way. Thank Wise for that!Yes, those themes do resonant in Robert Wise's 'Sand Pebbles'. On careful viewing one would detect, I'd think, that the aforementioned are merely sub-themes; those in aggregate have all been reduced to doleful subterfuge of a much larger, poignant message adventurism. In today's modern lingo that equates to 'Exceptionalism'. And yes, I'm talking the American Brand The kind of action films that Hollywood studios produced back then. And by way of clever, and not so subtle scripts the swagger of the those heroes were all induced into our culture.And who better represents the iconic 'cowboy' so fully inculcated in the American psyche since General Custer's halcyon filled though fateful raid along the Apache trails in the hunt for Geronimo, other than Steve McQueen. Moreover, it seems that since time immemorial, dating back even before the birth of Sparta, there would emerge a character, with such bravado and with universal appeal that males from every creed, race and historical epoch would try to emulate; the one possible sole exception was Alexander the Great. Maybe I overshot... However, even the world's first hallowed conqueror would doff his colorful, plume adorned helmet after having experienced just one McQueen performance on the silver screen. I'm certain of this, if...By all accounts, this film really is a dedication. Call it a celebration. At its core, the entire focused lens is on Steve McQueen. Well, as far as he can fill out the Jake Holman main character. McQueen, not only lends his lean flesh, and right from the opening scene the real man's actor flexes his muscles; and in the process he adorns the ordinary Navy midshipman with layer upon layer of all the right stuff.Glorious stuff that heroes are made of grace, make that courage under pressure, the willingness to act out of conviction. His 'I do give a damn' idealism is always on display. Foremost, McQueen as Holman, and always without hesitation backs the under dog even if that dog's form comes as a lowly 'coolie'; and at the risk of being ostracized by one's own peer group.Throughout the film, McQueen's rendition of the Jake Holman 'loner' persona was a joy to behold. His on screen performance was Oscar worthy. He alone is the film's tour de force. Why he didn't win one remains an enigma? I'm sure other McQueen fans share my same sentiments though also in disappointment. Because, in cinema, there is no better male thespian when it comes to handling props. Done correctly, a good prop man can give any screen shot the particular esoteric emphasis the director seeks; even to steal the spotlight. Be it staring down the barrel of a carbine after sighting his target or with a sturdy spanner at the ready in his grease stained hands, while listening attentively to the diesel engine for valve lash or to detect a worn main bearing on the U.S.S. San Pablo's refitted crankshaft, no one actor, past or present, is more adroit at getting his point across; and without sayin a word.Now that's exclusively Steve McQueen territory. And over the years, even the decades, since the Sand Pebbles release in 1966, so many have tried. However, the usurpers all failed. And in misery they all missed their mark. I'm not surprised. I'll even go out on the limb not one of the current crop even ranks as a contender. And none will ever attain the mantle of success that Steve McQueen enjoyed while playing the strong, silent types. Maybe that's cinematic justice... "},{"Title":"Probably was controversial in its time","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't claim to know anything about the history of the Sand Pebbles, and I only know a bit about the actual historical period it took place in, but I would imagine that this story made some people unhappy. It's set in a time in history where America was someplace it probably didn't belong, but of course, that didn't make the American soldiers in China villains.Set during the time of Western occupation of China in the early 20th century, the movie does its best to portray its subjects fairly, with nasty and kind Americans and cowardly, duplicitous, and noble Chinese. Nevertheless, it's hard to come away from this movie without seeing the racist mindset from which it comes. I don't mean this as an insult, necessarily, as a piece of film history it can only be judged by the standards of its time. As a piece of entertainment, however, its moral discoveries that the Chinese are perfectly capable of learning how American technology works! and they're just trying to get ahead, look how reasonable they are when they can speak English well! are basically the stuff of children's cartoons these days.These flaws and the awkwardly antisocial nature of Steve McQueen's character make the first two-thirds of the movie drag in parts, no matter how good the production values are (they're very good). That still isn't quite enough to drag down a very strong ending, however, where the path the movie takes manages to keep you guessing until the very end. "},{"Title":"An Old Classic","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yearning for an old movie is an addiction that has to be fed. This movie made in 1966 was an epic then and is now. Crenna as captain was a great perf. Steve Mcqueen as a brooding,distant,remote and loner seaman is just remarkable. Robert Wise as the director tried hard to put some old fashioned romance as in Sound of Music with Candice Bergen as Shirley, but he failed since there was no chemistry between them and Bergen's acting was lousy. Most of the Epics have one thing common-the background score. This movie won nominated for Four Oscars. For the current audience the movie is drawn out but the '60s was the greatest period for movies since there were no VHS,DVD or streaming and the movie stars like Steve Mcqeen were larger than life and watching the movie with the sterophonic sound in the theaters was a treat. "},{"Title":"A forgotten epic?","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a terrific film that often seems to be left out of great movie lists. Notice how it fails to crack the top 250 on this site, while at the same time poor films like There Will Be Blood, V for Vendetta, and others dot the list. Steve McQueen gives one of his finest performances as Jake Holman, a sailor at odds with the rest of the crew on a tiny gunboat stationed off the China coast in the 1920s. The cast is well-rounded, the locations very authentic, the acting superb, and the story engrossing. This is just what an epic should be...Our story takes place during the tumultuous period between world wars and in a rapidly changing China. Nationalists, Communists, and war lords battle for control while foreign dignitaries are put at grave risk. This was a time of what was known as gunboat diplomacy for the United States. These tiny craft resembling riverboat casinos of today are put in harms way as their crew begin to feel the wrath of the Chinese who are tired of foreign interests dominating their country. Jake Holman arrives to the San Pablo hoping to just man the engine below decks and keep out of people's way. He is kind of an anti-social anti-hero that McQueen could play so well. To Holman's dismay, he finds that Chinese coolies are expected to do all the manual labor on the ship, and they want no part of him working on the ship's engine. No sooner does Holman arrive when the engine has trouble and a boss coolie is killed trying to fix it. Holman is then forced to train another man how the engine works, and the two become friends, further alienating Holman from the white sailors on board. All the while tensions are brewing on land, and the crew soon finds themselves help in a state of siege for an entire winter. The water in the channel being to shallow for them to move to a safer port or out to sea.Of course there are romantic concerns that cloud things, too. Holman falls for Candice Bergen who plays a teacher. She and the missionary she works for are in grave danger, but seem to think they can just denounce their American citizenship and not be harmed. Ha! Holman's best friend on the San Pablo, played by Richard Attenborough, falls for and impregnates a local hostess of a bar. This increases the tension as it looks like the Chinese will over-run the ship at any moment. The ship's captain is played by Richard Crenna. He tries to come off as a disciplinarian, but once he's in his quarters we learn that he lets a lot of things go. The lack of discipline on the San Pablo is largely his fault. In the film's final hour, things turn violent and this engrossing drama becomes a somewhat compelling action film. The conclusion is certainly not by-the-book, and will leave you with plenty to mull over. Though few people today know about this film, its a great one. Definitely not to be missed. 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" First saw this movie in a top run theater in downtown Seattle in 1966 and, although long enough to warrant two (2!) intermissions, it was well worth the over three hour length. Have never seen a more gripping end to any movie in my life. Curious about a couple of awards... there is no mention of either Richard Crenna or Richard Attenborough, didn't they win Oscars for their performances, or were at least nominated? Seems to me they did... do not remember Mako even being nominated, although he certainly well deserved a nomination. Have this movie on DVD now & watched it just the other night, still good although not as good as in wide screen theater, especially the scenes of the gunboat on the river and the unforgettable final shootout at the mission (fort?). The movie actually covers a period in American military history that certain people would like to forget, that of imperialistic power plays brought about by a philosophy of keeping up with the British, French & Spanish in the far east, a lot of the older Chinese still remember this period with great disdain. Steve McQueen's best & greatest role, without a doubt... Richard Crenna, Richard Attenborough and Candace Bergen were also fantastic and the story line was both believable and attention riveting. Movies with engine room scenes like this one along with The Enemy Below, Das Boot, Tora Tora Tora, even Titanic have a certain fascination with an audience that allows them sometimes to be longer than usual. In conclusion I believe this movie should rate higher than the 7.5 given it by IMDb, "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen Under-rated!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this may not have been Steve McQueen's best role, it was the one for which he was nominated for the academy award. He is truly wonderful in this film as is Richard Crennas and the entire supporting cast. Steve never received the critical acclaim many of his fans thought he deserved during his lifetime, and I think his anti-establishment persona may have had a lot to do with that.I would highly recommend this film for anyone who has seen Steve McQueen in other films and would like to see him in a very different role.Gigotu "},{"Title":"The REAL MAN for all seasons.","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" As we celebrate prestige films during this Oscar season that you haven't yet seen, we should remember that there are films that every man show see more than once. There is more to life than Talladega Nights and Knocked Up.This war film, which had eight Oscar nominations, fits nicely between From Here to Eternity and Apocalypse Now. There is so much to think about along with great action, that you will miss key moments on your first viewing. I guarantee it. There is a good argument that the nomination for Best Picture should have resulted in a win.This is Steve McQueen's only Oscar nomination and it should have definitely resulted in a win, as this is the definitive Steve McQueen film. He shows more strength and character in this film that most actors of today and established himself as a REAL MAN.Mako was nominated for a Supporting Actor Oscar. I have a hard time choosing between he and Richard Crenna for the best supporting performance. Both were way more worthy than any other nominees.All of the artistic notes in this film - cinematography, sound, music, art direction - were superb. William Reynolds did an outstanding job of editing this 179 minute film so that there was never a lag and the action was all smooth and essential.Four-time Oscar winner Robert Wise did an outstanding job of putting it all together to make a film that stands the test of time and, despite being set in 1920s China, is just as relevant to what is happening in the Middle East today. "},{"Title":"Intense, hard hitting, pessimistic","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" So often you hear that Hollywood ran out of steam in the sixties, and some of Robert Wise's movies of that period are in those comments directly connected to the alleged overall decline in quality. So Wise's hard hitting, pessimistic Hollywood mainstream movie with its profound moral messages may amaze many. I don't know the history behind the making of The Sand Pebbles. To me it seems to be a scantily veiled early comment against the Viet Nam war. There are distinct similarities with Apocalypse Now! In my opinion The Sand Pebbles has the far better script and the better acting of the two.A deep sense of futility and disorientation surrounds the nutshell of American territory that floats on one of those huge Chinese rivers around the year 1920. On board, national values are reduced to uniforms, Navy codes and rituals - as opposed to principles. Somehow the crew (not conscripts but professional soldiers) should enforce law and order, but they are surrounded by huge masses of people they don't know how to deal with. Their boat gets overrun with Chinese helpers who make the crew's life easy and comfortable but who also ask for their share of power and influence. A feeling of doom and depravity hangs over the whole general situation, a sense of confusion prevails, and very early on you know that the peace keeping mission - of course it was not called that at the time the movie depicts - is impossible and that the main characters are headed for disaster. Wise got very good performances out of his actors. Not only from Steve McQueeen who delivers a solid characterization of a seasoned sailor, Sir Richard Attenborough and Emmanuelle Arsan are equally memorable as ill matched lovers. The deepest impression however leaves Richard Crenna &#150; a truly great actor - as the commander of the boat who wants to go strictly by the book (not unlike Col. Nicholson in The Bridge on the River Kwai) and is confronted with the limits of this strategy. In this movie high principles lead to nothing and heroic acts at best to a merciful but ultimately futile death. The reason for all this wrong time, wrong place. Definitely not a movie for positive thinkers. "},{"Title":"Great Movie - Steve McQueen's finest hour","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love the music that is so reflective in this underrated sleeper, filmed on location in Taiwan and Hong Kong. Inside this delicate war epic lies a touching love story that is one of the best and most honest I have ever seen. The acting is good all around, especially Steve McQueen who is absolutely perfect as the lonely sailor who is torn between duty and conscience. His eyes and facial expressions say so much that you want to know more about his character. McQueen exudes a sadness that is very appealing.My only gripe is the way the sailors talk to the Chinese coolies. But I guess the director wanted to keep the movie authentic because this was how people talked back then. Because of this, the movie feels slightly outdated. However, all is forgiven because of McQueen's gentle and sympathetic performance.It is one of those movies that have an inner, quiet beauty, and it is perfectly captured by the romance between Steve McQueen and Candice Bergen.This is one of my favorite movies. "}{"Title":"The Perfect Movie","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never really cared for writing reviews but this film was so perfect and so well done I don't think anyone could have made it any better today, but perhaps they could take away some of its smaller weaknesses with editing and I watched the 174 min cut so I felt like I was missing something but still perfect and still my new favorite movie. Its easier to say everything thats wrong with it than saying everything else so heres its weaknesses The Intermission, a little irritating but doesn't really count, the only other this is that the music is a little high during a fight seen and it didn't match that good but this is such a small mistake that it can't even be called one, its simply a lesser perfect thing about athree hour long movie. I know people don't have the same taste but I think there's something here for almost anyone. Watch it!!! "},{"Title":"A romantic and tragic epic","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is one of the first movies that I saw from before I was born that really had an effect on me, back in the 80s when I saw it on VHS. Returning to it now I see that it wasn't just my youthful innocence that made this seem like a great movie -- it really is a powerful piece of cinema, full of complex characters, intense drama and thrilling suspense.Maybe it's just a coincidence because one of the other films I remember seeing at a young age was Cool Hand Luke but this movie does remind me of that classic, especially the masculine camaraderie in the locker room and the whole sequence with betting (in Luke on the egg-eating contest and in Pebbles on the boxing match). Not saying it's a bad thing, just taking note of maybe a style of the times. These are both films that James Dean could have appeared in if he had lived -- they tap into the same rebel without a cause vibe that became so much more pervasive after his death. McQueen is fantastic though, just as good as Dean would have been. There's a quality of hesitation, fear of getting too close to others or revealing too much about himself, in his performance that I find very effective.The story does get a little bit predictable (who out there didn't already know the missionaries would refuse to leave China?) but it's a very effective drama. The most intense part of the movie for me is the character of Po-Han, played by Mako. His friendship with Holman (Steve McQueen) and his tragic death are really effective, a way of showing us how Holman opens up his soul to others only to have it crushed and thrown back at him by the forces of nature.I think this is very much an anti-establishment film but it sends its messages in relatively subtle ways, not through speeches or dialog but just through the relationships between the characters. First of all there's a cumulative effect to watching the absolutely pig-headed way that some of the sailors (particularly the ones played by two of my favorite character actors, Simon Oakland and Joe Turkel) treat the Chinese. In the early parts of the film Holman uses racist slang and goes to that place they like to go with the rest of them, and he never gives a speech to tell us that his attitude has changed but we can see it in the way he treats Maily (Emmanuel Arsan) and Frenchy (Richard Attenborough). To see that more we could contrast Holman's friendship with Po-Han with his antagonistic relationship with Captain Collins (Richard Crena). At the beginning of the film Collins says that Holman has good marks on his service record -- in everything but leadership. He forces Holman to train Po-Han because he does not want his sailors to do manual labor; he wants the Chinese to do it all. Everything about Collins is status quo, don't rock the boat. Crenna's performance is magnificent, particularly after the diplomatic/military situation deteriorates and the pressure mounts. Starting with Po-Han's death, Collins reveals a self-destructive inability to take the necessary course of action coupled with an unreasonable pride that takes precedence over every sane and decent impulse and leads him into a battle that he did not need to fight. In every case, from Po-Han to the rescue of the missionaries, it's finally up to Holman to take real action. To me that says something about the message of the movie -- Collins is more concerned with honor and duty than with really helping the Chinese people. The things that the missionaries say about the imperialists ring true to how we've seen him act in the film. He's not an absolute pig like Simon Oakland's character, but maybe he's even more dangerous.I'd like to point out before I run out of space the extreme technical quality of this film. Wise was always a good director with good material and this was his last really great film IMHO. Photographer MacDonald also did some of his best work here -- this film just cries out to be seen in 70mm. I love how he photographed Crenna against that stark red white and blue background when he gives his big speech. And Jerry Goldsmith's music is really some of his best here as well, enabling the film to shift from its more romantic and sentimental episodes to the sweeping action with ease.I'd also like to praise the acting in general. I'd love to see Candice Bergen in more roles like this. A lot of times the romantic aspects of a film come off as fluff but she really held up her side of the film; you can really believe that she's an essentially good person though perhaps a bit sheltered or naive, that she thinks she knows how to help the Chinese people but unlike her mentor she doesn't judge others. Also the film is full of top character actors, like Oakland and Turkel plus also James Hong as an underworld type, Attenborough's tragic sailor in love, Mako's self-conscious and intelligent Po-Han, Charles Robinson's enthusiastic young ensign. Every performer was perfectly cast and along with Wise they created memorable characters both big and small.I'm so glad I watched it again; it's an emotional film that earns the emotions it asks us to feel and pays off on them with a heartfelt but subtle message of pacifism, of human decency and love winning over ignorance and pride. I wouldn't hesitate to say it's a great film. "},{"Title":"What happened to this gem....","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happened to stumble across this gem of a movie on AMC recently, and they showed it complete without adverts - surely a first for American TV!!I was totally unaware of the film, even though it garnered a number of Oscar nominations.  Steve Mc Queen & David Attenborough are superb, with great support from Candice Bergen & a neurotic Richard Crenna.  The juxtaposition of personal turmoils alongside the upheaval in China at the time (the 1920's) makes for fascinating viewing.  Unsentimental and unexpected, though the ending is inevitable.Go see! "},{"Title":"A most unexpected epic in its day.","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had the rare thrill of first seeing The Sand Pebbles in a first-run Times Square theater in New York. Their massive screen delivered all the scenic wonder and power of the film with unparalleled effectiveness. I sadly remember that the initial critical reaction included a lot of less than whole hearted approval. This was a complete mystery to me as the film had such an enormous impact on me at that time. Most of the big epics of the time were based on far more predictable material so that you walked in with clear expectations about the story you were about to experience. This one may have been too unusual and unexpected for many, and its political overtones may have worked against it at a time when the disastrous nature of our military adventure into Vietnam was not yet clear to most of the country. All the same it seemed to me that the subtle, treatment of the controversial issues, deftly integrated into the action and human drama should have made the production very palatable to viewers of varying political biases.For those who have commented here on the failure of the Academy to award McQueen's marvelous performance with a well-deserved Oscar, it should remember that many of the forces of Old Hollywood still had a lot to say about such things in those days. At that time, the old-schoolers still viewed Steve McQueen as some sort of biker- rebel/outsider. Such prejudices make it difficult for inflexible minds to take in the true genius of new talent. It may also be noted that this performance has a feel of such naturalness that it is very easy to underestimate the skill and artistry that went into it. Much of the time, McQueen simply seems to be Holman and vice-versa. This is much like what Spencer Tracy did so well for so long. Oscars usually go to flashier, more stylized acting. "},{"Title":"Great Movie For It's Time and This time","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" My wife and I looked at this movie last night and it seemed so appropriate for today.We still interfere with other countries and act as if we are the world police. I love the way the natives transformed from smiling Koolies to intelligent political equals. I also so saw the irony of how the men gave their responsibilities away to leisure and allowed their future enemies to do them. McQueen was superb in this one. I must say I do get tired of his acting styles sometimes but on the most part it's quite effective. The way he uses props as if they communicate more than a clever line could. Even though this movie spoke out against racial inequality, I still think the last stand to defend Bergen's character's honor was a testimony of the fact that Americans are more shocked when a white American female is in jeopardy than when any other type is. They worried about her getting raped more than anything else. Still, the last line was great. The cinematography was stunning to realize that 1920's China was recreated in Taiwan with thousands of extras. I did notice an occasional extra being used for two different roles. Over all this is a great tale. It's ironic that Robert Wise's style worked on three films with different themes. Sound of Music, West Side Story, and this one which were all done fairly close to one another. My wife kind of noticed the sets felt like SOund Of Music. Attenborough also played in The Great Escape with McQueen and they seemed like old friends from the start. My favorite line was when McQueen introduced himself to the engine. Paul Newman was the first actor chosen for the role. I am sure he would have been given the Oscar. McQueen was born for this role and he deserved the Oscar although he didn't get it. "},{"Title":"A Bellyful of Jonah","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" They don't make 'em like this any more, and I'm not surprised. This film is so solemn and earnest it makes you feel mean docking just one star. I can't squeeze out more than four, however. Lugubrious would be another word to describe it; in other words, dead slow and gloomy as a funeral. Here come the spoilers everyone dies, except one sweet young lady, and there isn't a single laugh or amusing moment in the whole three hours. The Captain contemplates suicide, but gets himself heroically killed instead. Steve is one serious, virtuous sailor, whose buddies see him as a bad-luck Jonah. He does have one friend though, Dickie Attenborough, cast as an American called Frenchy, which is a really strange and exceptionally unconvincing part for this chubby little Englishman to play. Frenchy suddenly dies --- of pneumonia, would you believe. This is an unusual way to go in a war film.I hadn't ever heard of this film before it arrived as part of a four-disc packet featuring McQueen's movies. The three others were rather more famous. As my father was an RN officer for 30 years, who'd served in a British cruiser on the China station during the late 1920s, early 1930s, and had seen action against Chinese pirates of that era, I was interested in the subject matter. It still wasn't clear to me exactly what the background politics were, in spite of the lengthy conversations, and I'll have to go back to reading my father's Midshipman's Logbook.One thing is very clear, which is that McQueen loves his engine. He spends a lot of time stroking and fondling it. Otherwise, there is no sex in this film; and certainly no bad language. McQueen very nearly says crap in the young lady's company, at one point. I don't object to this, and feel that modern films might cut out some of the sex and swearing without suffering any disadvantage. But I am still left with a sense that what Steve almost said almost sums this movie up. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was worth the three hours it takes to watch it. It has a wonderful story, little bit of history, romance, and enough action to fill every need for any moviegoer.McQueen I believe gives one of the best performances of his life in this movie alone. Every actor in this movie put in 110% a piece. This is not only a movie but a great experience for the human mind.It shows the hardship during that period of time in China along with what the service men had to endure with that part of history.The ending is sad, but the movie could not have survived without it. Only thing I wish, was, there was a sequel. "},{"Title":"One of Steve McQueens Finest Hour's","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Sand Pebbles (1966) Is Another Of Robert Wise's Masterful films that feature's Steve McQueen, And The Great Escape's Co-Star Richard Attenborrough, Steve McQueen, Star's as Jake Holman,a sailor in the navy in turbulent china 1926, Mcqueen is a loner whose passion is boat engine's and is assigned to the 'San Pablo's Engine room, The sailors refer this ship as the 'Sand Pebble's'(Hence The title, Mcqueen and company are assigned to rescue the missionaries who are stationed there. Mcqueen falls for the lovely Shirley Eckhart( Candice Bergen in her debut role) At it's time of production, It's a clever allegory of the soon to be raging Vietnam war at the time, Richard Crenna,also star's As the Stoic Captain of the vessel, American Japanese, star Mako, put's in a great role he almost steals the film he plays an eager to please, 'Coolie' whom Mcqueen, look's out for and shows him the ropes. 'The Sand Pebble's Is A great film! which is essential viewing For any Steve Mcqueen, Fan. Viewing is also essential in it's Cinemascope 2.35.1 Widescreen, just avoid it if it's not widescreen as this ruins the overall effect "},{"Title":"Sometimes the Indians win","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It would be 10 if it weren't such a huge movie to digest..All 3 hours of Sand Pebbles was featured on the History Channel. It was quite an important, if more somber movie than Flower Drum Song about Asians and Americans. It was directed by Robert Wise who also did the more popular West Side Story and the Sound of Music. Filmed in Hong Kong and Taiwan, it was set on the gunboat San Pablo which protected American interests in China while forces gathered to expel the western powers which dominated China. As the film alternates between downtrodden Chinese heathen savages and racist American jerks, I was often split between cheering and booing both the Chinese and the American sailors.The film came out in 1966 as the Americans were ramping up involvement in Vietnam. The current mess in Iraq and Afghanistan came to mind when American sailors marching back through the city are turned back by Nationalist troops, and were pelted with garbage tossed by angry mobs. As with movies about General Custer and Blackhawk Down, there is a limit to what a few serviceman can do when you are surrounded by lots of people who want to hurt you.The troubled hero Jake Holman is played by Steve (Lightning) McQueen. It seems for this guy that no good deed goes unpunished. He finds the Navy ship is actually run by Chinese coolies who do the dirty work for peanuts, but insists on working on the engines himself. When Holman tries to fix a broken part, the Chinese engineer is crushed in the giant piston. Po-Han played by a young Mako is trained as a replacement. Holman sticks up for Po-Han against a bully, and sets him up to win in a prize fight against his tormentor. Frenchy uses the money to pay for the freedom of a Chinese hooker (Why does every movie about westerners in Asia revolve around the oldest profession??) She was played by Thailand-born Eursian Emmanelle Arsan who was infamous for her novel about exploring her sexuality in France. Jame Hong, who seems to be cast in every American movie with a Chinese part, is the pimp who loses his bet. But Frenchy dies of cold in bed with her and her former associates find and kill her. Po-Han gets kidnapped and tortured by a communist mob, and begs McQueen to shoot him, which he does.More Americans get shot as the gunboat boarding party wipes out a blockade of junks manned by the very boys educated at the missionary school. When they arrive to rescue the missionary, he decides to stick by the Chinese who then shoot him anyway. The skipper and McQueen get shot holding off the bad guys I was home. What happened? What the hell happened?  The remaining sailors and Candace Bergen slip away, and we last see the boat steam away to freedom. Of course after that, China descends into a living hell, embraces communism, and by the 21st century becomes lead-contaminated toymaker to the world infamous for ThomasTank engine recalls and killer tires.(this review to be printed in Asianweek.com 2/2008) "},{"Title":"Has it been 40 years?","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw and experienced Sand Pebbles with the love of my life at the elegant decadent Fox Wilshire at the age of 20. It has been a long time since 1966, many things changing while many stay the same. We are still in wars, occupying countries, subjugating people around the world to our brand of democracy and life, yet love is the element best shown in this story. To attain love during war and in faraway places is perhaps the most difficult path.Being a Vietnam War draft dodger at the time,I explained in a letter to the head of Selective Services (draft board), I would gladly serve my country but not at this time. Then seeing this movie jolted my senses of why many think of us as the Ugly American.The movie's anti-war sentiment and colonialism history was overpowered by Holman's (Steve McQueen) love for the missionary daughter (Candace Bergman). The power of this movie while setting next to my own love, the film score, the drama, tensions and ultimate tragedy was an emotional high to be remembered forever. "}{"Title":"3 hours of what??","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"18 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the Sand Pebbles the other day, and I can't help thinking I was sort of gypped in some way. This is clearly a movie that is confused with itself dragging along the audience for the ride. Steve Mcqueen stars as a sailor-for-life who is transferred to a ship patrolling the Chinese waterfront that has it's own set of rules and hires a lot of the local help so that the sailors can slack off all day. While this is going on, tiny subplots, such as RIchard Attenborough's character falling in love with a peasant girl, and Mcqueen training a new engine room captain are mixed in, with lukewarm results. You honestly don't care for these characters, and I can imagine after the first half, which concludes without really any suspense, many people walking out figuring they've seen enough.Steve Mcqueen truly is wasted, Mako and Richard Attenborough pull themselves off all right, and RIchard Crenna probably is the best actor of all four. Finally, I want to end this off by talking about Candice Bergen's performance, which is one of the WORST acting jobs I've seen, bar none (and I've seen Joi Lansing in 'Hillbillys In A Haunted House'!) The one expression she can't get past is doe-eyed, and her acting capabilities are slim to none. This film is not bad-it's funny bad, just bad as they could've done a lot better bad. "},{"Title":"Revolting!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Revoltingly racist and INACCURATE depiction of the Chinese.When I happened to catch it on tv, I thought the setting in China was interestingly rare and decided to watch.  I was shocked at the portrayal of the Chinese.The Chinese, coming from a history of great culture and one of the cradles of civilization, are a proud people.  They would not have fawned over the Americans.Did they really call euro americans master?  Ridiculous.  I guess this means the United States cultural history can add Asians to the list of media images excoriated along with African Americans.  My, how fragile some people's egos are, to have to lower others in order to feel good.Mcqueen and the other actors do a good job of acting.  Otherwise, this film is a boring and inaccurate portrayal of that time period. "}]