[{"Title":"It's hard not to like this movie.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Say 1960's British comedy movie and already some people are thinking of impossibly mod dialogue, dated images and an obsession with pop and quick sex.  This movie shouldn't work but it does.  Try pitching a concept of an insane young communist obsessed with gorillas and unable to come to terms with the break up of his marriage to today's Hollywood executives and you'd get thrown out of their offices.  But it is genuinely funny and sad, it's well directed and you can't speak highly enough of David Warner in the lead role.I've always thought that Warner is at his best when his seemingly unsympathetic characters engender some sympathy.  The retarded man in Straw Dogs, the jaded Captain in Cross of Iron, the put apon conscript in The Bofors Gun to name but a few.  Morgan is his ultimate portrayal of this type of character. "},{"Title":"So good it's my part of my e-mail address","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A film that acheives what it sets out to be. It is an immature and unreasonable storyline that takes no account for anyones feelings but those of our hero, Morgan... But 1966 was a time of big brush strokes, not subtle pointers. Most of the situations and characters are cardboard and stereotypical, but done with a sense of style and flair that allows you not to get bogged down in it all. When at the end of the film, the seemingly battered and beaten Morgan still has the clenched fist of rebellion, it's time for a hot cocoa and then off to bed clutching Das Kapital in your rebellious mitts, with a wistful smile on your face for the simple values of yesteryear, when it was good versus evil. I gave it 9 0ut of 10. Very watchable and great fun "},{"Title":"Morgan - A Suitable Case For Treatment (Karel Reisz, 1966) ***","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've always had something of an ambivalent attitude towards the British Swinging London films of the 1960s sometimes I enjoy their creative technique and anything-goes approach, while other times I find their brashness exasperating and extremely dated. Actually, MORGAN is now among the films I've revisited the most among them (more by accident than design) which has led me to toy with the idea of compiling a list of titles from that era - comprising above all films I've watched only once, or not at all, but also those which I haven't checked out in ages (some of which are in my endless DVDs To Watch pile).Anyway, the film itself is certainly one of the most engaging of the lot basically an update of the typical Hollywood 'screwball comedy' formula, with one member of a divorced couple disrupting the new marriage plans of the other, though here we don't get the conventional happy ending. Reisz was, along with Lindsay Anderson and Tony Richardson, one of the founding members of the Free Cinema movement; though he started at the very top with Saturday NIGHT AND Sunday MORNING (1960), the rest of his career was rather spotty with MORGAN being perhaps its closest in quality - even if the unflinching realism of the former had, by this time, given way to irreverent comic fantasy!While the plot is somewhat thin and the lead character's pranks to reclaim his wife become repetitive, the film's hectic pace never wavers; stylish, amusing (particularly when dealing with Morgan's Communist background and his obsession with gorillas!) and bolstered by John Dankworth's playful score, it's delightfully enacted by the three principals - David Warner (the role of his life), Vanessa Redgrave (the recipient of many accolades, including a surprising Best Actress Oscar nomination) and Robert Stephens - none of whom are typically associated with slapstick (though David Mercer's script also offers perceptive comments about the painful consequences of a broken marriage). "},{"Title":"An off-beat film for an off-beat actor","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  David Warner is, to my mind, one of the most gifted actors working in films today.  He is able to take just about any role in just about any film and invest it with life and interest.  In fact, he is the sole reason to ever want to see a great number of films.  That said, Morgan is a treat because it's one of the few films where Warner gets to play the lead.  He doesn't get the girl and he's stark raving mad throughout, but he's still the lead.This film is very much of its time, but it's still quite enjoyable. Morgan's anarchist antics are always unpredictable and sweet in a psychotic kind of way.  And considering the main character's obsession with gorillas, it's interesting to see the film now in light of Warner's appearance in Tim Burton's remake of Planet of the Apes.  Must have felt like deja vu to him.Recommended for David Warner fans and people who like their comedies a little off-kilter.  "},{"Title":"A Lot of MORGAN Comes Across as Anachronistically as the Hammer & Sickle He Insists on Placing Everywhere!","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ........................................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via L.A. CA...and ORLANDO, FLMovies That Stand the Test of Time is a list I recently compiled... Morgan WON'T be on it! Granted, the basic concept is starkly original, with outstanding performances by both David Warner and Vanessa Redgrave (In her first leading screen role!) There are a few savagely funny lines and bits sprinkled throughout here and there. But on the whole, a lot of the film comes across as anachronistically as the hammer and sickle Morgan insists on drawing or carving everywhere.Also, the constant insertion of Keystone Cop Slapstick bits (Ala Hard Days Night) gets old really fast, especially since most of them fall flat. And my biggest gripe I saw this movie 3 times at age 18 and 19, during its theatrical release and I clearly recall footage (1 minute?) where a then VERY HOT Vanessa Redgrave was romping around the bedroom being chased in a state of semi-undress. The scenes managed to be simultaneously humorous and sexy (Very risqué in 1966, but not more than PG by today's standards!) These scenes were about the best in the film and the main reason I rented it. COMPLETELY EDITED OUT! Does anyone else recall them? Ironically, at the beginning, the British Cinema Board announces, This film is to be viewed only by Adults! On EXTRAS, watch the Original Trailer and you'll see a couple seconds of snippets of the bedroom romp scene that was edited out of the DVD release! You decide what you want to do with this one! 6* (Being a bit generous?) ....ENJOY//DISFRUTELA?!?!?Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are most welcome! KissEnglishPasto@Yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Worth a Closer Look","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I thought the movie hilarious in '66 and still do. Of course, I can see why social conservatives take offense since the movie basically mocks settled convention. For example, when a gorilla-clad Morgan crashes the wedding party, it's like the intrusion of primal instinct on all that's refined and holy. But even more troubling, movie communists are portrayed as almost likably human, instead of the usual weasels or monsters of Hollywood lore. For Americans, that took real getting used to then, and I expect still does.Reviewer screaminmimi is, I think, spot-on in her commentary. Still, I want to venture a perspective on Morgan's weird behavior since he's such a fascinating character, for me, at least. He's like a believer who's lost faith&#x97;he keeps the Marxist icons on his car, but in his heart no longer believes in the revolution. Instead, as the dialog indicates, the weight of mindless convention is crushing his sensitive nature. What's more, despair is really rubbed in when Leonie leaves him for the asinine Napier, the epitome of the unworthy, in Morgan's eyes, at least.So, having given up on politics and despising the conventional, he retreats into the fantastic, non-human world of the gorilla by taking on the alter-ego of the primitive, which he then uses to pursue his ex-wife. In Morgan's mind maybe Leonie will respond to the magnetism of the primitive by bellowing out his call. So he conducts his wacky efforts at winning her back by donning a gorilla costume, and we get some of the movie's loonier comedic set-ups.Consider also that great scene at Marx's bust in Highgate when the camera plays up the over-hanging brow and ape-like visage. Morgan responds with an ape-like grunt, which Mom construes as disrespect. It's not. In fact, with that grunt he's incorporated the political into his new primitive fantasy. It's only later on, atop the trash heap, when he's lost Leonie and given up his gorilla alter-ego, that the political suddenly reasserts itself and with a vengeance. At that point, he imagines himself executed by Marxist guerrillas, perhaps in guilt over not fulfilling the Leninist expectations others had for the young Morgan. Defeated in so many ways, he's now ready to be carted off to the loony bin, but not without a lingering spark.Of course, there's also Leonie, the trigger of his desperation. She's really torn since she responds to Morgan's rebellious nature, on one hand, but is used to the conventional comforts of her prosperous class, on the other. It's clear that she's attracted to him, but can't take living with such an unpredictable cuss. So she retreats back to the prospect of the conventional with Napier. Asked by Morgan, at one point, why she prefers the conventional, she's perplexed and can't really answer, as if she's never actually thought about it. So, not only does Morgan lose out to convention, he loses out to a bunch of rules for which there's no apparent reason.The movie itself is very much in the emerging hip style of the day. Director Reisz films in brash, take no prisoners fashion, unafraid of breaking the rules. His cast of Warner and Redgrave are perfect for their roles. She looks every inch the well-kept daughter and wife who occasionally likes to let her hair down, while he manages a complex role in persuasive fashion. To me, the comedy set-ups are funny as heck, though one might question the explosive set- up under the bed. Still, I take Morgan's assault on the upper-class as akin to the Marx Bros. irreverent brand of humor in the 1930's. In fact, some of his antics could be likened to Harpo Marx's absurd stage props at a time when the brothers wreaked havoc among that day's well upholstered.Sure, some of the cinematic style may look outdated. But neither the laughs nor the targets are. To me, they endure. After fifty years, Morgan is still an exceptional movie. "},{"Title":"Gorilla goes after the gorilla his dreams and goes ape.","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was funny as hell. David Warner is an ace-- a great comedic actor, and the entire cast should have received awards. All the ingredients for a great comedy were there-- gorilla suits, slapstick comedy at a wedding celebration involving a gorilla, the main character being insane-- what more could you ask for. I saw the movie on late night t.v. and I rolled out of bed laughing.An uncredited actor who also did an outstanding job in this movie was Billy Reil, playing the part of inspector Kowalski. It was especially funny when he thought the bad guy was heading for his office and he ended up konking his secretary over the head with a flower pot. "},{"Title":"Was I the only one...?","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I loved this movie when it came out. Haven't seen it since, so I'm operating from memory, but one of the strongest impressions I got from it (and even wrote a letter to Esquire disputing that magazine's review) was that Morgan was not psychotic. Eccentric, sure, but crazy like a fox, a sort of McMurphy for swinging England. My impression then was that everything around him and Leonie was out of whack, and that Leonie was more inclined to submit to the dominant cultural mishigas because the life of an eccentric's wife was too hard to take, as much as she loved him.I felt that the story challenged conventional notions of what is normal, and the normal that Morgan was an outsider to was insufferably stifling to the human spirit. My fellow IMDb commentator who recoiled from the weird politics of this movie, missed the point. Morgan wasn't a Communist. He was the son of Communists. He was a lot freer than any ideologue. The sight gag at the end of the picture is not about him being a Commie. It's about him being an outsider and a prankster to the core.I don't think the movie makes light of real mental illness. I think it skewers overly enthusiastic diagnoses of psychosis when someone's behavior is socially inconvenient. I don't know that I'd find an assessment of Morgan Delt as a harmless flake to be any more appropriate, in that it's still an incredibly patronizing view of the guy, but at least it wouldn't land him in the rubber room. Although, I found that last scene so encouraging in showing his ability to transcend institutionalization on his own terms.Thinking in terms of what would happen next if the movie were to continue, my biggest fear at the time was that institutionalization would eventually break his spirit. He reminded me of so many of my peers who were dumped in psych hospitals because their parents didn't know what to do with them. It was easier to call them sick than to deal with the real people they were. In that sense, this is a very '60's movie, because it seemed that the psych hospitalization rate was spiking among young people of that time.Yeah, you had to be there. And, indeed, how can you go wrong with a movie that has a Johnny Dankworth score? "},{"Title":"I guess you had to be there","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film produced that I guess you had to be there feeling more acutely, and painfully, than for any 60's movie I have ever watched. It is almost impossible to believe that (as the vintage trailer claims) Time Magazine called this Hilarious and poignant, the New York Times Howlingly funny, and the New Yorker Brilliant. I don't mind watching dated comic techniques (such as speeding up the film and music for a few seconds) so long as I can push my mind's eye back the appropriate number of decades and *imagine* how I might have reacted in 1966, or '46, or '26. I can smile at the places where an audience howled themselves to tears in an Abbot and Costello comedy. But the lame attempts at wit and slapstick in Morgan just left me slack-jawed in disbelief. Was it ever actually funny to watch a man act like a mere retardate, grinning ecstatically as he operates an electric can opener, imitating a gorilla in a subway station, and breaking things? At no point does any of this come across as eccentric or childlike behavior. It is simply annoying, and doubly annoying when Morgan's ex-wife responds, yet again, as though she were witnessing his infantilism for the first time.But perhaps I am missing a point which was obvious forty years ago. You could also say that David Warner is doing a pretty good job of portraying the self-conscious and highly calculated intrusions of an offensive creep. He is less beefy than the Robert Mitchum character in Cape Fear, but is precisely the same personality type. You expect everyone around him to recoil in disgust. Instead, the most we get is a huffy, Oh, you are simply insufferable! reaction. And then his spectacularly beautiful and wealthy ex-wife suddenly makes goo-goo eyes, for absolutely no apparent reason, and goes to bed with him. Aha! I would have said in 1966. This criminal mind is merely masquerading as a dolt with delusions of becoming a Karl Marx-worshipping gorilla, a peaceful animal that merely blusters violence. Aha again! He is actually a Marxist guerilla, a dirty fighter in a class war...Now I am thinking too hard. I am filling in the gaps where I am not laughing. I have no way of gauging the authors' larger intentions because their smaller dramatic and comic beats are indecipherable. In the middle of this Satire no one around Morgan does anything as realistically simple as changing the locks on the house doors.Morgan's antics are supposed to be wacky and impish but ultimately aimless and poignant. Yes, there is some sort of structure of comic/tragic insanity which is barely visible here. Unfortunately, that is all that is visible.I am so impressed by the un-funniness of this film that I would watch the whole thing again if it were shown split-screen alongside another movie showing a theater-full of people watching it in 1966. What, exactly, did they laugh at? At which gems of dialogue did they stroke their chins and nod their head to say, Fascinating point, and Very witty, indeed? This screenplay was first produced for television. England's film community found the material so compelling, so necessary, so... funny that they demanded it be remade for the big screen. It won BAFTA's and launched careers. Why? I guess you had to be there. "},{"Title":"Although a classic cult film of the 60's, this film, when studied properly, has its definite faults.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  David Warner is one of my favourite actors. He often appears in minor roles nowadays and gives the leads great support with his excellent performances, and his position down the cast list does enable him to be offered a wide range of characters. However, this has caused him to be one of the most underrated actors around today and unlike his English equivalents (John Hurt, Ian Holm, etc.) he has never been really appreciated enough by those outside the UK. It was with great interest, therefore, that I was given a chance to see one David Warner's first films after Tom Jones (1963), Morgan, A Suitable Case for Treatment, a film adapted from a television play by writer David Mercer, in which Warner takes for the only time in his career, the definite title role in a movie, starring alongside then-first-timer Vanessa Redgrave.Warner plays Morgan Delt, a barely sane man who has just had a divorce from his beautiful wife, Leonie (Redgrave), much to his secret dismay. As a consequence, Morgan begins to sabotage Leonie's second marriage to his former-best-friend Charles Napier (Robert Stephens), attempting various types of distractions which are characteristic of the man himself. He plays sounds from records to disturb the couple at dinner, re-wires Leonie's house, dresses up as a gorilla, and even plants bombs during a brief visitation from Leonie's mother. Soon he begins to dream, mostly about his obsession with gorillas but also of his mock execution, he believes himself to not only to be insane but also illegal.This depiction of madness, however, barely works at all, the adaptation of this story from television to screen being probably the main reason for it. The acting is fine, Redgrave is brilliant and Warner, perfectly cast for once in his career, is superb, the supporting cast are also impressive, including a nice cameo from actress Irene Handl as Morgan's mother, it's just that the film doesn't quite work. A Suitable Case for Treatment does have some hilariously funny moments which are highly memorable in fact, but the film as a general whole doesn't succeed. See it if you can, but expect some disappointment.     "}{"Title":"Dated","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was primarily interested in watching MORGAN A SUITABLE CASE FOR TREATMENT because it was the film that made David Warner famous, and I've enjoyed watching Warner's acting work over the years. Roles like the ones in STRAW DOGS and THE OMEN have made him one of those criminally underrated actors who really should have been as well known as the big shots.Sadly, this unworkable mental illness comedy must have been dated on release, although I understand it has a reputation as a cult film. I can't work out why. I don't mind stupid humour, and I actively like surreal humour, but the stuff that goes on in this film is random and pointless. Warner dresses up as a gorilla, wanders around a bit, smashes some stuff in his room, and goes on various escapades. In between there's a lot of dated dialogue in the form of cod psychological debates and the like. It seems to trivialise mental illness a lot and the execution is so poor it can't be taken seriously.It doesn't help that the film was shot in black and white, making it look cheap and old-fashioned; some colour would have better brought the decade to life. Warner does his best with the material, but the likes of Vanessa Redgrave seem stuffy and too focused on acting without feeling natural doing so. I did enjoy seeing supporting roles for the likes of Bernard Bresslaw, Irene Handl, and Graham Crowden, but that's just about all I got out of it. "},{"Title":"The birth of the New Left-being an adult sucks!","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In many ways this film is remarkable. The story is a classic love/convenience triangle. And helplessly jealous Morgan is cut out to be the big loser from the start. A working class hopeful and a painter, he is just not willing to become an adult and prefers to descend into lunacy instead. His attempts to win back his upper class ex wife, an insecure character herself, are childish and quixotic in nature and enlighten the basically sad story with slapstick moments. The acting is mostly very good. David Warner is sweet and unforgettable &#x96; why he was chosen to play so many villains later in his career remains a mystery to me. Vanessa Redgrave's Oscar nomination was well deserved. Irene Handl as Morgan's mother is also very good. She represents the family background with its Marxist tradition. Apparently her generation hoped that lads like Morgan would become the enlightened new leaders of their movement! Instead, her son is a good for nothing character, for him the emblems of communism are just a decor to shock the petty bourgeois. At the time this movie was made, it became chic again to be orientated toward the left. In China Mao started the Cultural Revolution, being a Red meant (in the West, at least) being unconventional, hip and somehow liberated. This romantic, pubertal New Left lasted more ore less until the genocide in Cambodia, then their supporters integrated themselves into the existing system or indulged in esoteric activities (or both). To me Morgan somehow represents the New Left which then emerged. "},{"Title":"Trotsky Goes Ape","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There aren't too many whimsical comedies with a Trotskyite sub text, so for that alone let us give thanks, but there's a whole lot more to enjoy here. Vanessa Redgrave for one, looking wonderful as the posh girl who dumps her eccentric husband in favour of stability, shows a real gift for light comedy, Karel Reisz's direction is always inventive and makes good use of inserts from King Kong and Tarzan, and then there's the world's most wonderful couple Arthur Mullard and Irene Handl.Warner's performance as Morgan depends how you feel about children who refuse to grow up, though he does become more sympathetic eventually. The Trotsky element comes from writer David Mercer, a renowned playwright and communist of the day and though class figures prominently in the film, it is never didactic. The screenplay is based on a TV play he'd wrote and in a unusual reversal of roles was watered down somewhat for the cinema. The ending turns into the full-blown surrealism that always threatened and there's a great, almost-last line from the Morgan himself I've gone all furry. "},{"Title":"Not really funny but still an enjoyable mod comedy","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As a comedy, Morgan isn't really funny. However, there's a certain inexplicable charm to the film that kept me amused. Its so consistently offbeat and quite unlike anything else I've seen. There are some negative things about it, in addition to not being that funny. When this was released, Morgan may have been seen as a free spirit. Viewing today, he comes across as irresponsible and not all that likable. I guess the filmmakers had rebellion confused with apathy.Fortunately, the sheer bizarre nature of the film more than compensated. The direction by Karel Reisz is innovative and this film probably makes the best use of stock footage I've seen. The pacing is a bit leisure but the film never really becomes boring. Also, the cinematography by Larry Pizer looks gorgeous. The film simply looks good.In addition to the talent behind the camera, Vanessa Redgrave turns in a great performance. Eventually, she becomes the protagonist as you don't really care what happens to either Morgan or her fiancé. Its good that shes a sympathetic character as opposed to a nag. Morgan hasn't aged well but is an enjoyable mod film that has gained quite the cult following. I didn't like it initially, but about half way through it had won me over. (7/10) "},{"Title":"We choose our skins. Sometimes we later regret that choice.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film cannot be spoiled; its value comes from experiencing the film itself. You could focus upon the plot of a man distressed by his former wife's remarriage, but the core of appreciation comes when the viewer, with Morgan, realizes that when we chose our skins, our outward appearance, we may mask even from ourselves our inner selves. We roar with laughter as Morgan flees in a burning gorilla suit, then discover real inner terror when he stops.It helps if one understands the references to Marx and the loose grip on reality evidenced by Morgan's mother, and by implication Marx himself, but the final scene, with one amazing image, sums up the film. "},{"Title":"Fun movie, Weird politics","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Bravo David Warner for his exuberant and unrestrained performance. He is desperate, driven, selfish, sensitive all at once. His affinity with animals symbolizes his continual acting on instinct. Bravo too to Vanessa Redgrave who believably shows that whackiness can co-exist with poshness.Sadly, the movie makes Morgan an earnest communist, and this has the effect of dating the film terribly. I strove hard to see the communism not as literal but as symbolic of Morgan's rebel nature, but doing this was an uphill climb. Within just a few years after this film was made, it became clear that communism could never mix with the gleeful artistic spirit that Morgan embodies, that in real life communism was soul-deadening and drab.But a movie need not be wholly believable or wholly good. Warner's performance alone makes this film a ride worth taking. "},{"Title":"Nearly 100% unfunny","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Four stars because even though I remember the '60s, I definitely was there. Morgan! was a hot ticket back then, said to be one of the most brilliant wacky satires ever filmed.The reason stylish and quirky direction, elegant and very fashionable Vanessa Redgrave, energetic David Warner, the exact opposite in looks and behavior of the Hollywood leading man.Unfortunately, that isn't enough to make a decent movie, though millions wanted to believe it was. The alleged humor isn't over-the-top, it's forced and artificial. There is nothing engaging about the title character he really is insane and potentially dangerous. His wife's love-hate relationship with him (make that amusement-hate) is not only inexplicable by reason, it doesn't even contribute to the plot (such as it is). It's just a circumstance that wants to wow you but doesn't. The Trotskyite-Stalinist feud between Morgan and his mom seems like another pointless gimmick, though I suppose making an English Communist the main character near the height of the Cold War was calculated to give the movie some kind of edgy, transgressive feel. Like most everything else here, however, it becomes tedious and annoying after the first fifteen minutes.If you can possibly stay awake, it probably means you're loving it. I doubt there's a middle ground.A few months after the premier of Morgan came the American Lord Love a Duck. It's got some serious flaws too, but if irreverent '60s, pre-hippie, madcap comedy-satire is what you want, I'd try that one. At least part of the time it's crazy fun. "},{"Title":"Morgan! is dated film with Swinging London backdrop","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Offbeat director Karel Reisz was behind the camera for some noteworthy films in his day including Saturday Night and Sunday Morning and The French Lieutenant's Woman. Unfortunately, his 1966 movie Morgan! isn't one of them. Its threadbare one-joke plot runs thin after a half hour and all that's left is some surrealism regarding the Marxists and a British fellow with a gorilla fixation. A young David Warner plays the title character. He's a fragile artist ready for a strait-jacket who's attempting to win back his ex-wife (Vanessa Redgrave before she became a communist) by acting like the lunatic he is. The highlight of the film is when he crashes her wedding ceremony (dressed up like a gorilla) to stiff-upper-lip Robert Stephens while their party guests have a collective fit. He then hops onto a motorbike while his costume's on fire and drives himself straight into the Thames. From there, the film quickly becomes a baffling amalgam of some Leninist babble coupled with a nonsensical and very staged mock execution. We then see Morgan led away and reappearing in an asylum for the insane tending to his hammer and sickle garden. His ex-wife also shows up (and pregnant) but it all may be just a figment of his lively imagination. How Ms. Redgrave secured an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress with this performance is a great Hollywood mystery that will never be solved. As for David Warner, he went on to a solid career, mostly as a character actor, and has carried on admirably in his profession despite this role. Needless to say, Morgan! did not make him an international star. Irene Handl is also in the cast as Morgan's mixed-up leftist/communist mother. With her parental guidance, it's no wonder he goes off the deep end. Maybe the point was that you have to be really crazy to be a communist. Viewers will find that you also have to be half-mad to sit through this entire movie. As for the Swinging London backdrop, it's about as exciting as Fresno on a bad day. Morgan! is a dated embarrassment to be seen by the curious only. "},{"Title":"It took me forty years to get around to viewing this...","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In 1966 when I lived in London I fully expected to see this movie. Many of my friends, especially the girls, were raving about it. Funds diverted to beer, or girls, deprived me of the chance. So it has taken me nearly forty years to actually see it. Thoroughly of the time, and yet it must have seemed so radical even then. I watched it as a chaser to Alfie (Michael Caine) and it was interesting to compare the styles of two icons of British female acting, Redgrave and Asher, in one evening. Both movies dealt with serious and potentially unattractive issues; adultery, abortion, promiscuity and mental illness and injected enough humor into the screenplay to keep ones attention the while. I am prompted to revisit Up the Junction and  A Taste of Honey with Rita Tushingham, another sixties icon. "},{"Title":"How Times - And We - Change","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Boy, did I love this movie in the Sixties when I was a left-wing radical college student. Everything about goofy Morgan (David Warner) was funny or likable or just plain cool, in a weird sort of way. This movie was so '60s with its mores and humor. If they had VHS tapes back then, I would have bought this in a heartbeat.When I began seriously collecting movies in the mid '90s, I was excited to see this again. Wow, what a disappointment. What was so great back then now looks so incredibly stupid. The film was so bad, and Warner was so annoying (hardly 'fab' anymore), I couldn't finish the film. I couldn't believe how incredibly inane this was and how much I used to like it. Like another '60s period piece, Easy Rider, it's amazing how differently we see things depending on our age and/or how we have changed culturally, politically or religiously. I wonder if Warner looks back at this film and cringes, too. "}{"Title":"Not for me!","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Karel Reisz directed Saturday Night and Sunday Morning which people went to see at the cinema in droves, and was enjoyed by many working class folk. Karel Reisz also directed Morgan A Suitable Case For Treatment which far fewer people went to see at the cinema, and I feel was much less appealing to the working class viewer. I suspect that those who did see it and found it a hoot, where most likely to be middle class lefties and students. Because I am neither a middle class lefty or have ever been a student, I didn't find it a hoot at all. In fact I found David Warner's character Morgan, extremely irritating and annoying, him being a grown man acting like a badly behaved child. Although, in todays world grown men acting like badly behaved children are sadly accepted by society and are not deemed to require treatment. The Inbetweeners for example. I watched Morgan again recently, and it was nice to see Irene Handl and Arthur Mullard. I like the nostalgia of 1960's British films (even rubbish ones like this)and enjoyed seeing a youthful fresh faced Vanessa Redgrave. This lady was the reason I took out a short lived subscription of The Workers Revolutionary Party newspaper, way back in the early 1970's. I always intended to go to one of their meetings in the hope I might meet her, but never ever got around to attending one. Morgan was certainly not for me. If I have to watch so called slapstick comedy such as this (minus the political stuff) then give me a Norman Wisdom film anytime. "},{"Title":"Morgan is not my cup of tea.","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Morgan! would be most appealing to those 21 and older who enjoy British humor and British films. In addition, this is a new wave movement type film and is different from previous British films. Morgan is not my cup of tea. British humor many times eludes me completely. I found the film totally pointless and a waste of my time. However, there are very few British film that I enjoy. I was lenient in rating this film hoping that someone might enjoy such a film. It is a crazy film. The movie is not a prime time type movie. At best, it is a rainy day afternoon type movie. Have a party. Have the movie as background noise. I really don't think anyone will be watching. "},{"Title":"Morgan Madness 1/2*","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What some men will go through in order to win their ex- wife back forms the basis for this 1966 film farce.David Warner gives quite a display as the rejected husband who shall resort to just about anything to get his recently divorced wife, Vanessa Redgrave, in a totally ridiculous Oscar nominated performance by her, to get her to return to him.Warner goes completely berserk in the film,wire tapping and doing all sorts of mayhem.Redgrave comes from a rich family and how she ever had married the Warner character, a pure bred Communist, is beyond me. Irene Handl as his mother is effective in attempting to understand his off- the-wall behavior.The picture just goes from one crazy routine to another and the emulation of King Cong by its end is most ridiculous at best. The ending at the asylum with the hammer and sickle, symbols of Communism is most appropriate. It's just that someone should have taken a hammer and sickle to the entire movie. "},{"Title":"I never really get British comedy, but this film works!","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I will say that this film had some boring parts for me. But over all I liked it. Vanessa Redgrave was charming as the ex-wife who still loves her crazy husband but wants a stable life...and yet she wants to roam free! Funny moments, great acting, good movie. A must see for anyone who can take British comedy.Warner shines in this film. It's most likely his greatest performance. Redgrave turns out another great one. Interesting fact, she was offered the starring role in Georgy Girl but turned it down to do this. Her little sister accepted the role and they were both nominated for Best Actress in the same year. "},{"Title":"Forty Years On","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was moderately charmed by 'Morgan' when I first saw it in 1966, partly because it afforded a (romanticized) view of Swinging London and it has its absurdist moments. Watching it again after 42 years, however, I was repelled by Morgan's vandalism and obsessive behavior--we would now call it stalking--and the seeming helplessness of the people he is determined to harass. Morgan's 'eccentricity' wears very thin very quickly, and he becomes tedious and offensive; in the end, one longs for him to be punished and suffer. Stuffed shirts like his nemesis Charles Napier are always cinema villains, but I found him sympathetic under the circumstances. Irene Handl, as always, is delightful as Morgan's long-suffering, class conscious, Marxist mum, and we see Vanessa Redgrave before her Madame DeFarge period. In the end, a waste of David Warner's considerable (comic) talents. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Hold Up Well","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this when it was new and I was a precocious child. I thought I understood books like Madame Bovary and War and Peace. And I thought this was a thrilling movie.Lo! These many years later, it seems annoying and juvenile. During this period, and for several years after it, people with mental illness were portrayed as heroes, as misunderstood, as charming and denied of their rights.The title character seems now like a royal pain. David Warner plays him well but what in the world is he playing? A Trotskyite who likes animals and acts like a destructive eight-year-old. Vanessa Redgrave is pretty and good but gives no real sense of the magnificence of her acting that we were soon to learn about.Only two years later, the same director presented her as the title character in Isadora. My memory of that is of a lovely movie, filled with beautiful music. (Morgan uses classical music well also, it must be said.) Of his American movies, I adore Sweet Dreams, which I saw three or four times in theaters and many more times on tape. And he produced the excellent This Sporting Life. I'll be honest, though I watched this all the way through but couldn't wait for it to be over. "}]