[{"Title":"The BEST of the DD films of the 60s!","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"38 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Simply the best of the Doris Day comedies of the 60s. Rod Taylor is handsome and romantic, Paul Lynde and Dom DeLuise are riotously funny as spies gone goofy. Lynde is especially effective in in satin. Doris Day is, well, on top of her game as the charming, virtuous, innocent and freckle-faced heroine--but lookout when she gets her revenge! The finale is hilarious and even more risqué than was usual for the sex farces of the sixties. Probably my favourite DD movie! I know the pairing with Rock Hudson is better known from the period, (Pillow Talk) but this one with Rod Taylor as her leading man has an extra edge of spoofy comedy that makes it stand out among the rest.  "},{"Title":"Lots of fun, and Doris Day, too!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"37 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've always loved this film; it's one of Doris' best and has a great opening song and sequence.  Doris plays a widow who works at NASA.  Rod Taylor plays a physicist who falls in love with her, and tries to get her to fall in love with him.  Arthur Godfrey plays Doris' father, who runs a glass-bottom boat in Catalina.  Some of the idiots at NASA decide that Doris is a spy, and there's lots of chases and red herrings as Paul Lynde (a security guard), Dick Martin (Rod's business partner), and Edward Andrews (playing a General), all try to unmask her.  Doris decides to beat them at their own game when she overhears a phone conversation, and outspy's everyone.  Paul Lynde gets to dress in a blue satin formal, and Rod finds Dick Martin and Edward Andrews in bed together! The whole thing is a real hoot, and you'll love those late 60's fashions and hairdo's.It's all a lot of harmless fun, and look quick for Robert Vaughn during the party scene!  "},{"Title":"A delight for fans of Alice Pearce, Paul Lynde, Edward Andrews,  et al","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This fast and wild James Bond spoof is not the usual Doris Day bedroom comedy of the 60s. It's different in that it has a bevy of talented comic actors in supporting roles, who all have their moments to shine.Paul Lynde in drag is sublime. He looks spectacular in a red bouffant wig and aquamarine satin gown, and is even more glamorous than Doris. They have a powder room scene that is hilarious slapstick.Alice Pearce recreates her Gladys Kravitz-type character from Bewitched and is wonderful as usual. It's her last movie role, unfortunately, as she died too young.A young Dom DeLuise has a funny scene that he does in pantomime. Dick Martin shows up with some good reaction takes, and the great character actor Edward Andrews is also in fine blustering form.The stars, Doris and Rod Taylor, are quite appealing, although looking a bit too mature for their fluffy romance. "},{"Title":"My favourite Doris Day Film","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was 17 when this film was released and having fallen in love with Doris Day when I was 11, I was first in the queue. It is a wonderful, wacky film of the mid sixties and Doris Day and Rod Taylor are perfectly matched. The story is a simple case of mistaken identity when Doris is mistaken for a spy at the space centre where she works and Rod Taylor is a scientist. The glass bottom boat of the title is run by her father and provides a seperate focus for the story. The title song and Que Sera Sera are beautifully performed and do not detract from the comedy element of the film. I am submitting this today as I have just seen the film again on TV and it has lost none of its charm.  "},{"Title":"frothy '60s comedy","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"25 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a warm, wonderful actress Doris Day is, what a knockout, what a screen presence. And just think, at the age of 42 (ancient by Hollywood standards in 1966) she was playing a desirable woman lusted after by several men. Glass Bottom Boat is a very '60s comedy in look and subject matter - the space age and spies. Taylor has invented a gizmo and when there's a leak from his project team, suspicion falls on Day, who works for the company and calls someone named Vladimir several times a day. Vladimir, however, is her dog, and she's calling him so he'll run around while the phone is ringing and get some exercise.The film is loaded with space-age gadgets. Taylor's computerized, motorized kitchen is great, complete with a floor-cleaning robot - wonder if the inventors of today's robot vacuum saw this movie. He also pilots his boat via a remote - but as he points out during a scene where the boat runs amok with Day inside, that needs further work.There's lots of slapstick and comedy support from Dom Deluise, Dick Martin, and Paul Lynde. Lynde, by the way, looked great in drag, and has some great delivery in his scenes. Some of the scenes, especially those of Deluise, had an improv feel. The late Eric Fleming, Clint Eastwood's boss on Rawhide, plays a CIA man. This was his last film; he drowned shortly afterwards. Rod Taylor, who, by the way, is younger than Doris Day, is effective as Day's romantic interest. Of note, radio personality Arthur Godfrey plays Day's father. There's also an appearance by Robert Vaughan as an homage to his Man from UNCLE character.Frothy fun, and Doris Day is always a delight. "},{"Title":"First-class slapstick and romance","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Is this Doris Day's best movie? Probably not, but it is one of her funniest and I laughed more here than at any of her bedroom comedies from this era. Fashionably advertised as a spy comedy--it's really not (there's one spy late in the film)--it features our Doris as a kooky widow with a menagerie of pets who spends her nights at school (some of her classes are ballet and map-making!) and her days as an aerospace tour guide. On the weekends, she dons a mermaid's tail and swims beneath her father's vessel. Doris is very down-to-the-earth here, never too-cute. I loved the warmly feminine feel she gives to the song Soft As The Starlight, and the lovely look on her face after Rod Taylor kisses her for the first time. The slapstick stuff is very raucous and noisy, but I laughed out loud when Paul Lynde followed Doris into the ladies room dressed in drag, or when Doris makes a date with two different men for a romantic evening, and the men are the ones who end up (innocently) in bed together. Dick Martin says to Edward Andrews, Do you wanna meet early and pick out the furniture? An exceptionally smart bauble breezy, plushly-made and essentially brainless, but it makes for a great couple of hours. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Supporting cast highlight Tashlin spy spoof","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Director Frank Tashlin tries to do for Doris Day what he did for Lucille Ball (Miss Grant Takes Richmond), Bob Hope (Son of Paleface), and Jerry Lewis (Who's Minding the Store, many others) casting her in a comedy full of cartoonish color, gadgets, and slapstick.  Not surprisingly Tashlin started as a director of Warner Brothers cartoons, moved into live action as a gag writer and became one of the most stylish directors of comedies.  In many of his films Tashlin's world is full of out-of-control vacuum cleaners, remote control appliances, and a struggle to cope with the fast pace of modern civilization.  In The Glass Bottom Boat (the title is misleading, the Catalina Island attraction is around just for the opening number) Tashlin pokes fun at the spy genre (most notably The Man From U.N.C.L.E. which was a popular TV show at the time).  Rod Taylor is Day's romantic interest and the intellectual and corporate head of an aerospace corporation.  He lives in a dream house with resort-style guest rooms, a futuristic kitchen, and a foyer that seems to go on forever.  Doris Day plays an employee at his company who is mistaken for a spy by everyone but Taylor.  Actually she is a widow who lives with her dog (he has a Russian name which adds to the confusion of her being a spy), some fish, and mockingbirds.  The mockingbirds are tied into the title song which is sung to the tune of Mockingbird.  (At least one professional critic missed the purpose of the Mockingbird song that's why I'm bringing it up.)  Taylor and Day have pretty good chemistry but the story is more about the chase so we don't see much romance.  Instead Tashlin prefers to tie the story together with slapstick scenes such as Hi-Fi installer Dom DeLuise and Day getting their feet stuck in a trash can, Day being chased by a robotic floor sweeper, and Day in a runaway (remote control) speed boat.  These are signature pieces for Tashlin and he does a good job with them but Doris Day seems a bit out of place.  Slapstick requires the actor to fill in the time with quick broad expressions and physicality.  We think of a physical actress like Lucille Ball trapped in a glass shower filled with water and drawing laughs from her expressions and cries.  In a similar scene with an automatic floor sweeper Doris Day just seems to be there letting the antics on stage play itself out.  In another scene she's virtually hanging on in an out-of-control speed boat.  We can imagine Jerry Lewis changing expressions every half second and flipping on his back every two.  Tashlin's skill makes the scenes funny, but they are not as hilarious as when cast with a physical clown.  Day does a lot better in the quieter romantic comedy scenes and is given incredible support by a never-ending list of character actors who steal each and every one of their scenes.  Among the best are Paul Lynde as a security chief who dons poor disguises and Dick Martin as Rod Taylor's good-time partner.  Paul Lynde is joined by fellow Bewitched alumni George Tobias and Alice Pearce, virtually replaying the neighbors of that TV show Mr. and Mrs. Kravitz, this time as Doris Day's neighbors, and watch for Robert Vaughn in a quick cameo as The Man From U.N.C.L.E. himself.  Add to this a rare supporting role by Arthur Godrey (with his trademark ukulele) as Doris Day's dad (they sing a duet), 60's comedy stuffy character actors Edward Andrews and John McGiver, and a pre-Walton's Ellen Corby as Rod Taylor's maid.  Most films from this era can look really outdated but the sets here still look retro-cool.  For breezy 60's fun the film is worth a look and despite a slow start seems to get better and better all the way to the end as the supporting characters come together and start interacting with each other, not just with Day.  If only the entire film had the energy of the finale there might have been some much needed belly laughs generated.   "},{"Title":"A Must have Wonderful Old Fashioned Comedy!","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie has to be one of my all time favorite Doris Day movies. This movie I think showed her serious side and her funny side. Dom Deluise is at his most funniest. He made a really terrible spy. Rod Taylor,Dick Martin and Paul Lynn really worked well together in the movie. Sometimes you get comedy movies with no real plot and terrible acting. Even though this plot was a little far fetched. It worked okay. The acting was good. The producer's also took advantage of Doris Day and had her use her most wonderful voice to sing some songs in the movie. To me that was okay. I had to buy another copy of this movie, I wore out my first one. This is a must have for good old fashioned comedy! "},{"Title":"The purist of early 60s silly humor.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A star-studded cast with the purist of early 60s silly humor. I first saw this movie on an airplane at age 6. It made me laugh then and it still makes me laugh to this day. Dom DeLouise and Paul Lynde are hysterically funny. Doris Day is as Doris as ever and Rod Taylor made a very dashing scientist! I love watching this movie for all the old styles and realizing that they are all back again. The jokes, though simple and harmless, are still humorous today and they were in 1966.Amazing how silly I though it was to have vacuum that did the cleaning without the assistance of a human. Amazing how they have those now ... a bit smaller that the movie version and I doubt that they would vacuum up a flip flop, but amazing that even a musical romantic comedy of the 60s would foretell us inventions to come.Dig those computers in this flick! And Dom DeLouise has been known (and seen) to eat many a gourmet item, but a transistor hors d'oeuvres? Silly, but sooooo funny.Take a trip to the blue room or red room and enjoy this fun film. But be careful, Doris Day just might be spying on you!  "},{"Title":"Will spying spoil Mermaid Hunter?","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film has its moments of great screwball comedy, and Tashlin seems to keep alive the finesse and sophistication of a Hawks, McCarey or LaCava. The story built around the attraction between two opposite individuals never reach the sublime heights of `Bringing up Baby' &#150;needles to say, Taylor and Day aren't Grant and Hepburn-, and it seems that this film greatest problem is not to dare going too far in its craze, as other Tashlin's films like `Rock Hunter' or `Artists and Models' did. Probably the cause is the plot dealing with the cold war, a subject pretty much on the focus at the time. Now and them you feel that the director is doing a sort of journalism through a territory that doesn't suit him as good as Hollywood and its superficiality, for example. But Tashlin always manages to insert his comments about the decadence of American life, a circumstance that not even the fanciest of technology can hide. In his anarchic fashion, Tashlin's films counterpart Douglas Sirk's melodramas. Both are about the same, but the path chosen to express its vision are opposite.This film has a wonderful use of color, an admirable pacing and a freshness rarely seen in the studio comedies of the time (the singing scene in the boat looks totally improvised). But if Tashlin's background as a cartoonist often contributes to his creative ability to take situations beyond the edge, and to destroy a stiff established order, very seldom this very quality can work against him. And this is what happens with all the bad guys in this film. They are a mere caricature, and one can never feel them as a serious threat. The theme demanded something more serious, and these clumsy amateurs certainly fail.Anyway, watch the film and sing the title's tune; it'll remain with you for ages.  "}{"Title":"Sweet 60s comedy","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This picture wasn't thought to be much when it was released. Most people thought it was a silly sitcom style comedy not up to Day's earlier romantic comedies. Arthur Godfrey gave it some air play on his daytime radio show, with Day and Taylor as guests, but there wasn't much else as I remember. By this point in his career Godfrey had lost his star lustre of just ten years before and his network radio show on CBS was just about all that was left, so his appearance in a major Hollywood movie was a big deal for him.The picture did get a Music Hall premiere run in New York, but as I say, most people just yawned.Seen forty years later it has a lot going for it, especially compared to today's cinema comedies good writing, expert direction, good pacing and editing, colorful location shots of Catalina and vicinity, good playing by the leads, who look to be having fun, and really good support from that amazing cast of 60s character actors.There is a surprising amount of frank sexuality in this picture for the time, without nudity or profanity (Doris' character is a widow so she plays her as sexually mature and sophisticated), Godfrey's character has a wife/girlfriend about whom he's absolutely crazy and shows it, often (!), and there's even a surprising gay subplot that's played for laughs of course, but not offensively so. There's even Paul Lynde in drag...priceless! Forty years later, it still makes me laugh. You will too. "},{"Title":"Silly and Innocent Sex Comedy","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Glass Bottom Boat is one of my favorite Doris Day movies.It is totally silly and really pretty stupid. But it is hilarious, sexy, and innocent. It could be a G rated sex comedy.The supporting cast is really funny, but the thing that makes this film great is Doris Day. She is so cute, so beautiful, and so funny. Whenever she is on screen, you can't help but smile.There is nobody around today that can compare with Doris Day. She is a national treasure and a one of a kind. Through the technology of the DVD, you can experience her gift and spread it to a new generation.If you are in the mood for a silly, innocent, sex comedy; you should give The Glass Bottom Boat a try. "},{"Title":"My comments are favorable","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Glass Bottom Boat is a delightful movie.  Of course, I am a big Doris Day and Rod Taylor fan.  Doris Day is in my opinion one of the most natural actresses ever to grace Hollywood.  She is real and unpretentious.  I consider Glass Bottom Boat one of her best movies because her style, innocence, wit and charm are infectious.  She carries Rod Taylor right along with her.  This is really the first movie in which I noticed Rod Taylor as having a real comedic flair, and I think he comes across as quite charming, not to mention sexy.This movie has some memorable characters and actors we grow to love on television.  Firstly, this is the only movie I've ever seen with Arthur Godfrey, who plays Doris Day's father.  Next is Dick Martin, later to be a star on Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In.  One of my favorite character actors is Paul Lynde--I've never seen him perform without laughing right out loud at his characters.  In this movie he is hilarious as he dons a taffeta dress and wig to try to catch Doris as a Russian spy.  Dom Deluise, John McGiver, Ellen Corby & Edward Andrews are also on hand to add to the laughs.  And lastly, Alice Pearce, plays her Gladys Kravitz-type character from the TV show Bewitched to perfection.If you like this one, you should also see Do Not Disturb, also with Doris Day and Rod Taylor.  Happy watching!  "},{"Title":"The mermaid","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Frank Tashlin directed this sunny comedy that relies heavily on Doris Day, an actress who was at the height of her popularity back when this film was done. The Glass Bottom Boat is a fun comedy that mixes science with espionage and mistaken identities that produced a funny movie, even when watched today.Doris Day in her heyday couldn't do anything wrong, in spite of the silly premises of what was written for her. In this comedy is Jennifer Nelson, a widow, who works in the aerospace industry. The genius scientist, Bruce Templeton, likes what he sees and proceeds to pursue Jennifer, but things get complicated because it appears Mrs. Nelson is a Soviet spy.The film's pace never lets up. Doris Day is wonderful as the naive, but resourceful woman who can charm us with one of her wonderful smiles. Rod Taylor is the hunky Bruce Templeton who sees in Jennifer not only a beautiful lady, but the right one for him.The supporting cast in this movie is full of familiar faces. Paul Linde provides one of the best laughs in the movie when, as a security guard, and suspecting Jennifer of the worst, dresses in drag and follows her to the ladies' room. Arthur Godfrey is Jennifer's father. John McGiver, Edward Anderson, Dick Martin, Dom DeLuise, Eric Fleming, Alice Pearce and George Tobias contribute to make this a fun movie. The cameo by Robert Vaughn is a surprise.The film will not disappoint fans of Doris Day. "},{"Title":"Vladimir, Answer the Phone","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just think that if Doris Day had not for some reason named her dog, Vladimir there might have been no plot at all for this Frank Tashlin comedy.That might have been bad because this was the best of Doris Day's films in the late sixties as she was beginning a downward drop in her box office appeal. The Glass Bottom Boat was the second film she did with Rod Taylor as co-star and the first of two she did with Frank Tashlin as director. And this one was the best product in both associations.Doris works in public relations at a space lab in California where scientist Rod Taylor is developing new stuff for the Defense Department and NASA. She also doubles and helps her dad Arthur Godfrey on his glass bottom boat tourist vehicle. One of the things I like best about The Glass Bottom Boat is Doris sings again on screen, once in a nice duet with Arthur Godfrey on his ever present ukulele. She also sings her most famous song, Que Sera Sera once again for a new generations of film fans.One thing about Doris's later films, she always had excellent supporting casts and this one is loaded with some very funny people like, Edward Andrews, John McGiver, Paul Lynde, Dom DeLuise, Dick Martin, George Tobias, and Alice Pearce. They all fill roles that you would expect from them.The Glass Bottom Boat has Rod Taylor concerned with plant security in regard to his top secret work. An overzealous security guard played by Paul Lynde overhears Doris call her dog on the phone. What she does is that in order to give the pooch some exercise during the day she calls her own number, counts the rings and then says something to the unanswered phone. It's for the dog to get exercise because he runs around like a maniac when the phone rings.From that we deduce that Doris is a Soviet spy and the real CIA in the person of Eric Fleming is called in. This was Fleming's last big screen appearance before he was drowned on location in Peru. A very sad end to a career that might have been the equal of his Rawhide co-star, Clint Eastwood.Seeing Paul Lynde in drag, questioning an inept spy played by Dom DeLuise is worth seeing this film alone. "},{"Title":"The excellent Doris Day at her best!!","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a fantastic movie! I had heard of the title, and had it on my list of must-gets, even though I had never actually watched it before. I finally picked it up for $1.00 in a charity shop. This is exactly the kind of picture that I enjoy; a great cast in a romantic comedy, with lots of laugh-out-loud antics thrown in. I was surprised at how good Rod Taylor is in this. He's not my favourite actor, but he and Doris have great chemistry in this movie, and they are ably assisted by the likes of Paul Lynde, Dom DeLuise, Edward Andrews, John McGiver, and Dick Martin thrown in for good measure. With those names on the bill you already know that you're in for a heck of a treat, but this picture goes above and beyond! There's slapstick galore throughout, and it's almost as though Frank Tashlin said Now, Doris and Rod, you say your lines, and these other guys are just going to do their thing and you just go with it, and I'm going to keep rolling, o.k.? I mean, I know that there was a script, but it just feels as though sometimes they threw it away!! The movie is fast-paced, witty, sometimes predictable, but always wonderfully entertaining. Paul Lynde is such a crack-up that you can imagine the whole cast and crew falling about in hysterics many times over while filming this. There are also several appearances by the familiar face of Alice Pearce who plays her usual nosey neighbour character, as she does in many of Doris's movies. I love this picture, and it is now one of my favourites!! I think you will like it too. It's a great movie for the whole family from a time when Hollywood made great pictures! Pity they don't make good stuff like this now! 10/10. "},{"Title":"A zany comedy-romance with slapstick, wit and laughs galore","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What fun in the sun, at the space research plant, at the party and under the stars! Each setting has its own cluster of comedic slips, falls, gag-lines or situations, and this large cast of laugh-getters churns out the funny by the barrel. For a comedy, the plot is anything but predictable, and a major subplot about spying is the source of most of the hilarious antics, trip-ups and sight gags involving various members of the cast. The scenic shots around Catalina Island are a plus, and the gadgets and gizmos invented by Rod Taylor's character add to the laughs. Doris Day is at her funny best in Glass Bottom Boat. Her foibles and antics bring hearty laughs at times, grins and chuckles at others. Rod Taylor is the epitome of a male lead &#x96; looks, intelligence, wit, charm, kindness and easy-going calm. And what a great supporting cast with several top comedians, including Paul Lynde, Dom DeLuise, Dick Martin and Edward Andrews. For those of us who grew up with or watched the early years of TV, this movie holds something special in the appearances of Arthur Godfrey and Dick Martin. I remember catching the Arthur Godfrey show (I think it was on Saturday mornings then) when my folks watched it (from 1949 to 1959 &#x96; we got our first TV in 1949). I think some of his later shows were broadcast from Hawaii. Godfrey had a friendly personality and was one of the first TV hosts who had a general talk and variety show. His ukulele was always at hand. Dick Martin and partner Dan Rowan had an early comedy variety show on TV. Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In ran from 1968 to 1973. The show discovered or helped launch some of the best comedians of the last half of the 20th century &#x96; well before Saturday Night Live came on the scene. Henry Gibson, Ruth Buzzi, Flip Wilson, Goldie Hawn, Arte Johnson, Jo Anne Worley and Lily Tomlin were among the early stars to rise from Laugh-In. As a full comedy and light romance, Glass Bottom Boat holds up well at the top of the genre. But the extensive comedic cast, including the two early TV icons of entertainment, makes this a special film worth note for its historical value as well. I don't think Godfrey or Martin appeared in any other movie of consequence. The DVD with this film also has some notable extras. One is a featurette with spectacular scenery of Catalina Island. Another is an interesting historical capsule about NASA. The U.S. space program still was in its infancy, and returning spacecraft dropped into the sea where they were recovered by ships. And, anyone who enjoys cartoons will like the excellent educational cartoon The Dot and the Line. The Glass Bottom Boat is top drawer entertainment fit for the whole family. It's sure to make even the most dour face laugh, grin and smile at various moments. "},{"Title":"Silly, Goofy Nonsense... but I love it!","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's one very funny comedy.... totally unbelievable, totally goofy, but in the mid-1960s style, our Doris comes through as delightful and obviously had fun making this film. Paul Lynde is at his best as the security guard in drag. Don't try to rate this with The Party (1969) or The Cheap Detective (1980)... but it is a light, very funny and romantic romp just the same. I give it 8 stars because the songs sung by Doris and Godfrey with his ukulele are absolutely redundant and corny and Doris and Rod Taylor look VERY self conscious trying to look enthusiastic singing with him... and the soundtrack goes way overboard playing the main theme over and over and it becomes rather like It's a Small World After All in that it is difficult to get that doggone song out of your head when it's all over .... but there is much to enjoy with this film. The film would have done better with a more intelligent music score and better songs to take advantage of Doris Day's voice. Godfrey does should not have sung at all... though he was fine as Doris' father. The DVD extras about Catalina and the costumes are very nice, as well. "},{"Title":"A movie ahead its time.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is funny movie starring Doris Day & Rod Taylor.It's a funny comedy with a lot of laughter. I think this movie was ahead is time. It's like movie with Leslie Nielsen.My vote for this movie is 7.//Nils Vilhelmsson  "},{"Title":"Good film, deeper than it appears","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was in my mid-20s when this came out, but I never saw it. Doris Day is as cute as ever, and very appealing. The supporting actors are perfect for their roles. The movie seems to me to be a spoof on the cold war, and contains something of a prescient comment about CIA ineptitude; something I would not expect from a major studio. Overall, an enjoyable film with guffaw-generating moments.That said, I am also interested in knowing a bit about the locations. The NASA exteriors look very much like California State University at Northridge, CA where I began my own college career in 1959. What looks to be the library building was not there then. The genuine rocket engine tests and locations shown were almost certainly shot at the Rocketdyne facility in the Santa Susana Mountains. The Saturn 2nd stage J-2 rockets were tested there. The first-stage F-1s were tested at Rye Canyon in the Castaic area. I worked graveyard at Santa Susana for 1-1/2 years 1963-65, and also watched a night J-2 test; possibly from the same bunker that Day and Taylor watched from. Any information on these locations will be appreciated. "}{"Title":"Interesting trivia re film","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is classic late 50's 60's mainstream humor. I happened to be in Catalina during part of the filming, and Arthur Godfrey, always gregarious, commented, barring cameos, it was his first full film role. I don't know if correct, but it was his comment. Great Paul Linde and other comedic talent here. "},{"Title":"Goofy parody.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Glass Bottom Boat is a goofy, alternately vivid and tiresome mixture of romantic comedy and spy parody. There are loads of (uneven) gags that keep the pace going, but the whole thing goes on for too long. Cartoonish sets and a bunch of colourful supporting characters are an interesting add. Some of the film's funniest parts are the Mata Hari fantasy, the robot kitchen, and the party towards the end. "},{"Title":"Happy Memories, Happy Movie","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film when I was ten years old, during its initial release. A typical family night out at the movies. For some reason this otherwise ephemeral event has stayed with me as a freeze frame of the more pleasant, uncomplicated memories of that era.I bought the DVD after not seeing the film since that long ago 1966 night--incidentally, I vividly recall the huge waves of laughter from the audience during several scenes; anyone who dismisses this film as a fiasco or whatever obviously didn't experience a very happy crowd seeking some light entertainment. On seeing the DVD, I was impressed by the sharp editing (I'm an editor--believe me, the timing of various sight gags etc. are very well done), creative use of colors and consistently high level of comedic performances. The naysayers who have posted otherwise don't know from squat. Overall, a totally innocuous movie that has retained a nice reputation as a still enjoyable memento of the mid-'6os. "},{"Title":"Glass Bottom Boat- The Deep Blue Sea, The Deep Blue Sea ***","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Funny Doris Day vehicle made memorable with Rod Taylor as her co-star and a terrific ensemble of supporting players-Dick Martin, Dom De Luise, Eric Fleiming, Ed Andrews and Miss Alice Pearce along with Ellen Corby.This is essentially a spy caper and Doris is the prime suspect. The only one who believes her innocence is her boss and new lover, Rod Taylor.My only objection to the movie was the casting of Arthur Godfrey as her father. Godfrey belonged in the same league as Mel Gibson, and they certainly could have gotten a person to play the father role.Day is really original here as she assumes the role of a klutzy woman caught up in mayhem. The scenes in the kitchen of the future, on board a motorboat and others are uproarious in laughter.Sadly, the film marked the end of cancer stricken Alice Pearce, who died shortly after making the film, as well as the tragic passing of villain Eric Fleming in a drowning accident off Peru shortly after the film. This film showed the technological advances that were to come years later. They certainly used these advances to their benefit to poke fun of the society that would make them. "},{"Title":"Bottoms Up for Nice Femme Fatale - Ditzy Day","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MASTER PLAN steal the new gravity formula. This would appear to be another in a long line of films spoofing the James Bond spy craze of the sixties, specifying the female perspective (Modesty Blaise; Fathom), but is more like just another in a long line of successful Doris Day comedies. Ms. Day was usually partnered with the likes of Rock Hudson or James Garner, leading men specializing in light comedy. In this case, her partner is Rod Taylor, who had just starred as The Liquidator the year before. Here, he's a very successful aeronautics engineer who has just invented a new formula for duplicating gravity while one flits about in outer space. Naturally, enemy agents would love to get their hands on this formula. Day's character, a widow, divides her time between a tour guide job at NASA, taking college courses and helping her dad by pretending to be a mermaid whenever he conducts one of his sightseeing tours from his glass bottom boat (hence, the title; yet, this boat plays no part in the plot except in the very beginning of the movie). Her dad is played by then-famous TV/Radio personality Godfrey, who didn't really star in films until then. Taylor accidentally snags Day when he goes fishing and she becomes bottomless, quite a suggestive scenario for those days, especially in Day comedies. Day continues her adorably furious posturing, setting up the requisite sexual tension between the two leads.The two leads slowly but surely hook up, in standard sappy, if silly, romance clichés, despite Day's preposterous predilection for clumsiness - she's a walking disaster area, very similar to some female characters in a couple of Matt Helm films and even the Bond films themselves. Taylor's character represents modern technology and progress; he's one of those guys who will be responsible for all of us getting around in flying cars at some point in the future. There are a few amusing scenes in Taylor's very modern house, where he shows off some gadgets to Day in his kitchen; I suppose it's a sad comment on how far we've progressed in the past 40 years that some of these still look very advanced. The whole spy angle really kicks in during the last third, during Taylor's house party, when all his compatriots are convinced that Day is a foreign spy. Seems she's been making weird phone calls to some guy named Vladimir and running off some numbers. Of course, the audience knows who Vladimir really is and this sets up the characters proceeding on a false assumption, which we get to snicker at. There's also the matter of who the real spy is. We've seen this before, many times, but the actors make it entertaining; Lynde is goofy as the head of security and Dick Martin is especially funny as Taylor's buddy. Dom DeLuise shows up in an early role, playing off of Day in some crude slapstick; he's better in his last scenes. Day & Taylor make a pretty good match, breezing through the romantic stuff. It's also interesting to see actor Fleming, who had just finished his long-running role on TV's Rawhide and died soon after this in a drowning mishap. Heroine7 Villain7 Male Fatales7 Henchmen5 Fights4 Stunts/Chases6 Gadgets6 Auto6 Locations6 Pace6 overall6 "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing, At Least Once","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a silly farce, even a little over the top for a typical Doris Day comedy. But, there are some things worth noting. The support cast of comedians who were popular at the time is outstanding -- John McGiver, Paul Lynde, Dom DeLuise, and Dick Martin (from the extremely popular TV comedy series Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In). Eric Fleming is a surprise supporting actor; he was famous from the TV western series Rawhide, which also starred Clint Eastwood. Arthur Godfrey is also a surprise. This is the only movie I recall seeing him in, but I remember him from his popular radio and TV shows of many years before this film was made. Finally, I enjoy the nostalgia provided by hilarious references to the space race, space age automation, and Cold War spies. Doris Day plays her typical beautiful madcap woman who, of course, falls in love and gets married at the end of the film. I will watch it again, in spite of the crazy slapstick antics and ridiculous script. "},{"Title":"I Love Lucy Meets Get Smart","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The glass-bottomed boat of the movie title appears only briefly in the movie, though the song that goes with it certainly is catchy. Jennifer Nelson appears first as a costumed mermaid working for her father, who owns the title boat, but then is seen working at an aerospace research laboratory, secretary to a brilliant scientist who falls is love with her.But through several mishaps and misunderstandings, the scientist and those around him get suspicious about whether she might be a spy for the Soviets. It turns out there are genuine Soviet spies around to add to the confusion. Even so, the scientist still wants Jennifer and keeps wooing her, showing her things like his super-advanced kitchen with all sorts of automatic devices and a dog-like cleanup robot.The humor of I Love Lucy, but with less silliness, and Get Smart with fewer pratfalls. "},{"Title":"Mermaid Doris Loses Her Bottom","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The script, pacing, and editing of The Glass Bottom Boat fail Doris Day and Rod Taylor. It's a shame, because the movie seemed to have had a lot to offer.Surprisingly, Ms. Day plays an attractive divorced woman who has given up on romance; instead, she enjoys her job, and a family of animals. Mr. Taylor, we assume, is otherwise interested in twentysomethings, but he is attracted to Day. Their introductory scene has Day half-naked, so we know Taylor is aware her sexual allure is not faltering. I thought their relationship was far to underplayed - Day subtlety touches on it in a scene following a romantic encounter; but, we know too little of the lead characters' past.The supporting players are fantastic - Paul Lynde looks great as a woman, showing he could have also played Endora on Bewitched (as well as Uncle Arthur)! BUT, the script doesn't gel - it's a shame Taylor revealed he thought Day's character was too stupid to be a spy. Later, he says he loves her banana cream pies; yet, we are left believing he really thinks she is stupid. They should have yelled, RE-WRITE! ***** The Glass Bottom Boat (1966) Frank Tashlin ~ Doris Day, Rod Taylor, Paul Lynde "},{"Title":"Destiny of the Glass Bottom Boat","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" We visited Catalina 2 weeks ago. (Oct. 2006) The current Glass Bottom Boat operation claims that the actual glass bottom boat used in the movie is float in the harbor. In fact, they report to use the old boat in peak season.This is contrary to the statement on the IMDb website which reports Trivia that the boat sank earlier in 2006 off the coast of LA. The IMDb story reports that the vessel was en-route to San Francisco to become a restaurant. The glass bottom boats are hardly big enough to be a restaurant. I suspect that someone confused the ferry boat or some other vessel with the actual Glass Bottom Boat. "},{"Title":"For Doris Day Fans","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Glass Bottom Boat offers what, in the mid-1960s, was a powerhouse cast. Some of the stars are still remembered today. Dick Martin and Dom DeLuise, for instance; and Paul Lynde, whose presence was guaranteed to brighten up any dull movie.Some stars have, over the years, lost their lustre. Arthur Godfrey's, for instance. The comedy team Bob & Ray once poked fun at Arthur Godfrey by saying he seemed to be on every station all day long. Godfrey was an early form of Dick Clark. A television pioneer, he was probably most famous during his day for Talent Scouts, though his credits at the time were numerous.Eric Fleming also has flowed through the fingers like the sands of time. It was Fleming and not Clint Eastwood who was the top-billed star of the then-popular show Rawhide. Whether Fleming would have gone on to any sort of movie career is unknown since he drowned the same year Glass Bottom Boat was released.John McGiver and Edward Andrews are also welcome faces to movie buffs. Though probably most famous for appearances in Sixteen Candles and Gremlins Andrews had a long and industrious career as a supporting actor.What of the real stars, who are meant to carry the movie? Doris Day is Doris Day. Her acting range was minimal but she was all right if you liked that sort of thing. Her biggest selling point was her singing but, apart from the title song, she has little opportunity to exert her lungs. Though the DVD shows her in some sort of exotic dancing outfit, she's only in it for a few seconds of screen time.As for Rod Taylor, despite anchoring several well-known features (including Separate Tables and George Pal's The Time Machine), I've always found him an actor lacking in charisma. Early on in GBB he has his shirt off. I suppose beef-cake is his biggest selling point. To me, his best acting job was the voice work he did in Disney's animated 101 Dalmations. The Glass Bottom Boat itself has little screen time. This is not a movie about oceanography, though that might have made it interesting. It's a movie about space. In the 1960s, space was the big thing, and everyone from Gregory Peck (Marooned) to Don Knotts (the Reluctant Astronaut) were making pictures about astronauts.The movie seems to be about some aspect of the space program, with spies trying to get their hands on some gismo or the other. The actual plot hardly matters. It's just an excuse to let grown people run around like children. And not-too-bright children, at that. I had just turned five when this movie came out, and I didn't want to see it. My parents and brother went, but I protested and spend a lovely evening with my grandmother instead. Viewing it at last as an adult, I believe I made the right decision.The best thing that can be said about The Glass Bottom Boat is that it is innocuous, with some very funny stuff interspersed in all the other goings-on. "}{"Title":"Not as funny through adult eyes","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie when I saw it as a 13 year old. But seeing it as an adult, I was disappointed at how lame it is. The supporting cast is terrific - Lynde, Martin, DeLuise, McGiver and the great Alice Pearce - but the story and main characters just don't have anything to offer to someone beyond adolescence. And so little of the story actually happens aboard the titular Boat! It seems like more of an excuse to sell a hit song. I always enjoyed Doris Day movies as a kid, also. But now I realize how mediocre they were. I guess Pillow Talk was the best and actually in a class by itself. It would have been interesting to see The Graduate with her as Mrs. Robinson, but she was too protective of her virginal image to appear in such a racy role. "},{"Title":"Inoffensive Foolishness.","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Frank Tashlin, a former cartoonist and animator, made a couple of hilarious comedies in the 50s -- Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter? and The Girl Can't Help It. The material was good to begin with but Tashlin buffed it up to a high gloss.The same can't be said for The Glass Bottom boat, a story which is unfocused and a little slapdash. The wit is almost entirely slapstick or absurd in a curiously shivery way. You want something from the early 60s? You'll find it in here somewhere. There's Rod Taylor as the head of some super-duper space project involving the CIA, Russian spies trying to steal the secret formula, and security agencies trying to prevent it.There's Doris Day as the cute, very sun-tanned, and infinitely desirable woman he hires to help him write his autobiography but is really there just to be around him. She's mistaken for a Soviet spy because her dog is named Vladimir. There are Dom DeLuise and Paul Lynde at odds with each other. DeLuise gets his foot stuck in a trash can filled with banana cream cake. Day, trying to help him, gets her foot stuck too. This is known as a funny scene. Paul Lynde dresses in various disguises and tries to fool Day into revealing her true identity. This is also funny.Well, as they say, if you don't have eggs you can't make an omelet. No, wait. That's not what they say. They say -- wait a minute -- yes, they say you can't make an omelet without breaking eggs, and the problem here is that the eggs are kind of soft boiled. The gags just aren't very funny.I'll give you an example. Doris visit Rod's house in order to bake him a cake. First, he has to show her around his ultra-modern kitchen. It's full of robotic gadgets of various kinds, each accompanied by its own boop-boop-de-doop electronic sounds as it does its business. Let's see. There's the automatic incinerator, run by a photoelectric cell. Then there's the robot egg beater. Then there's the sentient vacuum cleaner that zips out of a panel in the wall and sucks up whatever happens to be dropped on the floor. (I could use one of them.) A full FIVE MINUTES is spent on demonstrating these modern labor-saving devices. And the last one -- when the vacuum cleaner comes out and begins sucking on Day's big toe, which is not a bad idea in and of itself, and after a tug of war finally makes off with her flip-flop and dashes back into the wall with it -- why, that's a real knee slapper.Rod Taylor is really quite good, confident in his Aussie masculinity. But Day, over 40, looks great. Everything about her body and face is chipper and tan, and wardrobe has given her a lot of white garments, including an infinitely inviting pleated white skirt, that sets off her tawny legs in an almost salacious fashion.It's clumsily done and crude. The kids will get every gag in it. But if you're desperate for diversion, this may do the job. You get to hear Doris Day sing a song that sounds like Hush, Little Baby, Don't You Cry, but the subject of which is sea food. "},{"Title":"Seemingly air-headed romantic comedy eventually reveals itself to be wiser than its years.","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I say eventually because it takes about three quarters of the film before it appears to have a thought in its head, and even then it's not by much and only briefly. My problem with the movie is that for the vast majority of it, Doris Day's character Jenny is the typical stupid blonde, cheerfully grinning like a moron and twirling her hair, clueless to what is going on around her. I have a hard time getting over this kind of thing when I see it in the movies because I dated one or two girls that acted like that because they thought it was cute and it drives me out of my mind.It's incredible to me that the romance between Jenny and Mr. Templeton was ever considered romantic, it's so contrived and pretentious. The slapstick situations are shallowly manufactured, badly acted and thus not funny, but the heavy hand of the sixties is all over the movie, so at least it is a slightly interesting look at a different time as well as the kind of thing that was considered entertaining and romantic forty years ago. The movie takes a turn for the better when Jenny figures out what's going on by listening in on a phone call between Templeton and his military buddies and then decides to turn the tables on them, although it should be noted that during that phone call he insists that Jenny simply can't be a spy, she hasn't got the brains. She's offended and so are we, until we remember that he's right. Afterwards, she begins to display an intellect which had been largely absent thus far, but unfortunately, everyone else in the movie turns stupid in order to lead to a lot more goofy slapstick. It is telling that one of the first things that brings suspicion onto Jenny is a series of misunderstandings stemming from the fact that her dog's name is Vladimir. Strangely enough, the reason I watched the movie is because I took my girlfriend to Catalina Island recently for her birthday, and we took a tour in the exact same glass bottom boat which was used in this movie, and I thought it would be interesting to see the film shot in the boat I was sitting in, as well as to see what the astonishingly beautiful Avalon (the tiny town on Catalina Island) looked like in the mid 1960s. Needless to say, I was surprised to see that Avalon looks almost exactly the same, and that the glass bottom boat appears in the first five minutes or so of the movie and is never seen again. Odd that they would name the film after such an irrelevant plot device. Also don't miss the extra features on the DVD, one of which is a short video in which MGM claims that every girl's dream is to visit the MGM Studios in Culver City. "},{"Title":"Mindless romantic comedy played out by two adults who should know better!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yet another entry into the mindlessly stupid romantic comedy that began to take over films during the 1950s and dominated film culture throughout the 60s, The Glass Bottom Boat (1966) concerns itself with a bit of cold war humor dipped in fourteen carrot satire. It stars Doris Day as a glamorous 'chicken of the sea'. Swathed in mermaid garb and dropped off the coast of Catalina Island, Jen meets Bruce Templeton (Rod Taylor) after his fish hook accidentally reels in Jen's bathing suit without Jen in it. This initial cute meet leads to an unexpected but predictable discovery that Bruce is a big fish at the research establishment where Jen works &#150; how original.Smitten with his discovery, Bruce decides to hire Jennifer under the false assumption that he desires her literary wit &#150; and not just her &#150; to help pen his life story. But there are stormy seas ahead when a close friend, General Wallace Bleeker (Edward Andrews) believes that Jennifer is actually a Russian spy. To this end a hilarious stake out begins with the likes of Homer Cripps (Paul Lynde) and Julius Pritter (Dom DeLuise).Director Frank Tashlin is at times clearly grasping for things to say, while the tongue in cheek screenplay by Everett Freeman founders periodically in going for the wink-wink, nudge-nudge that is overplayed and over-stays its hand. What is remarkable about The Glass Bottom Boat is the genuine romantic chemistry between Rod Taylor and Doris Day. Their marvelous pairing keeps the comedy afloat and the romance alive in what is otherwise a very generic and one gag wonder doing its best not to drown.The anamorphic transfer from Warner Bros. is a real treat. Colors are rich and vibrant. Blacks are deep and solid. Whites are clean. Shadow and contrast levels are, for the most part, bang on. There is some minor fading to consider and the overall dated characteristic, but neither should distract from your appreciation of this film. Dialogue is decidedly forward sounding with no spread across the channels. Some vintage short subjects round out this presentation's extra features. "},{"Title":"Even Doris Day cannot carry such juvenile humour.","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It takes more than a great Hollywood star with a telescope, singing about the stars in the sky, to coerce most viewers into increasing the star rating they would award for a particular film. Here there is little else to encourage them to do this, although the Director Frank Tashlin worked hard and fortunately the film does have a few other fairly catchy lyrics its viewers may enjoy enough to increase the rating that they give it. But apart from this, its assessment is largely a matter of how much the viewer concerned enjoys pure physical slapstick comedy of the old fashioned type. Those viewers who do so the most usually seem to award it quite a high rating, but today there are too many who are not slapstick fans. I could watch almost any ten minute extract from this film enjoying the high tech slapstick with which it is replete, but watching it any longer quickly leads to increasing boredom as there is really no story or human interest to back up the visual pyrotechnics.Satire is a word Hollywood seems not to understand, but the basic story, of important and secret space research projects being conducted by NASA, would lend itself admirably to the type of satirical treatment which might have created a really worthwhile film. If the scriptwriter had abandoned his first draft and studied the works of Swift, Ibsen, Wilde, or even Shaw, he might even have provided MGM with the script for quite a memorable film - it is interesting to speculate whether or not it would ever have been filmed. As it is both the script and the resulting film are extremely so-so, and in my view this film has never justified its release as a DVD. I am sorry about this because some of the camera work was first rate, but although the potential was really there, I can only give it an IMDb rating of three stars. "},{"Title":"A supposed romantic comedy/spy farce about a lil girl from Catalina.","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's NOT! Instead this badly edited, terribly scored, loosely plotted dreck is only of value as a mindless mid-60's time-capsule w/ a large roster of recognizable TV-land faces in supporting roles there's gay Uncle Arthur from Bewitched as a nosy, gay NASA security guard who dresses in drag to follow Ms. Day into a women's restroom; also from Bewitched there's Gladys and Abner, come quickly! as nosy neighbors (DUH!) of Ms. Day (I was half-expecting Endora to show up floating); there's a cameo from The Man from U.N.C.L.E.; there's not-terribly-suave Martin (one half of Martin and Rowan's Laugh-In) as a secondary love interest for Day, and he has a truly dead-on silly line when mistakenly caught in bed w/ an Air Force General You want to meet early and pick out the furniture?; there's even Godfrey as Day's father (more like slightly-older brother as Day and him are close in age); and there's even Grandma Walton as a senior citizen Girl Friday battling a wayward robot vacuum cleaner!The slightly better acted supporting roles belong to DeLuise as a bumbling pseudo-foreign agent who has some silly funny scenes w/ Day (the early foot caught in waste basket scene and the latter water gun scene); and Taylor as a stud-scientist who battles and romances Day in the workplace. Speaking of workplace, Ms. Day works at NASA which happens to be based in Cape Kennedy, Florida, but yet she commutes (by car no less!) to a home in Los Angeles, California!!!!! This implausibility results in unintended laughs when after a long day at work in Florida Ms. Day makes plans to boat over to Catalina. BTW is there any simple task that Day can take on that doesn't turn into disaster? It's not that she plays dumb-blonde, but that her character is accident-prone (ie.- the heel caught in the grate, the Banana Crème pie fiasco, the unpiloted speed boats debacles, the fish hook/mermaid suit accident, the pie baking kitchen scene, etc.) and even worse she's middle-age but playing a role twenty years younger!There's one unintended telling moment in the movie (towards the very end) when terribly under-used actor McGiver (who if you blinked earlier on you would have missed his earlier scene) reappears in the middle of chaos (DUH!) and asks the other actors What's going on? Truly telling commentary on this fiasco of a movie. "},{"Title":"Doris tries but can't begin to redeem this ridiculous mess","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Whoever enticed Doris Day to squander her talents in this unbelievable bilge should be burned at the stake -- or, perhaps, forced to watch this film endlessly. Not only is our Doris asked to play a goofy airhead 20 years younger than her actual age, but she has to utter the worst dialog ever written in between achingly unfunny slapstick scenes. I knew going into this that it would be a bad 60s comedy, but I had no idea what I was in for. Even seeing Paul Lynde in drag was a sad case of too little too late. The only worthwhile moment comes in the film's first three minutes, when Rod Taylor -- in his hunky prime -- fishes shirtless on his boat. Yum! They should have ended the film right there. "},{"Title":"The Glass Bottom Bloat","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Everybody involved in this production must feel foolish for making this clunker of a movie which is bogged down by silly, unfunny moments, with a talented cast playing nothing more than larger than life living cartoons. This movie doesn't know what it wants to be. On one hand it's a spy spoof and on another it seems like an episode from The Lucy Show where she plays an astronaut in the space program. What's most surprising is the great supporting cast who all went on to do better performances (Laugh In, Bewitched) all have their talents wasted here. Even hysterically funny Paul Lynde seems embarrassed to be in this film playing a drag queen no less! Poor Doris and her crazy middle-aged antics in this movie makes one wince with uncomfortability. This may have been funny at one time but by 1966, silly movies such as this must have seemed way out of place during the Vietnam era. "}]