[{"Title":"Excellent WWII Action Piece and Representation of 60s Pop Culture","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"65 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Acclaimed director Robert Aldrich (also famous to war film buffs for his rule-breaking drama, Attack) twists the familiar 'unit picture' into a famous story of unexpected heroism in the midst of World War II. Instead of making his heroes clean-cut, American draftees, we're looking at the dirtiest convicts the Armed Forces has got to offer. OSS Major Reisman (Lee Marvin, Hell in the Pacific) is an insubordinate Army officer who's facing a court-martial, when he's given one last chance for a reprieve select twelve Army prisoners from a maximum-security detention center, train them for a top-secret mission behind the German lines, and then lead them into battle. If they succeed in the mission, they'll be released. For Reisman, it's a tough call, but it's his only chance to save his career. The men he was to work with are a mixed batch, and director Aldrich packs a lot of character development into a two-and-a-half-hour movie. The most important of the Dirty Dozen is Franko, a small-time Chicago hoodlum who's facing the gallows for robbery and subsequent murder of a British civilian. It's clear from the start that Franko is a loner who thinks he's big stuff, but Reisman manages to prove that he's really all talk. More than once, he considers and even attempts escape from the remote training camp that the Dozen are forced to build &#150; but maybe, just maybe, beneath that rebellious attitude, there's a chance for redemption. Then there are some more sympathetic types Wladislaw (Charles Bronson, Battle of the Bulge) was once a front-line infantryman who shot his platoon's medic when the medic got scared under fire and started running &#150; Bronson says He took off with all the medical supplies&#133; only way to stop him was to shoot him. Jefferson (Jim Brown, Ice Station Zebra) has been convicted for murder &#150; his defense is he was defending himself from vicious, racist MPs who were abusing him. Wladislaw and Jefferson find themselves allied in order to get Franko on their side, because they have faith in Reisman and aren't willing to let Franko's rebellion become infectious. Also in fine support is Clint Walker (None But the Brave) as the big Navajo, Posey, who punched a man too hard for shoving him. He really didn't mean to kill him; he just doesn't like being pushed. Posey comes off as a cuddly teddy bear who'd never intentionally hurt a soul, and it's clear from the start that he's one of the good guys. Finally, Telly Savalas (Kelly's Heroes) lends a hand as the psychotic, racist, religious fanatic Maggot, who believes his job is to punish the other 11 men for their wickedness. His motives are never really clear; all we really know is that Maggot is somewhat unhinged and potentially dangerous. Even though Reisman and his squad don't get along, they're forced to become allied against a common enemy &#150; the American General Staff, who want to do nothing short of shut the operation down. Aldrich again breaks the rules, making the conventionally good guys into the enemy. The Germans are barely mentioned throughout the first two acts, and only become involved for the explosive finale. The heart of this movie is anti-establishment behavior, right in the vein of the protest culture of the 60s the good guys are the unshaven criminals, and the bad guys are the clean-cut, well-dressed Generals who come across as stupid and vain. As Colonel Everett Dasher Breed, Robert Ryan (Flying Leathernecks) makes an excellent bully, a villain that the Dozen eventually unite to take action against. Once the men have been trained and are finally cooperating and acting as a unit, it's time to set them loose on the Nazis. And still, the story doesn't become stereotypical. The mission is simple the men will parachute into occupied France, penetrate a château being used as a rest center for high-level German officers, and kill as many of said officers as possible in a short amount of time. This operation involves stabbing defenseless women, machine-gunning prisoners, and finally, locking several dozen German officers and their mistresses in an underground bomb shelter, pouring gasoline down on them through air vents, loading said air vents with hand grenades, and then blowing up the whole place. Characters and story aside, the film benefits from some superb editing by Michael Luciano. Director Aldrich and cinematographer Edward Scaife work hand in hand to compose every shot. The cramped, dank prison cells in the first act are utterly convincing, and the layout of the huge, magnificent German-occupied château looks, quite appropriately, like a cross between a marvelous mansion and an impregnable fortress. The battle scenes are well-choreographed, too. Never does a moment go by where we do not know where one encounter is happening in relation to what the rest of the squad is dealing with in and around the Château. Frank de Vol's sweeping score is used sparingly, and adds to both the humor and suspense of the picture. One scene, in which Donald Sutherland's character inspects a platoon of the 82nd Airborne, is set to a live orchestra's performance perfectly. War is a really a dirty business &#150; this isn't a movie about men playing by the rules. It's about breaking every rule in the book to get a job done, and if a few innocent bystanders get in the way, they're simply collateral damage. On a higher level, Aldrich's film reflects culture attitudes of the late 60s. Moviegoers wanted a film which encouraged breaking the rules, which showed the higher levels of the American military as deeply flawed, and made the dregs of society into the heroes of the piece. It's a cynical representation of the time it was made in, but holds up flawlessly 40 years later, in a culture which has probably been shaped by the attitudes the film reflects in every frame. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Splendidly Produced; a Tough and Tough-Minded Film","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"48 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Many viewers of film, myself include, rate this as one of the most exciting mission'' stories of all time. Adapted from an intelligent but Freudian source novel, the plot theme is a subtle one for a movie; it's about convicted men in WWII being given odds for life in the form of a suicide mission that may wipe their slates clean-- or perhaps not... its main theme is self-assertion, set against its opposite, enforced repression. The key to every action men undertake in this very tough and and tough-minded Nunnnally Johnason and Lukas Heller script is Is that person dealing with the reality of the world of and his/her own responsibility to act? From convict Telly Savalas' character, mystical murderer of women who claims a divine calling to punish their sexuality, to Charles Bronson and Jim Brown who reacted to persecutions and are innocent by reason of self-defense, to their leader, the mission's architect, Major Reisman, who wants his plan to go forward his way despite resistance from brass, every man of the outfit is tried against the same standard. Jimenez is climbing a rope and says he can't make the tower; Franco refuses to shave because the officers have hot water and he does not, Posey can't control his temper, control-freak Col. Breed hates any man who does not go by the book; etc. As a production, Robert Aldrich's direction is probably his masterpiece; the acting is far above average, especially Lee Marvin, Charles Bronson, Donald Sutherland, Clint Walker, Robert Webber, energetic John Cassevetes and Al Mancini; the inspired casting of powerful top-sergeant-level Ernest Borgnine as an obviously far-beyond-his element general works brilliantly. The art direction, special effects, sets, and music (by Frank de Vol) all complement a taut script filled with memorable terse dialogue. Entire sequences such as the selection interviews for the mission team, the building of the camp, a visit to Breed's hq, Breed's invasion of the camp, the training regimen, the graduation party, Reisman's verbal defense of his men, the war games' challenge, preparing for the mission, the early invasion steps, Maggot's adlib, the attack by Reisman's team, the escape and the hospital climax and denouement--all these sections are made memorable to many admirers of this beautifully made and unusual story. As officers attached to the mission, George Kennedy, Richard Jaene-too-subtle secondary theme of the film is the wrongness of arbitrary power in anyone's hands, including Nazis, US army officers or their brutal agents (such as Breed's men who beat up Charles Bronson for information). The film is about individuals who when they harm no one else and are effective human beings, men who can always get the job done, always control themselves. who need to be free to operate. Such men the film says are heroes--men with an unusual ability to create results on Earth; the sort of men films ought to be made about in a nation that talks individualism and claims to value capability. This is a great adventure, of enduring artistry, occasional brutality and intelligently-developed dialogue. It has logical actions, and spectacular physical performances and This is a strong and well-thought-out adventure film, one of the richest of its genre, to be watched many times. "},{"Title":"Great fun movie with a great cast","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"58 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  During World War II, Major Reisman is called to a high level meeting to discuss his next mission &#150; to train a group of soldiers and prepare them for a mission behind enemy lines.  However the `soldiers' that Reisman has been assigned are all sentenced to death or life in prison for their crimes.  The mission is a suicide mission on a French chateau where German top brass will be, the aim being to kill as many as possible.  But before the mission, the group must pass a training to be considered for pardoning.Well known by all men everywhere, this is less a serious war movie and more an enjoyable ensemble romp through a training camp, with the final third being the mission itself.  This is the film's strength &#150; the training sections are very enjoyable and good fun to watch.  The mission is punchy and dramatic and works very well as the conclusion to the film rather than the whole film itself (which other `mission' films have to do).  The training is slick and enjoyable, not only it is occasionally quite funny but it is also consistently amusing and exciting at turns.The film's main selling point (increasingly so) is the all star cast, all of whom do really good work.  Marvin is tough in the lead and he is well supported by Borgnine, Kennedy, Ryan and Jaeckel playing the other officers.  Of the prisoners Cassavetes steals the show with his cocky Franko although he is not short of famous support.  Sutherland (although not well known at the time) is good comic relief, Savalas is a little too heavy for the film but adds menace, Bronson is good value, Brown is strong and is well known due to a weepy Billy Crystal!  The rest of the dozen give good performances, but I'll be honest and say that the famous faces stuck in my mind more.Overall this is not a wonderful film and, as a war movie it isn't the best `mission' movie you could find (simply cause the mission is quite short and straightforward.  However it is a fun movie that never drags despite the slightly longer than normal running time for this type of movie.  The training section and the mission itself combine to form an enjoyable film that is driven by a great cast playing good characters. "},{"Title":"Now That Is What I Would Call 12 Angry Men.","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"39 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Heart-pounding and adrenaline-rushing action giant that still packs a punch that will knock you out. A dozen criminals (Oscar-nominee John Cassavetes, Telly Savalas, Jim Brown, Charles Bronson and Donald Sutherland being the major standouts) are trained for a suicide mission into Nazi territory in 1944 and act as assassins. If you want to catch a thief, you hire a thief and that is the same principle used throughout this impressive motion picture. Lee Marvin does some of his best work as the leader of the rag-tag bunch of miscreants. Serves its purpose to near perfection. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A violent war film, and a great action-adventure entertainment...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Robert Aldrich seemed torn between American heroism or to indulge in a celebration of violence with an intriguing angle on combat in World War II adventure...A dozen dangerous criminals (thieves, murderers, rapists, psychopaths) - serving life sentences - offered a chance of pardon if they take part in a hazardous commando mission... They are trained to kill on a different level under the leadership of an insubordinate major, very short on discipline, and dropped in parachute near Rennes in Brittany to destroy a large fortified château used as a rest center and a conference place for general staff officers...The initial tension between Major John Reisman (Lee Marvin) and the convicts quickly collapses while Aldrich's ability was building considerable tough action scenes...Aldrich didn't neglect the character development of his superb cast offering some insights into the personalities of this unusual recruits... His believes that self-interest is the motive of all human conduct... Aldrich filled the sense of outrage of his characters, a sense so brave and different in Attack, in 1957. The claims about capital punishment and the anti-militarism spirit were quickly discarded in favor of the terrific and cruel action scenes the bloody climax which has a considerable number of German officers with the benefit of female companionship, all trapped in a bomb shelter...Marvin and Oscar Nominee John Cassavetes stand out among the cast...Lee Marvin creates the most interesting and influential violent hero the sardonic major!The game of death is played at its best in a powerful man's picture...The Dirty Dozen formula was held later in André De Toth's Play Dirty in which a group of ex-criminals led by Captain Michael Caine, destroy a German oil depot in the North African campaign in World War II. "},{"Title":"One of the most quintessential macho movies of all time.","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen is directed by Robert Aldrich and adapted for the screen by Nunnally Johnson & Lukas Heller from the novel by E. M. Nathanson. It stars Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Telly Savalas, Charles Bronson, John Cassavetes, Donald Sutherland, Richard Jaeckel, Robert Ryan and Jim Brown.1944, just prior to D-Day&#x85;.Major Reisman (Marvin) is a none conformist kind of guy and he riles the higher brass no end, so it comes as no surprise to him that he is the man assigned the unenviable task of assembling a suicide squad of army criminals for a mission to destroy a château in France. This particular château has no military value as such, but as it is used by many of the Nazi big chiefs, destroying it whilst they relax inside will upset the German plans immensely. But can this rag tag band of murderers, rapists and thieves shape up into something resembling a fighting force? Their reward, should they survive the mission, is amnesty, but Reisman for sure has his hands full on both sides of the war.One down to the road block, we've just begun.. Two the guards are through.. Three the Major's men are on a spree.. Four Major and Wladislaw go through the door.. Five Pinkley stays out in the drive.. Six the Major gives the rope a fix.. Seven Wladislaw throws the hook to heaven.. Eight Jiménez has got a date.. Nine the other guys go up the line.. Ten Sawyer and Gilpin are in the pen.. Eleven Posey guards points five and seven.. Twelve Wladislaw and the Major go down to delve.. Thirteen Franko goes up without being seen.. Fourteen Zero-hour, Jiménez cuts the cable, Franko cuts the phone.. Fifteen Franko goes in where the others have been.. Sixteen We all come out like it's Halloween....The Dirty Dozen has become one of those films that is a perennial holiday favourite like The Great Escape, Zulu and The Magnificent Seven. Which while it most definitely deserves such big exposure, it's a little surprising it's part of the holiday viewing schedules given its cynicism and amoral core; just one of the many great & intriguing things about Aldrich's testosterone laced movie. Met with mixed reviews on release, with the negative side of the fence bemoaning its nasty violence and preposterous plot, The Dirty Dozen none the less performed great at the box office where it was the fifth highest grosser of the year and the number one money maker in terms of profit to budget. Coming as it did during the middle of the Vietnam War, it was evident that the paying public quite easily bought into the thematics of The Dirty Dozen. Nearly 45 years since it first lured people into the cinema, Aldrich's movie shows no sign of age, or better still-and more remarkable-its enjoyability has not diminished.What makes it a great film, then? First off is the all-star macho cast assembled by Aldrich and his team, big hitters like Marvin (stepping in when John Wayne balked at the script), Borgnine, Kennedy, Ryan and Bronson were already names to the public, but these are also supplemented by soon to be stars like Cassavetes, Sutherland and Savalas (also stepping into a role vacated by another, this time Jack Palance who didn't like the racial aggression of the character) & stoic performers like Jaeckel & Robert Webber. While curio value comes with the casting of singer Trini Lopez and Gridiron star Jim Brown. Throw Clint Walker into the pot as well and you have got a considerable amount of beef in the stew! Secondly the film led the way for a slew of movies that featured bad guys as heroes, with that Aldrich's film holds up well as being a hugely influential piece. Then thirdly is that not only is it intermittently funny as the violence explodes on the screen, but that it's also chocked full of action and adventure. All that and for those so inclined you can find questionable morals under scrutiny and see the war is hell banner firmly flown during the nastiness of the missions culmination.Split into three parts; meet the guys; see them train & the mission, Dirty Dozen has been criticised for its lack of realism, but is that really needed in what is essentially a male fantasy piece setting out to entertain? Besides which, lets applaud it for acknowledging that brutality and atrocities were committed on both sides of the fence. Rest assured, The Dirty Dozen still had enough edginess about it back in the 60s. It's also true enough to say that the characters, are in the main, stereotypes, and that the unravelling story is a touch clichéd, but these are men that men want to be (okay maybe not Savalas' religious maniac rapist!) and men that women can cast a flirtatious eye over there's plenty of character here to hang your hats and undergarments on; appealing to the inner rebel hidden away in many a viewer. The message's in there are not sledge hammered into the story (Aldrich always said he wasn't making a message movie, just a film about camaraderie and unlikely heroes), and the construction of the action is top notch from one of America's most under appreciated directors. It's nicely shot in 70mm MetroColor/MetroScope by Edward Scaife (Night of the Demon/Khartoum) and features a suitably boisterous music score from Frank De Vol (Cat Ballou/The Flight of the Phoenix).It's a far from flawless picture, of that there is no doubt, but it's loved by millions and continues to gain an audience yearly who are willing to view it on its own entertaining terms. As a boy I wanted to be Lee Marvin because of this film, as a middle aged man now, I still want to be Lee Marvin in this film. That's yet another reason why The Dirty Dozen is so great. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A well structured and interesting story, although poorly edited in the final act","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"36 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's difficult when you approach an old movie to see it for the first time and you have to try and drop all the baggage associated with it from reviews and analysis over the years. The Dirty Dozen is such a movie. I just watched it for the first time last night on TV, clipped though it was for those smaller brained people among us who don't like to see dark bits at the top and bottom of their screens.It's interesting that there are three real character acts to this movie. There's the dark opening and character introduction, the fun act where the characters meld together into a team, and the closing act where the mission, and the war, become a stark and deadly reality. That last act is dark too, although there a couple of accidental laughs in there for the worst character expression at a death ever, and one particularly bad death scene.What does strike you about the opening is how really dark it all is. We're talking about murders who are looking at to be retrained. Indeed one is a rapist with a serious God complex who is bordering on utterly insane. They are about to be hanged for their crimes, but have one last chance. Poor Major John Reisman has no say in the matter, he has his band and has to make them work.It's well filmed for the first two character acts, and the acting is very good. John Cassavetes and Telly Savalas are wonderful in their roles. In fact it's a surprise to see Savalas in such a role and shining so brightly. Donald Sutherland also shows he has some excellent character acting in him. The rest are far from bad, but you can see a lot of typecasting for them.The movement from the dark opening to the more jovial training act is interesting to watch, as this is exactly how many of the characters are seeing it, as a bit of fun. What they aren't expecting is the third character act, that of the actual war itself, and for some this proves too much.The difficulty I had with the final act is only in the filming. There are premature cuts, awkward angles and jumping storytelling. So much is missed by the camera, and it doesn't feel like it's there to let your imagination run, it seems like someone has cut the film deliberately, and quite badly. There are quite a few scene transitions that just don't work at all.However, where it doesn't fail is bringing the characters to their ultimate journey, that of redemption and a renewed desire to fight for their Major, and their fellow men. They become soldiers, and indeed heroes.It's a good war film to watch, very well structured and reflective of the characters journeys. It's just that final act for me which spoiled my enjoyment, and purely in the filming of it. "},{"Title":"Smell the testosterone! The Dirty Dozen is the quintessential guys on a mission movie!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Quentin Tarantino looks like he just might follow through with his threat to make the ultimate guys on a mission movie if he gets his 'Inglorious Bastards' on to the big screen, but he'll be pushed to equal 'The Dirty Dozen', the quintessential movie in the genre. 35 years on and it's still one of the best WW2 adventure movies, and a strong contender for the ultimate guys movie. It shouldn't be taken too seriously - I don't think anyone is going to argue it's a realistic depiction of war - but it's still one of the most entertaining movies around, and it's impressive collection of tough guys and character actors is really hard to beat. Director Aldrich had previously made the classic noir 'Kiss Me Deadly' (starring Ralph Meeker who reappears here in a supporting role) and the wonderfully creepy 'Whatever Happened To Baby Jane', but this is arguably going to be THE movie he's remembered for. Screen legend Lee Marvin ('Point Blank', 'The Killers') with the assistance of his Sgt (Richard Jaeckel), must train a motley collection of criminal and misfits (including John Cassavetes, Jim Brown, Telly Savalas, Charles Bronson, Clint Walker and Donald Sutherland), for a suicide mission behind enemy lines. Marvin is just great, extremely cool and charismatic, but also a fine actor, something which is often overlooked. The ensemble cast (which also includes George Kennedy, and two future stars of 'The Wild Bunch', Ernest Borgnine and Robert Ryan) are uniformly excellent, but Cassavetes is particularly outstanding, Sutherland is memorable as a half wit, and Savalas is unforgettable as the religious psychopath Maggott. 'The Dirty Dozen' is first class entertainment and highly recommended. It put 90% of today's action movies to shame! "},{"Title":"The Greatest War Adventure of all time","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most entertaining action packed war films ever made with a tremendous cast playing unique characters. I first saw this film when I was about 8 year old and thought it was the best thing I'd seen on TV.Lee Marvin heads the cast as an unorthadox, short on discipline rebellious Major during World War II whose given a suicidal mission by a bunch of Generals headed by the excellent Ernest Borgnine. He must take 12 convicts train them and take them on a mission behind enemy lines to destroy a large chateau and kill a large number of important German officers who'll be partying there that night.The films explosive climax is fantastic as you know inevitably that not everyone will survive the mission and by now you've sort of chosen who your favourite characters are. The build up and the training scenes are also brilliant as you discover the backgrounds behind these violent criminals.It's Marvin's show but John Cassavettes is superb as Victor Franco, in fact with a supporting cast featuring Robert Ryan, Charles Bronson, Telly Savalas, Donald Sutherland, George Kennedy and Clint Walker you know you're in for a great ride, nobody is wasted.There's a lot of humour mixed with quite serious issues...you sometimes forget that this band of jokers are killers with only one chance to survive a mission they are hardly trained for.This classic is on par with The Great Escape and Where Eagles Dare, Three inferior TV movies were made in the mid eighties which basically take the same idea from the original but they are obviously no match.It's available on video and DVD and every home should have a copy. Flawless.   "},{"Title":"Feed the French, Kill the Germans","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" John Wayne who apparently was offered the part of Major Reisman probably wisely turned it down. Wayne would never have done in the part of the maverick major in charge of training the way Lee Marvin was so perfect in the role. In fact Marvin's and the performance of others in the cast helped The Dirty Dozen get over two very big improbable situations I have always found in this film.The first one being the way the conflict between Robert Ryan and Lee Marvin is handled. I can certainly see why a spit and polish West Point graduate like Ryan would not like Marvin, why Marvin would rub him the wrong way. But I cannot understand why when the Dozen are transferred to his command for parachute training they don't tell him what's going on. I would think he would have a need to know. Then again a whole big part of the film wouldn't have occurred if Ryan had been let in on Marvin's mission.The second thing is that granted these guys might be considered expendable to say the least with several of the dozen scheduled for a firing squad, but the army would want to make sure the mission had some chance of succeeding. There's no way, absolutely no bloody way, that a psychotic like Telly Savalas would have been allowed on the mission. And why Lee Marvin didn't scrub him when psychiatrist Ralph Meeker offered to is beyond me as well.Those glaring holes in the story have always prevented me from giving The Dirty Dozen the top rating that most have given it. But it hasn't prevented me from enjoying the film.The basic idea of the film appeals to me. An unorthodox major taking a group of nonconformists to say the least and making them a crack fighting outfit. Regular army training did not do it for this crew the first time around.Charles Bronson is one of the dozen and this film certainly put him well on the way to top billing. A dozen years later in fact he'd have it over Lee Marvin in Death Hunt. Jim Brown also having just finished his football career began his movie career with a winning performance as another of the dozen. John Cassavetes was singled out for a Best Supporting Actor nomination. Also Donald Sutherland got his first real notice as yet another of the dozen.A year later William Holden and Cliff Robertson did The Devil's Brigade which bore a lot of resemblance to The Dirty Dozen. It got slammed by critics for ripping off from The Dirty Dozen. The only problem was that Holden's film was based on a real outfit and The Dirty Dozen is pure fiction. Only in movieland.Marvin's mission is to infiltrate and kill a lot of the German high command as they gather at a French château in the weeks before D-Day. How he does is something you have to watch The Dirty Dozen before. But I think you'll like seeing what happens. "}{"Title":"A good old fashioned war film with no hidden agenda.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A generally entertaining war film with no real political axe to grind   or patriotic flagwaving getting in the way.    Its very dangerous trying to humourise war in the movies, because that   would be offensive to all those that had served & died in real life.   Kelly's Heroes and 1941 probably went a little too far, pretending that   war is really fun & cool when you've got people like Clint Eastwood in   charge.    But then you have other war films that are black in its humour but   manage to keep into focus the cruelty & horrors of war at the same time   - M*A*S*H and Catch 22 are the best examples.    With Dirty Dozen we have something of a go-between; the humour amongst   the characters is light & welcoming but never falls into farce or   bad-taste; and Aldrich quickly pulls us back into the fold with some   tight scripted scenes of drama & mass murder (throwing petrol &   grenades into that German bunker to name but one. I often wonder about   that scene, and whether it was some kind of metaphor for the gas   chambers & concentration camps in Belsen)    But unlike MASH & Catch 22, Aldrich resists the temptation to openly   politicise the effects of war, after all this film was made in '67 near   the height of the Vietnam war/protests. Instead he takes a straight   line course of action and lets us be moved & entertained by the   convicted GIs doing their duty.    Marvin is excellent as the hardnosed but disobediant Major. He plays   the anti-hero far better than Eastwood in Kelly's Heroes. Marvin just   looks the type who'd give the top brass as well the Germans a real hard   time.    But special mention must go to Cassavettes as Viktor Franko, the   trouble-maker's trouble-maker. His character is so refreshing & wild   amongst a relatively mild cast of supporting extras, with the exception   of Savalas. Franko is the Joker of the pack but you soon feel an   attachment for him in spite of his crimes.    Sutherland & Bronson, don't really add much. The former plays a   slightly naive man who hasn't really grown up and Bronson just smirks &   mumbles a lot.    The only other character worthy of a mention is the truly terrifying   Savalas, who is a Christian through & through, yet hates all women as   much as the Germans; and has a most spine chilling laugh! Difficult to   believe this man later became Kojak!    The film is a tad overlong; the first & last 40 minutes hold the   interest but the middle section (the War Games scene), is far too long   and generally detracts.    All the same, DD is a very good movie, especially for those who don't   want to be politically moralised too.    ***/***** "},{"Title":"Political Correctness Gone Too Far","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a bit surprised by the critics who have a problem with the disgusting ending of this film. First of all, the burning to death or bombing of the civilians is not graphically portrayed. Some comments would have you believe that it's shown with Private Ryan realism. I have a hard time believing that a 10-year-old was shocked into crying hysterics by the ending of this movie.Secondly, perhaps the film makers WANTED the audience to feel uneasy, ambiguous, or even a bit disgusted. War IS hell, remember? Which is why 11 of the 12 die on the mission.And while the Nazis are not portrayed as evil caricatures, anyone who sees them as victims needs a history lesson. Overall, I think the film makers were trying for the 1967 version of realism. That's why the film presents an effective mix of humor, horror, and drama.  "},{"Title":"The Best Ensemble Rugged He-Man Cast Ever !!!!!!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Time and Turner saturating the airways about once a month have taken some toll on the impact of this great action adventure film which has the best ensemble rugged he-man cast every to take on the Nazi's on film. Tame by today's standards it was landmark in 1967 for unlike any previous war film the objective was not to take an island or a hill or a fortress but to kill enemy officers. Released during a time when we still considered war to have some morale standards at least when conducted by American's what better way to justify murdering our enemy than using the dregs of the American Army in a top secret covert mission.  Our heroes a mixture of murderers thieves and rapists were actually more villainous than their Nazi adversaries  The dozen's casting was highlighted by the brilliant Cassavetes as the punk gangster Franco and Savalas as the sadistic psychotic bigot Maggott. Bronson, Brown &  Walker are the brawn of the group and the film provides all of them the opportunity to display their physical attributes. Sutherland represents the only other major character of the dozen as the unit idiot. Lee Marvin was in his prime and I consider this his best and most definitive role as the leader of the dozen. Borgnine and Ryan also standout as adversarial superiors to Marvin. This was a man's film from beginning to end and although not as colorful or explicit as the excellent book it was based on it was every bit as good a film as was the book and the exciting climax was a big improvement on the non climactic book. "},{"Title":"Actually, the Foul Fourteen...","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers ahead...It's funny -- 1967 saw the summer of love but it also saw the release of a raw, violent war movie in which more than a few of the heroes are psychopaths.  I've kind of wanted to see this movie since I was a kid, but it's taken me a good three decades to realize that goal.  It had all my little kid friends abuzz in the '70s -- those who'd seen it, somehow -- and I can see why.  This, really, is your basic macho war movie.  It's a kind of film that doesn't get made much any more, or -- at least -- not released theatrically.  It's got fewer redeeming qualities than war movies (or movies set during wartime -- there's a difference) made since the mid-'70s, basically in light of the American experience in Vietnam and the domestic reactions to that experience, and it's more a straight shoot-'em-up that almost glorifies violence.  It has a few subtleties, however, that set it apart from the truly mindless violence of some films that I could name (many of them from the '80s).  The film touches upon class, race, and other social structures and its diverse cast does a great job of creating and resolving conflict as kind of a microcosm of any multicultural society.  Justice and the idea that officers might sometimes be the last people that you'd want to have running things also belong as major themes, though they've been more fully and effectively developed before (e.g., What Price Glory, All Quiet On The Western Front) and since (e.g., Apocalypse Now, Gallipoli, Hamburger Hill).The cast works really well, and includes some unlikely candidates such as footballer Jim Brown (who did a great job in this, his second movie, by the way) and musician Trini Lopez (who even gets to sing a song).  Lee Marvin is excellent, as always, as the gruff but not humor-free (and, in his own right, subversively insubordinate) major who's charged with the team of criminals that become the Dirty Dozen.  I don't know who thought of casting the prototypical Noo Yawker Telly Savalas as a southern religious maniac (emphasis on maniac) but it does work and he's scarily and creepily good in the role.  Charles Bronson plays it straight in one of his better roles and does a good job.  John Cassavetes delivers the most intense performance (if I recall from seeing him in other films, I think that he _always_ did) as a troublemaker and his is a standout performance.  Donald Sutherland's character isn't fleshed out much, but he does get to act the fool in a couple of memorable scenes, including one in which he's passed off as a general.  The massive Clint Walker, who looks like a 70s-era Big Jim action figure come to life, is also great as a backwoods giant who's gentle until pushed too far.  Richard Jaeckel also acquits himself well as an MP in what I expected to be a short role, though he ended up going on the mission and was one of the three that survived.  George Kennedy and Ernest Borgnine don't have huge roles in this film but each is good in their part.  Of note perhaps is that both Lee Marvin and Telly Savalas were WWII veterans, both wounded in combat.This bunch of misfits are eventually whipped into a unit and they're such underdogs that most viewers will probably revel in their victory over Lee Marvin's priggish superior officer (played to arrogant perfection by Robert Ryan).  There's a fair bit of humor in this film, too, at least until the attack is launched.This is a violent movie and I found one particularly interesting moment to be when one of the Dirty Dozen is told to execute some Germans -- he obviously doesn't want to do it but the script doesn't belabor the point, it merely makes it obvious without him saying a word.  So, too, do some of the soldiers seem to harbor some qualms about obliterating Germans that they've trapped in a cellar.  The Germans herded below are slaughtered -- looks like a war crime to me, friends and neighbors.  In this respect, the film pulls no punches and, although otherwise not a particularly realistic film, it shows quite nicely (i.e., disturbingly) the ugliness and brutality of war. It's also commendable that this film never dehumanizes the Germans.  For that matter, if anyone are brutal thugs here it'd have to be the Dirty Dozen.I guess the bottom line for me is that I basically like this film, though I'm quite disturbed by some elements within (dumping grenades and fuel on trapped German officers and their ladies being the biggie) and I'd be a bit worried about someone who was a rabid fan of the movie -- at least if he giggled like Telly Savalas' character while watching Germans bite the dust. Maybe, on second thought, I just like the first half of this film.  By the way, Lee Marvin's character has a German name, that I'm sure was not unintentional ('rice man,' I think...I'd speculate that this was an oblique reference within an oblique reference, related to the Southeast Asian conflict that the US was embroiled in during 1967, but I'm not sure to what extreme these kinds of things need to be taken).  "},{"Title":"Box-office hit about a misfit team led by Lee Marvin who carry out a suicide mission behind enemy lines","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A group of conscripted convicts formed by twelve condemned , already destined for death row, are drafted to go on a near-suicide mission and attempt to eliminate a Nazi staff . ¨Dirty Dozen¨ is an entertaining film with Lee Marvin as tough officer along with the ordinary team of renegade soldiers of World War II . Marvin training a group of rebel and misfit soldiers for a dangerous assault on a palace-château. In the hands of hardboiled director Robert Aldrich and a tough-as-leather cast headed by Lee Marvin , as a troublesome U.S. Army Major , that's all the plot that's needed to make one rip-roaring wartime flick. Marvin's mission is two-fold and in violent and cynical style  first turn his prisoners into a fighting unit and then turn them loose on a German fortress located in Britain . His crime-minded characters include John Cassavetes as rebel inmate , Clint Walker as a chronic malcontent, Telly Savalas as a ready-to-blow psycho, Donald Sutherland as a lame-brained convict and many others . The first half of the film allows the colorful cast of character actors to have their fun as they get their tails whipped into shape and develop shaky relationship with their leader. The final part is all action, as the culprit commandos wreck havoc and then run for their lives. Despite the fact that few of the heroes survive the bloodbath, the message here isn't that war is hell. Rather, it seems to be war can be a hell of a good time... if you've got nothing to lose . The relentless assignment is set against strong training, risked adventures and hazardous feats . The dangerous mission includes a numerous group formed by a motley and diverse squadron played by all-star cast .This is a rugged WWII actioner concerning about an experienced officer , Major Reisman , he's assigned by Military staff (Ernest Borgnine who acted in the original and all the sequels, Robert Webber , George Kennedy) to train a dropout group of murderers , criminals and rapists who get a chance to redeem themselves . They are a bunch of dispensable characters with no past and no future . Lee Marvin reprieves a bunch of ¨Death Row¨ inmates , forges them into a two-fisted fighting unit and leads them on a deadly assignment into Nazi territory , but there is a religious crazy in the team .The prisoners are oddballs , rag-tag and undisciplined gang (a large cast formed by John Cassavetes, Clint Walker , Donald Sutherland, Telly Savalas , Jim Brown , Charles Bronson, Trini Lopez), under command a sergeant (Richard Jaeckel). The team is hardly trained by the Major Reisman . In this film Marvin and his motley band , the Dirty Dozen, are suppose to destroy a fortress where resides various Nazi officers . Then they are parachuted and arrive in French Bretain and attacking the palace . At the end they must participate in the suicidal mission behind the enemy lines , to wipe the German group by means of a violent assault over a strongly protected castle.Lee Marvin as Major Reisman assumes the character of the leader of the Dirty Dozen in this wartime classic movie directed by Robert Aldrich and based on the characters created by T.M. Nathanson , being scripted by Nunnally Johnson and Lukas Heller. This moving film packs frantic thrills, perilous adventures , relentless feats , and buck-loads of explosive action and violence. The noisy action is uniformly well-made, especially deserving of mention the rip-roaring final scenes on the fortress , including some spectacular shootouts and bombing . Apart from the values of team spirit , cudgeled by Lee Marvin into his rebel group , the film is full of feats , suspense , and thrills . Rough Marvin is good as leader of the motley pack together thwart the Nazi schemes, as well as the largely secondary cast with special mention to Telly Savalas and Donald Sutherland . Atmospheric and martial musical score by Frank De Vol and appropriate cinematography filmed by Edward Scaife in several locations from Gaddesden, Hertfordshire , England and MGM British studios, Borehamwood . This is is a wartime typical vehicle and into the ¨warlike commando genre¨ , which also belong  Where eagles dare(Brian G. Hutton) and Kelly's heroes(Hutton ), Tobruk (Arthur Hiller), Devil's Brigade (Andrew V McLagen) and many others .This exciting , original and Box-Office hit ,¨Dirty dozen¨ was followed by various sequels , a trio of inferior Telefilms (1985 , 87 , 88) as ¨Dirty Dozen II The next mission ¨ by Andrew V McLagen with Lee Marvin and Richard Jaeckel, Borgnine , Larry Wilcox and Wolf Kahler , ¨Dirty Dozen III  Deadly mission¨ by Lee H Katzin and ¨Dirty Dozen  Fatal mission¨ also by Lee H Katzin and starred by Telly Savalas replacing Lee Marvin; both of them shot at the same time with similar actors and director ; furthermore a TV series. "},{"Title":"Magnificent Seven Meets Great Escape Meets Catch 22","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers herein.Most films are not about life, but about other films. Sometimes you get one that recasts old forms and sets new cultural milestones.Just a couple years before, Bronson was a part of a rag-tag group in the US remake of 'The Magnificent 7.' Then, that same ethos of inventive rebel was recast into patriotic honor with the Americans in the 'Great Escape.' This was one of the defining archetypes of the culture, just in time to catch and influence the Vietnam era. Now, the idea is brought home more clearly rank criminals with defining but limited honor.What's unique about this film the bad guys aren't the Nazis -- it is them, their servants and women, the whole complicit people. Behind the humor of the middle part is a more harrowing reality of that war than seen in 'Private Ryan' and the ilk the war was brought by and fought against the German people. No honor on either side, only film justice.++++ Added laterSometimes distance sharpens the politics of the thing. At the time, the U.S. was conducting an immoral war in Vietnam. The Army was aggregated from conscripts most against their will; some significant portion were sent from the judicial system. The rules were brutal on civilians. It would be some time before the extent would become known, but war crimes were common. I think when this film came out few would have mourned the loss of a few French prostitutes and wives. This was far closer to WWII than to the current time, and the image of stereotypical German generals being taken from lavish pleasures and incinerated in a cave would have evoked notions of justice for the holocaust. So we would applaud the black guy triggering the deaths. How blind we seem to be about the present, any present. "},{"Title":"Where Classic Hollywood Meets The New Hollywood","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" THE DIRTY DOZEN is very much a film that stands between the fault line of the old classic Hollywood and of the New Hollywood . Arthur Penn's BONNIE AND CLYDE was released the same year to great commercial and critical success . The Hays code that dictated what could and couldn't be shown in American cinema was being replaced but a certification system and this film reflects this . Notice how a well regarded film critic like Roger Ebert was shocked at the amount of violence on screen . Of course it's very tame by today's standards but Robert Aldrich like Sam Peckinpah always did try to push on screen violence in the 1960sIt's interesting that there's moral ambiguity surrounding the plot . With a film like THE GUNS OF NAVERONE and WHERE EAGLES DARE it'd be jolly decent chaps been given a mission to kill the dastardly hun but here we saw a bunch of criminals doing so . Also interesting how the film differentiates between the  good criminals  and the  bad criminals  even if you haven't seen the film before you'll be hoping which character gets their pardon and which one dies in action Of the cast Lee Marvin , Ernest Borgnine and Robert Ryan would have been well known where as Donald Sutherland , Charles Bronsan and John Cassevetes weren't famous names . Bronson did go on to be a big name in 1970s cinema and it's difficult to think of a decade apart from the 1970s where a tall , thin slightly goofy looking actor would have been a film star . Cassevetes didn't really become a big name as an actor but did become a highly acclaimed director of independent features . Post 70s indie cinema owes much to him As for the actual plot there's a major plot hole in that the allies know there's a Nazi conference taking place but instead using a squadron of bombers to reduce the château to rubble they come up with a scheme that's little chance of success involving the condemned men , but if the allied planners showed more sense there wouldn't have been a story . The plotting does mean the film is rather flabby and overlong but it's a fairly entertaining one if you like war adventures and Lee Marvin and his cohorts are much better actors than Brad Pitt and the ones who appeared a recent film by Tarantino "},{"Title":"Doesn't Wear Well","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen won a lot of plaudits when originally released. It was over-rated then, and it hasn't held up at all well. It brings together a number of actors who were well-known then or who became well-known subsequently. That was (and remains) one of its great strengths. It also has action aplenty and enough blood and gore to satisfy the most avid devotees of action movies.If that's your thing, the predictability of the script and the ultimate triumph of the good (i.e., bad) guys may not bother you. But this is a movie that's been done dozens of times in the last 40 years the ensemble cast, the impossible mission, the ultimate triumph (sometimes bloodless). It is the essential premise of the various Ratpack movies. It is likewise the premise of Ocean's 11, Ocean's 12 and Ocean's 13. It can be bloody. It can be a con. It can be phony- tragic. It can be suave and funny. But it's pretty much the same film in every case. The Dirty Dozen is not one of the better examples. "},{"Title":"cruel, overlong and overrated","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warning spoilers ahead. Despite great performances all around (save for Telly Savalas' giggling psycho), this is one overrated and overlong 'classic' action movie. I have a hard time when Hollywood tries to turn murderers and rapists -- all sentenced to death or life in prison -- into a bunch of lovable, misunderstood goofballs. I could buy it if one or two of them had been wrongfully accused, but eleven of them? Or rather six of them, since the other half of the 'dozen' aren't even developed into characters. I could also buy it if they redeem themselves or come to some personal revelation through their mission, but the finale of this film was so sadistic that it ruined everything that had been set up. Are we supposed to cheer when these so far unredeemed 'heroes' pour gasoline on a bunch of trapped Nazi officers' WIVES?? Why did the writers put women in this scene at all? Where's the redemption in psychos acting psychotic? This finale just puts them on the same level as the Nazis, but unfortunately this film isn't going for any kind of moral message. The screaming, trapped women getting doused in gasoline by a bunch of unredeemed murderers and rapists completely ruined what had been an OK action film. "},{"Title":"Macho classic is weirdly boring","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Robert Aldrich, about as lively a director as ever made a movie in Hollywood, Hit pay dirt with this expensive, widely far-fetched WWII Yarn. Perhaps it's his attempts to bring realism to the story is makes the thing so dull and confused. The screenplay seems to try to hard to avoid cliché ridden characters, the results are simply interesting actors stuck in neutral, though Telly Savalas gives a terrible performance, maybe for the only time. As always with the subversive Aldrich, some liberal instincts kick in, the regular army Military Brass are seen as idiots and bullies. Lover is used as a stand in for the F word. If you can't get enough of this stuff, you'll probably love it but by the time Jim Brown took his celebrated run I was ready to snooze. "}{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not too bad, I thought, even though I seriously doubt any nazis would look at the black soldier and think him a nazi...12 military inmates, several on death row, are presented with a choice become soldiers on a top secret mission or go through with their sentences. They are trained to be efficient, and boy, they sure are eager to proove themselves.At the training camp, it might be a bit slow, but it was a bit like one of those reality shows on TV - put a bunch of convicted felons in a camp and try to make soldiers out of them and see what happens. Surprisingly, the movie was better than I expected.Somewhat unbelievable, perhaps, but quite amusing at times. The end bit made me very uncomfortable, considering what they did (I'm not telling what it is, don't want to spoil things), but I suppose that's just the way war is.Watch it on a rainy day! It's kind of fun to see Telly Kojak Savalas, Charles Bronson and Donald Sutherland running around, although Savalas' character really needed a reality check! "},{"Title":"Above Average, But Pretty Dirty, Too.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Twelve Leavenworth- or gallows-bound Army misfits are gathered together and trained for a suicide mission. The film gives us the tale of these assorted loonies becoming a solidary male group under the tutelage of their tough but practical major (Marvin) and his Sergeant (Jaekel) who accompany them as they are parachuted behind German lines to carry out their mission.Except for the last half hour, the movie is a kind of training camp movie familiar to audiences during World War II. Everybody wisecracks and insults everyone else. There are fist fights and pratfalls. When a stern and distant colonel (Ryan) penetrates the secret camp he is humiliated and run off by the filthy trainees. Later, Ryan is further humiliated when the dirty dozen play on the opposite side during a combat exercise and manage to capture him and his headquarters by pretending to be on his side. (I can't count the number of times this had been done in earlier movies. Even Laurel and Hardy did it.) The laughs and grabass disappear in the final thirty minutes when the group's mission becomes clear. They are to invade an estate in which German officers take some rest and relaxation with their families and girl friends. And the film now begins to make us squirm a bit.Members of the group penetrate the castle and hide in various niches while others prepare to trap the German officers inside. The slimiest and most clearly nuts of the dirty dozen (Savalas), who is referred to by a staff officer as a malignant dwarf, silently knifes a victim in one of the bedrooms. The victim seems to have been playing a game with his girl friend who enters the room and begins inquiring where her partner is. Savalas is behind a curtain, caressing his knife like Jack the Ripper, and stifling maniacal giggles. The young woman finally grows impatient and says angrily, This is no longer a joke. Indeed it isn't. Savalas grabs her from behind, covering her mouth, holding his knife against her delicate neck and taunting her for being a filthy slut who deserves God's punishment.The whole tone of the movie changes with this scene because we realize that these guys we've been rooting for all along can be pretty thoroughly murderous thugs.After Savalas finishes her off, bells ring, alarms clang, shots ring out, and all the guests -- men and women alike -- retreat to a bunker in the cellar. The dirty dozen lock them inside, then pour gasoline on them through the ceiling vents while the girls scream and the Germans shout while trying to stuff the vents closed. They don't succeed. They are all blown to bits and most of the dirty dozen are killed in the action.I don't know if the director intended it or not, but he's pulled us into a state of sympathy with these raggedy undisciplined warriors and then turned around on us and shown us that their mission consists of the deliberate murder of a hundred or more people, many of them innocent, all of them helpless. It does not leave the viewer with any feeling of triumph. Guilt is more like it. The greater message is that war itself is nothing more than organized homicide, not at all like a football game.The acting really MAKES this movie. Lee Marvin has never been better. And his support is great -- stalwarts like Ernest Borgnine, Robert Ryan, John Cassavetes, Jim Brown, Ralph Meeker, Charles Bronson, Donald Southerland. We don't get to know all of the men equally intimately. Some of the dirty dozen apparently have no lines of dialog at all. And sometimes the humor is silly. But all of that is papered over by the performances, by the efficient direction, and by wardrobe and cinematography, both departments outstanding.It's long but never dull. It's both an entertainment and a lesson. See it if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"Extremely slow and boring","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Honestly, how many of you managed to keep your eyes open during the entire time? Unlike other people who did not like it I am not judging it by the morals of the story. But just the movie-making part.It took them 2,5 hours to tell a simple story for no obvious reason. Terrible editing. Was there actually an editor? Another annoying issue was the sound. Very bad quality with random volume changes. I am a fan of old (and a lot older) movies so my judgment is far than strict.I would not give it a good rating just because it is a World War II film. But I would give it a good rating if it was an insomnia medication. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but an awful war movie","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As war movies go, it's pretty pitiful. However, the casting was excellent and as a result the movie makes good entertainment but don't expect to be educated in any fashion about WWII. It's a classic example of a poorly produced and written movie literally being carried by good acting. This movie is more of a farce than a serious film. But then again the audience that loves this movie doesn't have high expectations or intelligence and of course it is always good to the see the particular cast. But if it turns up on TV I won't turn it off as it is so much fun to watch the excellent combination of A and B list actors. Lemon Tree o so pretty, lemon flower smells so sweet, but the fruit of the poor lemon is impossible to eat--Trini Lopez's hit song pretty much sums up this movie. Even Trini, non-actor, was good in this flick. "},{"Title":"Signature role for a one off Actor","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is notable as being the finest role played by Lee Marvin who was tailor made for the part of Major Reisman. The principle plaudits in my view apart from the acting must surley be attributed to the excellent casting in this film Marvin being the standout. Marvin excelled himself in this role & was totally believable but then one could generally say that about all of Marvins roles. This actor was in his stride in the 60s following on from such standout performances in the Killers & Point Blank which I also rate as highly as Dirty Dozen but for different reasons.Marvin like cassavetes gave %200 involvement & realism to all their roles & their individual personas added that extra punch to more than a few films in this era of filmdom.The film industry is the poorer for the loss of these 2 brilliant performers particularly cassavetes who died much to early. They have left much to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen Comes Clean ***1/2","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Faithful film detailing the army's attempt to recruit 12 men made up of convicted killers and rapists to do a major job by killing German officials.The cast is top-rate. As Franco, a cocky killer, John Cassavetes received a well deserved supporting Oscar nomination. As a sadistic killer, who goes through religious rages against sex-driven women, Telly Savalas, who almost helped bungle the plot, deserved a nomination as well, but didn't get one.Lee Marvin is their faithful commander who asserts himself and then gets the guys into shape for this daring fete.The picture goes down some what as time is taken out for war games and the 12 men fooling Robert Ryan on two occasions. Ryan was always a difficult character to put it over on.The film goes back to its greatness when the guys land to destroy the castle and the German officials in it. The action is strong and you leave the theater with the idea that people can be salvaged. "},{"Title":"Violent WW2 saga with great cast!","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Lee Marvin in perfectly cast as tough Major Reisman with a motley crew of murders and idiots to whip into shape for a crazy mission. John Cassavetes takes top acting honors as Franco, the street-wise punk with a smart mouth. Donald Sutherland plays a low I.Q. soldier who's quite funny. Charlie Bronson is a hard nut and Telly Savalas is a religious psychopath. Jim Brown was believable with a great scene near the end. A 7 out of 10. Robert Ryan seems ill at ease with the part he has to play, but he was a wonderful actor for many years.The violence in this movie bothers some, but what can you do? It was a different time then (especially in films). Robert Aldrich also directed BABY JANE and ATTACK. "},{"Title":"All Star Cast","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Dirty Dozen(1967) is an entertaining movie full of exciting action and great acting.  The film is about 12 convicts who are sent on a secret mission to Germany in order to assassinate some generals.  Robert Aldrich's direction is crisp and fast paced.  The Dirty Dozen is my favorite World War 2 movie.  Its another film that was influenced by the Seven Samauri.  Was done at a time when many Hollywood features had some true all star casts compared to some of today's films.  Lee Marvin is both tough and hard as the individualistic, Major John Reisman.  The Dirty Dozen is one of the top ten films that Charles Bronson has been in.  The story is excellent and the music is good.  One favorite scene is when the convicts overtake Robert Ryan's troops during a military exercise.  Another favorite scene is when Donald Sutherland is asked to impersonate a general.  John Cassavetes gives the film's best performance as the cocky Victor Franko.  Telly Savalas gives his most famous performance as the religious and self righteous psychotic rapist, Maggot. "},{"Title":"Psychos, Thieves, Rapists, Thugs&#133;Give A Warm Welcome To The Dirty Dozen","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Back in 1967 The Dirty Dozen was a very controversial film because it went against everything the army stood for and so was nearly not able to be made. Luckily it did and still today it stands as one of the greatest action/war movies ever made and it still rings with its anti-war message. If you want to know what kind of a film The Dirty Dozen is I'd say it's a cross between Full Metal Jacket and Animal House, strange right? The thing about The Dirty Dozen is it is very different to most other war films and with the added comedy you've got something very unique. Most importantly The Dirty Dozen proves that to be a good solider you have to break a few rules.From the cold opening monologue to the explosive finale you've got yourself a film that sets a standard for how to make an action movie years and years since. The Dirty Dozen is famous for its wonderful ensemble cast that provides humour as well as study. All of the 12 men trained by Lee Marvin the cold head of command are ex-convicts and all of them are some of the most twisted people known to man. The film studies the violence on and behind the war zone. The Dirty Dozen entertains as well as an insight; this is great in my opinion. Some people say The Dirty Dozen can't be taken seriously, I sure think it can. Even though the film is a comedy it still is a serious film in many places. The film has managed to place itself in 60s pop culture for being so iconic. The film's acting from the entire cast remains on top throughout the entire film. If you think about The Dirty Dozen is a disturbing film, the segment with the gasoline and grenades being poured down the shafts is done in such a odd fashion that you'll find it hard to grasp it.The film's style is one that remains as cool as it was back in 1967. The editing is very cleanly cut and The Dirty Dozen's pace runs with a rhythm still keeping its substance. Many of the camera shots and the final, body count filled massacre has a certain feel of excellence to it. You can really feel the time spent on creating set pieces, acting ability, direction etc. The Dirty Dozen's atmosphere from all this is a menacing dark one, the fact it's menacing is because of the added humour and the dark because of the whole crazy idea. The film does run smoothly and feels very tight because there are no subplots and the fact that everything is so precise. The Dirty Dozen is a movie that has been spawned with carbon copy films and TV sequels.The script is one of great originality because it mixes sardonic humour with great speeches and one-liners. You'll be sure to have a favourite character by the end of the film. Many of the cast and characters have gone down in history providing a great step up for the cast's careers. Charles Bronson. And Donald Sutherland are probably some of the most recognisable to the viewer today. The Dirty Dozen remains a sharp, raw and stark film through its two and a half hour running time. So you can either watch The Dirty Dozen in two ways, one to study the army through a wide open image or secondly as a highly entertaining action movie. The most important question The Dirty Dozen make the viewer ask is none other than Is this what the army is really like? I'd say it is and by making a film that shows that the best war men are criminals Robert Aldrich has created an anti war statement. "},{"Title":"Just walk slow, act dumb and look stupid.","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen plays out as an increasingly perverse, puerile and pathetic male fantasy, taking us deeper and deeper into the twisted stupidity of a certain type of machismo which glorifies bullying, violence, misogyny and ego gratification in place of functional social relations. It achieves this quite efficiently, with a reasonable standard of acting and film-making. The first three quarters of the film could be defended as brainless fun for certain kinds of people, but the finale descends into an indefensible quagmire of incompetence which is even more offensive for its blasé justification of atrocity than for its utterly ludicrous depiction of military action. The patterns of male bonding and conflict depicted in the film are laughable in their combination of gratuitous nastiness and infantile naïveté. Having no connection at all to the realities of the conflict depicted, the realities of conflict itself, nor the realities of any personal or cultural interaction at all may not make a war movie offensive in itself. However, when the result is as vacuous and idiotic as it is here, it can be argued that this sort of film insults anyone involved with or interested in any of the subjects it touches upon (hello Inglourious Basterds...). "}{"Title":"Good start, ugly end","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"19 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first 1½-2 hours of The Dirty Dozen are generally good, with some highly entertaining moments, but it is the ending that turns it into a disgusting display of macho bloodthirstiness. As several have commented before me, it is the gasoline-and-grenades scene, where a large number of women are incinerated together with the real targets for the operation that gets me. Someone commented that they deserved it. People thinking that are likely to be the ones voting for the next Hitler, as they are devoid of any empathy. Perhaps director Aldrich did that scene in order to show the thuggish Dozen as what they really were - murderers and rapists. A truly repulsive movie, and typical for the brain-dead war movies churned out by Hollyweird in the 50's and 60's. 2½ hours wasted. "},{"Title":"Glorifying war crimes","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Dirty Dozen is really two movies the first half is a hilarious, well-acted, thoroughly entertaining romp.  That's probably what makes the second half so horrendous.  The last half-hour deals with how the heroes we've come to like basically burn a bunch of helpless women to death.  If this was a German film, circa the forties, we would see it as absolute confirmation of the fundamental evils of Naziism.  But because it's an American film and those are our boys, not only don't we condemn it, we actually praise it.  Sorry, but you can't have it both ways.         "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining.","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Lee Marvin plays Major Reisman, who is recruited by his superior officers to organize and lead a top secret mission comprised of 12 condemned military prisoners to infiltrate Germany, and kill a bunch of high-ranking Nazis in a castle fortress. Training these men(played by John Cassavetes, Donald Sutherland, Clint Walker, Charles Bronson, Telly Savalas, Jim Brown, among others) proves to be almost as difficult and dangerous as fighting the actual enemy! Superb cast shines in this grand World War II action adventure, well made and directed, it's long(but not overlong) and always involving, balancing humor and serious drama in exemplary fashion. Not always plausible I suppose, but great fun. "},{"Title":"Good fun old school military flick!","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was pretty good! A nice entertainment although a somewhat mindless one.Never got too involved with any of the characters although some of them were clearly bad-asses/good hearted guys.Overall it was at times a little cheesy or unrealistic.But it has a good pace overall, some good lines, a few laughs. And the characters do really carry the movie and are very good despite not feeling overly attached to any of them individually.Also the conclusion was awesome! Very exciting and somewhat suspenseful watching how this grand finale would go down.This could easily be an 8 but I'm going with a 7 because it didn't quite have that little bit of extra oomph, perhaps it's age is the reason why it doesn't quite stand the test of time. Still a very fun movie to relax and watch when you're not trying to really have to over analyze or stretch the brain. "},{"Title":"A dress rehearsal for M*A*S*H","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen moves ensemble war movies a few giants strides in the direction of M*A*S*H (1970). Zany march music plays as the anti-heroes gallivant around causing an almost uncomfortable amount of chaos. The movie is darkly comedic, irreverent, and strangely gruesome. The characterizations are cliché and the plot is predictable from the outset, but it is fun to see actors like Donald Sutherland and Telly Savalas in full madcap mode. Still, The Dirty Dozen doesn't do enough to distinguish itself among 1960s war films. We'd had World War II romps before that were richer in emotion and loftier in tone, like The Great Escape (1963), and M*A*S*H would soon go to in the opposite direction to illustrate the insanity of war. The Dirty Dozen is caught in between and is perhaps chiefly interesting as a stepping stone. "},{"Title":"Very good, however implausible","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is another one of those excellently-crafted movies you see sometimes which successfully romanticizes something that in reality would have been a very repellent business, and moreover does so in spite of a seriously implausible plot premise. As anybody with any experience with real screw-ups of the the variety featured in this movie knows, the chances of getting consistently constructive work, much less making useful members of team of much of the human material available here, and even under the least stressful of conditions, is right at about zero, and as true war history buffs know, the kinds of real-life efforts that inspired the raid that forms the basis of this offering have been manned and carried out without the need to descend the extreme depicted here. That said, however, the American imagination, which has proved it can swallow anything from children's dolls possessed by evil spirits to Santa Claus alive and well and living in a Long Island retirement home (and even to any number of overwrought, incompetent buffoons seeking high office), can easily digest this one, and once it does you have a meticulously written narrative with excellent dialog expertly performed by an appealing cast led perfectly by Lee Marvin, who was just perfect in his role. I thought that apart from the plot premise the writing was so superb that it was a shame that the original premise was not altered somewhat to make it as believable as much of the rest of story and dialog are. Had it been, rather than one of the best Saturday afternoon military video fantasies ever, it could have had the potential to rank up there near Bridge on The River Kwai or Lawrence of Arabia as a true artistic achievement. Instead the whole thing comes off as something of a two-hour-long gag, one long, running smirk at authority more in the manner of a light parody rather than the depiction of reality, even with questioning of authority, that it could have been. In this sense I do not think it is fair at all to compare it to the much more reality-anchored Great Escape, for example. All that said, this movie is at least one of the best rainy Saturday afternoon military video fantasies ever, and is still in the top 10% in that genre to this day, more than 40 years after it was made. "},{"Title":"A baker's dozen plus one","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one those fantasy films that piques the imagination as you contemplate who'll survive, who'll get punted and who'll rise like the phoenix from the flames. Will it be John Cassavetes, the smart-mouthed rebel without a cause, Charles Bronson on death row for an apparently justifiable mutiny on his commanding officer, dim-witted Donald Sutherland, misogynistic religious zealot Telly Savalas, or quiet achievers Clint Walker and Jim Brown.Lee Marvin cements his star status following the success of Cat Ballou (1965) with his well-measured portrayal of the only man who can turn a rag-tag bunch of thugs and no-hopers into an efficient, special-forces outfit charged with one of the most daring, and deadly, undercover missions (fictitious) of WWII. In spite of their pasts (each is on death row or serving life imprisonment for various crimes-in-service), you want them to succeed.Ernest Borgnine, Richard Jaeckel, Robert Ryan, George Kennedy, Robert Webber and Ralph Meeker occupy the key supporting roles in a glossy epic that spawned a sequel (albeit some twenty years later), and a short-lived series. While it occasionally sags, the momentum is generally pretty well handled by veteran director Aldrich, as he tells the story of twelve degenerates who attempt to make good on their second chance, and for some, the courage and valor to earn hero status.Humour, drama, suspense and all-important action combine to produce a highly entertaining romp that has become a TV staple, light on the rhetoric and ideal for weekend afternoon viewing. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant After-taste","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When this film first came out in the 1960s it was massively popular. There were queues all round Leicester Square in London. I queued for it twice and failed to get in and never saw it until years later on TV. When launched it was talked about as if it was a war-time version of the Magnificent Seven. It was nothing of the kind. The whole object of the mission was to kill Nazi officers and their wives and girlfriends by trapping them in a cellar, pouring down gallon after gallon of petrol on top of them and igniting it by throwing down hand grenades. There were some heroic deaths enacted by the stars, but the theme of the film seemed to be one of celebrating the burning of the Germans. Maybe things were different when the film came out, the bombing of London was still a fairly recent memory, but watching it many years later I found it left a nasty after-taste. I read that Lee Marvin who played the lead role, disliked it intensely and refused to appear in any of the sequels as he it felt the original glorified war. I think he was right. "},{"Title":"Lee majors...","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" No pretensions at art here, this was a contrived, unbelievable, but ultimately very entertaining war movie. Following the multi-star cast approach of The Great Escape and The Magnificent Seven, we get the naturally elongated running time, as much to allow us to familiarise ourselves with the individual characters as anything else.There were aspects of the plotting and pacing I didn't take to though, especially the borderline psychotic character Telly Savalas is asked to play, a misogynist racist. I can only guess he was in there to show social awareness for the then current civil rights movement in his spats with Jim Brown, but why make him a woman-hater (and killer) too? I also felt too much time was put on the pre-amble where the dozen bond together at the expense of a miscast Robert Ryan as a pompous general. And I also took exception to the wanton slaughter of women in the Nazi stronghold cellar - yes, war is hell and all that, but such butchery brought the Americans almost down to the level of the Germans, especially when there was little in the film demonstrating the savagery of the Nazis, even if I'm not naive enough to not be aware of their barbarism during the war itself.On the positive side, most of the casting is excellent, my only other carp being the inclusion if singer Trini Lopez who wouldn't you know gets to strum a guitar and sing at one juncture. Of the rest, Lee Marvin is excellent as the granite-hard maverick major, John Cassavetes is fine as the recalcitrant Franko and Charles Bronson delivers another effectively stoic performance.The climax is suitably tense and action-packed, although I might have wished for the sequence to be extended at the expense of some of what went before, but for mindless, action-filled war entertainment, this was good stuff. "},{"Title":"This is what The Expendables should have been","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" An old WW II film, but still one of the best war movies I've ever seen. The all-time ensemble cast helps, the film has just the right amount of humour and action mixed in and the pacing is actually pretty decent with a clear three act structure. Nowadays the idea of putting together a ragtag bunch of misfits and giving them an almost impossible task to complete is nothing new. We have seen it in The Expendables, we have seen it in the Inglourious Basterds, we have seen it in the Armageddon, but this film predates all of those and is actually one of the better adaptations of the said idea. All the team members have clear identities, especially the key members all have amazing actors to play them and they have genuine chemistry. So, if the characters and the plot work, then what doesn't work? Well, while the plot itself holds up pretty decently, the premise of the film is a bit far-fetched. The mission the dirty dozen is given is one that isn't really suited to their expertise and isn't anything that couldn't have been handled by the real Special Ops. It would have made a bit more sense had the dozen had a common theme between themselves. Perhaps they all could have been former commandos or perhaps demolition experts. Now they were just inmates. But, I'm nitpicking here, as it doesn't really take away from the film. This film is more about the characters and the action. It's not supposed to be a war documentary, it's supposed to be entertainment. And that it certainly is. "}{"Title":"Solid Actioneer holds up well...","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Blu-Ray edition just arrived from Amazon (good price - so shop around) - sharp picture, great sound, and decent extras. The acting and storyline hold up after 45 years. What struck me at once was1. the number of camera angles--some very imaginative. making real movies was hard work all that effort for a few seconds of frame.2. the fabulous characterizations by a great ensemble cast. in 1967, there were still such a thing as supporting actors, and character actors (it wasn't just about, for instance, Angeline Joliffe, her boyfriend, and lots of CGI).3. the dialogue is crackling.Funny - I've considered myself a sharp movie watcher for decades, but I missed the above before. Maybe watching Hollywood 'blockbusters' made in the past 20 years has sharpened my appreciation for great art in cinematography? Closest thing I've seen recently in ensemble acting with comparable dialogue would be 'Oceans-11'. Other than that, when was the last time you saw more than 10 very distinct characters portrayed on the screen, long enough that you could form a real liking, or distaste for all of them? "},{"Title":"Inconsistent fare","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Taken purely as entertainment this deserves high marks. A sort of Magnificent seven (featuring some of the same actors) set in world war two, with some light hearted training sequences and a bloody finale. This film is not as good as the film it imitates however. Part of the problem is the set up. First we see Lee Marvin witnessing a hanging. Then we are introduced to a gang of reprobate soldiers. Despite it being hinted that some of them may not be guilty, it is hard to feel much sympathy for them. There's a whiner (cassavetes) a smiling idiot (Sutherland) and a religious nut (Savalas) plus the usual short guy and big lummox who doesn't know his own strength. After these grim opening scenes, suddenly things are light hearted. The long training sequences are highly entertaining (Sutherland surveying the troops is a joy) but they seem to come from a different film. One always has in the back of the mind that these men are supposed to have committed brutal and sadistic crimes. As the mission starts, the tone inevitably darkens, back to the mood of the opening only more so. A bloody raid on a château kills many indiscriminately, most notoriously the fire bombing of the basement. After this the brief mildly comic hospital scene is out of place.A curate's egg of a film, but definitely entertaining. "},{"Title":"Some fine soldiers...","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1944 the Allied forces are preparing the D-Day invasion.And we are in England.Major John Reisman is assigned to take twelve American criminals and make them fine soldiers.Their task is to infiltrate a château near Rennes, in Brittany on the eve of the invasion.The place is used as a retreat for senior Wehrmacht officers.Not the easiest task with these men.The Dirty Dozen (1967) is directed by Robert Aldrich.It's based on the novel by E.M. Nathanson.What a team of fine actors this movie has.Lee Marvin plays the part of Maj. Reisman.Ernest Borgnine, who turned 94 one week ago, plays Maj. Gen. Worden.Charles Bronson plays Joseph Wladislaw.Jim Brown is Robert T. Jefferson.John Cassavetes is Victor R. Franko.Richard Jaeckel portrays Sgt. Clyde Bowren.George Kennedy plays the role of Maj. Max Armbruster.Trini Lopez is Pedro Jiminez.Ralph Meeker plays Capt. Stuart Kinder.Robert Ryan is Col. Everett Dasher Breed.The part of Archer J. Maggott is played by Telly Savalas.Donald Sutherland is Vernon L. Pinkley.Clint Walker is Samson Posey.Tom Busby plays Milo Vladek.Ben Carruthers plays Glenn Gilpin.Stuart Cooper portrays Roscoe Lever.Al Mancini portrays Tassos Bravos.Colin Maitland is Seth. K. Sawyer.The movie has lots of great action.The bathroom beating is one memorable scene.And when Wladislaw and the gang get even with those guys.And it's a lot of fun to watch Breed being defeated by those men.It's quite amazing to watch the last minutes of this movie.The Germans are in real big trouble after the infiltration to their château by these fine soldiers.The Dirty Dozen represents some very entertaining war action. "},{"Title":"This is What Happens When You let Criminals Fight Nazis","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A dangerous mission to infiltrate the Nazis has been planned. It means certain death. Who better to recruit than prisoners who have already been sentenced to death (or at least hard labor) for murder, rape and theft? These twelve men will become the Dirty Dozen.The cast here is amazing. Lee Marvin, Telly Savalas as the psychotically religious Archer Maggott, Donald Sutherland as Vernon Pinkley, and even an early uncredited appearance by Dick Miller. Savalas really steals the show with his uncontrollable behavior. Can he denounce the army for its immorality but yet be commanded by God to rape? He thinks so.I found the film a bit unbalanced, with more focus on recruiting and training than the actual operation. I could have used more Nazi bashing. (Inglorious Basterds has a similar theme about men recruited to infiltrate the Nazis, though they are generally not criminals -- but the focus there is more on the fighting, which pays off.) The recruitment is good, and the training is fine (establishing their dirty dozen name), I just think the divisions were slightly off.A fine film, just the same. I would strongly recommend it to anyone who likes World War II flicks, or criminal rehabilitation, or Lee Marvin... or Telly Savalas. Really, it's a pretty great film. "},{"Title":"Kill every officer in sight Theirs or ours? Theirs, for starters...","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of the finest war movies ever made. Not only does it boast a battalion of marquee action he-man stars, but the odd but expertly handled mix of humor with violent action never disappoints. The script is clever, the direction spot-on, the action is displayed with precision, and it all works in one greatly designed package.In the Spring of '44, while the Allied forces were preparing the massive D-Day invasion, a rebellious major (Lee Marvin) who smarts off against superior officers, is tapped to lead a mission, taking a squad of soldiers behind enemy lines to assassinate Nazi officers at a retreat villa. Since this operation is very likely a one-way trip to the Killed in action list, the group is to be composed of court-martialled felons. They have nothing to lose anyway, so the possible suicide mission is actually appealing, and a rag-tag group of a dozen are hand-picked (in great character study sequences). In this group you'll find Donald Sutherland (in comic relief as a dumb bell), Telly Savalas (an over-stated zealot nut), Clint Walker, Charles Bronson, and others. The officers include Ernest Borgnine, Robert Ryan, Robert Weber, and George Kennedy. Everyone in this all-star ensemble cast does well.The first half of the film is more light-weight humor, mocking the military establishment, as the team of former misfits are trained and become a cohesive and viable force to be reckoned with.The actual raid sequence is among the best and most believable war action put on film. The progression of events are logical, the intensity is real, the high stakes are related well, and the characters bring you into the action with them.War movie action at its finest, which has stood the test of time very well. "},{"Title":"The 1960s' Version of World War II","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Robert Aldrich's hugely entertaining WWII film channeled through the anti-establishment sentiments of a 1967 America.Lee Marvin plays a troublesome Army major who's given the assignment of training a bunch of convicts for a suicide mission behind German enemy lines. Half of the film is a precursor to Army comedies like MASH and Private Benjamin, complete with hijinks and wargames. The second half, which shows the actual mission put into play, turns serious and contains the film's most unsettling commentary on war. What these murderers and rapists are asked to do by the military is almost too heinous even for them, yet the ones who survive are commended by the very people who treated them like scum before.The Dirty Dozen of the film's title is comprised of a host of recognizable faces like Donald Sutherland (superb as a dimwit), Charles Bronson (surprisingly good; I never gave him much credit for being a good actor), Telly Savalas (grossly overplaying his murderous religious fanatic character), John Cassavetes (Oscar-nominated) and Clint Walker (built like a brick s*ithouse!). The Army brass is played by Ernest Borgnine, George Kennedy and Robert Ryan, who gets a chance to show off his comedic side as Marvin's arch rival.This film, and especially its last half, provided much of the inspiration for Quentin Tarantino's latest (and also very good) WWII film, Inglourious Basterds. Grade A "},{"Title":"Like a 1960's DC Comics World War II adventure","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I saw first saw this during it's initial theatrical release and have seen it many times since. A group of prisoners are led by a renegade Major with disciplinary problems of his own to penetrate enemy lines in preparation for D-Day and disrupt the German chain of command by killing a gathering of top Nazi brass at a château. If the prisoners succeed and survive they will have their sentences commuted. If the Major pulls it off he'll save his career. This is adapted from the 1965 best selling novel by E.M. Nathanson and based on a story told to Nathanson by sexplotation film director Russ Meyer. Meyer was a cameraman in the signal corps during World War II mostly assigned to General Patton. In the real dirty dozen story, they were parachute dropped into occupied France on an assassination mission. They never completed their assignment however. Being typical undependable criminals once they hit the ground they hightailed it for Spain for the rest of the war. The real dirty dozen scenario is much more plausible than this far-fetched tale made into a film by director Robert Aldrich. Proliffic writer/director/producer Nunnally Johnson wrote the screenplay. Aldrich had made some good films in the 50's including Kiss Me Deadly and had a string of good films in the 60's leading up The Dirty Dozen including Whatever Happened to Baby Jane, Hush Hush, Sweet Charlotte and Flight of the Pheonix. He dealt with prisoners again in the Longest Yard and would revisit the violence of the Dozen with Ulzani's Raid. A great cast here with film veterans Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Robert Ryan, Ralph Meeker and Charles Bronson and actors who would become well known including Donald Sutherland, Telly Savalas, George Kennedy, John Cassavetes in his only Academy Award nominated performance (he lost out to Kennedy who won for his performance in Cool Hand Luke)and Jim Brown, who retired from the NFL while filming this for an acting career. Also in the cast are Richard Jaekel, Robert Webber and Trini Lopez. Nominated for four Academy Awards the MGM Sound Department took home it's only win for Best Sound Effects. It's a good action film with a great cast but it's too much like a comic book action story than an actual war drama story. The entire plot is so implausible and unnecessary that if there is a message in this film about war, double standards, senselessness, hypocrisy etc.. it gets lost in the mayhem. If you remember World War II themed comic books from the 60's like Sgt. Rock, Our Fighting Forces or GI Combat, this movie more resembles them than a typical war picture. There are some good lines and dialog and this is well made film but not my favorite war picture. I would give it a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but falls apart in the last quarter","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was never really a classic, just an entertaining war/adventure film.  All star cast and good action made this one a huge box office hit.  It hasnt aged real well, but its still fairly good.  It does drag on in the last quarter, which puts a damper on the overall quality of the film.  It's not a must see, but if you like the cast, go for it.  ***1/2 out of *****, or 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen Stars in war","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" How stupid is The Dirty Dozen? How much does it tries to be nasty and cool? Does it fail? It might some kind of a pro-war movie, but claiming it to be is to make it easy. This is a movie which is hard to criticize in a simple way because it's motives are not as clear as some might think. Personally I didn't like the comic elements in it. They hadn't the timing they should have. Even if it is Bob Aldrich most famous film, it is not his best. It is a bit long, but mostly it is entertaining.This film provides a heavy cast. I was surprised that Charles Bronson had such a big role, but it isn't one of his best. Even if Lee Marvin makes one of his most famous roles, it is far from his best (Point Blank, Hell in the Pacific, The Professionals, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance etc). I might think that John Cassavates potential wasn't used to maximum here. The Dirty Dozen has one of the most impressive star casts ever (such as Ryan, Borgnine, Kennedy, Sutherland and Savalas ), and at least uses it pretty good.Rating 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"A fine war/commandos film","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  MY RATING- 8.1This was a blockbuster about 12 murderers who have the chance to redeem theirselves training hard to destroy a nazi castle. Their briefing man and chief is the tough major Lee Marvin. I absolutely love his scenes with John Cassavetes! The mov is really thrilling, not only the training part but also that brilliant climax of the attack to the castle. We actually struggle as they in the hard training sequences. With an all star cast- Ernest Borgnine, Robert Ryan, Charles Bronson, Donald Sutherland, George Kennedy and a little and brilliant performance by Telly Savalas. Well, I adore war movs, but also commandos type, like this one and the castle part looks like the game Commandos.  "}{"Title":"Franco made this movie","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very good war movie.  I was a little troubled by two things though.....the gasoline being poured on the wives and girlfriends of the German officers, although I guess it could be considered one of the casualties of war, and the stereotyping of the psychotic Maggot as a religious white Southerner.  Hollywood seems to have a problem with religious white southerners usually portraying them as rapists, murderers, and all around bad guys.  My favorite character in the film was John Cassavetes' Victor Franco though.  Cassavetes played the role to perfection.  But that's not taking anything away from Lee Marvin's or Charles Bronson's performances.  They were also flawless and I still laugh at Donald Sutherland's portrayal as the class idiot of the Dirty Dozen.  All in all it was a very good film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Fictional War Movie","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  From the opening moments, featuring the hanging of a condemned soldier, to the climax, this film is full of action.Sit back and enjoy an incredible movie, without the cursing and graphic violence that's so prevalent in today's movies.The casting and direction were superb! "},{"Title":"Not to be missed!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is not just another war movie. It's simply a classic movie with strong drama connotation and good performances. Lee Marvin (may God rest his soul) and Charles Bronson proved they were really good actors.Very good screenplay and effects.  "},{"Title":"Good war movie!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Aldrich really outdoes himself with this movie. He put together an all star cast that gave a great performance! Lee Marvin is tasked to mold a bunch of army prisoners into a crack team. Their mission is to infiltrate a chateau in France where high ranking German officers take leave. These army prisoners are the worst of the worst. Telly Savalas is the craziest of the bunch as Arthur Maggot (fitting name). Lee Marvin must convince these prisoners that it would be in their best interest to listen to what he has to say. He makes it known that if they are successful with the mission, they wlll be givin pardons, but if they mess up, they go back to prison to await the execution of their sentences. Charles Bronson gives probably one of his best performances in this movie. Donald Sutherland also fit in as a rather odd character. He plays an even better one in Kelly's Heroes (Oddball). As it turns out, the group is succesful in its mission, and there is only one survivor from the original dozen, (Bronson). A Very good movie that I would reccommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen must be one of Ted Turner's favorite movies since the picture seems to run endlessly on WTBS or TNT. It is a fun movie to watch, all the way through.  Everyone knows the premise so there's no reason to repeat it here.Great movies need two things---a great story and great acting.  Plausible or not, Dozen's story is highly entertaining and it has many riveting moments, right from the start with the hanging of one of the prisoners (too bad for him that Lee Marvin shows up too late to include him for the mission!).  Marvin is the center of the movie and he carries a lot of credibility, being a wounded WWII veteran himself.  Dozen is an important movie if only because it was the screen debuts for both Jim Brown and Donald Sutherland.  If there was another WWII movie before this one which depicted a black soldier as a hero, I haven't seen it and it is interesting to note that, of the prisoners, Brown's character is the only one who truly doesn't deserve the punishment that he's awaiting, having killed in self-defense. Donald Sutherland doesn't have a lot to do in this movie but his gaunt, moronic Pinckney gives the movie some comic relief, particularly where he gets to impersonate a general inspecting crack paratroopers.Most of the Dozen don't get a lot to do in this movie---just too many characters and not enough time to develop them (sort of like how the Wally Schirra character was given almost no lines in The Right Stuff).  An ensemble piece like this usually means that there's a lot of competition going on amongst the cast and John Cassavettes and Telly Savalas stand out as Franco, the urban hoodlum, and Maggett, the psychotic rapist.  Savalas has the harder part, playing a truly rotten and despicable character who has absolutely no redeeming qualities.  You're not unhappy when Maggett is killed later on but you have to admire how Savalas deftly handles the part---I say deftly because this type of role could've typecast him forever if he hadn't played it just right.   "},{"Title":"Feels a bit old still exciting and funny!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is funny and has an all star cast Charles Bronson,Lee Marvin,Donald Sutherland,Telly Savalas.... Some scenes in it are silly but this is a very exciting film(specially at the end) and also it has some funny parts. It's better then the most new action films. Deserves a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great for its time period.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Has anyone stopped to think that maybe Aldrich was making a commentary on the Vietnam War when he made this film?  I mean, when the troops are killing off all the people in the bombshelter, that seemed to reflect the atrocities are men were doing in Vietnam at the time.  Maybe the tone of the film was a bit wrong since it was going for Action/Entertainment, but the message is still there.  "},{"Title":"A comparison or war films","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a big fan, usually, of war films but there are 3 I watch whenever they're on. This is such a great film.Such a cast!! It,in some cases, foreboded alot of actors future success, and re-affirmed in others.I always wanted to watch this one and 'The Great Escape' back-to-back.My 3'rd pick would be 'The Bridge Over the River Kwai', for classic war films.New? Have to be 'Saving Private Ryan' and maybe 'Hamburger Hill'. "},{"Title":"Classic WWII action flick from the 60's","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Dirty Dozen was right up there with the other WWII epics that were made in the 60's. Lee Marvin has always shined in these roles because he actually saw combat and was wounded in WWII, so what you're seeing on the screen is close to the real deal. The Big Red One is another example. Here, Lee is given the task of training a dozen army convicts, some basically decent guys, some real psychos, and lead them on a suicide mission to a French chateau to assassinate as many German officers as possible. Along the way, we see them training, eventually bonding, and then finally going on the mission. It has a few scenes that are comedic, and some scenes have a certain edge, or meanness to them, like when innocent civilians get killed with cold detachment. The cast is great, with each principal actor given his moment to establish his character. So all in all, it's a great action flick, especially the last hour. "},{"Title":"Very good adventure film","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Very good adventure film, not quite up to the quality of THE GREAT ESCAPE or THE GUNS OF NAVARONE, but well above average. John Cassavetes steals the acting honors, as indeed he usually does. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite war films of all time.","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is what I refer to as a perfect film. Perfect casting, perfect screenplay, and perfectly entertaining, the true value of any good film. Unlike many war movies, it was a curious mixture of both drama and broad comedy, but they pulled it off extremely well. I noticed that most people who viewed this film LOVED it, but there were also several who DAMNED it. These few individuals are what I commonly refer to as imbeciles, people who think of themselves as actual movie critics, but with the mental sensibilities of the brain dead. For example, someone who thought it was terrible because it was inaccurate and over the top. Yes, it was. It's a movie, Einstein, not an historical record. Then another genius criticized the film for singling out the Christian soldier (Telly Savalas) as the psychopath as a direct threat against good Christians everywhere. Well, I'm a Christian, and I thought this decision was as valid as any other choice, particularly since there were far more Christian fanatics in the sixties than Muslims or Budddhists, wouldn't you agree? Calling someone a 'Christian soldier' is the ultimate oxymoron, in of itself! Another goofball accused the Jim Brown character as dressing up as a Nazi, further underlining the glaring inaccuracies of some of these wholly negative comments. In conclusion, this film was created solely as entertainment, not to be taken as seriously as films like All Quiet On The Western Front or Paths Of Glory. If you don't know the difference, you shouldn't be criticizing movies, period. "},{"Title":"Inglorious as Ever","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This out-of-the-box milestone in the American war genre kicks off on the edge of pure malevolence, the hanging of a pitiable, groveling military prisoner, pleading for mercy. Witnessing the execution is Lee Marvin's Major Reisman, who appears inflexibly distanced, but we soon find that this is in part a subterfuge. His presence at the hanging was somehow an infliction by his arch-rival ex-commander, Robert Ryan's Colonel Breed, who always finds new ways to make Reisman suffer quietly. The sole power mitigating these adversaries is Ernest Borgnine's competent but equally stubborn General Worden, who gives Reisman the newest in a string of patience-testing duties Pending D-Day, Reisman is to head a squad of twelve soldiers to a remote French estate where various eminent German officers will be socializing to exterminate a key share of the Nazi pecking order just early enough to render the Germans powerless facing invasion. Desperate enough, and Reisman understands. The predicament is that his eponymous dozen are to be amassed from the lines of military detainees, condemned for murder or other appalling offenses.So even before he ushers a platoon into its virtually guaranteed slaughter, Reisman must train that group from twelve brutal psychos, who are a colorful balance of archetypes the honorable sort fallen into damnable circumstances, Charles Bronson's glacial Wladislaw; the livewire fueled by rancor and bitterness, John Cassavetes' Franko; Trini Lopez's pleasant Chicano Jimenez; Jim Brown's the self-protective black man Jefferson; Donald Sutherland's amiable dunce Pinkley; and Telly Savalas' smiling lunatic Maggott, whom God tells to slay loose women.Deceptively formal, the movie smites into three quite clear-cut acts In the first, we Reisman gather our crew of outcasts and swiftly learn that, to make good troopers of them, he must crack their angry spirits. In the second, the crew, having solidified under Reisman's authority, learns to collaborate implicitly and be a relentless force; in the third, they carry out their blood-spattered onslaught on the château. The dramatic tension crescendos, and so does the film's dissonant pitch. Indeed, the emotional arc divides into thirds, too, starting with the bleak and dishonorable introduction. That callous hanging supplies the threat over what ensues, whether it's the glare of utter hatred in the characters' eyes, or Reisman's unequivocally distant method of psychologically tormenting his underlings. The final act eschews implied horror for in-your-face brutality.Aldrich, whose career beyond this film unfortunately hasn't much endured in the collective awareness, was one of those directors who was bold enough to gaze, undaunted, at the butchery his characters' behavior produced, and his staging of the climactic carnage is utterly unfeeling, truly one of the most acidic reminders of the battlefield's absolute amorality I've ever seen There are no good and bad sides anymore. But there is definitely still camaraderie, as each character casualty feels both outrageously unexpected and excruciatingly protracted. Aldrich's unique, subversive vision is the prevailing influence on Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds, both portraying a massacre in which Nazis are annihilated in a manner that assumes distinctive visual ricochets of the Holocaust. It is, frankly, a very delicious war movie, bobbing and weaving sharply through one of its decade's most atonal screenplays, commandeered by one of the very finest directors of Hollywood's transitional phase.But what of the mid-section, considerably the most protracted? All in all, the stage during which the Dozen begin to faithfully rally as an efficient brotherhood foreshadows not the bravado of its blood-doused culmination, but the terrain of Hogan's Heroes. The disposition of this innermost tier is emphatically that of Dude, Chance and Colorado making music in the jail, or Cool Hand Luke winning the respect of Dragline and his posse. Reviewing their grand imminent mission smacks of the cheerful bluster of a caper movie. There's an extensive sequence in which Reisman proves to Reed the efficacy of his men with a cunning war game that, aside from being thrilling in its own right, makes us laugh audaciously somewhat like when Duke and the other M*A*S*H boys uncover the shower tent to prove Hot Lips Houlihan's a true blonde.The movie swings so very brusquely from blustery bit of cockamamie entertainment about mischief makers in war to revolting, spirit-demolishing picture of men dying in a genuinely throttling finale, with deftly unseen transition, brought off by Aldrich's harshly resourceful directorial style, and an astoundingly choice dramatis personae. Does Reisman need the weather-beaten apathy that Marvin brings to him, or does it just look like it because Marvin's personification of those ideas is so naturally graven? Likewise, the very corporal look of many other players fortifies the distillate of each character in fast-sketch, for instance Borgnine's bloated, beleaguered Worden, and Bronson's swarthy, pensive Wladislaw.The first two hours are such a good-humored model of the Hollywood system fermenting a grim yet unchallenging war film. But Aldrich and his writers deliberately elicit that heavy sudden swing into capricious mayhem as a way of pulling the rug out from under the emblematic spirited combat picture. By bringing its curt climactic setback full circle to the grisliness of the beginning was able to be concocted into a willful and lasting bushwhack. "},{"Title":"The DIRTY DOZEN count-off ...","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ONE  A classic 'guy' film full of action, thrills and testosterone.TWO  It's full of funny and hilarious moments, too.THREE  It raises violence to the level of stylistic poetry.FOUR  And to some criticism, the treatment of women might open a door.FIVE  But it's a suicide mission, most of the dozen won't come back alive. SIX  So from the training to the mission, one's got to get his kicks.SEVEN  Starting from Cassavettes as the scene-stealing Franko, aka number eleven.EIGHT  To Sutherland, Brown, Bronson, Savalas and the others, all hatable, but impossible to hate. NINE  One of the greatest cast of macho characters actors, each one will have a moment to shine.TEN  A classic action film that you can watch over and over again.ELEVEN  If only for the presence and the performance of the great Lee Marvin,TWELVE  alone or with your buddies, on TV or DVD, just watch the film and enjoy yourself.And please don't ask me where Donald Duck is. "},{"Title":"Formulaic","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although it was considered to be a pretty ground-breaking movie in its time, today it comes across as over-long, predictable, and formulaic.The story premises that a bunch of criminals can be trained to commit slaughter behind enemy lines. Quite why such a dangerously rebellious team would be considered more fit for a stealthy mission than specialised outfits is never made clear. And really; the disbelief begins there.Once selected, they are trained in various techniques. About three-quarters of the movie (I never actually timed it) is dedicated to this whipping-them-into-a-team business. It's far too long and discursive. We don't actually see much of the training, just vignettes. There's also a lengthy war-games episode where they get to prove their worth.Along the way there are plenty of little gags with humorous twists of military music lending it the flavour almost of a comedy drama. 'Kelly's Heroes' comes to mind.The cast contains some of Hollywood's top drawer. Lee Marvin, Ernie Borgnine, Charles Bronson, Robert Ryan, Telly Savalas and many more give decent turns for their money. The script isn't too bad either. Otherwise the mission is just another standard juvenile shoot-em-up. The Nazis are - as usual - arrogant and stupid (you wonder how they managed to conquer Europe). The 'Dirty Dozen' get winnowed down to one. Curiously, one of the stockade MP guards also goes on the mission. Did he volunteer? For a fantasy war-time actioner, it doesn't get close to 'The Guns Of Navarone', 'Where Eagles Dare', or the already mentioned 'Kelly's Heroes'. It's got more in common with 'The Wild Bunch'. As to the mission itself Herding a large group of German Army Officers along with their wives & girlfriends into a cellar and incinerating them alive with gasoline would surely amount to a war-crime by any reasonable evaluation. It's outrageous, scarcely any different from what the Nazis did to the Jews. Sadly, it also typifies the inveterate sense of western moral superiority that has dogged its international relations for so many decades. We are in the right so we can do as we like.If you haven't yet seen this movie then it's well worth a look. But far more tense or humorous, intelligent and believable wartime actioners both fantasy or otherwise are out there, not least the three just mentioned. "},{"Title":"Playing war games","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The war movie was in constant evolution in the decades following the worldwide conflict which most of them drew on for source material. We went from respectful recreations in the immediate aftermath, to the use of war as a backdrop for fictional stories (e.g. From Here to Eternity, Bridge on the River Kwai), at which point tentative anti-military themes began to creep in. But while previous anti-war pictures may have been tragic, ironic and harrowing, The Dirty Dozen revitalised the subgenre by showing war as bloody, brutal and nihilistic.A few years after this a man called Sam Peckinpah would become a byword for screen violence. Peckinpah, by the sheer poetry of his images, inadvertently glamorised the very carnage he sought to condemn. However Robert Aldrich, who directs The Dirty Dozen, takes a slightly more detached view. Sure, Aldrich knows how to make dynamic and exciting combat scenes, shooting series of increasingly frenzied images for the editor (honourable mention to the very talented Michael Luciano) to patch together. However, he takes care never to let us get swept along with the killing. There are scarcely any point-of-view shots, and indeed many of the camera set-ups throughout the picture are from positions where no character could be &#x96; up on high or peeping through bits of foreground clutter. These were always typical of Aldrich, but here his use of distant god shots is more abundant than ever. The sense of aloofness this creates means that, while the action is great to watch, it never quite makes us want to pick up a gun and get stuck in ourselves.That is not to say Aldrich is completely cold and detached. He frequently finds room for intensely personal close-ups, showing the humanity of the men and thus drawing out an important strand in the story. Although he was only a writer on a handful of projects, Aldrich always sought to demonstrate his ruggedly affectionate side through his imagery, in even his most macho and ostensibly emotionless pictures. And when at one point he makes a visual reference to The Last Supper, it's not done directly enough to be some twee bit of ironic symbolism. Instead Aldrich seems to honouring these men with their final shred of dignity.But all these intentions would be lost if it were not for a delightfully talented and appropriate cast. Lee Marvin does his superb world-weary, grudgingly humane hero act, and there are some nice supporting roles by the up-and-coming George Kennedy and former lead man Ralph Meeker. But let's face it &#x96; it's the titular twelve whom we really want to watch. With one or two exceptions, these guys were more or less unknowns, and it was only really Donald Sutherland who would ever become an A player. And yet, virtually all do a marvellous job. John Cassavetes is more than just a psychotic grin &#x96; everything in his body language radiates his rebelliousness. Telly Savalas gives one of the most credible maniac performances I have ever seen &#x96; far better than the hammy Ernest Borgnine in Flight of the Phoenix. At first glance these guys appear to have been picked for their twisted faces or burly physique, but they can really act.The end result is an intelligent and professional work disguised as an action no-brainer. So why were pictures like this &#x96; violent yet incisive &#x96; being produced around this time? It was of course partly the increasing frankness of the era and the fact that the old production code was now in tatters. But it was also the ongoing conflict in Vietnam, which thanks to television was bringing the horror of war into the living room, and also galvanising a popular anti-war mood. It would still have been commercial suicide for a motion picture to critique the war directly, but a lot of movies from the time lambasted it indirectly with the terrors of a previous conflict. And oddly enough, perhaps through their honest intentions of being entertainment rather than mere soapboxes, pictures like The Dirty Dozen hold up better than many of the genuine anti-Vietnam pictures that were to appear once that war was over. "},{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen assignment","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen is a very good World War Two movie. This movie shows how 12 people can become a powerful team. Answer one of the following.1. Why are they called the Dirty Dozen and why is it an important part in the movie? 2. Why does Maggott attack them? 3. Why do you think that the Army used criminals instead of a Special Forces team? 4. Why did the men go along with Major Reisman instead of killing him and escaping in the French country side? 5. When we were first shown the men in the prison did you think they were going to succeed or fail? Explain. "},{"Title":"One swell picture!","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film in 1967, at the age of 13. I had been watching Combat on TV, and I knew the Krauts were evil, and the G.I. Joe's were always good and heroic. What a surprise to find out that Americans could be evil as well. I will always enjoy Telly Savalas, as Pvt. A.J. Maggot. He has the most evil laugh, and he is a Bible-reading, avenging angel of the Lord. What an over-the-top performance. When he is walking around the château, saying Come out you sinners, come out come out, wherever you are! I always cheer. Go get 'em A.J. !! The cast is superb, the film was Donald Sutherland's big break, he was picked to play the General, and he ripped into the part, like a pit bull, the perfect touch of comic genius. Even Trini Lopez, was terrific, as a felon, whose only problem, is that the guards won't let him have any strings for his guitar. He gets the strings, and gets to sing The Bramble Bush.John Cassavetes (oscar-nominated) is perfectly slimy, as the little bastard, Victor Franko. Always bitching about the floor,or the hot water, just superb.The terrific cast includes Robert Webber, as a brightly polished adjutant officer, the perfect counter-point to the undisciplined Major Reisman (Lee Marvin). Robert Ryan, plays a west-pointer, who has the perfect combination of rage and humor.The technical side of the film is excellent. Superb camera work and cinematography, smooth editing, great close-up work on Telly Savalas. Frank DeVol's score is riveting drumbeats, and precise military rhythms. We even get to hear Sousa's National Emblem march. Robert Aldrich's precise direction, keeps a fine pace, during the first half of the film, mixing some comedy with the efforts of the scum-bags to become soldiers again. The climax builds, and then the successful conclusions.Ex-football player, Jim Brown, is superb. The Army was segregated in 1944, and Telly Savalas asks Do we have to eat with n*****s? and then a riot ensues. We keep waiting for Jim Brown to run. When is he going to run? Finally, he gets to run, blowing up the Krauts. Sort of a reprise to Jesse Owens, showing up the Nazis at the Berlin Olympics.I never miss a chance to see this film, every time it is run on TV. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment!","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time, highly entertaining. A movie thats based on great story rather than just lots of fancy effects. Its got it all, action, comedy, suspense, drama, awesome locations, you name it. They just don't make'em like this anymore. So many great, great actors in it too. Everyone of them a well known star. Its an all-win movie! I place this movie in the top ten war movies of all time for its sheer entertainment value. If you haven't seen it before, you are missing out. And its three an a half hours long, what more could you ask for except a big bowl of popcorn for when you sit down to watch this epic film. "},{"Title":"A dirty, grungy film.","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" WW2 classics tend to have the unfair connotation as being those movies your grandfather likes because they reflect conservative patriotism and Americans defeating evil Krauts and Japs with flashing grins and gusto. The Dirty Dozen is not that movie. Instead of beaming, all American youth, the cast is filled with slightly menacing, slouching actors portraying counter-cultural antiheroes the witch tit's side of likable. Instead of glorifying the ranks and institutions of the military, the film delights in criticizing and tearing down its structure. And instead of an awarding cathartic defeat of the Germans, the viewer is treated to disturbing and morally ambiguous ending.It's definitely a film of the 60s, but weirdly one that you wouldn't expect would be as appreciated and recognized as others. Its counterculture and anti-institutional approach is not set as a rallying cry for individualism or anti-war protest, but instead is subjected to leering and sometimes frightening characters like Franko and Maggot (get it? A Spanish fascist and a putrefaction growth as a violent bully and a disturbed racist and sexist Southerner, respectively?). The movie doesn't have an anti-war message but certainly does not make war seem sensible or dignified. The Americans certainly aren't the good guys but neither are the main characters. Pretty much all the viewer has going for him in terms of relateability or enjoyment is Lee Marvin's curmudgeony major. Everything else in this movie stinks to high heaven--but at least that's intentional.It's certainly an interesting viewing experience, I'll give it that, and I'd like to know more about its reception at the time. Apparently Roger Ebert hated it and military men loved it. Makes sense to me.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"twelve cool men","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the Vietnam War in full swing in 1967, they released a movie about WWII that took a comedic/bleak approach. The Dirty Dozen strikes the perfect pitch between zany humor and cynicism these twelve men are on death row for crimes like rape and murder...and they're getting trained to kill more people! If they succeed, then they might get lighter sentences; if they die in action...well, that's that. Previous WWII-themed films had focused exclusively on the war - with no cynicism - but this one alludes to the Vietnam War while also dealing occasionally with racism.Part of the movie's strength is the characters. In my opinion, Maj. John Reisman (Lee Marvin) takes a back seat to the assembled group. Among the dozen are religious bigot Archer Maggot (Telly Savalas), former officer Joseph Wladislaw (Charles Bronson) and Samson Posey (Clint Walker), who acts nearly catatonic. But probably the neatest is sassy Victor Franko (John Cassavetes), with his line You slob! You slob!; it must have been fun to film that! One can certainly see this as a precursor to movies like M*A*S*H (and both movies star Donald Sutherland) and Catch-22. It certainly remains worth seeing in this day and age. Also starring Ernest Borgnine, Jim Brown, Richard Jaeckel, George Kennedy, Trini Lopez, Ralph Meeker, Robert Ryan, Robert Webber and Tom Busby.PS in 1998, the surviving cast members (Ernest Borgnine, Jim Brown, George Kennedy and Clint Walker) lent their voices to the movie Small Soldiers as the soldiers. "}{"Title":"Killing generals could get to be a habit with me.","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Wow, it's forty years since this film was made, and forty years since I last saw it. I've been revisiting some of the pictures I initially saw upon their original theatrical release in order to see how my impression of the movie might have changed over time. The Dirty Dozen still holds up as a strong war time drama, made most compelling for me by the way Major Reisman (Lee Marvin) reads each of his 'recruits' in order to mold them into a cohesive unit. In fact it's the first third of the picture that I enjoy the most, as the major characters are introduced and we get to know just enough about each to understand how their motivations might be exploited. John Cassavetes' portrayal of Victor Franko may have been the most complex on the surface, but Telly Savalas had an unusual assignment in the character of Archer Maggott. Although couched in religious extremism, I think the character went beyond that into a complex moral ambiguity. It was the kind of character that could have been the subject of a picture all by itself.The casting surprise, if you grew up in the 1960's, had to do with Trini Lopez as the soldier Jimenez. Until this picture, my only recollection of Lopez would be as a singer with some upbeat singles hits like If I Had a Hammer and Lemon Tree. I'm curious as to how he was selected for a part in this picture, since the other main characters were already fairly well established as actors (Marvin, Savalas, Bronson, George Kennedy), or on the rise (Donald Sutherland, Jim Brown). To his credit, Lopez did a fairly good job for the limited role he had.What I couldn't quite understand was why the Robert Ryan character, Colonel Breed, wound up at odds with Major Reisman and the Dozen. He was aware from the start that Reisman would be training his men in secrecy for a behind the lines mission, so it didn't seem logical to me that he would try to thwart it's progress. It was mentioned earlier that Reisman and Breed didn't see eye to eye based on a former association, but still, the new objective for which Reisman was training his men was for the good of the war effort.I've read with interest a number of the negative comments on the picture regarding the method of executing the mission via gasoline and explosives. I don't recall how that scenario was reviewed back in the late Sixties, but it seems we've come so far in terms of political correctness over the last forty years that there seems to be something to offend someone in every picture since, including cartoons. For my part, war is a dirty business where political correctness doesn't apply. Hitler didn't seem too concerned about incinerating women and children along with Jewish men as part of his ethnic cleansing program. If anything, the picture absolutely left out any hint of the savagery and brutality of Nazi officers, but I didn't read any complaints about that. Interesting.Also interesting is the point that the fictionalized events of the story were set BEFORE America's entry into the European Theater with the Allied D-Day landing at Normandy. It's easy to overlook that fact while the movie goes through it's paces, as the viewer's memory tends to recall events and battles of World War II that hadn't occurred yet relative to the story being told. "},{"Title":"Locations","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A great film, a bunch of criminal misfits tossed together by an even more wayward officer, Reismann (Lee Marvin) helped by a great cast, some fine moments, with the onus on them gaining freedom in exchange for going on a suicidal mission to obliterate German officers in the D-Day invasion area. Some great, strong roles by the likes of Telly Savalas as a criminal misogynist, maggot, and humour in places - IDMB has put some of the locations on here for filming. I lived where pinkley 'inspected' the troops, a former RAF base, now a housing estate, and visited the village of Aldbury. Also, Little Gaddesden where the 'Marston Tyne' Military Prison was(Now Ashridge Business college). But can anyone tell me where the actual 'chateau' was built - must have been a non-descript field nearby I suppose, but would like to know. A good film, Maggot I think had the best 'perverted' part in aspects of his character. It makes you wonder did the military ever do anything like this? 'Don't give me that, sergeant, I said whaddya think?' !!! "},{"Title":"You can almost smell the testosterone when watching this great war flick","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have seen a lot of films over the year--meaning, I guess, I need to get a life! However, despite all the hours I have spent on films, I rarely watch a film twice and practically never see a film more than that. It is a tribute to the greatness of this film that I have probably seen it four times over the years and each time I marvel at the film with its wonderful ensemble cast and excitement that just oozes off the screen! There are very, very few war films that are better than this and I almost found myself giving this movie a score of 10. However, since I RARELY give films a 10, I am hesitant to do so here but I mean no disrespect against this nearly perfect film. If you asked me what three features made this film great in particular, I would say the excellent direction, the long but always engaging script and most importantly, Lee Marvin--in his greatest role of his career.Marvin is placed in charge of a group of 12 demented sociopaths who are given the choice to either join him in a suicide mission or have their full sentences enforced (and in many cases, this means the death penalty). While a few of the 12 are naturally just faces in the film, there are so many wonderful standout performances that give the film so much color and depth. Telly Savalas was given perhaps the most exciting and depraved role in the film and he milked it for all its worth. Charles Bronson and Clint Walker both played strong but decent men who seemed to transcend their circumstances. Jim Brown had a great role that seemed to justify his early retirement from football. Donald Sutherland was a freak--and a very lovable and cool freak at that. But the best role of the 12 was that given to John Cassavetes as the malignant jerk, Franko.Apart from these 12 twisted men, Marvin was given TONS of support from some terrific character actors--Ernest Borgnine, George Kennedy, Richard Jaekel, Ralph Meeker, Robert Ryan and Robert Webber. With all these wonderful actors gathered together, it's natural that you'd have an excellent film. What was amazing is that with all this talent, Marvin STILL managed to upstage them all with his tough as nails role as the group's commander! As for the plot, it's so very long and complicated I'd rather not get into it, since it's already listed on IMDb. However, when I say long, this is NOT a complaint. I love long movies provided the script is tight and merits the extreme length and complexity. THE GUNS OF NAVARONE and GONE WITH THE WIND both fall in this category, while THE English PATIENT seems like one of the longest movies ever because it is so dull and needed to be desperately shortened.The bottom line is that this is an exciting film from start to finish thanks to every aspect of the film working perfectly together. I also appreciated some parts of the script that were risks--injecting humor into such a gritty film as well as the horrific way the film ended. Both aspects of the film worked but could have easily fallen flat with the audience.A great film and a must-see for any serious fan of cinema.By the way, many years later, a follow-up to THE DIRTY DOZEN was made for TV. It was totally unnecessary and is very skipable. As the old expression goes, you can never go back. "},{"Title":"enough for everyone","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There is much to laugh along with in the training parts of The Dirty Dozen, but when they finally get down to the mission at hand, things practically get grim, with Telly Savalas' character's sexual and social pathology getting the better of him with the beautiful German mistress, and the herding of the entire officer corp and their girlfriends into a bomb shelter, much like victims of their own holocaust, and forced to try to claw their way out as Marvin's men nonchalantly drop hand grenades down the ventilation shoots. Both parts keep your interest, the first for the flaunting of all military decorum, especially Donald Sutherland's impersonation of a visiting general reviewing the troops and later the graduation party with only eleven London prostitutes ( Like cops, they're difficult to find when you really need them). Aldrich found enough material for all twelve of the characters, plus everyone else in the film, but of all of them, the hands down winner is John Cassavetes, who went from here to the classic Rosemary's Baby. As they wind their way through to the finale, Aldrich creates some of his best action sequences short of what he did in Emporer of the North a few years later, while creating a rich context of a swank German castle with the only suspicious person being the junior officer in charge of the guest registry. "},{"Title":"Rooting for the Bad Guys","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As a post-Vietnam, post-9/11, mid-Iraq female, I really shouldn't like this movie. I guess I'm supposed to prefer sensitive, emotional dramas where people resolve their differences through peaceful means. I should be appalled by the brutality and savagery displayed in this guy movie. Yeah. Sure.Come on! It has everything going for it- a great cast, biting dialouge, adrenaline-charged action, not to mention Charles Bronson, a personal crush of mine.They may be bad guys (except for Bronson and Brown, who seem to have been justified in committing their crimes), but you just have to cheer them on. "},{"Title":"Great film from beginning to end","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!!*** The Dirty dozen is a movie whose name I've often heard yet never had the pleasure of seeing. Lee Marvin did a superb job leading the cast in their tale of teamwork and heroism, and I feel the cast was well selected. Even better, unlike the war movies of today which focus entirely on the battles and killing, The Dirty Dozen spends well over half the film on character development and building the relationships between the cast. And when they finally do get to the fighting it isn't just repetitive waves of enemies that are unrealistically held off by twelve men. Instead it portrays the actual aspects of war where the good guys are human and die. Though only 3 of the group survived, the deaths of the men aren't in vain. Many of them would have died had they refused to take part in the mission, though by dying in battle they gave their lives for their country and earned back the honor they lost through their crimes. The only reason I don't give this a 10 out of 10 is that the story began lagging slightly towards the middle, prior to their part in the war games. But overall, this is one of the best films ever created. "},{"Title":"A classic, warts and all","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen is one of those off-beat classics that surfaces once in decade a war movie with little violence, great acting, humor, tension, a good story-line and fine direction. Just consider the cast Lee Marvin, Donald Sutherland, Charles Bronson, George Kennedy, John Cassavetes, Robert Ryan, Ernest Borgnine, James Brown, Trini Lopez, Clint Walker and Telly Savalas! You couldn't ask for a better pool of characters.If you've never seen it, stop what you're doing and go out and rent it (or buy it). It's one of those movies you can watch over and over again. Pinkley's a general? Pinkley? "},{"Title":"Classic war action that is just a little too long","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS **Recap Maj. Reisman (Marvin) is given the assignment to train twelve convicted men, either to death or very long sentences, for a covert mission it to occupied France. He is not very happy about it and the twelve convicted men are not thrilled either. There are a lot of suspicion and disbelief among the undisciplined convicts. So first Reisman has to put himself in respect, then bring the group together and at last train them to kill. Progress is slow, and Reisman's superiors are starting to lose patience. The group has to prove themselves in a war game. If they fail, they go back to prison. If they succeed they will be sent into real war were failure is much more fatal...Comments First, it is a stellar cast. Marvin, Borgnine, Bronson, Savalas, Sutherland, López and Cassavetes. Unfortunately everyone is playing tough guys so there is very little emotions present. It feels like there are much more potential in a cast like this than what is shown here. The story is good, the idea brilliant. However it is a little too long, and I did get a little bored with just the tough guy thing. No change of pace or perspective that might have felt fresh now and then. There are a few witty lines that produce a smile now and then. The war game episode is the best as it is not too long in itself. The final battle is unfortunately too long. And it is annoying that most of the soldiers seem to forget both training and common sense (for example, while trying to be sneaky, don't run upright. Or when being shot at, don't stand upright.) Still it is somewhat of a classic. Give it a try...6/10 "},{"Title":"One helluva a movie.","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Call me weird, but I've had a thing for Lee Marvin since I was 12 years old. The Dirty Dozen is possibly his best film. The basic scenario is great take a bunch of misfit prison inmates and offer them the choice of continuing their jail sentence/death penalty or a joining a military mission, after which--if they survive (and the chances are slim)--they will be free.Full of great character actors, the film is as much about the characters as it is about the action. Although not as gritty as later war dramas, there is one scene in particular that demonstrates the ugly reality of war.I really liked it--and I'm not a guy!  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film's got it all.  An all star cast of very talented actors, lots of humor, action, and of course, one hell of an ending.  The attack at the end has got to be one of the best action sequences in movie history.  The action in it is very well directed and its very fast paced and exciting.  Also, the training scene's with the twelve prisoners are very fun to watch. Even though this movie runs way over two hours, its always exciting and theres never a dull moment.  5/5   "}{"Title":"War makes criminals out of everyone.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are many comments online complaining about the brutality of the final scenes in this film. This scene shows the 'heroes' for what they really are violent psycopaths. It is possibly unique for American war films in that it does not demonize the Nazis, instead showing them as the victims.The film is well acted by it's ensemble cast, though some of the actors performances are limited by a lack of character development. The action scenes are well done and the script serves its purpose. An enjoyable film with the admirable quality of not over simplifying the nature of war into a conflict between good and evil.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Refreshingly devoid of heroism(while remaining gleefully knee-deep in sensationalism), this movie  honestly surprised me with it's depth. Lee Marvin is a marvel as a tough Army major assigned to whip a bunch of violent Army felons into shape for a covert mission in German territory. John Cassavetes and Charles Bronson, both smoldering, anchor the charismatic cast of convicts(half of whom remain rather anonymous, unfortunately), and Telly Savalas adds an addled charm as the psychopathic Pvt.Maggett even though his character's story arc is somewhat mishandled down the stretch. The film is rollicking at times but it remains clear-eyed throughout, and revels in the coldness of armed conflict as opposed to cheap dramatics it could have plumbed out of such a familiar story.  "},{"Title":"The Great Male Bonding Flick","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Say what you want about the Dirty Dozen but it has a great story, with great characters and lots of great action.Think of almost all of the tough actors and you got them here. Marvin, Bronson, Brown, Walker, Borgnine, Ryan, Savalas and Cassavettes. Was there a better psycho than savales' Maggot? Some of these guys, like Maggot should have been hung. Others like Jefferson, were only defending themselves in a fight and ended up killing in self-defense. Most of them were redeemable. Some were not. That is part of the story. A last chance reprieve to destroy a heavily fortified German controlled chateau. As for the people who carped about them killing civilians, so what. These were probably the same people who turned in jews to the concentration camps, cheered Hitler and started the friggin war in the first place. Sometimes in war you have to be worse than the the people you were fighting and if a few enemy civiliians get in the way oops too bad and boo-hoo. Then don't start a war and support an evil leader. It's called collateral damage and believe me the dirty dozen does enough colatteral damage and then some. This isn't a movie for wussies. Truly a classic with some truly great tough guy actors in it. The Dirty Dozen gets 12 Stars!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome action flick that reinvented the genre","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Dirty Dozen is by far one of the best action movies of all time.  It takes quite a while for the actual gunfighting to hit, but once it does, it comes with a vengeance.This was the first war movie ever to not focus on the actual  war, but a small section of it. These men were not going behind enemy lines to capture an enemy outpost or liberate a village , they were going in to destroy a chateau and all the Germans in it.Good cast led by Lee Marvin, with other such standouts as John Cassevettes as Franco and Charles Bronson as Wladislaw as two of the most prominent prisoners in the group.The film has only aged just a tad with time, but it remains an awesome movie that reinvented the genre of action.  This film along with THE WILD BUNCH helped make the shootout finale now part of Hollywood culture, and it still manages to tantalize the senses.This is a great movie about loyalty, duty, the cost of war, and even redemption.George Kennedy They lost their lives in the line of duty! "},{"Title":"A well paced film.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is just the right length with a good blend of dialogue and action. Definitely Lee Marvin's best film, and far better than any of the sequels. Excellent use of vehicles and a workman-like directed film. "},{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen A truly great movie for all people.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie! The Dirty Dozen is a perfect blend of war-time action and comedy. John Cassevettes plays Victor Franco, a trouble making prisoner who gives the Major all the trouble he can handle. Lee Marvin plays the stubburn but none the less brave Major Reisman who leads the twelve prisoners against impossible odds. This is one of Marvin's best movies.The Dirty Dozen is a classic war movie. Directed by Robert Aldrich, the film captures brave men dying in the line of duty to serve their country.  "},{"Title":"Dirtier by the Dozen","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" During the final months of World War II, US major Lee Marvin (as John Reisman) leads twelve hardened criminals on a commando raid of Nazis nested in occupied France. For their participation, The Dirty Dozen are returned to active duty, with full pardons. Their sentences range from 20 years hard labor to death by hanging. The script immediately gives the best role to prisoner #11 John Cassavetes (as Franko) and he never really lets go, though there is stiff competition from Telly Savalas (as Maggott). The relatively sane Charles Bronson (as Wladislaw) stands out by keeping his cool. Donald Sutherland (as Pinkley) and others in the all-star cast have their moments and share in Robert Aldrich's box office glory.****** The Dirty Dozen (6/15/67) Robert Aldrich ~ Lee Marvin, John Cassavetes, Charles Bronson, Telly Savalas "},{"Title":"One of the Best Behind-the-Enemy-Lines World War II Thrillers!","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Vera Cruz director Robert Aldritch made a one-of-a-kind World War II movie with The Dirty Dozen based closely on E.M. Nathanson's bestselling novel about a U.S. Army plan to sneak military prisoners behind enemy lines at a rest and recuperation château where high ranking German officers had time to miss the horrors of war and indulge themselves in wine, good food, classic music, and willing women. Although it is the most popular of the parole-them-from-prison plots, The Dirty Dozen doesn't qualify as the first Hollywood film to exploit this gimmick. The Errol Flynn swashbuckler Captain Blood is the earliest of the films about prisoners who receive a parole or who are exonerated for their crimes in return for valiant service to their country.Nevertheless, this groundbreaking World War II adventure epic spawned many imitators from European filmmakers, and Aldritch himself fared unsuccessfully in his own attempt to imitate himself with Too Late the Hero. Insubordinate U.S. Army officer, Major John Reisman (Lee Marvin of Point Blank) finds himself shafted into recruiting twelve hardened criminals that he must then train and take behind enemy lines to carry out a mission. Naturally, Reisman regards the plan as preposterous, and General Denton (Robert Webber of $) is properly outraged. Reisman argues that these half-wits must receive a pardon or they will not go for the deal. Most of the men that he recruits are awaiting execution of their sentence, namely getting hanged by the neck until dead. General Worden (Ernst Borgnine of The Wild Bunch) is inclined to agree with Reisman in his assessment of the plan.Warden picks his twelve prisoners, among them are Victor Franco (John Cassavetes of Saddle the Wind), Archer Maggot (Telly Savalas of The Battle of the Bugle), Samson Posey (Clint Walker of Cheyenne), Robert Jefferson (Jim Brown of Rio Conchos), Vernon Pinkley (Donald Sutherland in a pre-M.A.S.H. role), and Joseph Wladislaw (Charles Bronson of New So Few), and they are a dirty, unshaven lot that don't respond well to discipline. I think the first chance they get, observes M.P. Sergeant Bowren (Richard Jaeckel of The Devil's Brigade), they will shoot the major in the head. Reisman relocates his men to a compound that they must build where he trains them in assorted maneuvers. The worst of the bunch is Victor Franco and Reisman uses Franco as a means to draw the others together so that they become the 'Dirty Dozen.' He does this by denying them water to shave with. Meanwhile, snooty Colonel Everett Dasher Breed (Robert Ryan of Hour of the Gun) contends that his men can beat Reisman's rabble, so Worden schedules a war games and the Dozen prove that they are fit for their mission. Breed and Reisman hate each other with a passion.Basically, The Dirty Dozen occurs in three parts (1) the training, (2) the war games gauntlet, and (3) the final mission. The assault on the German château in the last half-hour of The Dirty Dozen is a nail biting, spine-tingler. The Dirty Dozen tops the movie chart as the most profitable movie made in its year of release. Belatedly, a number of lackluster sequels and eventually a short-lived television series followed in the wake of Aldritch's dynamic opus. Probably the most reprehensible character in the Dozen is Telly Savalas' racist Southern redneck who loves to use the N-word. The most suspenseful scene involves Jefferson's dash against machine gun fire as he dumps hand grenades into pipes leading to an underground room in the château. Of course, not everybody survives this blood curdling shoot'em up. The Charles Bronson character manages to stay alive and he has one of the best lines at the end of the film Killing generals could get to be a habit. The name-dropping celebrity cast, great production values, and taut helming by Aldritch make this a first-rate movie for guys. If you are a World War II fanatic and you haven't seen The Dirty Dozen, then you must watch this movie! "},{"Title":"one of the supreme d*** flicks of its time","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you want that charge of adrenaline, and more than a few laughs, from an era when men were MEN, in capital letters, look no further. And what entertaining, all-absorbing MEN, or rather real-life stars. The basic gist we got here is as follows Lee Marvin is the Major who leads a a rag-tag group of convicts in WW2 Europe on a daring, very dangerous mission to kill as many officers possible in a huge fortress. The premise has that ensemble ring of Seven Samurai, but it's given that level of pathos that is not entirely dissimilar (or not featuring some of the same cast members) as Cool Hand Luke. This isn't your common war movie in the sensibility of the characters, a mentality that has just that whiff of professionalism and a whole lot of let's mess with the heads of those in charge. It's a balancing act that director Aldrich tries for with the material, with half the movie being bad-ass hijinks- bordering almost on sophomoric, as the music often chimes a level between chirpy military anthem and Donald Duck- and the other as hard-edged action movie.While Aldrich is up to task, performing his directorial duties with a cool professionalism (particularly in the climactic attack on the fortress, which goes between exhilarating and terrifying and with suspense thrown in for obvious measure), it's the cast assembled that make the mark it as an excellent effort. Everybody is spot-on, from Cassavetes, in one of his most notable turns, as a wise-ass who wises up, to Bronson and Brown in their own distinctive molds, to Sutherland's aloof General, and to especially the real psycho in Savalas. Even parts that are pretty standard like Borgnine and Kennedys' parts are fulfilled with all their worth. And Marvin steers the ship with a level fo vigor that defines what the hell we guys watch these flicks for. He's no fake; beneath his actual acting chops he's the kind of guy who looks like, under these circumstances (not to mention, especially, Samuel Fuller's The Big Red One), like he can get things done.But beneath the veneer of being a total hard-head who won't take any guff and can poise attack or defense in a heartbeat, there's humanity to him. And this, too, reflects a good lot of the Dirty Dozen. Just watch the scene where the girls are brought in from town to 'amuse' the soldiers. That moment when all of those guys, bearded and without a shower in weeks, are before these semi-attractive ladies, are sort of humbled and Franco asks one to dance despite the lack of music, which he hums. This interaction itself doesn't have much to do with the plot, albeit the scene's needed to get Marvin in trouble later with his superiors, but it's crucial to see a glimpse of the other side to these men, when all of a sudden taken out of their 'guy' element. And it's a help that there's this backdrop of humility in the face of wackiness and a climax that stands as one of the greats in war movies. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Killin' generals could get to be a habit with me.","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Another great film from 1967 that stands the test of time.No one would ever believe in a story about a bunch of losers going into some German High Command and killing off Generals in exchange for their freedom. Pure fantasy! Yet, this is one of the greatest and most successful war movies ever made.Robert Aldrich (What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?) directed a masterpiece written by Nunnally Johnson (The Grapes of Wrath).The cast was outstanding with Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Robert Ryan, Charles Bronson, Jim Brown, George Kennedy, John Cassavetes, Clint Walker, Donald Sutherland, Telly Savalas, Ralph Meeker, Richard Jaeckel, Trini Lopez, and Robert Webber. That's more testosterone than you find on a Super Bowl Team! Sensational. "}{"Title":"An exciting war movie with a splendid cast","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There have been many sequels,copies and even a TV show about this concept. But the original Dirty Dozen is still the best. Even when you look at this movie now it is exciting as hell. The action mixed with good performances is something you just have to see. Even people who don't like war movies will like this movie. Technically this is a movie about one mission to be fulfilled by expendable soldiers (read convicts who are trained) in the second world war. You will see the very reluctant and disorganized convicts transform in highly trained and competent soldiers. This is a fun thing to see and experience. Of course it is not realistic but the idea of using a team like this could have been real. If you think about it convicts who are sentenced to death could be of use in killing (in this case) the Germans. They have nothing to lose. The chance of defecting to the German would be very minimal. After doubts from a Col. Everett Dasher Breed the team are put to the test. They win the test in such a brilliant way that you are convinced that they will succeed the mission. From start till the end Dirty Dozen doesn't disappoint. This is a movie you can watch over again and again. That's why Dirty Dozen is a wonderful classic! "},{"Title":"War Classic Stands Test of Time...","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen, Robert Aldrich's 1967 adventure classic, would redefine a whole genre of films, as public attitudes towards warfare and heroism changed, due to Vietnam. With 'heroes' who were certainly not noble, a mission that would require a level of cruelty film audiences had never before seen from American fighting men, and graphic language and bloodshed, the impact of the the film was both immediate (despite huge 'box office', many critics panned the film as 'disturbing' and glorifying violence), and continuing (influencing films as diverse as Patton and Saving Private Ryan). It can be viewed at many levels, as a crackling good adventure yarn, an 'anti-establishment' and anti-war statement, the ultimate 'buddy' film...few films have generated as much controversy, or stood the passage of time, better! Based on E.M. Nathanson's novel (of rumored 'Death Row' convicts offered a pardon or reduction of sentence for volunteering for a suicide mission), with a large dash of the Pathfinders' legendary Filthy Thirteen of WWII tossed in, the property was purchased as a potential starring vehicle for John Wayne. The Duke passed on the project, however (choosing to make The Green Berets, instead). Director Aldrich never envisioned Wayne in the lead, preferring WWII Marine vet Lee Marvin in the complex role of maverick Maj. John Reisman, and the actor, fresh from winning an Oscar for Cat Ballou, was dead-on perfect in the part. Veteran stars Ernest Borgnine, Robert Ryan, Ralph Meeker, Robert Webber, George Kennedy, and Richard Jaeckel were cast as Marvin's military allies and adversaries.For the Front Six of the Dozen, sullen Charles Bronson (another WWII vet), John Cassavetes (who would garner an Oscar nomination), Telly Savalas (in the most 'whacked-out' role in his career), Clint Walker (of Cheyenne TV fame), football legend Jim Brown (in only his second film), and popular singer Trini Lopez (in his film debut) would dominate the screen time, with a Back Six of character actors in much smaller roles, simply filling out the rest of the twelve parts. But a movie 'miracle' occurred; when Walker objected to a scene where, as a bogus 'General', he would idiotically review an Airborne unit (feeling it demeaned Native Americans, who his character portrayed), Aldrich passed the scene to Back Six actor Donald Sutherland...and the scene would spectacularly launch his career, leading to his starring role in M.A.S.H. Aldrich's meticulous shooting style, and the often rainy British weather (where the film was shot), more than doubled the shooting schedule, and after seven months on location, Trini Lopez (on the advice of friend Frank Sinatra), informed Aldrich and the producers that he was missing singing dates, and would need a pay hike to continue. To Lopez' surprise, Aldrich 'dropped' him, having him die in the climactic parachute drop! The director was warned that if he didn't eliminate the film's most controversial scene (pouring gasoline and dropping grenades on the women guests, as well as the Nazi officers seeking refuge in the bomb shelters), he would lose any chance of a 'Best Director' Oscar nomination. After soul-searching, he left the scene in (War is Hell, and HAS to be portrayed that way), and while he sacrificed the prize, Robert Aldrich gave the film a brutal honesty that subsequent wars would sadly verify.The Dirty Dozen survived contemporary criticism, and has proved to be one of the most enduring war films of all time, as fresh today as when it debuted in 1967. "},{"Title":"The Real-Life Events/Story Behind the Orig. Novel/Film","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  http//www.all-reviews.com/videos-5/dirty-dozen.htmAccording to an article written many years ago, the original The Dirty Dozen novel was actually based on real life story. US military convicts were offered pardon in exchange for similar suicide missions in Nazi occupied France. They agreed, but after the drop they turned their tails and spent the rest of the war in neutral Spain. In real life, use of pardoned convicts as soldiers is rather common phenomena, as experiences in former Yugoslavia indicate. In WWII Red Army and Wehrmacht employed such practice. The operation that actually resembles this movie the most was conducted by Germans. In May of 1944, frustrated with unsuccessful attempts to chase down and destroy the core formations of Yugoslav Partisans, German High Command planned the daring parachute raid on the headquarters of Partisan leader Tito and trained entire battalion of convicts for that very purpose. At the end of the day, Tito, although initially surprised, managed to get away and the convict paratroopers, decimated in a hellatious battle, took only Tito's freshly tailored Field Marshall uniform as their only trophy. "},{"Title":"A good 'un","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As we say in the South, this is a good 'un. The film has an all-star cast, including Lee Marvin, George Kennedy (albeit briefly), Clint  Walker, Jim Brown, Donald Sutherland, Telly Savalas and Charles Bronson. The plot take a bunch of hardened and/or condemned military criminals and turn them loose on the Nazi High Command. Along the way, they have to prove themselves to their commander (Marvin) and the American commanders. There are a few comic moments, but most of the film is straight-away action. I like it!  "},{"Title":"An absolute masterpiece!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A great movie that's filled with explosive action and weird humor about a stubborn Army Major John Reisman (Lee Marvin) is ordered by two generals (Ernest Borgnine and Robert Webber) to train twelve G.I. felons who are sentenced to long terms of imprisonment or be hanged, into commandos for a raid on a château in France where the German army's chain of command is at. Charles Bronson, Jim Brown, John Cassavettes, Donald Sutherland, and Telly Salvalas are among the twelve felons. The performances in this movie are great all around, most notably Marvin, Bronson, and Cassavettes. Sutherland has a couple of great one-liners. During the battle, Brown has a great death scene. Based on E. M Nathanson's novel and is the screenplay by Nunnally Johnson and Lukas Heller is great. Frank De Vol's compelling musical score sets a very solid tone and tension. Besides Terrence Malick's The Thin Red Line, Robert Aldrich's The Dirty Dozen is the other WWII film that I enjoy. It's an absolute masterpiece. "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC!!!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a wonderful achievement.The story is intriguing, filled with bitter irony, violence, and tension.  The characters are great, too (and so are all of the performances.)  We really get to like and care for all of the sentenced men who make the Dirty Dozen, and also for Lee Marvin, the best bad-ass to ever appear on the screen!  The movie is funny, extremely brutal, and even touching at the end.  Although it is quite fictional, and considered an action film, it still leaves much up for discussion, such as the way these men are locked up for committing crimes at first, keeping them from doing their jobs as soldiers, or professional killers.  And once they do get their chance to serve, and become heroes, their actions are merciless--the mission is plain and simple; kill a group of unsuspecting German generals to cause confusion on the eve of D-Day.  It has many chilling moments; Lee Marvin orders that they dump gasoline on their enemies.  The MP's response, Gasoline!?  Are you sure? is unforgettable, and so is Marvin's expression when he leaves the embattled chateau and sees that one of his men has been killed.The final forty-five minutes of the movie are amazingly tense--and possibly the shortest forty-five minutes you'll ever experience watching a movie.  The only thing I wish they could change;  I'd like it if a certain character (the last one to get killed) lived.  Oh well, I guess it does give his arc some closure.  If you haven't seen this movie, I really recommend it.  You'll wonder why it slipped by you for so long! ***** "},{"Title":"war cinema at its best","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favourite war movies, the Dirty Dozen is action packed, funny, bleak and cool. Lee Marvin turns in a classic gritty performance, as do Bronson, Cassavettes, Sutherland and Savalas (among others) as the coolest looking rat-pack of soldiers in cinema history. Essential action viewing.  "},{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tough as nails action classic with Marvin leading a band of misfits into combat. Director Aldrich created wonderful character development, showing every facet of every up and coming star's persona, especially Oscar nominee Cassavattes. The film is highly professional with top notch editing and cinematography. A true war classic!  "},{"Title":"Perfect Build-up -- less then stellar results 7/10","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think it is a safe bet to say that if The Dirty Dozen would have been filmed in this day and age -- it would have been much better.  You have one of the best premises ever, a cast that is to die for, but some how the film makers managed to make it only average.The acting in the film is great -- John Cassavetes in particular shines.  The problem with the film -- it's too silly.  The Dirty Dozen should be the grittiest, meanest movie out there; and at times it is.  But it also has some laughably cheesy scenes, and the action is very flawed and confusing.  This movie has aged for the worst.  I'll probably get lynched for saying this -- but this is one movie i'd like to see them remake. "},{"Title":"Slaughter and Violence","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Dirty Dozen is a horrible film and maybe Aldrich´s worst.American Criminals are trained to kill and in fact they manage to destroy a nazi-headquarters. They slaughter all men and women inside with hand grenades and finally burn them alive. One of the most violent and cynical movies I´ve ever seen. It glorifies war as a gentlemen´s game and if women appear in the film they are shown as objects only designed to satisfy the sexual needs of soldiers. I cannot understand the popularity of this movie which sometimes is called a classic. There are good and there are bad war movies, The Dirty Dozen is a splatter-movie. Even worse is the huge number of sequels. "}{"Title":"Reality intrudes on entertainment.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to figure what director Robert Aldrich and his writers meant to say about war with this famous 60's box office hit. Working from a script by veteran screenwriters Nunnally Johnson and Lukas Heller, (based on a novel by E.M Nathanson), Aldrich wastes no time on extraneous detail or historical context; he's clearly interested in keeping this 2-and-a-half hour epic moving along, as it contains a lot of characters, tough dialogue, and well-staged action.At the same time, little effort is expended in disguising the story's schizoid nature. Its first half is a fairly standard, though rousing, WWII adventure with a skilled cast expertly portraying the typical band of misfits -- in this case, American military prisoners -- who bond under fierce training and are molded into an efficient fighting force. Then in the second half, the results of this training are unblinkingly depicted with the assault on an R&R stronghold for the German high command in which the mission is simply to kill as many of the enemy as possible. That this happens to include a large number of civilian noncombatants, many of them women, seems of scant concern. The slaughter is mainly accomplished with gasoline dumped down ventilator shafts on those trapped in the cellars below, then ignited.It makes for exciting spectacle, but might also leave something of a bad taste in your mouth. "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Guy Movie","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 49 years after its release, you can still ask, Have you seen The Dirty Dozen, and the look of bloodlust and delight on the other person's face will tell you everything you need to know. TDD is one of those flicks that got released in VHS way back when, and got shown on superstations about once a week, and the end result is like Andrew McLagen's John Wayner, Chisum. It seems as if everybody--of the guy persuasion--has seen this great, great Robert Aldrich movie.It's so ugly and perverse and the very thought of the good guys herding Nazis and their women into the basement of a château in order to drop grenades down the ventilators and then incinerate them is enough to make anyone who is seeing it for the first time let out an OMG (or something a bit more masculine). The Dirty Dozen is one of the most tightly constructed, bone-crunching, knife-slashing, burp-gun blazing alternative-to-your-average-war-movie movies I've ever seen. And it came out before the rating system, so parents who showed up with their little 'uns were probably thinking, OMG! This is the pure tough-guy movie. The convicts are rapists and murderers, their commander (Lee Marvin) is an insubordinate malcontent, and it takes almost no time for Aldrich to start converting you into big fans of the rapists, murderers, and malcontents. The message is simple--War is a crime, so why not use criminals?But the viewers, for the most part, never get to that deep-think; instead, they just groove to the turning of convicts into what they were supposed to be, soldiers.And there's that scene that makes everyone in the audience who has ever wanted to witch-slap his boss laugh out loud, when Marvin stops prissy General Robert Ryan from dry-shaving John Cassavetes by firing a burst from his machine gun as a final/only warning. Take that, authority!Come to think of it, this is the sort of story that teenagers probably loved. It's anti-army army, beat-the-Nazis-by-flippin-off- the-man, pure sixties manly-man rebelliousness.Just writing about this movie makes me want to eat a big-ass burger, lots of onion, and walk it through a warm room, sweetheart!Forget Cialis, boys. Watch the Dirty Dozen instead. Commence firing! "},{"Title":"still a GREAT war film","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Over forty years and this movie continues to thrill and entertain. I have seen it several times. If you like the war film genre or just exciting action with ironic humor then you MUST make time to see the original Dirty Dozen.wow, I need ten linesCharles Bronson, Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Jim Brown, Telly SavalisIf you are a young person then you might want to watch these actors - greats in their time. The movie does lack a significant female lead but that was typical for the times. "},{"Title":"An All-Star Cast","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Dozen (1967) 8 Lee Marvin stars as Major Reisman who has displeased his superiors so much that he is put in charge of a secret mission to parachute behind enemy lines to kill German officers vacationing at a château in France. If that wasn't bad enough, all of his soldiers are hardened criminals of the worst sort who are coerced by the chance that they may be given a parole. Now as implausible as this movie really is I must admit that it offers plenty of entertainment value due in large part to an all-star cast which includes Charles Bronson (as Joseph Wladislaw), Clint Walker (Samson Posey), Jim Brown (Robert Jefferson), Donald Sutherland (Vernon Pinkley), Ernest Borgnine (General Worden), George Kennedy (Major Max Armbruster) along with the afore-mentioned Lee Marvin. Yet with all of these mentioned I thought Telly Savalas deserved special recognition for his performance as the psychotic pervert Archer Maggott which really stood out. In any case, this was a big movie back in the 60's and those who might be interested in this type of film should definitely check it out. I rate it as definitely above average. "},{"Title":"Not just for girls.","Date":"14 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I had heard (and I also admit that I assumed it to be true myself) that this movie was a typical guy movie with explosions, shooting, death etc that girls just didn't like. But I was wrong. This was a great movie that actually had something to say. First off the cast is top notch, when you have actors like Donald Sutherland (one of my all time faves) and Charles Bronson in pretty relatively small parts in the movie you can see how top notch this film is. Possible spoiler here - but I was happy to see that in this old movie for once the black man (Jim Brown) was not killed off even though it looked for sure like he would be in the end. I thought it was terrific with lots of action, not too much gore, and great acting and drama. Telly Savalas I never really liked but he was great as the psycho and Lee Marvin was so tough as nails it was cool. "},{"Title":"Where it all began...","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you look at the elements in this movie, you'll see that all the prerequisites for the modern 'summer action movie' are all here.  This is the great-great-grandfather to Con Air, The Rock, and Tomb Raider.1. You have your politically-correct (IE multi-racial) group of criminals (in Hollywood terms, they are the 'tough guys' that sell the most tickets') that are somehow more 'human' than the authoritarian figures that have enslaved them for a purpose.2. You have your paper-thin enemy with two options open to them shoot or die.  Guess which one is performed the most?3. There is the obligatory bond of kinship that arises during times of war as the men learn that they are all rapists, murderers, thieves, vandals, and basket cases--sorry, too much of Breakfast Club influence on the ol' critic here.4. After nearly two hours of babbling (typical Bruckheimer tough talk), the plot works its way towards the final fireworks.  I will praise the DoP for his work in making a prototype for hundreds to follow, but the sound and editing otherwise are terrible.  Low standards for a movie like this.Overall, interesting for history buffs attempting to trace the roots of the genre, but modern filmgoers will be turned off by its *lack* of action.  3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The ultimate action movie re World War II...","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Lee Marvin heads an all-star cast in a very rugged, humorous, exciting and entertaining film wherein his mission is to train THE DIRTY DOZEN (a ragged bunch of misfits slated for the hangman's noose unless they opt to join him in his mission).The cast is uniformly excellent in a variety of interesting roles--and the only underwritten roles without any depth are left to Robert Ryan and Ernest Borgnine as rather colorless military officers.Outstanding characterizations are offered by Telly Savalas, Richard Jaeckel, Clint Walker, Charles Bronson, Jim Brown and Donald Sutherland. The best scenes are the rigorous training the men are forced to undergo before assigned to their real mission. Given the length of this little war epic, they could have eliminated the training exercise prank in which the men defeat another battalion and instead cut right to the chase which is the climactic mission to destroy a Nazi fortress and its inhabitants.Action galore and some well developed humor along the way. Robert Aldrich keeps a firm hand on the direction but could have whittled the whole thing down to a more reasonable length. Still, it never bores and Lee Marvin, in the central role, commands the screen all the time.   "},{"Title":"let's kill nazis!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  great movie- it makes you believe you're watching a war movie but it's actually an action one; the comedy stuff is just hilarious (for a movie this kind) and the action scenes are terrific, not to mention it's cast. one of the best war movies in history   "},{"Title":"Bam-Pow-Zoink-War!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another glossy jingoistic World War movie, protaganized by hard-assed tough-nosed soldiers. The 'Dirty Dozen' in this case refers to a group of criminals morphed into an elite fighting squad by a selfish, short-sighted army brass. These criminals, traitorous malconents through and through, get suddenly sprung from hard time and death sentences with a promise from a desperate US military. The army has volunteered these strapping young lads to see through a suicide mission of the highest import. Face overwhelming odds and conquer a French castle armed to the teeth and stocked with elite german officers. No problem, echoes our unshaven group of malcontents. Lee Marvin plays the passive-aggressive, jaded to the point of constipation Major in charge of this heroic fiasco. Of course tempers flare and rams butt horns, but in the end up becomes down and the condemned men ultimately prove heroic. No suprises - things blow up, recruits brawl, sacrifices are made in the vague name of duty. And capping this illustrious tale of anti-pacifism is the US flag, waving bloodily in the smoky sky for all to see. "},{"Title":"Entertaining war flick.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This picture shouldn't be taken seriously as a war film but does entertain. A good cast headed up by Lee Marvin in the role he's probably most remembered for. (even though he won an Oscar for Cat Ballou)    A group of American G.I. convicts are offered a way out of their sentences if they volunteer for a somewhat suicide mission. They of course agree and the film highlights their training with at first reluctance and apprehension about each other and their leader Major Reisman. Eventually they bond as best they can and go on their mission. Who makes it who doesn't? What helps keep the film going is that the locations constantly keep changing. From the prison compound to the training site to an Army base to a War game location to the mission location itself. No it's not the greatest war film ever but it is one that's always great to watch.   "}{"Title":"Violence as entertainment - pretty awful","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is all action with not a whole lot of intelligence. Violence is worshiped and glorified for the sake of exciting the audience. I saw no redeeming values and nothing I could learn from it. The scene of pouring gasoline over German civilians (men and women) was the highlight of disgusting.I like war movies that are well done and have something to say. The Longest Day had violence but it was portrayed accurately in historical context. This movie was pure fiction with a storyline created purely to push gory violence. No wonder Lee Marvin refused to do any sequels as he also thought it glorified war to an unnecessary extreme.Some of the acting was very good and the only reason for my 2 stars. "},{"Title":"Lee Marvin leads some future stars on a mission in The Dirty Dozen","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After years of reading about it, I finally decided to watch The Dirty Dozen on Netflix Streaming especially since it would be off it by tomorrow. Lee Marvin as Major Reisman is assigned to lead the title group of men either condemned to death or a very long prison term. Among them Charles Bronson, Donald Sutherland, Telly Savalas, Jim Brown, and John Cassavetes. The last one is the first to rebel against Marvin and he's perhaps the one that made the most impression on me as a result. No wonder he got the Oscar nomination. Sutherland has a funny scene when he has to pass himself as a general that I read later got him the movie version of M*A*S*H. Savalas and Brown provide the conflict within the team that gets the exciting climax going. And Bronson essays the authority to go with Marvin in leading the mission. Some mistakes that I noticed-like when the Dozen switch the blue bands for red during the War Games sequence before they seemed to switch back for a few minutes or women wearing '60s hairstyles in a '40s setting-confused me but overall, The Dirty Dozen has enough compelling dramatics and action for me to recommend. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Politically incorrect,violent,wonderfully acted,depressing yet exciting,no cheap heroics,no patriotic crap.One of the most inspired movies of all time.OK,movie was made in 1967,right?So,what do we havecriminals,prostitutes,violence,women civilians killed (stabbed and burnt alive),graphic violence,racism,religious fanaticism,lunacy,retards and war,action and comedy. It's delightfully paced and exciting,esp. due to some wonderful actors and their performances(no reason to go into that,just watch the movie).The chemistry between the actors is fantastic. One of my favorite movies ,I just watched it for the maybe 50-th time last night (first time I watched it I was 12 years old) and still hasn't lost its magic to me one bit. "},{"Title":"Good film, which you may watch at the Christmas or some other good vacation ).","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The training part was good, but action on the end may be little longer. One film was similar to this (i can't remember his name right now) with the longer action on the end, and it was much better.What is incredible, that this film is from 1967 and its still very good with nice atmosphere, good filmed action with little hint of charm ) (where is this new movies with tons of effect and no story...).It's one of the classic film.I don't like it very much, but its good film, which you may watch at the Christmas or some other good vacation.Classic war movie, what i may say more ). "},{"Title":"Fearless action from some of the 60's toughest character-actors.","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What better way to fight a war than with people crazy enough not to care much whether they live or die? This was one of the first tough guy(s) against the odds setup, but it worked well enough to spawn a host of descendants that carried on the formula. It's reasonable to assume, for example, that without the success of this back in the day there would have been no A-Team for me to enjoy as I was growing up.Not even in the latter example however did they manage to enlist such a high quotient of acting talent. It's more fun to go along with the brawn and brute force when you have dab hands of their trade dishing it out for you. Lee Marvin and Telly Savalas are a couple of standouts, but my personal favourite is the unpredictable screen presence of Jim Brown.In the early part of the film it's fun to see these bunch of reprobates clash with unyielding authority. Once we get to the heart of the mission however this playful tone disappears almost completely to be replaced by a nihilistic attitude, allowing us to see just why these 12 individuals got their filthy reputation. It'll be a tough switch for some, no doubt, but at least there are no punches pulled. If you're looking for mercenary, uncompromising battle, then this is the daddy that without doubt taught the likes of Rambo and Co. a few tricks! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this movie at least 10 times, and I never get tired of it. The characters are great. Sure, it's a little unrealistic...but aren't most movies?? Action, comedy, drama...it has it all. War/prison movies are always good (Shawshank Redemption, Saving Private Ryan, etc.), and this movie is no exception. If you're looking for a great movie that will stick with you for years to come, you won't go wrong with the Dirty Dozen. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Dirty tactics!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Classic WW2 movie that entertains like a very good comic book (Hollywood) yet also has a controversial public message/expose in it's illustration of how the USA also has to compromise with the devil for a long term good.The dirty tactics employed here by the USA military is very true and important in order to win the war.Good study on the begginings of SPECIAL FORCES WARFARE which of coarse border on TERRORISM.This movie is effective in tackling that sensitive aspect of all out warfare.Terrorism has to be fought with terrorism if needed.There is no pure good or pure evil on this world.In such an existence, clear and defined COMPROMISE,no matter how high the price must be done.Very good war movie.It's only weakness is it's only semi-realistic script/screenplay so as not to over threaten the mainstream movie fan.Fan of macho action WW2 movies? This one is for you then.......     "},{"Title":"Americans were no better than the Nazis","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is horrible. I am really disappointed by the way the producers showed Germans in here. According to the movie, all Germans were evil and they all had to be killed. I am not trying to excuse what the Nazis did, but this does not mean everyone was like this. Lots of Germans were actually opposing the totalitarian system of Adolf Hitler. The worst part is when you have all the people locked up in the bunker and the have the Americans throwing the grenades down the air vent, pouring the gasoline and blowing the whole thing up. This makes the Americans no better than the Nazis. I could actually live with it, if the three remaining Americans were also killed. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not A Real War Movie, But A Perfect One","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When I was 10 I went to Romania over the summer (even though I would've rather been in America) right before communism fell. Predictably, there wasn't much variety in the offerings on TV. But sometimes they would show older movies in the evening, probably because those were perceived as having less political impact. This was my exposure to The Dirty Dozen, and what a fond memory. I'd always wanted to see that movie again, and recently re-watched it in full at age 31.Although dated, I still have to describe it as a perfect film. That is, the only criticism I could level at this film is that the dialogue seems a bit hokey by today's standards. But that's made up for by excellent character acting (at least from the leads Lee Marvin, Charles Bronson) with a dignity but also a restraint you rarely if ever see in today's movies. Now let's talk about the movie itself. Lee Marvin plays an American major in WW2 Britain who has to turn 12 felons into a commando unit and lead them to infiltrate a château occupied by Nazi generals, who are to be killed.When I saw this as a kid, I thought it was an extremely cool war movie. Seeing it as an adult, it's clear that most of the events could never happen in real life, and it's meant more as a fantasy. For instance, Lee Marvin is a rebel, who resents having a straight-laced Colonel poking around his business. So at some point he fires a machine gun in the direction of the Colonel. Of course he would get imprisoned for that, maybe sentenced to death. And he hires prostitutes for the soldiers. Maybe that could happen in real life, but it seems to me both an act of compassion for men who are about to die (who are forced to live a monastic lifestyle even as they sacrifice themselves) as well as an indictment by the filmmaker of the way women are often treated as objects in times of war.That's the beauty of this movie the heroes are no angels--yet it never moralistically bashes you in the head with that fact. In particular, Lee Marvin's Major is simultaneously the most heroic and the most brutal/cold-blooded character in the film. He's heroic because he does what he needs to do to discipline his men into commandos, in a manner that's sometimes tough, though never sadistic. His brutality becomes apparent in the climax, possibly one of the most thought-provoking action scenes a WWII movie. We think of the Nazis as monstrous serial killers, but here the Major's mission is to actually murder generals, rather than taking them as POWs. This is an expedient solution, yet it's a war crime, and wouldn't have been done as such either by the Allies or the Nazis. It's relevant to keep in mind that most Nazi generals were not convicted as war criminals, though many probably turned a blind eye to much that was going on.After a lot of fighting, the Major traps not only the generals, but also the women who were with them, in a bomb shelter, and maniacally pours grenades and gasoline through the vents, to set the château ablaze. He, however, had let the French go (could he not have also released the German women?) I think this scene might be an allegory for the fire-bombing of Dresden. What's so compelling is that, as he keeps taking time to pour more gasoline, more and more of his team keep getting sniped. He does not take on the responsibility of setting off the blaze himself, but delegates that duty to one of his men, who then gets sniped.All in all completely exciting and action-packed. Impossible to describe in this brief blurb. Well worth watching! "},{"Title":"Train Them! Exite Them! Arm Them!...Then turn them loose on the Nazis!","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the months leading up to the allied invasion of Europe, the U.S army gives Major Reisman a top secret assignment. He must transform twelve condemned men into a crack commando unit for a clandestine mission behind enemy lines. The tough Major is able to match the rebelliousness of the convicts and over time they come to respect him as their superior officer. After completing vigorous training, the Major will lead the dirty dozen in a daring attack on a French château which is being used as a German base. They must kill as many Nazi officers as possible so the third Reich will be plunged into chaos on the eve of the D-day landings. However, Reisman is at odds with his superiors, General Worden and Colonel Breed, a factor that threatens to place the mission in jeopardy...Robert Aldrich does it again with this spectacular action epic. A real classic with a somewhat contemporary feel, The Dirty Dozen is everything today's actioners should be. As noted by another reviewer it is very comic book-esque, a statement echoed by myself. It has fine characters, each embodied by masterful acting talent and the narrative itself comprises of several engaging scenarios which build to a huge action sequence. Granite edged Lee Marvin excels in the lead as the cynical Major Reisman. This character has more in common with the rough and ready dozen than he does with the clean cut bureaucrats who assign him to the mission. Whilst not half as critical of the military as Aldrich's previous war movie Attack!, the aforementioned plot device is cleverly exploited so as to take subtle shots at the establishment. The Dirty Dozen also contains a restrained anti-war message, which may or may not go over the head of you as the viewer. Anyway as I was saying about performances, Ernest Borgnine also acquitted himself well as General Worden, as did Robert Ryan as Colonel Breed. A group of better actors couldn't have been selected to make up the dozen. We have the brilliant John Cassavetes, the always reliable Charles Bronson and everybody's favourite Greek, Telly Savalas. Jim Brown brings his energetic skill as a professional footballer to the role of Jefferson and George Kennedy and Richard Jaeckel were equally impressive as regular soldiers. There is a fine chemistry between the characters and the script contains some great and indeed very quotable dialogue. Apart from the climax, the movie has two highlights, the inspection of Colonel Breed's troops and the dozen proving their worth by capturing Colonel Breed and his staff during a war games exercise.The explosive assault on the château is preceded by a gripping infiltration sequence which adds a tense air to the final half hour of the film. Epic in style, the climatic battle is just as taut as it is exhilarating. The entire sequence is constructed in a truly professional manor which removes the corniness present in the action scenes of so many other war movies. Aldrich gets plenty of mileage from the thunderous special effects, the château seems to be built to scale which makes for chilling realism when it is blown up. The machine guns discharge their bullets at such an extreme rate and there are some fantastic stunts too! Blazing a new trail in it's genre, The Dirty Dozen redefines the war movie whilst alluding to the angst of 60s America. It would also be responsible for the birth of an amazing slice of cinema, the combat flick. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Preposterous plot-but an incredibly entertaining movie","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Understand this in WW2 (and today) there was no shortage of elite, well-trained and disciplined commandos willing to risk life and limb to go on suicidal missions. So under no circumstance would it be necessary to send a dozen men from a military prison, who were either condemned to execution or sentenced to lengthy prison term at hard labor, on a mission to go behind enemy lines on the eve of DDay to try and kill as many officers as possible of the German high command, enjoying R&R in a French château.However, this contrived premise becomes the hook that elevates TDD above another WW2 action movie. I actually find the first 2/3 of the movie dealing with the assembly of the unit and how Lee Marvin as Maj. Reisman trains them to be a crack and cohesive combat unit more interesting than the actual mission. It's an excellent cast. Marvin was at his peak, having recently had a couple brilliant roles, 1 dramatic as an alcoholic in Ship of Fools and the other as a drunken gunfighter in the comedy, Cat Ballou. In TDD Marvin gets to do his tough guy personification again, but he shows a wonderful touch of wryly delivering comedic lines. TDD has a superb cast playing the Army brass and the prisoners. Ernest Borgnine gives a good low key performance as the general who concocted this plan, as does George Kennedy as his aide. Robert Ryan is the arrogant and pompous Col. Breed who despises Maj. Reisman. Richard Jaeckel gives another top notch performance as the MP Sgt who has to assist Reisman in keeping order, while the vastly underrated Ralph Meeker has a great bit as an Army shrink who analyzes the misfits.At the heart of this are the Dozen the convicts who will be expected to pull of this mission or die trying to even have a shot at clemency. Actually for the audience we only really get to know 6 of them. Bronson and Clint Walker were good soldiers who ended up on death row, Bronson after he fragged a cowardly officer and Walker after he lost his temper and killed a man with a punch. Football great Jim Brown made his initial movie appearance, waiting to die after killing a racist who wanted to castrate him. His adversary among the prisoners becomes Telly Savalas as Pvt. Maggot, truly a psychotic and racist killer. Donald Sutherland gives a good comedic bit as a rather dim-witted soldier, while the great John Cassavetes delivers perhaps the stand out performance of the 12 as Franco, a low level ex-Chicago mobster, sentenced to death after a penny ante holdup went astray. Franco ends up becoming sort of the ex post facto leader of the 12 as they eventually become an efficient killing machine.One of those flicks that is fun to continually watch, if nothing else for one of the truly great movie casts of all time. "},{"Title":"One of those war movies that never gets boring!","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There are very few movies that I'll watch over and over again...and, this is one of them.In many ways, this movie is much like Kelly's Heroes (another movie I can watch over and over) in how it's a war movie, but, there are many comical parts.There are a lot of great actors in the cast of this movie as well. Veteran greats such as Lee Marvin; Ernest Borgnine; and, Robert Ryan; as well as soon-to-be greats such as Charles Bronson; Donald Sutherland; and, Telly Savalas.Spoiler alert - After all of the clowning-around and funny parts in this movie; and, how many of The Dirty Dozen are thought of as 'nice guys,' and, they are - the ending may be a tad hard for many people to understand in the way that it's conceived by many as cruel. So was the incendiary bombing of Dresden; and, the bombing of London, Warsaw, Stalingrad, and, Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In war, many people die in many terrible ways, and, these guys didn't have a lot of time and had to do their job quickly and efficiently, and, then, get away.I've always loved this movie, and, I watch it whenever it's on. I just saw it again this past 2015 Memorial Day Weekend...I still love it! ) "},{"Title":"Dozens of reasons to watch this film","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Well, maybe not 'dozens,' but here's a few at least...1. It's a war movie which doesn't really contain an awful lot of 'war' stuff, meaning that fans of the genre will appreciate it as much as those who aren't into the Second World War 2. The stellar cast. Okay, so some of the twelve prisoners conscripted into Lee Marvin's secret task force aren't that memorable, but there are plenty who are... Charles Bronson and Telly Savalis to name but two. 3. Naturally, a great cast produces great performances. There's no room for a 'weakest link' here. 4. Everyone roots for the 'antihero.' And here we not only have twelve convicted felons to cheer on, but also their leader &#x96; the allegedly pure Lee Marvin &#x96; is also as prone to 'rule-breaking' as his new charges 5. Black humour. Yes, there may be a war on, but there are a handful of light-hearted moments dotted about here and there that to lighten the tone enough. 6. It's epic. The two hours it runs for don't feel like it. 7. It doesn't pull any punches. As I said... there is a war on and you may find yourself grinning one minute before being completely horrified by the level of brutality that transpired during the historical period. 8. One hell of a tense finale &#x96; when the mission comes, it's worth the wait. You'll be on the edge of your seat as you cheer all your newfound antiheros on.Basically, 'The Dirty Dozen' is a war film that's more akin to simply being put in the 'action' bracket, rather than classed as a straight 'war film.' The mission never actually happened. This film is total fiction. But there's always that feeling at the back of your mind regarding how, although it never transpired, it probably very well nearly did.You don't have to be a war film fan to enjoy this, just enjoy a mismatched bunch of rag-tag antiheros, working together (and sometimes against each other!) on a mission to kill Nazis. "},{"Title":"60s action film making in all its glory produces a timeless classic.","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Before I talk about Dirty Dozen, I'll mention that the first time I knew anything about it was when I was 14, during a conversation in the Michael Moore film Canadian Bacon where they ran through the cast Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Charles Bronson, John Cassavettes, Telly Savalas, Jim Brown and (ahem) Trini Lopez. What a blessing to live in a world where you can become aware of great movies by watching other films.Lee Marvin stars as an out of favour Major who gets given the most bat sh-t crazy assignment in the history of war films take 12 military prisoners looking at either the death penalty or an interminably long jail sentence, train them into a unit and take them on a suicide mission behind enemy lines. Before they get there though, they will need to learn obedience and discipline, navigate their way around a suspicious Colonel and compete in a war games exercise.That this plot works owes much to a great script, ably performed by a superb cast. While Bronson and Marvin are the stars on duty, special mention must be given to John Cassavettes, who is absolutely superb as the abrasive, ill-fated Franko. Of those not already mentioned at the top we also have Robert Ryan, Clint Walker, Donald Sutherland, Richard Jaeckel and Ralph Meeker along for this most fun of rides.The film tells a simple story in a straight line narrative, relying on the action and dialogue for its success. Much of the personality present in the characters come from the actors playing them, with the well paced script moving the story along too quickly for the expositional dialogue we see in many films today. This however does not cheapen either the characters or the story. The actors are too good to allow that. It has its brutal moments, but is pleasingly devoid of blood amidst the violence.There was at one stage rumours of a remake, but why bother? With action, actors and storytelling as good as this, you don't need an update for accessibility to modern audiences.I've said more than once that John Wayne films are a gift. The Dirty Dozen can sit proudly beside any of the Duke's films as one of the premier examples of cast driven action in American cinema. "},{"Title":"Great cast great chemistry","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Major Reisman (Lee Marvin) is given a suicide mission by General Worden (Ernest Borgnine) to create havoc on the eve of D-day. He is ordered to pick 12 prisoners for the mission to parachute behind enemy lines to take out high ranking generals in a rest house. The dozen includes Charles Bronson, Jim Brown, John Cassavetes, Telly Savalas, Donald Sutherland, Robert Ryan, George Kennedy among others.The action takes awhile to get started. He has to interview them and that isn't very exciting. The training and the bonding is enjoyable. The guys are some of the best actors around and they project some fun for their roles. But the incentives aren't right. Without a full pardon, the men are most likely to run away. They have a better chance even as POWs. It's also very unlikely to have non-Germans go behind the lines if they mean to infiltrate. Nevertheless, the great cast makes this a manly fun time. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty DozenThe hardest part about a suicide mission is getting depressed enough about your life to go on it. Unfortunately, for the condemned men in this war movie, they don't have a choice.Recruited by Major Reisman (Lee Marvin) for a mission to France to infiltrate a château hosting high-ranking German officers, the death-row inmates (Charles Bronson, Donald Sutherland, John Cassavetes, Jim Brown, Telly Savalas, Trini Lopez) must first be trained before heading behind enemy lines. If they make it back from France, their death sentences will be lifted.But can this rag-tag team pull-off a close quarter confrontation with heavily armed Nazis?The quintessential men-on-a-mission war movie, this caper comprises the grittiest actors of any era, and lets them run wild over histories vilest villains.With oddly lovable characters and epic shoot-outs, The Dirty Dozen is mandatory. In fact, they should use felons for other dangerous jobs, like coal mining. Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Brilliant American War Movie","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was made twenty years before I was born an even though I had heard of this title I never saw the film, not even in passing. I thought I must have seen it on TV sometime but no I was wrong. Having just seen it recently I can honestly say it is brilliant. Turning a group of convicts into a trained militia, sending them off to do battle with the Nazis in advance of the D-Day landings depicts the cruelty of war & the chance to start a new life post war. It is fascinating to see Americans in this period. Not knowing much about American colloquialism this gives a new more down to earth feel of what it was like back then. Gone are the days of the Cowboys and now even the criminals are being called up for duty. The interactions between Major Reisman the protagonist who is ordered to train this rabble are very amusing. One example of this which sums up the situation the convicts find themselves is this dialogueWladislaw (Reading the paper) He was going over the hill. My outfit was pinned down by the worst crossfire you ever saw. Half of them bleeding to death. And this lover took off like a rabbit. . .. . .with the medical supplies on his back. The only way to stop him was to shoot him. Anyhow, he had it coming.Major Reisman Yeah. But you only made one mistake,Wladislaw huh?Major Reisman (Leaving the room) Guard.Major Reisman You let somebody see you do it. Just like Wladislaw the Polish American officer the other criminals are also bitter against the military authority. Victor Franco the Chicago petty mobster, Posey the Apache, Jimenez the Mexican, Robert Jefferson an African American who believes the white court deliberating convicted him. Not forgetting the actual mad man Maggot. The other cast of lesser criminals that form this motley crew must work and fight as a team. Major Resiman is accompanied by Sgt Bowren in this task The most likable character is Vernon Pickely a weak minded crowd pleaser with his service being required to impersonate a general on the orders of Major Reisman which is a court martial offense of itself. The one sleazy moment in the film is when the men must meet the women. This film shows how the criminals have the determination to win by breaking the rules while the Colonels and Captains are restricted by arrogance. "},{"Title":"They might be Dirty but they mean well.","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is an EPIC War film, one of the top 10 about WWII. The story is incredible, as was the cast. Sure war is hell and those who wrote critical reviews of The Dirty Dozen have NO business watching it in the first place. The amount of bad reviews really surprised me and can only have come from people that have no sense of the history of how WWII started. Yes it was a tragic time in the world. Yes there was carnage, death, all the NASTY things that come from war. But hey the Allies won and if you don't like that aspect, then don't watch. It is said to the victors belong the spoils. America didn't want ANY part of that war, didn't start it, but had a huge part in it. Winning WWII gives America Filmmakers in Hollywood the right, Hell the DUTY to make these kind of pictures. While I am NOT in any way a war monger, actually detesting war. I look at WWII films as embellishing the times, celebrating the victory, honoring the men and women who paid the highest sacrifice to bring peace to the world again. Its just history people and The Dirty Dozen is a Great story about what could have happened in war. I have seen many movies about WWII and this one is a Classic! "},{"Title":"How can one movie contain so much awesomeness?","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie is basically a who's who of bad a$$es. You've got Lee Marvin as the leader of the team then Charles Bronson, Jim Brown, Donald Sutherland, John Cassavetes, Ernest Borgnine and so on down the line. Basically the only thing the movie is missing is Chuck Norris and he didn't really even start doing movies regularly till the mid '70's so that's understandable.The movie is the ultimate men on a mission movie which is one of the movies that inspired Quentin Tarantino to make Inglourious Basterds. Marvin's Major Reisman assembles a team for what is essentially a suicide mission. The team is created from military prisoners who if they survive the mission will be granted a pardon.This is basically a real guys movie, if you don't like this movie they take away your man card. "},{"Title":"It's judgement day, sinners!","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Robert Aldrich directs The Dirty Dozen, an intentionally morbid and sadistic war film which attempts to run WW2 era combat iconography through a certain Vietnam Era prism.And so in Aldrich's hands, Allied soldiers become a band of murderers, rapists, racists, criminals and thugs, who outsmart their foes with underhanded methods and embark on a mission to ruthlessly slaughter both unarmed Nazis and German civilians, all of whom are caged within a European château. At its best, the film forces you to reassess typical WW2 boys adventures (The Great Escape, Where Eagles Dare, The Guns of Navarone etc), with several uncomfortable passages involving a near-demonic Telly Savales and the cold slaughter of German officials. But despite its typical early 60's anti establishment, anti military, anti government, anti religion, pseudo nihilistic, anti everything stance, and its vein of anarchic, oddball humour, The Dirty Dozen ultimately functions along the same lines as more conservative WW2 adventures. Our criminal heroes are too handsome, too endearing, we too heavily identify with them, and their last act slaughter becomes a moment of redemption rather than condemnation. In short, like his later war film, Too Late The Hero, the mythology Aldrich hopes to desanctify here remains sanctified.The Dirty Dozen's held up better than most of its big budget men on a mission siblings. Actors Lee Marvin, Charles Bronson, Ernest Borgine and John Cassavetes in particular do nothing but dispense memorable moments. Still, the film's ultimate worth boils down to how much irony you attribute to Aldrich's macho bloodiness and glorification of war crimes. 8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. For similar fare, see the counterculture war-comedy, Kelly's Heroes. See too Cox's Walker and Pontecorvo's Burn!. "}{"Title":"Dirty but Average","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A pretty good action film, it has Marvin leading a group of convicts on a mission to destroy a Nazi headquarter. The characters are clichés and some of the all-star cast hams it up but there are good performances from Marvin, Cassavetes, and Jaeckel. The early parts of the movie leading up to the mission are a little too drawn out, but the action picks up when the dozen reaches its target. Nobody in the group is likable to begin with and they become less endearing after their reprehensible actions against the Germans, which involves killing innocent women. The side plot involving the games between Marvin and Ryan is silly and receives too much focus. "},{"Title":"Deleted Goof","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, The Dirty Dozen,in Spain in 1967, there was a 1955 or 1956 Chevy station wagon parked in front of the airfield headquarters building. It was painted olive drab and may have had U.S.Army painted on the door. Anyway, it has been about 40 years since I saw it. And it has not been in any of the later copies. Did anyone else catch that? Also, didn't Telly Savales come back in a later movie in Major Reisner's role with a new dirty dozen to basically do the dame thing all over again? Was he jealous of Lee Marvin having the lead role? All remakes of this original film have been less than as entertaining as the original. Like the Magnificent Seven most of the actors are no longer with us. "},{"Title":"An all time classic","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As it says above, an all time classic.If you haven't seen this film, where have you been?To be honest, I don't know where to start with this one, great novel, great screenplay, great actors, great performances, and well put together by the techie staff.That says it all, a great film, from a great premise.The only sad note is that a few of the participants are no longer with us, although others still are, and are still making films.This is in my all time top twenty, maybe even my top ten.A very strong 9/10     "},{"Title":"Killin' generals could get to be a habit with me.","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Another great film from 1967 that stands the test of time. No one would ever believe in a story about a bunch of losers going into some German High Command and killing off Generals in exchange for their freedom. Pure fantasy! Yet, this is one of the greatest and most successful war movies ever made. Robert Aldrich (What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?) directed a masterpiece written by Nunnally Johnson (The Grapes of Wrath). The cast was outstanding with Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Robert Ryan, Charles Bronson, Jim Brown, George Kennedy, John Cassavetes, Clint Walker, Donald Sutherland, Telly Savalas, Ralph Meeker, Richard Jaeckel, Trini Lopez, and Robert Webber. That's more testosterone than you find on a Super Bowl Team! Sensational. "},{"Title":"The best World War II film ever made!","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Generally, for most people, the best World War II film ever made is a film like Saving Private Ryan, Schindler's List, or something like that. But for me, at the end of the day, The Dirty Dozen tops it all. I love ensemble casts. The Dirty Dozen has an ensemble cast. I love traditional marching band drum music for the background of war films. The Dirty Dozen has traditional marching band drum music music. I love no-bullshit-approaches to presenting violence in war films. The Dirty Dozen has no bullshit. I also love it when a highly controversial subject (like World War II) is chosen for a film and turned into high-class entertaining art. The Dirty Dozen is high-class entertaining art... Oh, and I also love Lee Marvin and Charles Bronson. The Dirty Dozen definitely has those two guys. "},{"Title":"not that great","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what they were going for this this one.  The first half of the movie was engaging in terms of the plot, but the parts that were supposed to be funny were just not funny.  The band playing at the base?  Charming.  And the music during these scenes was basically lifted out of children's cartoons, making them seem even stupider.  The second half of the movie too sharply contrasted the first half.  I don't have a problem with seeing the heartless side of war in film, but going from idiocy to brutality in the same movie left me with a very uneasy feeling.  The cast was good, at least - particularly Cassavetes.The person who claimed that this was The Greatest War Adventure of all time and that every home should have a copy on DVD has obviously never seen The Great Escape, which is truly flawless. "},{"Title":"The manliest man's movie EVER!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has guts. If ever there were one movie made by men for men, this is it. I saw this first when I was five. I watched it with my dad, and since then have not yet found a man who can say anything bad about this. The cast reads like a list of movie tough guys from the late 60's and early 70's. Borgnine, Bronson, Brown, Cassavettes, Savalas, Ryan, Jaecjel, Sutherland, Kennedy, and the toughest of the toughs Lee Marvin. Lee Marvin is so tough he'd smack around Superman just for wearing tights. Even in Delta Force when he was really old Lee Marvin was still the toughest guy on the screen. This movie fits the standard Men On A Mission plot. Simple but effective. They must kill lots of Nazi's. Where are movies like this today?  "},{"Title":"Great World War II flick about a group of outcasts","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1967, The Dirty Dozen stars Lee Marvin as a tough Major who enlists and trains a group of criminal soldiers for a risky mission behind enemy lines on the eve of D-Day. If they survive they might be pardoned. The all-star cast is a highlight and includes Charles Bronson, Ernest Borgnine, Jim Brown, John Cassavetes, Robert Ryan, George Kennedy, Donald Sutherland, Clint Walker and Richard Jaeckel.The long first act involves the training of the undisciplined soldiers, the shorter second act their first test in war games with another platoon, and the last act their dangerous mission in Brittany, France, which involves an assault on a lavish château that's hosting a meeting of high-ranking German soldiers. Killing as many as possible should hamper the German response to D-Day.The film's long at two and a half hours, but it masterfully sustains your interest because it focuses on the characters. When the raid on the château finally comes you KNOW these characters and are rooting for them. Unfortunately, most of 'em don't make it.The château assault presents a controversy Was it right for them to throw grenades and gasoline down air vents to blow-up German officers AND their women in the bunker underneath the château? A couple of the members of the dozen ask the Major if he was sure he wanted them to do it and he told them to do it. So the soldiers were just following orders, which doesn't make it right. Keep in mind that their original mission was to kill as many high-ranking officers at the château as possible to pave the way for a successful D-Day operation, so that's precisely what they did. The women could be considered collateral damage. I'm not saying this justifies their actions, but we were in a state of war and victory was necessary for the war to end and restore peace. The film was shot entirely in England.GRADE A "},{"Title":"On the killing of non-combatant civilians","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Regarding the question of the killing of non-combatants civilansSoldiers are indeed required to avoid civilian casualties whenever possible, but they are also required to not put civilians into harm's way.  Also, the use of civilians as shields is forbidden.  Since the German facility is clearly a legitimate military target, and since the Germans brought the civilians there, the fault here is not primarily with the Dirty Dozen, it's with the Germans, who put those civilians in danger.  "},{"Title":"the evil dozen","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this movie several times. It really is a man-movie, tough and all. However its attitude is very disturbing. The allied soldiers are a bunch of crooks (were they??) who are sent to Europe to kill german officers and their wifes (!) at a recreation center. Well, someone who calls himself a soldier fights on the battlefield for one thing. I'm not saying the allies were not crooks, but the glorification of that is very perverse. After having read the book of german officer Otto Skorzeny (he freed Mussolini from a mountain retreat in an operation that would make Lee Marvin look like a first grader) My command operations I threw the dirty-dozen-tape into the garbage can. NOT because we are the bad-guys in this movie, but because the attitude of the movie is so very wrong. Real life Skorzeny gave out the order to his crew no shot is fired unless you hear ME shoot and he did not use his gun during, e.g., the entire daredevil Mussolini-operation. That was how the real-life-good-guys handled these things. So maybe you can understand that the dirty-dozen-massacre-movie is in a way both very pathetic and evil.  "}{"Title":"Big Disappointment","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Why this film is called a classic, I'll never know. I've seen bits and pieces of it over the years and made an attempt to watch most of it last night. All-star cast but terrible editing and sound. Can't really describe it but it was almost like the movie was dubbed in parts, especially those parts where the dozen were razing someone.Also, America's heavy involvement in the European theater lasted less than an year(June'44 - May '45). I find it odd that we would have troops conducting maneuvers during that time.Too many other great war movies to watch. Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Dumb movie that is an insult to the memory of all of our heroic soldiers.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Whwn I first saw this movie many years ago, I thought this movie was great. A bunch of misfit soldier, all with major personality disorders which render them incapable of obeying orders, are magically transformed into an elite unit of fighters who perform acts of heroism that border on the miraculous. But, alas, things change and with it my opinion about this movie. IS THIS MOVIE FOR REAL? Are we supposed to believe that our military heroes are little more than psychopaths? Are our Medal of Honor winners anything like the perverts portrayed in this movie? Are we supposed to believe that such characters were even allowed to stay in the army? Are we supposed to be believe that such characters were entrusted with defense of the United States? Are we supposed to believe that such characters could last even one minute on the same battlefield with the Germans? No way! Our heroes were men of honor, men who put duty before everything else, men who were brave and who were good, men who were nothing like the misanthropes portrayed in this movie. This movie is just another example of Hollywood using an historical incident, such as in this case World War Two, to make a movie that shows scene after scene of gratuitous violence, this time involving mentally ill soldiers. Compare this movie with All Quiet on the Western Front or Paths of Glory, and then you may understand what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Another silly war fantasy from the 60's","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the many WWII fantasy movies to come out of the 60's where a small group of American soldiers massacres Nazi's by the millions to win some mission or the other. Others include Where Eagles Dare, and Kelley's Heroes. The actors are quite good, and the premise is interesting, but the way its carried out and scripted is completely unrealistic, silly and downright cheesy. That's why they're fantasy movies, as there's no connection to reality in any movies in this genre.This is really on par with Lord of the Rings, except instead of slaughtering Orcs by the millions, they're slaughtering Nazi's. Some prefer Elves and swords, others prefer GI's and machine guns, but its all the same. So, if you like to see wacky American misfits killing Nazi's like its no tomorrow while delivering one snappy liners, then this is the flick for you. Otherwise, I would skip it and watch Three Kings or Black Hawk Down which are far superior war movies. "},{"Title":"Bias With One Of The 'Dozen' Ruins Film","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Most members of this cast are intense, interesting guys....but one character here really ruined this war film and really shows you Hollywood's brutal bias against religion. One of the Dirty Dozen is portrayed as a religious fanatic, to use the popular secular term. Here, the religious guy is portrayed as the ONLY bad egg of the group and just about blows the whole mission. In fact, to save the mission, our Christian soldier, pictured as a wacko, of course, has to be shot to by one of his own men!To make matters even more ludicrous, the actor playing the Southern Baptist- type is none other than Telly Salavas, a Greek from New York City - yes, Kojak himself. Kojak with a horribly-done fake Southern accent now that's realistic type casting, eh?Picture Hollywood doing the same bias number against any other group or race. It wouldn't happen....and shouldn't happen.....but, a Christian? That's obviously acceptable in the world of film and certainly was demonstrated here. Inexcusable. "},{"Title":"ccthemovieman-1 talks crap!","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ccthemovieman-1 Is talking crap! Anyone who hasn't seen the movie, might be forgiven for thinking the Maggot character, (Telly Savalas), ruins the film, (after reading ccthemovieman-1's comments). He's obviously one of those crazy right-wing fundamentalist Christians with a penchant for dissembling! He'd be far happier watching the 'The Passion' instead.The film is a hoot from start to finish. And Maggot is absolutely crucial to the anti-climax.Boy's Own stuff for sure, (convicts never make the best soldiers, no personal discipline). But in this movie full reign is given to the fantasy What if a bunch of murderous, psychopathic hardened criminals with no hope for clemency were let loose on the Nazis? Telly Savalas is magnificent as the misogynist Maggot.If you've managed to survive thus far without seeing the Dirty Dozen, your education is incomplete. So buy it, rent it, but go see it! Great fun! "},{"Title":"The bad ending?","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you complain about the so-called vicious ending of this movie, do you also abhor all slasher movies and other mindless displays of gore and sex? Civilians die in war. It is not glamorous nor is it pretty but it is a fact. I don't think The Dirty Dozen glamorizes one bit of civilian death.Would you suggest that if we know the exact location of Osama Bin Laden but there are women and children with him, it shouldn't be bombed?? Please.Yeah, maybe the movie makers could have refrained from showing the screaming women being doused with gasoline. Whatever.Had the mission been to just bomb the château, many more civilians would certainly have died. What's the difference? All in all, this is an OK film with some interesting characters and situations. "},{"Title":"Stupid movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie stupid.  For one thing they has a black man disguised as a Nazi;  I do not think this accurate.  The plan of using death row inmates to do a deadly mission is too unreliable.  The few that managed to escape is unbelievable; Rambo is more believable that this.  The only good thing in this film was Lee Marvin. Not worth watching. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Bad Movie, Terrible Story","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A highly unrealistic story of a group of men sent to mass murder a group of unarmed German officers and their wives by locking them in a bunker, pouring gasoline on them, and setting fire to them. The creators of this story seem to have tried to make up for the bad acting and lack of reality by lots of explosions, acrobatic dying, and machismo. I find it interesting that the filmmakers did not realize that if this story had taken place in real-life, the American soldiers and their superiors would have been guilty of committing a war crime. Another person indicated that the women were prostitutes, which would add crimes against humanity to the charge. This was not a battle against armed combatants, it was an Auschwitz-style execution. I have nothing good to say about the German army of WWII, but in democratic countries, people are entitled to a trial before being executed. There is no indication that any of the German officers that were burned alive were Nazis, and I didn't see any SS uniforms. If they were SS from the Death's Head Brigade, then burning them alive would be justice (after a trial), but this film didn't make that distinction. "},{"Title":"Dreck! And an over rated movie.","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie starts with Marvins poor acting skill that riddle this thing and present more of an football couch. Eh, Ernests only makes this movie seem more like a game. But on top of all that they try to make Marvin immortal here. As the movie progresses it picks up charm. Almost made me get in to it. The cast of guys were great together if this was a comedy. So is it? No! But like I said it has its charismatic parts, but not enough. Then was doomed from the last hour. Oh, man it is. Cheesy!!! CORNY!!! FAKE! When they do get to they're mission you easily see who will be killed next. You see the Germans looking at them with a gun, or throw a sniper scope. What you thought would happen would, and before anyone died there were was two things. They made a college effort(Like a sports movie) and fell with out any blood or a realistic movement. A unclear shot that couldn't of hit kills a character after a corny line like we did it. Not that you could see where it hit anyway. One work LAME! Oh, there was one person shot in the head. Even though that didn't seem to add up. This was directed by a child's mind. Like kids playing army man. I shot. Oh I will fall down. They smile even though they are slaughtering women, and we are to pity them getting shot? Or believe it as they chant like it was a game? Yeah I know they were mostly murderers, but still the ones that were sane smiled killing people like this. And why would any of these idiots get on a little boat to do nothing? This movie SUCKED BIG TIME> A movie for the lesser mind. I watch a lot of movies from every era. This has to be the most over rated movie I have seen yet. I like the Wild Bunch and love WW2 movies. You would think this would kind of a combo here. But this... This is one of the worst movies I have seen in a long time. To the resent generation steer clear. This is stale, and if your going to tell me it was a big start to the action movie scene. Well thanks for all those classics from Segal, Norris, and Van Damn we could of done without. Don't for get to not watch the even worse TV sequel from 85. They mysteriously age 20yrs!!! There are so much better choices out there. Check out the Once Apon a Time in the West, Wild Bunch, the Good the Bad and the Ugly. "},{"Title":"Typically American","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The special operations by convicts are described in the books in the series 0011 by the Germans on the East-front.  There were never American convicts doing an action in war.  The attack by the SS-parachutists and convicts on the headquarters of Tito were well conducted and at the last moment Tito could escape but there were heavy losses specially on the side of the partisans.  Oberstürmbannführer (he never became general but he laughed at the action by the parachutists on the raid on Tito) Otto Skorzeny did a lot of operations in the uniform of the enemy and he even got into the headquarters of the Hungarian army. In the battle of the Bulge he just had not enough American material (jeeps, weapons etc...) to conduct a similar operation.   I think Robert Aldrich made the movie at a moment Americans needed support for their war against Vietnam. However, in reality German sharpshooters shot and did not miss their target, something the Americans seem to have forgotten since then. I found this movie a pleasure to watch at but at the same moment I had to imagine that it was only cinema and had nothing to do with reality.  So I imagined that the killed human beings in the movie were only puppets and that it was only a game.  The actors are good and the action is good.  Telly Salavas, Don Suterhland, Bronson, Lee Marvin they are OK. Just one question in our time of computer-games, did this movie get old? "}{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie not only has a great cast (resulting in great acting)but a plausible plot. It was unique how they mixed the humor in with the story. This is by far my #1 movie of all time. If you can see this movie, see it! You might not like it at first, but I guarantee that you'll love it after a while. The only con is that it's 2 1/2 hours long, but you'll be enjoying the movie, so you won't notice. "},{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For a World War II film, this is much more unconventional than most, because this is one of the only ones with rebelling soldiers in an army. Basically, Major Reisman (Paint Your Wagon's Lee Marvin) has a bad attitude problem is assigned to a military base holding 12 prisoners, all facing death or long terms. His job is to train them to obey him and fight for a dangerous and suicidal mission into German territory. It takes them a while to cooperate and behave, but after some mucking around and some strict consequences explained, Reisman convinces them to help him. The first check up Reisman took their side and held the Colonel and other officers up, and then a test operation sees the boys steal a military hospital jeep, but the next one is for real. Learning a rhyme about how to invade the German mansion, they prepare for the real mission to kill all German soldiers. In the end, only one of the Dirty Dozen survives, but they will all be remembered for losing their lives fighting for their country, and the survivors probably got credit too. Also starring The Flight of the Phoenix's Ernest Borgnine as General Worden, The Great Escape's Charles Bronson as Joseph Wladislaw, Mars Attacks!'s Jim Brown as Robert Jefferson, Oscar and Golden Globe nominated John Cassavetes as Victor Franko, Richard Jaeckel as Sergeant Bowren, Cool Hand Luke's George Kennedy as Major Max Armbruster, Trini López as Pedro Jiminez, Ralph Meeker as Captain Stuart Kinder, Robert Ryan as Col. Everett Dasher Breed, Telly Savalas as Archer Maggott, Donald Sutherland as Vernon Pinkley, Clint Walker as Samson Posey, Robert Webber as General Denton, Tom Busby as Milo Vladek, Ben Carruthers as Glenn Gilpin, Stuart Cooper as Roscoe Lever, Robert Phillips as Corporal Morgan, Colin Maitland as Seth Sawyer and Al Mancini as Tassos Bravos. Another good example of a boys own adventure film, with some great stars, some memorable moments of rebellion, quite a lot of fun. It won the Oscar Best Sound Effects, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Sound. It was number 27 on The 100 Greatest War Films, and it was number 65 on The 100 Greatest Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Dirty Totally Stuipid","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I need not waste words or time on this film.  I was totally repulsed by it.To put it in simple terms...   a totaly unrealistic, American glorification of world war II.  Also very hurtful to those people in the second world war.  War should never be taken as 'fun' or an 'adventure'  pathetic. "},{"Title":"Location of airbase...disturbing ending.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the scene where Lee Marvin makes Donald Sutherland pretend to be a General and inspect the troops, the location used was the main gate of what was then RAF Hendon in North London. The guardhouse from which Robert Ryan comes out and orders the band to eventually play was only demolished in 1992, but the main gate and base were demolished quite soon after RAF Hendon closed down in 1969. The spot where Lee Marvin and Donald Sutherland stood is more or less where the present day traffic roundabout is. When Lee Marvin is in the jeep being driven to the base, they are driving down Aerodrome Road (still there, and originally built by German POWs during the First World War). If you look carefully at that scene, you can see a building at the right-hand side which is part of the Metropolitan Police training camp. Incidentally, the Douglas C-47s in the background were just wooden mock ups. Where they stood is now a road leading to a large housing estate. Like some of the reviewers on IMDb, I also have serious reservations about the ending. It is extremely disturbing when you realise that the women are having petrol poured down on them. Admittedly, they are with Nazi officers, and a similar fate would have befallen them if the building had, for example, been bombed by an RAF Mosquito squadron (which was far more likely), but even so it the idea still seems nasty and, in the circumstances, rather unnecessary. For that reason I only give the movie two stars. "}]