[{"Title":"Great exercise in surrealism","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"115 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle de Jour is generally considered to be director Luis Bunuel's masterpiece; a surprisingly revealing and seemingly personal venture into the world of eroticism and its deviances. It's a truly surrealistic exercise in ambiguity, fantasy, and reality. The line that separates them is blurred so much that the famously mysterious ending has had critics arguing for decades over its meaning.The fantasy sequences are usually signalled by the sound of carriage bells, but by the end of the film the viewer is no longer able to differentiate between what is another one of Severine's fantasies and what is reality. Even Bunuel admitted to not knowing himself. He said that by the end, the real and imaginary fuse; for me they form the same thing. The gorgeous Catherine Deneuve, resplendent in her icy prime, portrays Severine Sevigny, the middle-class wife of Pierre, a doctor. She is frigid, virginal, yet seemingly happy enough in her bourgeoisie life and its trappings. However, upon hearing about a local clandestine brothel from a friend, she pays a visit to the madame, and becomes a prostitute, going by the name of Belle de Jour, as she can only work in the afternoons. She apparently fully realizes and enjoys her sexuality, despite her guilty conscience, exclaiming that she can't help it. She certainly doesn't need the money. She's bored with her life and her marriage, needing a firm hand to lead her; a need which the madame, Anais, who is obviously attracted to her, almost immediately recognizes. Her sweet and conventional husband is unaware, treating her much like a child, and the audience cannot help but believe that even if he knew of her true nature, he would not understand or empathize. She keeps her two worlds neatly separate until a patron of hers (whom she herself enjoys) becomes obsessed with her, and all is threatened.That Alfred Hithcock in particular admired this film comes as no surprise to me; Deneuve would have been the perfect Hitchcock heroine an icy blonde who becomes a whore in the bedroom, as Hitchock was fond of saying he preferred in his leading ladies. But this remark is not meant to simplify the story, its telling, or Deneuve's remarkable performance, which is what truly draws the viewer into the film.Belle de Jour was Bunuel's first foray into the use of color, and he employed it to great effect. From the fall colors displayed in the landscape scenes, to the subtle shades in Deneuve's clothing, the contrasts are set. While the world around her explodes in glorious hues, Deneuve's character is defined by her couture, if staid, wardrobe of tan, black, and white.Belle de Jour was unreleased for many years due to copyright problems, but finally re-released in 1995 through the efforts of director Martin Scorcese, and released on DVD in 2003. I've watched it twice in the past week and am still at a loss to describe it very well; suffice to say that I am in awe. It's an amazingly erotic film without any explicitness, and one that I expect hasn't lost any of its effect over the years. As the subject matter is handled very tactfully and without any actual sex scenes; a great deal is left to the viewer's imagination - which only serves the heighten the mysteries inherent at every turn in the film. The viewer is however drawn into the sense of feeling to be a voyeur into Severine's secret life; the careful choreography of scenes and camera angles contribute to the uncomfortable sense of intrusion by us, the viewers.There are many sub-stories and small mysteries in the film; for instance one of the most widely debated upon by critics is the mystery of what is in the Asian client's little box? that he presents first to one prostitute, who quickly refuses, then to Severine, who tentatively agrees. All the audience know is that it's something with a insect-like noise, and when the client leaves, Severine is sprawled face-down upon the bed, the sheets thrown about, and obviously pleased with whatever took place in the interim.Belle de Jour was awarded the Golden Lion at the 1967 Venice Film Festival, as well as the award for Best Foreign Film in 1968 from the New York Film Critics Circle.Interesting side notes Bunuel himself had a shoe fetish, which helps explain the numerous shots of Deneuve's beautifully clad feet throughout the film, and the fact that every time she goes shopping, she buys shoes. He also appears in the film in a cameo as a cafe patron, and in another scene his hands are shown loading a gun. "},{"Title":"Towards a better understanding of Belle de jour...","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"72 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Severine is a beautiful young lady belonging to the bourgeoisie society, married to a doctor, Pierre. Though she loves her husband, something stops her from going to bed with him. She is apparently troubled, and has erotic fantasies, with her husband always playing the bad guy - tormenting her. The director is very cunning in sprinkling some scenes from Severine's childhood which actually give a lot of clue regarding her troubled life. One such scene depicts her being abused by an elderly man (probably her father). This in my opinion is very revealing and makes our understanding of Severine's other actions/imaginations even better. She always considered herself impure, and was ashamed of letting her husband know that. This can be seen in one such sprinkler scenes where the girl Severine refuses to accept the holy offerings from the Father in the Church. And this scene is very aptly placed while Severine is found going up the stairs of the brothel to take up the job as a prostitute.Having been abused by an elderly man in her childhood, Severine, justifiably doesn't enjoy an young man's company in the bed (her husband). And she has erotic fantasies about going to bed with elderly clients at the brothel....again taking a job at the brothel is a fantasy and NOT real. This is very evident from the very funny, illogical incidents that take place in the brothel.Into her fantasies walks a young man and she had to please him on the bed at the brothel. While she lay on the bed, the young man notices a mark on her and queries her about it. When Severine says its just a birth mark (remember...this is analogous to the impurity she is carrying with her from her childhood), the young man initially rejects her (she thinks her husband would similarly reject her for her impurity) but finally gives in and enjoys her. Only then she realises that, the young man also bears a scar on his back, which he says is from a knife stab. She realises, everyone has a scar to be reconciled with in life. This gives her a great sense of relief and her attitude towards her husband slowly changes. In her fantasies, however, Severine sees a conflict between the young client and her husband, and that the young man kills her husband in a fit of rage, only to be killed in turn by the policeman. She ends the life of the young client in her fantasies. She confides in a family friend (who is actually shown as one more client at the brothel) and she is relieved that the husband knows the truth. This leads to a better understanding of her husband and a new relationship blossoms. Now, the husband, whom Severine thought was nothing but a crippled man, blind, and unyielding,she realises that she had in fact only imagined all that and puts an end to her fantasies, symbolised by the empty coach driven in the last scene. "},{"Title":"Unique, Strange, and Memorable","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"47 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The premise of BELLE DU JOUR is well known. A young, beautiful, and slightly frigid doctor's wife (Catherine Deneuve) secretly harbors fantasies of being dominated, humiliated, and abused by her husband (Jean Sorel.) When these fantasies can no longer be denied, she becomes a prostitute under the sponsorship of a possibly lesbian madam (Geneviève Page), working during the afternoons while her husband is at his own work. Her sexuality is awakened by the sometimes brutish clients, who soon discover that she likes it rough, and she is ultimately caught up a relationship with a truly dangerous client (Pierre Clémenti) whose possessiveness threatens to destroy both her and her husband.Throughout the film Deneuve slips in and out of memory and fantasy, sometimes recalling herself as a possibly molested child, sometimes imagining herself as the victim in a series of sexual assault fantasies. Director Bunuel, whose masterpiece this is, so blurs the line between memory, reality, and fantasy that by the film's conclusion one cannot be sure if some, most, or everything about the film has been Deneuve's fantasy.Although it includes a number of impressive performances (particularly by Geneviève Page, her girls, and their clients), BELLE is essentially Deneuve's film from start to finish, and she gives an astonishing performance that cannot be easily described. Like the film itself, it is a balancing act between fantasy and a plausible reality that may actually be nothing of the kind. Bunuel presents both her and the film as a whole in an almost clinical manner, and is less interested in gaining our sympathy for the character than in presenting her as an object for intellectual observation.Ultimately, BELLE DU JOUR seems to be about a lot of things, some of them obvious and some of them extremely subtle. And yet, given the way in which it undercuts its realities by blurring them with fantasy, it is also entirely possible that the film is not actually about anything except itself. Individuals who insist on clear-cut meanings and neatly wrapped conclusions will probably loathe it--but those prepared to accept the film on its own terms will find it a fascinating experience. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"To Author SanTropez_Couch who did not understand Luis Buñuel's Belle De Jour","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"66 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To Author SanTropez_Couch who did not understand Luis Buñuel's Belle De JourI have just read your review on Belle De Jour. I do not wish to bash it, I just want you to become aware of a few things since you obviously share an enthusiasm in film. Hopefully you will be able to understand Luis Buñuel a little better. First of all you wrote It's not a masterwork, but this film is a masterwork. Why else would Martin Scorsese present it? You talked about being puzzled by the films weaving in and out of dream sequences, and that perhaps David Lynch would be able to do a more masterful job. You have to understand that Buñuel does this intentionally. He is a man who tries not to have a lot of logic in the story line of his movies. (Check out Phantom of Liberty) However there is a lot of symbolism that you missed in the film. It takes reading and maturity to find out what Buñuel is all about. The film is unclear weather the ending is a reality or fantasy. Even Buñuel himself said he did not know. If you wanted to make this film make sense it would kill what is great about it. Most people do not understand Buñuel that will and criticize him for doing something spectacular outside of the logical Hollywood system which people are use to. You also wrote The film isn't very engaging visually. I have to disagree again. Look at the way Buñuel shots only Catherine Deneueve's feet in one of the earlier scenes before she enters the brothel. This is genius. Without showing concern on her face or through dialogue for that matter, he shows us what she is feeling through the actions of her walking. He does this again later in the film. Also you have to look Catherine Deneueve's apartment in this film, a very bourgeoisie like style which Buñuel likes to criticize. You can see how empty Catherine Deneueve's marriage to Marcel is. You really need to read up on Buñuel before you can criticize him like this. I'm not meaning to be rude either. I had no idea what was going on when I first watched this film. You should watch his first film ever made Un chien andalou. He made the movie have no logical sense at all. Cheers, "},{"Title":"Different every time","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"66 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My other favorite Bunuel films, _The Exterminating Angel_ and _The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie_, are in some ways social satires surrealistically told. _Belle de Jour_, however, is much more of a purely surreal work, which is appropriate since it is about two of the most surreal of subjects power, and sex. Don't watch it expecting psychedelic camera tricks and Freudian dream sequences - Bunuel is much too controlled for trickery, and much too tricky to allow you to calmly map out what is real and what is not. And don't expect to know exactly what has happened at the end or even to remember the film clearly later. Each time I see it again I discovered that that the film has somehow reassembled itself in my memory, so each viewing is fresh and surprising. Even if you don't give a tinker's melted watch about surrealism, and don't care to puzzle out reality from fantasy, there's still much to like here frequent droll humor, a little bit of titillation, and a good performance from an incredibly beautiful young Catherine Deneuve. Watch it with someone you love. "},{"Title":"Wishing, Wanting And Longing","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"50 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sèverine is perfect, she's Catherine Deneuve. She consciously inhabits her subconscious and the comings and goings are tinted with pristine, erotic decadence. Her perfection includes outrage without rage, panic without fear. Having or not having is the question she never asks. Her husband Pierre, the exquisite Jean Sorel, is like one of her garments. There, stunning, understated, reliable, existing without existing. Marcel, in the other hand, the riveting Pierre Clementi, seems determined to provoke. Provoke what? Where is that need creeping from? I love to meander through Belle de Jour allowing Luis Bunuel to have his fun. He deserves it. His puzzle is just that, a puzzle and his genius, challenge us to find the non existent pieces. The pieces are ours coming from our own wishes, wantings and longings. "},{"Title":"Buñuel Never Disappoints","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"47 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Belle de Jour' is Buñuel at his weirdest the Spanish master builds this movie on the relationship between the fantasy of conscious and unconscious dreams and reality. The dreamer is the beautiful Séverine (the magnificent Catherine Deneuve) a petite bourgeois woman trapped in a dull marriage which leads her to strive for something else, first in fantasy, and then in outright real life. Séverine's dreams are vividly sexual the opening scene marks the tone of the movie and the character as she dreams with being raped, spanked and humiliated while her angered husband watches. Throughout the rest of the movie, Séverine will be trying to make these fantasies come true in a brothel she starts working at&#133; or is she? This is what's fun in Buñuel's movie it's impossible to tell fiction from fact.Séverine is the heart and soul of 'Belle de Jour' her journey through her own sexuality is riveting; she starts with as a repressed woman who's having marital problems, probably due to sex. As a way to get out of her dull life she starts working at a brothel during daytime, hence her nickname 'beautiful by day.' Some of the episodes at the brothel are funny her first attempt at playing a dominatrix is an embarrassing experience for the poor Séverine who's not accustomed to the relationship between dominator/dominated; her experience with a creepy Asian client is highly enigmatic, mainly because of the famous and mysterious box the client brings&#133; whatever it is, it seems to bring Séverine a lot of pleasure. Her she participates in a role-playing situation with a rich enigmatic man who asks her to perform a dead woman in a bizarre ritual/funeral scene&#133; the level of insinuations this scene creates in one's mind is outstanding! Meanwhile, amidst all the pleasure, Séverine is haunted with a sense of guilt and shame as she keeps imagining herself being punished by her husband and his best friend. She ponders leaving the brothel until a new client, arrives and she's immediately attracted to him.Pierre Cleménti was an outstanding revelation although I had unknowingly seen him once before in Bertolucci's 'The Comformist' as the homosexual driver Lino, I certainly noticed him in this movie he's a fascinating combination of style and substance with his amazing performance, playing the sophisticated, leather-wearing, cane-wielding, gold-toothed young criminal, Marcel, meeting Séverine when celebrating a successful bank heist. His obsession for her grows to fantastic proportions culminating in the unexpected tragedy of the third act. The end of the movie is perhaps the weirdest part of the narrative, the one where all interpretations become valid; it's also a great send-up on happy endings, and a fine conclusion to a thriller if this movie were a thriller&#133; Buñuel is just genius! Belle de Jour is a funny, tragic, and ultimately unique movie. I had the opportunity to watch it at a theatre room last year and obviously I felt the pleasure of seeing this bizarre masterpiece as all movies should be seen on the big screen. I'll certainly feel the lack when I have to watch it on TV one day. "},{"Title":"A unique mystery box","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Séverine (Catherine Deneuve) is a bored, affluent housewife. We meet her first when she is forced to dismount from a carriage. Her husband Pierre ties her to a tree, whips her, then leaves her to be raped by the two carriage drivers.Séverine is prone to fantasies. She is in a conventional marriage. Pierre is a handsome young surgeon. They sleep in separate beds. An older friend, Henri, keeps hitting on her, but she tells him to keep his compliments for himself. He is attracted by her blonde perfection, her virtue and her icy disdain.Taking fantasy a stage further, Séverine gets a daytime job at a high class brothel. At first she is prudish and wants to pick her clients. Then she is shown 'a firm hand' - which the masochistic side of her nature relishes.Re-released almost forty years after its original cinema exhibition, Belle de Jour still has the power to shock. Not through explicit nudity (it is a highly erotic work without being titillating) but by the shocking images, and the superb performances that contrast the aloofness of the bourgeoisie to the practicality of sex, of elegance to depravity. Scenes of Séverine having mud thrown at her stick in the mind no less than the tentativeness with which she approaches the brothel for the first time, dressed in black, and ready to take flight at any moment. Couture by Yves Saint Laurent and lush photography drown us in luxurious chic. The stylish settings arouse our aesthetic senses, and the languorous pacing and emotional complexity keep us trying to figure it all out long before we realise just how difficult that is going to be. Analysing it in Freudian or purely sexual terms is less than satisfying. The characters are convincing - the posh conservative elite, the matter-of-fact but certainly not coarse madame, the pervs who visit the brothel, and the psychologically conflicted Séverine through them all. It is hardly a plea for sexual liberation - the men, even one that Séverine takes a fancy to, are pretty lowlife. Their strange fantasy requirements mete out the most fascinating tableau of perversions but even more fascinating is what we don't see such as what is in the box brought by the Chinaman. We are forced to identify with Séverine - she is the most normal character - and yet the most convincing way to approach the film is one suggested by Buñuel himself, as a parable attacking the decadence of the bourgeoisie. On a more elevated level, it is a forceful artistic statement that viewers addicted to linear storytelling may find hard to accept. It seems to anticipate Eyes Wide Shut in its treatment of hidden sexuality, but cinematically it is more linked to the surreal Mulholland Drive. Buñuel's friend from University and at one point collaborator, Salvador Dali, could be similarly perplexing when it came to alternate realities. He said, People love mystery, and that is why they love my paintings. The mind is drawn to interpret a piece of art in a specific concrete way, but the artist may wish to express a concept that transcends specific examples. In Belle de Jour, Buñuel claims that there are not two endings, just one ambiguous ending. When you have finished watching the film it is not hard to decide which scenes are reality and which are fantasy, but when you run it through your mind again it is equally possible to make alterations. Do we want to know what is in the box, or do we love the mystery?The name Belle de Jour can be read as a pun on 'lady of the night', since Séverine only worked in the day; everything becomes plain. This is maybe why it becomes her as her name at the brothel. But enter Séverine's feverish imagination and you might see something else. "},{"Title":"A Masterful Collaboration","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Catherine Deneuve is perfectly cast as an upper-class Parisian housewife who decides to spend her afternoons working in a brothel in Luis Bunuel's subversive masterpiece which proves that intimation can be just as effective as exploitation. Just about everything here--especially the shocking conclusion--is open to interpretation, from impulse to rationalization, and it's to Bunuel's genius that he is able to stand back, letting his audience fill in the gaps in their imagination and, if necessary, implicate themselves. And in Deneuve, Bunuel has found a brilliant blank canvas for the audience to express themselves upon; never fully clear on her motivations (though some tantalizing flashbacks offer hints), she alternates between classic French coldness and classic French passion and though she's intentionally unreachable, she's always fully aware of how to manipulate the spell she's cast over you. A great example of a master of cinema in deep collaboration with a master actress--their exploration of the female psyche runs the gamut of every possible emotion while never being crass or lowering themselves to merely reducing and simplifying. "},{"Title":"The gap between fantasy and reality in female desire&#133;","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Deneuve plays Séverine Serizy, a bored middle-class woman who never slept with her handsome husband Pierre (Jean Sorel). She eventually adopts a double life on weekday afternoons as a hooker&#133; Here she explores the depths of her desires with her amazing sexual inhibitions&#133; Although the film resolves around her goings-on at a high-class brothel, real nudity and sex are never shown&#133; Belle de Jour may seem one of the most mysterious, poetic, and provoking films ever made&#133; Producing a body of work unparalleled in its wealth of meaning and its ability to surprise and shock, Buñuel leads us into a new world arousing wonder and astonishment, depravity and pleasure, weird and entertaining&#133; "}{"Title":"One of Bunuel's more well-known works; an interesting morality story with Deneuve","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Luis Bunuel, notorious for his use of simple, striking, yet un-cannily affecting surrealism in movies, keeps it down to a lower (yet still imaginative) key for Belle Du Jour. This works though because un-like a film like Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie where surrealism was like another character amidst the other character's dreams and nightmares, this one only keeps in surrealism for the sake of the lead character's inner demons poking up through the every-day malaise. This lead, Severine, is played in one of Catherine Deneuve's key career performances, that finds that two-sided-ness she feels while married to her husband Pierre. She loves him, but there's something that she's not getting out of the marriage that's leaving her empty, aimless, and her fantasies- however in the realm of (dark) fantasy- go to show she needs to do something during the day. She then finds out about a high-class brothel with only a couple of workers already employed. At first reluctant, she gives in to her temptations, serving the odder types of Paris looking for a good time, with one of them, Marcel (Pierre Clementi) falling head over heels for her. What seemed most intriguing about the film was how Bunuel dealt with the themes- the two crucial ones being morality and sexuality. His imagery is direct, maybe too direct, but it gets its points across with a realism that is alluring and far & away (almost like a satire of such a life). She can't stop what she's started, and she doesn't really know how to end it unless she gets caught. Then with the sexuality, it's never over-emphasized (i.e. no nudity, outside of a quick couple of shots of nudity), and no one is shown having sex on screen. What comes out is the emotional tally of Severine, the other girls, and the supporting characters that come in and out of the brothel. It may seem dated at moments, and the observatory notes go to making the film seem a tad longer than it is. But never-the-less, Belle de Jour is a worthwhile, memorable effort of the 1960's cinema. And, at many times, it's quite funny. More than that, a laugh riot. "},{"Title":"The Ice Queen, Revealed and Ravished","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the great surrealist dramas and a staple of cerebral erotica. Luis Bunuel, a director who has been considered the front-runner of Surrealism in cinema, has created a movie that unfolds like a Moebius strip -- beginning at the end, ending at the beginning, with no conclusion to its question. Who is Severine? The question is asked in several key moments throughout the story, but never answered in a satisfactory manner. All that can be done is to sit back and watch the story of how Severine gives in to her own desires and inner dreams and gets lost along the way....Erotica is one of the least understood of literary genres because of the exploitative nature associated with it. Very few people today can write erotica in a way that doesn't, in one way or another, fall into the traps of having to show more than imply and therefore render its effect a moot point. Writers Anais Nin and Pauline Reage were keen in making their worlds places where despite some explicit passages, sensuality was felt through a looking glass filter rather than slapped across the face. When seen under a surrealist vein, erotica becomes less sexual, more cerebral, and completely revelatory.Severine, like Sabina in Anais Nin's poetic novella of erotica A Spy in the House of Love, is dissatisfied with her life. Like Sabina's husband Alan, Pierre is completely unaware of who he's married to and is all business and travel. Both women, meanwhile, dream of escape, of male dominance asserting their own freedom, and will jeopardize their security. Both characters will undergo complete changes in their personality, under the guise of role-play, never allowing themselves to become attached to other men even when they may want to possess them completely, as Marcel does when Severine becomes inaccessible to him.Cinematically BELLE DE JOUR is perfect (even when this term sounds cliché). Severine's story is a full circle she's seen in black, disguise, walking into Madame Anais' town-home; she emerges near the end wearing the same outfit, a cold socialite. (It's an interesting coincidence that Anais is the ringleader who controls Severine's dreamy incursions into sex, and this story bears a strong relation to Anais Nin's erotic writings, themselves incursions into surrealistic sensual dreams.) Madame Anais seduces her in the beginning with a kiss; Severine severs ties with Anais through a kiss. Also, Severine is framed in an isolated way, at the fringes of the action, in two scenes involving a male client at Anais' town-home -- both times this only makes her more visible, naked, vulnerable. In both she is taken by force, though the second encounter initiates those events that break the third wall and literally walk into her Architectural Digest home.BELLE DE JOUR is extremely, undeniably erotic. The opening sequence per se looks rather mundane -- Severine is subjected to a scene of debasement while her husband Pierre looks on -- but as the story progresses, it will take on a different connotation and from here on, unfold. Because there is no transition from this sequence to the next where Severine and Pierre are in their placid, empty bedroom, it sort of leaves the viewer hanging and wondering just what has taken place, or if anything has happened at all. Of course, Severine's own psyche takes center stage more assertively as she herself gets a stronger footing in her new situation, so these shifts become clearer as the movie goes deeper into her story.Sounds also play an important part of Severine's story the jingling of bells signal the awakening of an erotic episode. Footmen enter the stage and bookend the story, cowbells become the appearance of bulls bearing names referring to expiation, Severine is sodomized by a bull-like Asian man bearing a box that hums softly (and whatever is inside has to be clearly repugnant when another escort refuses to go to bed with the client). Bunuel, of course, wants show the hypocrisy behind the complacency of the upper class, and what better way to do so than via guilt. Severine, for example, can't stand Henri, her girlfriend's boyfriend, but through his suggestion she enters this strange world of hidden sexuality. We see her on two occasions as a little girl, in two moments of humiliation through her own guilt. She desires Henri while she also hates him -- a guilty pleasure. Henri discovers her secret and exposes her for what she is -- a common slut. If anything, even when he seems the villain of the piece, Henri can be related to Everyman longing for the ideal woman. Once he finds that she's really not that mysterious after all, he dumps her because she's lost her abstraction.It's this event -- ripping Severine off from her pedestal -- that finally severs her secure world even when she's apparently abandoned her profession. Again, much like Sabina in Spy... Severine is doomed now to assume a different role while still longing for her more carnal life, and with the faint ringing of those ghostly bells coming not long after Pierre reacts, weeping, to this revelation, and possibly even dies (his twisted hand is an indication) it makes me wonder if their appearance is only the beginning of her punishment and another way the story becomes a complete cycle of erotic evolution that will take the viewer back to the Bois du Bologne and that coach ride. "},{"Title":"Erotic Daydream Entwined with Reality","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Paris, the bored and frigid upper-class housewife Séverine Serizy (Catherine Deneuve) is married with the handsome doctor Pierre Serizy (Jean Sorel), and she fantasizes kink sex with strangers every now and then. Pierre's friend Henri Husson (Michel Piccoli) and his wife Renee (Macha Méril) are frequently meeting Pierre and Séverine and after having lunch together, Renee tells to Séverine that their acquaintance Henriette is working in a whorehouse and Husson gives the address of a high-class brothel in Paris. Séverine visits Madam Anais (Geneviève Page) in her brothel and is hired to work from 200 PM to 500 PM with the nickname Belle de Jour. The young client Marcel (Pierre Clémenti) has a crush on Séverine and becomes her prime client. However, when Husson discovers that Séverine is working in the whorehouse, she decides to quit the job. But Marcel does not intend to loose her. Today I have watched Belle de Jour maybe for the fifth or sixth time, now on DVD, and I still am not sure about what are Séverine's erotic daydreams and reality. My point of view is that the whole brothel thing is a fantasy of this repressed woman in her empty afternoons. Her erotic dream, entwined with her boring reality, ends with her husband paralyzed, Marcel dead and Husson telling the truth to Pierre. Now that her fantasy is complete, she begins another dream with the stagecoach in the park in the last scene. This is another fascinating film of the great Luis Buñuel, one of my favorite directors ever, and the beauty of Catherine Deneuve is mesmerizing. Last time I had seen this film was on 22 October 2000, on VHS. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Bela da Tarde (The Gorgeous of the Afternoon) "},{"Title":"The last two minutes of this film change everything....","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a few recent movies, the ending changes the entire meaning of what we have seen up to that point. (Naming names would clue viewers in to the twist ending, and largely give it away.) Belle de Jour, I believe, is another such movie, though it is apparently not regarded as such.***Spoilers Ahead***Severine (the Catherine Deneuve character) has daydreams about being mistreated and even sexually abused. The interspersing of these dream-sequences is Bunuel's way of warning us that what comes ahead may be real life, or may be all in Severine's head.With that in mind...the final two minutes of this movie need to be examined very carefully. Her husband is no longer crippled; indeed, he smiles and enjoys a glass of wine with her, and the impression is that there has been no rift at all between them. And she sees an empty horse-drawn carriage...a carriage that appeared in an earlier dream-sequence. What does it mean?I think it can only mean that Severine never actually went to work for Madame Anais. You will recall that she was about to knock on her door, that first day, lost her nerve, and went to sit on a bench in a park. It was at that point that her daydreams commenced; and from that day onward, she worked as a high-priced call girl only in her mind. Her daydream as Belle de Jour continued until it reached a kind of crisis point--the shooting of her husband--and this induced a kind of catharsis. One wants to think that she left her dreamworld for good, though this must be left to conjecture. ...if the above is correct, then Bunuel has pulled off a complete table-turning every bit as audacious as the celebrated twist endings of TUS (1995) and TSS (1999) (those recent films I mentioned above). More so, perhaps, since many people don't understand how the tenor of the entire film has changed even as the final credits are rolling....  "},{"Title":"What a load of crap!","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... in which the brilliant Buñuel shows the dark and singular fusion between the eroticism and the bourgeoisie society, recurrent subjects in his acclaimed filmography, framed in a surrealist context and the exploration of deep desires but of the human being. OK, it's surreal. But why does Buñuel's surrealism end up so boring? After about an hour, the only way I could finish watching this pile of pretentious crap was at 4X speed. And erotic? Maybe the French find it intellectually erotique, but it certainly doesn't translate well. I want a film that speaks to my heart and to my head, but Belle du Jour was visually uninteresting, aurally flat, dramatically empty, and intellectually vapid. Marxist film-making (or film criticism!) is about as successful as Marxist government it sounds so much better on paper than it plays out in reality. Ennui may or may not be a good subject for surreal treatment, but this movie doesn't show us anything about the deep desires of the human being. "},{"Title":"Genuinely haunting Bunuel classic.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Belle De Jour' is a movie which requires multiple viewing to fully appreciate. We live in an era of explicit sex and violence in movies are commonplace, and where we are very rarely required to think. 'Belle De Jour' is not like this. What you don't see is more important than what you do. It is a movie which needs a little effort on the viewers part. Persevere, you will be rewarded.The basic plot is easy to understand. Severine (Catherine Deneuve in a superbly understated performance) is a beautiful, sexually repressed young bride. Her husband Pierre (Jean Sorel) adores her, but their marriage remains chaste. Severine suffers from dreams and hallucinations of debasement. She eventually is employed in a brothel during the day under a pseudonym, while continuing to live a bourgeois life with her unsuspecting husband. I won't reveal what happens after that.That is the bare bones of the story, but it gives you no idea of HOW Bunuel tells it, which is what makes 'Belle De Jour' such a gem. I think this movie is one of the landmarks of 1960s cinema, and has aged wonderfully. In fact it gets better and better as most contemporary movies about sex get poorer and poorer. A movie that will haunt you. Superb! "},{"Title":"Since when is the surreal so boring?","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With such an engaging subject matter, prostitutes, sexual infedilities, rich prudish woman exploring her sexual side....why such a snoozefest? I do not speak French, but I found the acting average and the characters we dull and predictable. The dream sequences are dumb one-dimensional symbolism Freud would have laughed at. What is everyones fascination with Catherine Deneuve in this film? She has a deer in headlights look about everything she encounters, and she offers nothing new to the character she is trying to portray. I do not speak french but the bad acting translated itself straight through the language barrier. The scenes were often not funny enough to laugh, and not dramatic enough to be moved or interested. The surreal aspect isn't even engaging enough for this to be pondered. Perhaps I don't undertstand the surreal aspect, but I'm really not sure what people see in this film. The interesting premise and themes are present and this is what kept it from being a complete bore. "},{"Title":"Phony Pointless Perversions","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A woman is frigid and won't have sex with her husband, probably because she was molested as a child. So she goes to a psychiatrist to get help, right? Wrong! She decides to go to work in a whorehouse, where turning a few tricks in the afternoon is just the therapy she needs, especially since all her customers are kinky and twisted. Of course, their perversions are only artificial movie perversions, not the sort of thing a prostitute would be likely to encounter on a daily basis in real life.Her husband still doesn't get any sex, though, because that just is not the way she loves him. One of her jealous customers shoots her husband anyway, leaving him mute, blind, crippled, and incapable of having sex. Now she has the perfect husband. But not for long. A friend of the family decides her husband will feel as though he is a burden on his virtuous wife, so he tells him that she is a prostitute. That way he won't feel so guilty.But wait. It was all just a dream. Fooled you. "},{"Title":"The indiscreet life of a bored housewife.","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Catherine Deneuve plays an emotionally detached woman in this 1967 film by Luis Buñuel.  She has no physical relationship with her husband, a wealthy young doctor in Paris, so eventually finds pleasure in working as a prostitute in the afternoons at a chic house downtown.There are several interpretations to Buñuel's film.  I saw it as a commentary on modern bourgeois life.  Here we have an elegantly attractive woman who needs to be loved yet cannot show love herself.  She cannot break the bonds that define her life and surrender herself to emotion, so she seeks pleasure through anonymous sex.  Perhaps it's Buñuel commentating on the estrangement of modern life, particularly our sexual mores.The ending has puzzled many, including myself.  There's a scene at the beginning of the film where Deneuve fantasizes about going on a carriage ride with her husband and being whipped and raped by his servants.  Perhaps the final scene of the carriage returning empty is Buñuel's way of saying her fantasies have ended.  But was the experience at the brothel a dream too or is she satisfied now that her husband is paralyzed, the result of a jealous customer's rage?  Is she cured of her detachment or have circumstances simply resolved her emotional dilemma?Catherine Deneuve is one of the world's great beauties, and she is deliciously so in this film, but she also gives a terrific performance here.  She hides her emotions and leaves several interpretations to her character which is what Buñuel obviously wanted from her.  An excellent film from one of the greatest directors of cinema ever.  "},{"Title":"If you are fan of Buñuel, of Deneuve or of excellent films, you must see this one","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first film by Buñuel that i see was Le Charme Discret de la Bourgeoisie. I was a little confused, but then i was in loved of the contexture. The film is excellent. Then, i see L'Age d'Or, an excellent, probably , the best surrealistic experience of all times like Un Chien Andalou. Since i watch Lars Von Trier's Dancer in the dark, i found that actress... how is her name... ah yes Catherine Deneuve!!! Not only she is beautiful, she is a great actress. One day, i found in a videostore Belle de Jour. I don't know if this time this films with such rich artistic combination going to like me. All the opposite. Belle de Jour is a ,asterpiece and a must see. Is an entertaining surrealistic drama with a sticky story and delightful characters.Belle de Jour told us the story of Séverine, a beautiful but reserved who keeps the distances with his husband. Sexually, she don't want to know much. But... well, she lately have been attracted for that topic, and decide to prove it in a brothel. She begins to discover the decadence in self. Belle de Jour is a must see because offers a touching story, with all the touch that only Buñuel knows. The surprises are stupendous, Catherine Deneuve are unique (I think that is the best character of her) and the others are marvelous too (Pierre Clémenti is perfect for that mysterious boy named Marcel)... the fact is, that Belle de Jour, written by the same Buñuel and Jean-Calude Carrière (Who works too in La Voie Lactee and Le Charme Discret de la Bourgeoisie, is,as rare, an excellent surrealistic masterpiece where you can think and feel what you want. The characters, specially of Belle de Jour and Marcel, have a touch that make that we identify ourselves with them... i mean... there is no words to explain how wonderful is Belle de Jour. So get it and see it... you going to be pleased.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any. "}{"Title":"Deneuve splattered with goo","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle de Jour caught a lot of attention 40 years ago because Luis Buñel (1900-1983) directed it, and at the time he was considered innovative. The passage of time, however, has not been kind to this movie. It now appears to be nothing more than a conventional sex melodrama, the kind French intellectuals were railing against in the French theatre as early as 1890. True, there are some unconventional turns, particularly the pedestrian dream sequences Buñel inserted to amplify the fantasies bedeviling the would-be whore Severine (played by Catherine Deneuve). But the sequences are unimaginatively shot and sometimes the editing is clumsy; a good example is the well known mud slinging scene, as Severine imagines her husband and his friend splattering her with a kind of black goo. It's utterly unconvincing.The strength of the movie, if it has one, is Catherine Deneuve. She was (at age 24) approaching the pinnacle of her beauty in the film. The director was wise to choose an actress with her stunning looks, but he unfortunately could not convince her to degrade herself on camera. The degradation process is crucial for what is happening to the character of Severine. She remains prim and proper, as all manner of fetishists have their way with her; one can only speculate what an actress like Fanny Ardant or Isabelle Adjani could have done with this material. Both actresses were much too young in when the film was shot in 1967 to be considered for the part (Ardant was 18, and Adjani was a child), but subsequent performances by both actresses have revealed abilities that make the prospect intriguing. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I have to admit, Bunuel strikes me as unsubtle and unintelligent. Oh give me Tarkovsky, Greenaway, Welles or Kurosawa; these men know the visual mind and weave something worth spending time with. Bunuel, Ken Russell, even John Waters go together as a single type, obvious minds way low on my `to watch' list.Here, we have a simple construction dream and reality generating each other, each as a performance shaped by the unsettling marriage of natural yearning and artificial social convention. We the viewers and often the characters are voyeurs. Bluntly, heavily, exclusively symbolic. Minimal and skillful storytelling within this primitive form. Except for the international pedigree, that fits Ken Russell, and any number of preachers who use film as a vehicle rather than an art.The construction is so simplistic, even childish that the commentary on the DVD is a hoot. It features a woman with a southern accent reading the symbols for us `now she drops the vase, symbolizing ....,' `now she walks through the frosted glass doors, symbolizing...' as if we were petulant Alabama schoolchildren. The whole enterprise strikes me as a comfortable, bourgeois intellectualism, but there is scant pleasure in this irony.The art of the film is limited to the narrow appreciation of the minimalism and economy in moving the story ahead. But as mentioned, that story is a merely a flat canvas for a few unoriginal observations on politics and image.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"La Belle Deneuve.","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The always provocative Luis Buñuel directed (and co-wrote with Jean-Claude Carrière) this adaptation of Joseph Kessel's 1928 novel, about the beautiful, apparently frigid 23 year-old wife (Catherine Deneuve) of a surgeon (Jean Sorel) who decides to live her fantasies at a brothel in the afternoons.Here, as in several of his films, Buñuel makes a sharp, often disturbing, sometimes darkly funny, and always provocative meditation on the lifelessness of the French bourgeoisie, focusing on the boredom and private rebellion of a young woman so absorbed in her own fantasies that we don't know if what we are seeing is actually happening or only taking place in Severine's mind. Deneuve, gorgeous as ever, flawlessly plays Severine with a cold distance which is nothing short of intriguing. A character which could have easily been turned into a caricature, Deneuve makes Severine come alive in flesh and quiet desperation.Although more discreetly than in some of his other films, here Buñuel also criticizes - with symbols, allegories, some subtler than others - the hypocrisy of the Catholic Church as an institution. His hand of surrealism, social and religious provocation make for a film that, over four decades after its release, remains strange, somewhat disturbing, and energetic. Severine is not a heroine or an activist for anything, but her rebellion is about her own deathly bourgeois condition. Prostitution here is never glamorized (even though, unlike the other prostitutes in the film, Severine is not doing it for the money - she doesn't need it); the clients are hideous-looking, quite often creepy and violent. Severine needs an escape from her suffocating life, and in her fantasies, the rougher, the better. If being a rebel is defying some sort of establishment (for whatever reason), then Severine is definitely a rebel figure; she defied not only society's moral grounds of decency (albeit slyly), but also her own inner demons. The answers to whether Severine's rebellion was worth anything is for the spectator to decide - and there lies the richness of Buñuel's surrealist creation. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of Bunuel's best","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bunuel's mysterious and beautiful masterwork is a film that fascinates as much on its fifth viewing as its first. Catherine Deneuve is a beautiful Parisian housewife who refuses to consummate her marriage with her husband, played by Jean Sorel. She ends up working during the day as a prostitute at a local brothel, while still fending off her husband's advances. She eventually gets involved with an attractive young thug. One of the more fascinating things about this film is Deneuve's opaque performance; the beautiful façade is stripped away to reveal a woman with a strong masochistic streak, as we see a series of her strange fantasies. Eventually it becomes difficult to tell the fantasies from the reality of her situation, leading to a fascinatingly enigmatic ending. The film is frequently funny, particularly in the scenes dealing with Deneuve's customers, and there is an overall chic feeling to it, what with the expensive-looking clothes Deneuve wears, the high end apartments and restaurants and the overall glamorous Parisian setting, that adds to its appeal, at least for me. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest erotic classics of all times.","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The adaptation of the novel written by Joseph Kessel, Belle de Jour, is perhaps the most successful production made by the Spanish director Luis Buñuel (won the Golden Lion for best film in the 1967's version of the Venice Film Festival), in which the brilliant Buñuel shows the dark and singular fusion between the eroticism and the bourgeoisie society, recurrent subjects in his acclaimed filmography, framed in a surrealist context and the exploration of deep desires but of the human being.This film narrates the life of Séverine Serezy, interpreted by the beautiful Catherine Deneuve, in one of its best performances, the roll of a frigid woman married to a prestigious surgeon, interpreted by Jean Sorel. Séverine initiates a double life, as a wife and then luxury prostitute, then going by the name of Belle de Jour.In this context a dichotomy it merges in the two worlds, the real and the fictitious one. An existing scope where Séverine shows herself without emotion, almost hieratic; the typical wife subjugated to a perfect life, a bourgeois life that hits her true essence, that annihilates her intimacy.The other world, the scope of the imagination, the one of its desires, collides with the external one, triggering the argument plot of the script where by flash backs we discovered the traumatic childhood of Séverine raped and punished by the society, releasing in her feelings of guilt and the fantasies generated by her inner desire.In the meantime Buñuel is playing with the plot, exposing a Séverine disturbed by the fault, and simultaneously hypnotized by the sensuality that manages to reach when becoming a prostitute, in a masochist woman, no longer subjugated by the society, if not, by the clients which frequent the brothel of Madame Anais, interpreted by Geneviève Page; Séverine is even allowed to be whipped, to be raped, to imagine what it is like to be fornicate by one of her husband's friends.Sequences full of symbolic objects, scenes full of dreams and a surrealism that is never lost in the work of Buñuel, reveals a production packed of cold characters that is colorful non single as well, by its luminous interiors or the elegant and chic clothes created by the very same Yves Saint-Laurent for Catherine Deneuve and shoes by the legendary Roger Vivier, but by a clean and fascinating eroticism that anticipates the work of directors like David Lynch and François Ozon. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There was something about the 1960s that brought out a playfulness in filmmakers which allowed them to not have to condescend to audiences and wrap up every little aspect of the film in a neat little bow. When the films' techniques and narrative strengths worked, as in Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, Michelangelo Antonioni's Blowup, or Ingmar Bergman's Persona, the result was a great film. When neither worked, the result was a pretentious mess, like Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby or Luis Buñuel's Belle De Jour- his 1967 foray into color film, based upon the same titled novel of Joseph Kessler, released in 1928.The film has been described as an 'erotic masterpiece,' but forty years later one is left with a film that has so little sex in it that it could pass as a PG film if released today, as well as lacking all eros. Mild sex scenes are not, by definition, eros, and it's difficult to believe that anyone watching this film could have been shocked, much less aroused by a single scene in it. Yes, young Catherine Deneuve, as bored bourgeois hausfrau Séverine Serizy, is her typical gorgeous self, but having seen her in several of her later roles, plus her featured role in Roman Polanski's Repulsion, I seriously must question whether she could really act. In Polanski's film, she plays a neurotic, sexually stifled woman who sleepwalks through her descent to murderess, after what was likely a childhood of sexual abuse. Similarly, her character of Séverine was sexually abused (seen through flashbacks, and after which she refuses communion), but unlike the Repulsion heroine/villain, is not repulsed by raw sex, but attracted to the filthy sadomasochistic aspects of it&#133;. Had Bergman made this film it would have been far subtler and better. That Alfred Hitchcock, by contrast, loved this film, says a lot, for his own films were equally dependent upon hamhanded views of sexuality, and most are equally outdated, as well, for that very reason. Apologists for the film claim that it allows viewers to bring their own thoughts and experiences into the film. Well, most films do, so that's not a great argument. Belle De Jour fails for the opposite reason; it lacks a core- emotionally, philosophically, and technically, masquing it all with claims of Surrealism- that label used to cover and alibi for all manner of bad art.In short, this film does not even walk the walk, and Buñuel is not in a league with such filmmakers as Werner Herzog nor Antonioni, as far as symbolism goes. Belle De Jour may have titillated audiences four decades ago, but today it simply plays out as a wan and silly- as well as poorly wrought, exploration of a dull woman's sexual life, and how that keeps her deluded and miserable. One need not pay to see such, when a trip to the local supermarket can give you dozens of more interesting female subjects to choose from. "},{"Title":"Buñuel's masterpiece  filled with sadomasochism , surrealism and colorful as well as absurd images","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a typical Buñuel film , as there is a lot of symbolism and surrealism , including mockery or wholesale review upon sexual behaviors . Luis Bunuel's Masterpiece of Erotica in which deals with a frigid young housewife , a virginal newlywed named Severine (Catherine Deneuve) married to a prestigious surgeon called Pierre (Jean Sorel) . She fantasizes about masochistic scenes with male people . Severine and Pierre's friend Henri Husson (Michel Piccoli) and his spouse Renee (Macha Meril) are usually having lunch together , then , Renee tells Séverine that their acquaintance Henriette is working in a brothel . Severine get the address of a high-class whorehouse in Paris and visits Madam Anais , she then decides to spend her midweek afternoons as a prostitute unbeknownst to her patient husband . As Severine works at her obsessive profession only from two to five . Surrealism and sour portrait upon higher classes, masochism , kinky sex , prostitution and sexual rites by the Spanish maestro of surrealism , the great Luis Buñuel . In most subtitled versions of the film, an italicized font is used to help the audience spot Séverine's fantasies from reality . According to Luis Buñuel scholar Julie Jones, Buñuel once said that he himself didn't know what the end exactly means . Luis Buñuel was given a strict Jesuit education which sowed the seeds of his obsession with both subversive behavior and religion , issues well shown in a lot of films and that would preoccupy Buñuel for the rest of his career . Interesting and thought-provoking screenplay from the same Luis Buñuel and Jean Claude Carriere , Buñuel's usual screenwriter based on the novel by Joseph Kessel ,; they pull of a straight-faced treatment of shocking subject matter . After returning his native country, Spain, by making ¨Viridiana¨ this film was prohibited on the grounds of blasphemy as well as ¨The milky way¨ or Via Lactea , both of them were strongly prohibited by Spanish censorship . ¨Belle De Jour¨ is packed with surreal moments , criticism , absurd situations , masochism ; furthermore Buñuel satirizes and he carries out outright attacks to aristocracy , sadism and pro-sexual freedom . ¨Belle De Jour is a day lily in French, a flower that blooms only by day, as Severine is available only during the afternoons. Belle De Jour is also a sort of pun, as it reminds us of belle de nuit, an euphemism for prostitute . Deneuve's finest most enigmatic acting . Catherine Deneuve's famous buckled shoes were designed by Roger Vivier and her glamorous gowns by Ives Saint Laurent . Pretty good support cast gives fine acting ; it is mostly formed by nice French actors such as Michel Piccoli as Henri Husson , Geneviève Page as Madame Anais , Pierre Clémenti s Marcel , Françoise Fabian as Charlotte , Macha Méril as Renee and special mention to Spanish Francisco Rabal who played various Buñuel films such as Nazarin and Viridiana . In addition , Luis Buñuel cameo  Sitting in the outdoor café when the Duke gets off his carriage. Thid wry and disturbing motion picture was compellingly directed by Luis Buñuel who was voted the 14th Greatest Director of all time . This Buñuel's strange film belongs to his French second period ; in fact , it's plenty of known French actors . As Buñuel subsequently emigrated from Mexico to France where filmed other excellent movies . After moving to Paris , at the beginning Buñuel did a variety of film-related odd jobs , including working as an assistant to director Jean Epstein . With financial help from his mother and creative assistance from Dalí, he made his first film , this 17-minute Un Chien Andalou (1929), and immediately catapulted himself into film history thanks to its disturbing images and surrealist plot . The following year , sponsored by wealthy art patrons, he made his first picture , the scabrous witty and violent Age of Gold (1930), which mercilessly attacked the church and the middle classes, themes that would preoccupy Buñuel for the rest of his career . That career, though, seemed almost over by the mid-1930s, as he found work increasingly hard to come by and after the Spanish Civil War , where he made ¨Las Hurdes¨ , as Luis emigrated to the US where he worked for the Museum of Modern Art and as a film dubber for Warner Bros . He subsequently went on his Mexican period he teamed up with producer Óscar Dancigers and after a couple of unmemorable efforts shot back to international attention with the lacerating study of Mexican street urchins in ¨Los Olvidados¨ (1950), winning him the Best Director award at the Cannes Film Festival. But despite this new-found acclaim, Buñuel spent much of the next decade working on a variety of ultra-low-budget films, few of which made much impact outside Spanish-speaking countries , though many of them are well worth seeking out . As he went on filming The Great Madcap , ¨The brute¨, Wuthering Heights, ¨El¨ , The Criminal Life of Archibaldo De la Cruz , ¨Robinson Crusoe¨ , ¨Death in the garden¨ and many others . And finally his French-Spanish period in collaboration with producer Serge Silberman and writer Jean-Claude Carrière with notorious as well as polemic films such as ¨Viridiana¨ , Tristana¨ , ¨The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie , this ¨Belle De Jou¨ and his last picture , That Obscure Object of Desire . . "},{"Title":"Intentionally ambiguous Buñuel drama proves to have a lot more style than substance","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After reading countless reviews on the internet about 'Belle de Jour', I'm still not sure what famed surrealistic director Luis Buñuel was trying to say. And if you asked Buñuel what the meaning of the film was, he probably would have told you 'it is, what you want it to be'. I have come to conclude that in making a film such as 'Belle de Jour', Buñuel is more interested in playing the provocateur than exploring any of the moral issues raised by the film's often cryptic narrative.Buñuel as provocateur is evident in the film's opening sequence. In a matter of a few moments, an idyllic carriage-ride (seemingly a scene influenced by a 19th century romantic novel) morphs into a nightmare sequence of domestic depravity as Buñuel's protagonist, Séverine (Catherine Deneuve) is viciously whipped by the menservants of her husband, Pierre. But in a blink of an eye, Buñuel has the last laugh (or should I say the first laugh?) when we see that the assault on Séverine is a figment of her imagination. In reality, she is married to Pierre who is a respectable Parisian surgeon in the present day of 1967.But just as soon as we're introduced to this new 'idyllic' situation, Buñuel is committed to shocking us again. Séverine and Pierre's situation is anything but idyllic as Séverine is plagued by nightmares of being sexually abused as a child and resorts to fantasies of sadomasochistic pleasure. As a result, they perversely sleep in separate beds and Pierre patiently tries to understand why his wife won't engage in any sexual relations.In reality, nothing is normal for Séverine--she must endure Husson, the boyfriend of the couple's friend, Renée, who has no guilt feelings about hitting on her and freely admits that he's a frequent visitor to a high-class whorehouse. This is how Séverine finds out about Madame Anaïs' establishment, which she at first hesitantly applies for a job at, as a high-class call girl.While her motive for taking a job as a prostitute may have had to do with her unfortunate sexual experiences as a child, Buñuel is more interested in contrasting Séverine's life as an unhappy, chaste housewife with her newfound enjoyment as aggressive sexual neophyte. None of this is shown explicitly and Buñuel takes great pleasure in emphasizing Séverine's lack of guilt as she plies her trade amongst a group of decidedly tawdry clients. The clients include a vulgar businessmen who virtually rapes her and a man who resembles 'Odd Job' from the film 'Goldfinger', who leaves her on the bed smiling with her pants pulled down (implying that she's taken pleasure in indulging in anal sex). Séverine also expresses disgust to Madame Anaïs. regarding a client who enjoys having his face stepped on, but can't help staring through a peephole, confirming that she's not immune to voyeuristic tendencies.Buñuel will turn things on a head once again, when he introduces us to bad boy criminal, Marcel, a lout with metal teeth, who Séverine is immensely attracted to. Things go bad when Marcel becomes obsessed with Séverine and tracks her to her apartment after she tells him she can't see him anymore. His solution is to shoot Pierre who ends up in a coma. Marcel is soon afterward gunned down by the police but they fail to uncover his motive.Buñuel comes full circle playing with his audience. If Séverine is repulsive in enjoying sex with the perverts back at the whorehouse, she's even more repulsive for being responsible for Pierre ending up paralyzed. After all, had she not decided to work at the brothel, Marcel wouldn't have ended up shooting Pierre. But things may not what they seem to be. Recall that Séverine refers to Pierre's accident as he sits in his wheelchair. An accident seems like an odd word to describe the shooting. Was it an euphemism or did Pierre actually have an accident (not the shooting) which caused him to become paralyzed? If so, the entire brothel sequence also may have been another figment of Séverine's imagination.The film ends with another seeming fantasy sequence, where Pierre suddenly emerges from his wheelchair and he and Séverine are happy together again. Is this another way in which Buñuel seeks to laugh at our expense? Now Séverine is no longer the villain but perhaps the caregiver responsible for restoring her husband's health. Or is it simply 'wishful thinking' on Séverine's part? Recall the shot of Pierre's 'clutched' hand while he's in the wheelchair, suggesting death.For those who enjoy intentional ambiguity where you can read a multiplicity of meanings into a film, 'Belle de Jour' is for you. Others (including myself) seek narratives with a more clear-cut meaning. The best I can say for 'Belle' is that it has a distinctive style. It's also a film that engenders quite a bit of thought and discussion. Nonetheless, in the end, this is a film with a lot more style than substance. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic and mysterious.","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A hypnotic blend of fantasy and reality, Belle De Jour is the first film I've seen from Luis Buñuel and it certainly won't be the last. The opening scene is a memorable one, as Severine and Pierre Serizy (Catherine Deneuve and Jean Sorel) ride in a carriage through the woods, before he drags her out, ties her to a tree and has the drivers whip and rape her. This shocking image turns out to be just a fantasy of Severine's, but it immediately lets the viewer know that there is a caged erotic mind locked away underneath the titular character's frigid exterior.The film uses these fantasies frequently, and it's in Buñuel's approach to them that the film sets itself apart from the way others might use this meshing of truth and fiction. We are never given any warning signs that we are entering a dream state, there's never a blur or fade into them, he doesn't shoot them in a way unique from how he shoots her daily life, and thus Buñuel catches the audience in this world between worlds. Deneuve, ever alluring and catching of the eyes, walks through her life as a woman in a trance, stuck between her lurid fantasies and her more traditional reality, and Buñuel places the audience in this same spell.Severine is a mysterious character, one who dreams of being sexually humiliated and violated, yet for some reason she remains sterile within her own marriage, despite her husband's numerous efforts. Severine finds herself compelled by her sexual desires to enter employment at a local whorehouse, and in this world she is able to slowly reveal her inner nature. Belle De Jour is a character study in the most interesting sense, because it never aims to fully explore it's character. We are given the understanding of why she travels down the path she does, but the character ultimately remains an ambiguous mystery, both to the audience and perhaps to herself.It's plausible that even she doesn't know why she can't open herself physically to her husband, and her actions to explore her inner desires are a way not only for her to release her sexual frustration but also to try and understand what drives her. This approach to the character could have been cold and uninviting, shutting it's audience away from any level of interest, but with a team as skilled as Buñuel and Deneuve it becomes a fascinating journey into the mind of Severine, always compelling in it's refusal to give the audience the easy answers.The narrative takes a more direct turn with the introduction of Marcel (Pierre Clementi), a client for Severine who becomes dangerously obsessed with her and is the complete counter of Pierre. The introduction of Marcel was both a blessing and a curse for me, because while it advanced the narrative and Severine's personal struggles, I found myself so entertained by him and his partner in crime Hyppolite (Francisco Rabal) that I wanted to see a film entirely dedicated to the two of them. Buñuel's Belle De Jour plays out like a dream state all the way to it's chilling finale, and I wouldn't want it any other way. "},{"Title":"There can only be one","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director that is, that fits the demands of this movie and of course the man is Bunuel. A master of obsessions (or the portrayal of ...), he does a great job and spins surrealistic ideas/framing/editing, with more normal things. That's all mixed with the occasional dream here and there and you have a movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat and guessing.This movie deserves the classic tag it has written on it's sleeve. With a wonderful cast and a dark (human) story for the viewer to indulge, this is great cinema. And while some themes might offend some people (even if there are no explicit images here), the idea alone and the execution are first class! "}{"Title":"budding generation gap","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nearly forty years after having collaborated with Salvador Dali on Un chien andalou, Luis Bunuel directed the equally bizarre Belle de jour. Catherine Deneuve plays an unfulfilled Parisian housewife who decides to take a daytime job as a prostitute.The movie contains two interesting dichotomies on the one hand, it's never totally clear what's real and what's Severine's imagination (the scenes where she gets whipped and raped look like her imagination). Similarly, we get to see cosmopolitan Paris juxtaposed with the mildly seedy adventures in which Severine takes part. Maybe this is a slight allusion to the budding generation gap, which in France culminated in the student uprising of May 1968. Or maybe I misinterpreted the movie. But I will say that Catherine Deneuve displays the same masterfully scary flair that she did in Repulsion. Every camera angle and every edit combine to make one of the most impressive movies that I've ever seen. I certainly recommend it. "},{"Title":"as close to perfect","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle de Jour is perhaps the closest I have seen a film get to perfection. Its lack of music only makes it better. The close up of the legs and feet rather than looking showing a close up of Deneuve's face expresses so much emotion, the feet turning back shows Severine's hesitation. The film is a critique of bourgeois society. How the character is sexually repressed. The mise en scene including the costume is startling. the cut to severine's apartment to show how decadent and oppressive it is, and the release she can get at Mdm Annais's. Bunuel does not like wasting time with his story telling, so when we are given address, the next show shows that very address, no wasted narrative on how the character got there. In working this way time and temporal cohesion often become confusing, however this only adds to the beauty of belle de Jour. It is a truly remarkable film with an ending open to interpretation. the audience is allowed in the the mind of severine, by seeing her fantasies, however, they never truly understand her. Severine is played brilliantly by Catherine Deneuve, whereas many actress work by trying to make the audience understand and become one with the character, Deneuve works through distance, you can never get too close to her character and her feelings towards characters and her character itself remains in some ways and enigma. Bunuel, in place of non diegetic music uses noises such as a cattle belle, slay bells, and cat's meows. severine seems to find all of these erotic, however, it is never explained why, and the continual reference to the cats, and what is inside a box (bunuel loves boxes) has remained unknown and has become a much discussed topic. however, simply, what people find erotic, they often cant understand themselves. this film explores many different ideas, it has Freudian symbolism, but is above it. Women are seen in a more sympathetic light than men. This film is brilliant and further reading and viewing of it is essential. Brilliant!! "},{"Title":"Bizarre, Memorable and Thoroughly Entertaining","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bunuel explores his usual obsessions with the dubious morality and hypocrisy of the Parisian bourgeoisie with typically surreal and inventive wit. Deneuve plays Deneuve - all high-cheek-boned icy blonde indifference - and several supporting actors create memorable and original characters, particularly Page as the brothel madam and Clementi as the doomed and brooding psycho love-interest. Undoubtedly racy for its time, it also contains a lot of wry humor, and Bunuel manages to bring a sense of mischievous fun to the whole thing. I was reminded several times of early Roman Polanski, who must surely have been a fan, albeit darker and more sinister. 'Belle de Jour' is that truly rare thing - a fascinating movie that can be endlessly analyzed while also being incredibly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Feels like a transition between 'Journal d'une femme de chambre' and 'Charme discret de la bourgeoisie' - yep, that's a mouthful","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bunuel gives you the chance to identify some with characters and then suddenly slaps you in the face with some totally unreal harassments in the tradition of his first two films.  This one however, is far more accessible (as is 'Journal d'une femme de chambre' (1964)) than those two fabulous earthquakes.  Cinematographer Sacha Vierny ('The Cook, The Thief, His Wife And Her Lover' (Greenaway, 1989) and 'Nuit et brouillard' (Resnais, 1955)) made it sober and effective (not quite like 'The Cook ... Lover').  If you like this style, go see 'Charme discret de la bourgeoisie' (Bunuel, 1972).I feel that Catherine Deneuve was not the greatest for this part, because she tends to continue her style from Repulsion (Polanski, 1965) in the wrong story.  Maybe that's one of the shock-effects Bunuel wanted to accomplish the established ice-queen loses her cool.  But overall the cast succeeds in the presentation of members of some bourgeoisie who live and talk completely past each other and never achieve their goals, even better portrayed in 'Charme discret de la bourgeoisie'.  That must be the individualism in society that Bunuel despised.9/10 "},{"Title":"Evocative and thought provoking","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The sexual context in which this film was made is rather different from today, so concepts such as rooting Severine's fascination with prostitution with child abuse may seem a little outre to modern audiences. Nonetheless, it's a brilliant character study, with the originally reserved Severine transforming from distant and aloof to playful and coquettish as the film progresses. The dream sequences are interesting, and inserted into the narrative without ceremony. As a whole the film is thought provoking and open-ended, with Severine's character always remaining a source of fascination, mainly due to Deneuve's captivating screen presence. I also loved the grainy, high colour contrast film stock, which along with Deneuve's constant wardrobe changes saturate the film in 60's Parisian chic. There are plenty of obscure details such as the Chinaman's box, which are as bewildering as they are interesting. Macha Meril, here playing one of the other prostitutes at Mme Anais', is probably best known for playing the psychic murdered at the beginning of Dario Argento's 'Profondo Rosso' (1975), whereas Jean Sorel, Deneuve's Doctor/Husband also entered into the Italian horror/thriller genre in two films by Lucio Fulci ('Una sull'altra' 1969, and 'Una Lucertola con la Pelle di Donna', 1971), as well as 'The Sweet Body of Deborah' ('Dolce corpo di Deborah', Romolo Guerrieri, 1969,) and Umberto Lenzi's 'Paranoia' (also 1969).  "},{"Title":"Highly erotic, magic-realist romance","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A wonderful film, but one that left me struggling with some contradictions. Deneuve's Séverine is a pale, unfulfilled bourgeois housewife who undertakes to give herself what her conventional husband cannot by trying her hand at The Game. From the start Buñuel uses a mix of disorienting realist solipsism (we see Séverine abused, only to understand it has been her daydreaming through an abrupt cut) and a Gallic equivocation towards contemporaneous feminism to shake things up. The discreet brothel Séverine joins is a modest but professional institution in which naivety is barely tolerated. There is titillation in the film but not pornography - the one scene of violent sex is shown as the aftermath of a bedroom-razing scuffle from which Séverine emerges elated. Buñuel is clearly interested in generating the musk of sex visually for the audience but only in order to correctly couch his psychological drama.That drama touches on a number of things outside the sexual transaction, of course. This is a film entirely of its time and place both globally of the mid-sixties and ahead of equality-demanding soixante-huitard Parisians. Séverine has chosen prostitution freely; she uses the venal attention of men for her own maturation. Consequently, I couldn't help thinking of a post-Vichy subtext alongside this classic feminist conceit. The end of the film troubles me as I try to extrapolate its symbolism in a similar fashion. Though a dramatic reckoning is necessary for Buñuel to close out the film (the confrontation between Séverine's id- and ego-life is conventional, cathartic), the coda is a mystery buried in the magic-realism hitherto employed.Symbols, narrative & sexual fantasising aside, I was impressed with the (YSL) costuming, design and photography of the film. Above all, the location shooting of Spring-misty Paris is unspeakably beautiful. The acting is sometimes stiff with autered instruction but that doesn't constrict Deneuve's conviction which insinuates itself throughout the film like a mist of Chanel No.5. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A very awarding film if you give it a chance","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle de jour has been given reviews which places it as silly, simple, not artistic, .... and reviews that places it as a masterpiece.I guess like our own fantasies the film itself projects so differently to different people.For me it is A MUST SEE. 10/10.A film about fantasies and reality. Many people complained that the surreal and real parts are never defined by bunuel and we have to guess which is which. Exactly!!! Why do you need to know? can it be powerful and simplistic at the same time? One of the better qualities of the film is the confusion between sevrine's fantasies and reality. Aren't we confused by our own fantasies? aren't we all suppressing taboos and fetishes we judge as immoral without fully understanding them?I will misquote severine's description of the doctor who likes to be dominated. she says how can a person sink so low. She too like us, even though consciously realizes she has a problem, unconsciously doesn't realize how low she sank.The husband's character is so well shaped and drawn by bunuel. YES! YES!The images of the chariot on the never-ending road reminds me of Dali's paintings. A common surrealist theme about sexuality. The absence of a musical score adds to the artistry of the film rather than diminishing it. The acting, unlike what was stated in other reviews, is exeptional especially by catherine deneuve. I will dare to say maybe her best performance.A deep study of human's inner-self and the thin line between the image we project and the person we are.Again this film is A MUST SEE. Genius!  "},{"Title":"Gets better and better each time I think about it!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a engaging and great film. It's very beautiful and Bunuel mixes in a typical way both surrealistic scenes and reality. And the result is masterful. The main character played by Catherine Deneuve is perfect. Her acting is masterful on every levels. It's cinematography and the way it's shot is also great.This film is easy to follow. The end is very touching and I rate this film as a masterpiece.5/5 "},{"Title":"A true classic, and engaging and masterful film","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Belle de Jour is an erotic and cinematic masterpiece. The line between fantasy and reality is consistently blurred in Bunuel's tour de force. The film opens with Catherine Deneuve riding in a coach with her husband. A fight ensues and her husband calls the coach to a halt demands that she is forced from the coach into the woods where she is humilated and finally raped by the coachman at her husband's command....And then she wakes up. Sublimated desire & the eroticism of the perverse serve as the films main themes. The films discussion of the erotic is intelligent and complex and the film is almost perfect in design and cinematic technique. Those who are bored or perplexed with this movie should stick to Kate & Leopold and other American claptrap for immediate gratification. For the rest of us, thankfully there is Belle de Jour. "},{"Title":"Considered by many to be Bunuel's greatest work, Belle de Jour is a prime example of Bunuel's affection for the juxtaposition of realism and surrealism, this time to present a picture of the unusual sexualit","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Catherine Deneuve plays Séverine Serizy, an obviously unsatisfied wife of a man who does not mistreat her as much as he simply doesn't seem to interest her enough sexually. She is in a financially comfortable but otherwise largely uninteresting relationship with him. There are a lot of strange aberrant fantasies that are placed periodically throughout the film, the meaning of which pertains to what is going on in the characters' lives at the times that they are presented. The movie starts off by showing a lengthy and rather disturbing example of one of these fantasies, in which Séverine is pulled from her carriage by the two drivers after her lukewarm response to her fiancée's marriage proposal, and then tied to a tree and beaten and raped. A scene this strange and disturbing this early in the movie immediately presents her as an unsatisfied woman searching for fulfillment outside of her marriage. The fantasy at the beginning of the film quickly reveals itself to be Séverine's, who otherwise appears to be fairly normal and well-adjusted.Séverine is involved in a relationship with Pierre, for whom she has feelings but none of them have anything to do with pleasure, and she constantly seeks other fulfillment, at first in fantasies and then by working part time at a brothel. There is a colorful variety of characters that frequent the brothel and whom Séverine does not always enjoy working with (or for), but the exact activities that go on while she is at work are beside the larger point, which is that she is escaping the dreariness of a typical marriage and displaying some sort of sexual independence, which was a bad thing to do in Spain under the dictatorship of Franco (and, as was the case in El Bruto, also serves as the reason that this movie could not possibly have been made in Spain in 1967, given Franco's enormously oppressive censorship system). There are themes of dissatisfaction that run throughout the movie, even in small things like the fact that the champagne in the movie never seems to be cold enough, characters complaining that champagne is never that great if it's not cold enough, and things like this tie in with the dissatisfaction that is obviously prevalent in the marriage between Séverine and Pierre.One of the things that ties in closest with some of Bunuel's earlier films is the theme of the dishonesty from the woman, which is complicated in Belle de Jour by the irony that is involved in her dishonesty. She leads of double life, maintaining her respectable composure in her relationship with Pierre but also working as a prostitute named Belle de Jour a few times a week, fulfilling an erotic need that is never explained or displayed any more than absolutely necessary. Pierre is completely oblivious to what is going on in her life until late in the film when one of her shabby clients, who has fallen in love with her, shoots him, confining him to a wheelchair and blinding him. It's strange that Pierre is struck blind only when the truth begins to come out. His vision has been destroyed by the very thing that was causing his blindness throughout his entire relationship with Séverine. Pierre develops the feeling that he is a burden to Séverine, his `pure' wife, and wants to have his life ended since he's paralyzed. He does not want to burden her anymore, until Mr. Husson, the man who discovered what Séverine had been doing, let him know what was going on (giving in to an understandable humane decision that it is simply not right to allow a man to torture himself over a woman who has herself led such a dishonest life in her relationship with him). (spoilers) At the end of the film, there is a fantasy which has been said to be possibly Séverine's and possibly Pierre's, but we are never told for sure which one, in which Pierre stands up out of his wheelchair, his sight restored, and they display a happy and healthy marriage. It seems to me that this is clearly a fantasy of Séverine's, which significantly suggests that, although it IS a fantasy and Pierre is still confined to a wheelchair, she no longer fantasizes about being beaten and raped and abused, and that she is ready to have a happy marriage and that Pierre is enough for her, despite being bound to a wheelchair. It seems to me that she has accepted herself as who she is and Pierre for who he is and, most importantly, his injury as a result of her own sexual digressions. A lifetime of loyalty is the LEAST she could give him. "}{"Title":"The Surrealism of Luis Bunuel","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A frigid young housewife (Catherine Deneuve) decides to spend her midweek afternoons as a prostitute.Catherine Deneuve is one of the European greats. Americans (myself included) are not familiar with many foreign actors or actresses, but she is one that was able to break through into our world, and without even having to speak English (though that often helps). She is as good here as in anything she has done.Being a Bunuel film, it is a bit surreal, a bit odd. The story is more or less straightforward, except that various scenes blend fantasy and reality, dream and real life. Not as strange as some of his stuff, but still odd enough. The man with the box is especially interesting, and one cannot help but wonder if it inspired Tarantino. Surely, it must have. "},{"Title":"Belle Deneuve.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle de Jour (1967) Dir Luis Bunuel / Cast Catherine Deneuve, Jean Sorel, Genevieve Page, Michael Piccoli, Pierre Clementi Rousing erotic masterpiece that takes the whole idea of secret lifestyles and prostitution from its common place during the night hours and places it within the midst of day. Catherine Deneuve stars as the delusional housewife of a wealthy surgeon whom she is unable to commit herself sexually. She has submissive fantasies such as being tied up or being plastered with mud. She eventually discovers a brothel where she embarks upon erotic sexual play with males of all class and race. She is reluctant yet curious. What is interesting is the world she now inhabits and the dangers that accompany it. Insightful directing by Luis Bunuel who previously directed Deneuve in Tristana. Deneuve is compelling as she descends into fantasy not realizing the dangers or consequences. Jean Sorel as her husband accepts her unwilling sexual nature yet becomes the victim of her double life. Genevieve Page plays the brothel head who makes the demands yet accepts her willingness to leave. Michael Piccoli plays a blackmailing friend of her husband's who introduced her to the brothel until having second thoughts. Pierre Clementi plays the obsessive young gangster who desires more than a kinky afternoon delight. Brilliantly crafted examination of brothels and the women who inhabit them. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Conceptually Daring Erotic Dream","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is something about glamour that is so &#x85; unglamorous. Once you get past the pristine mist of designer products, enviably beautiful people, and inexplicable shine (Is it the money? The power? The final hour?), what's left? Someone who carefully dresses their life with opulent panache can never truly be happy; a few too many Benjamins cannot purchase a coherent existence. Look at all those 1950s housewives while they might have a husband all the other ladies on the block swoon over, while they might have perfect kids, and while they might have the most picturesque house in the county, behind their cherry red lipstick and gleaming manicured nails is a hollow interior. Choose style over substance and you'll be left with a designated look, not a feeling. When Belle de Jour turned into an international success in 1967, Luis Buñuel was nearing 70, an age where most directors should be retiring; but at 67, Buñuel is at his most salient and his most stingingly observant. One might initially expect blatant erotica with a film so sexual at its core, but Belle de Jour is even sexier than all those immodest Emmanuelle moneymakers; it holds the power of suggestion like a little girl clinging to an antique China teapot after her grandmother tells her not to drop it. The film doesn't need, nor give into the urge, to set the screen on fire with slow-motion, sweaty, softly lit love scenes. As audience members, we expect too much; a screen can blur reality until it turns into a massive smudge. We've come to believe that if we're watching an action movie, we're going to see some witless but thrilling bloodshed; if we're watching a film deemed to be erotic, there better be some soft-core movement.But what if the usual frankness was taken away from us, and we had to use our insight to fill in the extensive blanks? No matter how disappointed our inner 13-year old selves become, not showing something that we want to see is much more affecting than pouring sexuality onto the screen like an unstoppable liquid. Yet when a film as pointed as Belle de Jour contains so much mystery and so much surrealism, it's difficult to be completely focused on whether Deneuve will show as much skin as we want her to (spoiler she doesn't). Everything seems to have a double- meaning, an introspective question; our lingering arousals are put on hold in favor of trying to make sense of it all.There are a few times where Séverine exclaims that she could hardly live if she weren't also moonlighting as a prostitute, but there's something about how she says it that suggests otherwise. Is she doing it because she's dissatisfied, because she's disturbed, or is it something else? Personally, I think the authority involved is what turns her on. Her entire life, Séverine has mostly likely been looked at as an untouchable beauty that may as well be an object; people are afraid to approach her, scared that they might somehow morph her astonishing good looks. But as a lady of the day, men are no longer wary of her. She is giving her body to their depressing needs, and where most would feel materialized, she feels empowered. She doesn't have to be known as a surgeon's wife any longer; she is in control of the success of a romp, and being the focus of a man's humiliating passion puts her on a pedestal after acting as an ethereally attractive shadow for so long.By the end of the film, though, it's hard to tell what has been real and what has been fake. Throughout much of its course, the fantasies and the flashbacks are completely separate, and we think we know what is and what isn't reality. But the conclusion (which would be unfair to tarnish), is so unpredictably bizarre that it offsets everything. It suddenly becomes a film, open to anyone's interpretation. That's what has made Buñuel's movies last so long; with their abstract themes, it's hard to truly understand what he's trying to say, but he gives us enough content to keep us intrigued long after we've seen them. Belle de Jour, as simple as it may seem at first, is knotted in its meaning, and the untangling process may take longer than a few days.Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Erotic surrealism at its best !!!!","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Luis Bunuel is a very common name that gets uttered and mentioned in film schools and cinematic discussions in critical circles all around the world even today. His brand of surrealistic filmmaking is not only unique, but it is also thought provoking. Most of his films put more importance on what the viewer might get out of the watching experience instead of the basic facts of the screenplay. Belle de Jour is probably his most well known film and its reputation as one of his best has persisted ever since its release.On the face of it Belle de Jour is a strange film about a married woman's love life, her marriage and her sexual desires. But Bunuel ornaments this potentially simple script with masterful dream sequences, subtle flashbacks and a surreal style of storytelling to make the film extremely rich thematically and quite complex. The film starts off with a scene that is both beautiful to look at and also extremely meaningful and gives a great opening to the character of Séverine. Bunuel throughout the film plays with the viewer by blurring the distinctions between dreams and actual occurrences. There are very subtle and beautifully placed flashback sequences that also shed a lot of light on Séverine's past and provides a possible reason behind her behaviour. The dream sequences are abstract and open to infinite analysis. As a matter of fact, the whole film is made in a way which leaves the door wide open for endless interpretations. a whole chunk of the screenplay can be interpreted to be dreams and a number of characters in the film can be interpreted to be Séverine's creations. I have my own interpretation, but one has to respect a filmmaker for respecting film for what it is which is a subjective art form. Many have suggested that the film is a commentary on feminism and feminist ideas. I don't really agree with that, but that just underlines why this film will lead to conversations. I think Belle de Jour is a character study on Séverine, whose traumatic past makes it impossible for her to accept sex as means of making love and getting close to your loved one, rather to her, sexuality is something that is only supposed to be used to quench your wild desires in the most clandestine and secretive way. The cinematography is beautiful with richly bright interior scenes and the dream sequences have a beautiful visual psychedelic quality about them. I watched the Criterion Blu Ray version and the film looks as good as ever. The camera moves in a very effortless and nonchalant way to perpetuate the surrealism of the script. Bunuel puts very little importance on the nitty-gritty details of the script and puts more effort on symbolism, metaphors and the contextual allegorical content. The film epitomises the artistic style of Bunuel and is a treat to watch.Last but by no means least, I have got to talk about Catherine Deneuve. She is flawless as Séverine. She expertly portrays all the traits essential to the character which are naivety, vulnerability, shyness, an implicit sex appeal,etc.The film ends on a very unforced, subtle yet beautiful little scene which I think makes for a happy ending for a film which is so not conventional. "},{"Title":"Bunuel's mark","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" a special film. like each movie by Bunuel. same scene, same tricks, same spirit. different ingredients. and Catherine Deneuve in one of her memorable roles. a film about passion and desire. about search of happiness and clash between words. ironic, cold and out of reality's circle. and it is enough for discover an universe who has its rhythm, shadows and law. a film like a parable but that is not new fact for Bunuel. a film who seduce in strange manner because it is only a chain of questions. surrealism is basic answer but not the only. because it is an imitation of life in essential aspects. and a challenge. like each of Bunuel films. "},{"Title":"Fantasy for the sake of Reality","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. Nearly 50 years have passed since director Luis Bunuel brought the 1928 novel of Joseph Kessel to the big screen. It's a story of erotic fantasy told with Bunuel's unique surrealistic style. The film also presents a young Catherine Deneuve at her most striking.Ms. Deneuve's Severine plays the bored housewife to her doctor husband (Jean Sorrel). He is extremely patient and understanding of her coldness in the bedroom, and it's clear that she loves him, despite the lack of physical attraction. Soon enough, we are provided a glimpse of Severine's masochistic fantasies. It's not until later that we begin to understand what drives her imagination.Severine deflects the advances of an older family friend played by Michael Piccoli, who is so attracted by her purity, and unknowingly leads her into a world that might satisfy her in ways that her gentleman husband hasn't. When Severine meets Madam Anais (Genevieve Page), she begins playing out her fantasies through the afternoon shift at the brothel ... all while keeping up appearances for society.Bunuel provides us teases of the source through flashbacks and sound effects - a carriage harness bell and the periodic meows of a cat. It's never Bunuel's intent to answer all questions, and he certainly makes no moral judgment towards Severine. Instead we get an exploration of the variances in love, sex and fantasy.In the end, we aren't absolutely certain that we can distinguish between Severine's reality and her fantasy, but we do understand the importance of her fantasies within the structure of her day to day life. If watching Ms. Deneuve perform in this gem motivates you to see more, I would recommend Roman Polanski's Repulsion. Also, it should be noted that she still acts today. "},{"Title":"Classic Catherine Deneuve","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Séverine Serizy (Catherine Deneuve) is frigid with her husband Pierre. They sleep in separate beds. She has erotic daydreams. Séverine's friend Renée tells her that their friend Henriette is now working at a brothel. She is haunted by memories of her father. She follows one of the girls to a high class brothel run by Madame Anaïs who calls her Belle de Jour.I'm sure it was shocking for its time especially in America. More than any sexual content, it is the fact that a woman has a sexual mind that is fascinating. Catherine Deneuve does the reserved lady and the conflicted sex goddess both. It is about her physical reality and mental fantasies. I didn't see it on its original run. I can certainly see it as influential for those who did. "},{"Title":"Interesting, But Deneuve Is Reason to See","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Interesting Buñuel piece about a woman seeking liberation by being a woman of the day since she is only available while her husband's at work.What follows is a series of events that takes her down a new road she might not be ready for. Deneuve is excellent in her role. Buñuel offers some classic imagery that he has been famous for.But, in the end, you wonder if there is much point beyond Deneuve's journey. And, the ending is left to interpretation. That isn't bad, and is actually the highlight of the film, since it is where the film is set free.****** (6 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"A classic film of fantasy, lust, and hidden desire as daydreams becomes an erotic life!","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Finally viewed the international classic Belle De Jour with legendary screen queen Catherine Deneuve and for a film of 1967 it was one of lust and erotic fantasy to it's best! The story has Deneuve as a bored young socialite rich housewife named Severine who has it all, but the problem is she can't get no sexual satisfaction with her husband a doctor. Her only escape is to daydream of odd and rough sex of being tied up and playing rough. So finally she decides to take up a job as a prostitute in a brothel house! And this new secret life has it's good fun moments, but it has it's negatives and real down parts. As love is found thru tragic means still the life of fantasy and erotic lust is not what it seems for Severine. Overall good erotic fantasy film that showcases how sexy daydreams can lead to love while paying a price. "},{"Title":"On the ravages of sexual abuse","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here is the fascinating depiction of a woman so badly damaged by incest that she can't relate to her loving husband and spends most of her time in a world of fantasy, where she is tortured and raped.Catherine Deneuve dazzles as the picture-perfect, emotionally detached housewife suffering aftereffects of abuse by her father. One day she takes her self-flagellation from the realm of the mind to the chambers of a bordello, where it's unattractive johns who slap her around and make her bleed. As if that weren't punishment enough, Belle takes a freelance job in which she lies in a coffin to play the dead daughter of an obsessive incest perpetrator -- I hope you can forgive me, but I loved you so -- who masturbates below her scantily clad body.Severine/Belle de Jour admits she doesn't understand why she engages in actions that humiliate and harm her. Her blind acting out eventually claims the life of her greatest supporter -- and at that point it's Severine who has become an abuser herself.The only way she can tolerate this realization is to withdraw once again into the world of make-believe. And now Severine's fantasy is a joyous one. She has healed but is lost to the world. This is an incredibly grim and pessimistic film. When I first saw Belle years ago, I could make little sense of it. At last, I think I understand. "}{"Title":"Not a bad choice for a Buñuel virgin","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Luis Buñuel, probably the king of surrealist films, opens Belle de Jour, his first color film, with a couple of lingering shots and minimal sound which makes me feel like I was thrown in a different world or staring at beautiful paintings - which rightly sets the mood for 100 minutes of pure surreal movie experience.On the film's technical aspects, there is no background music except for the all-important bird/bell sounds; and the cinematography & lighting are not as visually satisfying as other films i've seen. It's probably intentional on Buñuel's part, I wouldn't know.. but it doesn't affect the quality of the film at all. The smooth/uninterrupted editing, I think is nicely done because the transition between Belle's fantasies & realities looks seamless which adds to the film's puzzling which is which reality. But the fantasy scenes, in my opinion, are just excellent in its simplicity, not too much garish artsy fartsy touch, but enough technical creativeness to give the audience a pure surreal treat. Not a bad choice for a Buñuel virgin. I thoroughly enjoyed seeing his masterful manipulation of his surrealist techniques and his tasteful execution of sexual depravities without having to resort to showing any nudity or crass sex scenes. At the end of the film, it's interesting to note that in a way, this is like a mix of Inception, The Housemaid, and Mulholland Drive, but satisfyingly less complicated. It doesn't mean that it won't leave you scratching your head, as Buñuel decides to keep this film open to your own interpretations. Catherine Deneuve IS Belle de Jour. I just love her in this one. "},{"Title":"Fickle Humanity","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As any emotion or idea is teased out in art cinema, Belle De Jour brings forth understanding of the complex notion of humanity's most damning conundrum we want most what we cannot have. As love may be the most powerful of our emotions, not even it can save lovely Sevinne from self- destructing her perfect life. Many films explore the idea love deprivation and its effects, but this is the first I have seen which explores what happens when we actually get what we want. The seeming madness which ensues is meaningful because it makes sense; the progression is strangely not just plausible, but logical. A beautifully photographed piece of visual as well as narrative art, Belle De Jour is subtle in its themes, deterministic and yet random in its story. In other words, it is real....it leaves one with a haunting understanding of the true nature of the human animal. "},{"Title":"A Masterful Performance","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Catherine Deneuve puts on a masterful performance as a frigid housewife named Severine Serizy who loves her husband Pierre Serizy (Jean Sorel) very much but cannot satisfy him sexually because she was sexually abused in her childhood. Or at least, that is what the viewers are led to believe because she has fantasies and dreams which seem to take on a life of their own and one is never sure where the line is drawn at times. Be that as it may, while she apparently cannot have sexual relations with her husband, she still has needs and she becomes a prostitute to fulfill them. At first she is very scared and tentative, but as she continues to work she gains more experience and becomes more confident and relaxed. Unfortunately, complications arise and things begin to get out of control. Now, rather than divulging how the story ends, I will just say that it is open to interpretation and let the viewer decide for himself. Additionally, while the subject and some of the scenes are somewhat risqué, there isn't a great deal of nudity or sex actually in this film. That said, depending on your point of view, that could be good or it could be bad. Regardless, I personally think Catherine Deneuve is one of the most beautiful actresses to ever grace the screen and I was delighted by her performance all the same. "},{"Title":"A true postmodern classic in psychological drama","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Amazingly good and surviving the necessary test of aging. Now I understand who Catherine Deneuve really is as an actress. She's simply great as Severine/Belle de Jour, and Buñuel is a genius. I thought it was impossible for me to watch this sixties' experiment, filmed the same year I was born, coincidentally. I read the book first back in the seventies, when I was maybe eight, nine years old, and I can't just begin to explain to you, oh good people, how reading that book had a certain effect on my erotic perception of the world in those faraway, bygone days, and I'm simply talking about my early and intense wanking pubescence activity. This film is so true to the original story and so well acted it hurts. The surrealistic management of time and places are all but a simple exercise in Belle de Jour, and that's when you understand what it means to be open-minded while you're watching a real piece of Seventh Art. Do not hesitate in watching and re-watching this movie, a production made back when art really meant something to film directors and to the public. Controversial as it is Nabokov/Kubric's Lolita, Belle de Jour contains some very un-PC scenes involving kids which would be banned, had they been filmed nowadays, because back in those days Political Correctness simply meant nothing and wasn't an impediment at all to the making of filmed art. I highly praise the moment I took away prejudices from my mind and decided to watch this movie for the first time after all these years. I was beautifully surprised and just couldn't stop watching till the end. And talking about the ending...., it has that special seal&#x85; you know, like when you turn to see if someone else, someone maybe sitting beside you and who may or may not explain to you what the director really meant, you not being convinced at all by the happy ending it seems to portray the first time you watch it. And this comment may contain a spoiler, but Severine/Belle de Jour is so nuts she takes you away with her craziness until the very end, making you to want to believe there's a happy ending and not just another one of the mind- tricks she performs in order to introduce some balance into her strange, unreal reality. This film is, by all means, a real 10-star one, and one that shouldn't let you undisturbed. Thumbs up for the French avant-garde represented in this movie, not one of Buñuel's little movies, as some pretend it is, but a postmodern classic in psychological drama. It has that dirty, corrupt air you get a taste of when dealing with songs like Lemon incest, as recorded by Charlotte and Serge Gainsbourg. It is also the only movie I have watched in the last 20 years which doesn't make me feel like wanting to puke when hearing the noise of shotguns being fired, as, i.e., in shooting choreographies such as Western/Mafia/Star Wars- styled movies. If you're high on Western/Mafia/Star Wars movies, this may not be the ideal movie for you to watch. Again a real 10-stars and a must- see, decidedly. "},{"Title":"Versatile modernist melodrama...","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Spanish-born Mexican screenwriter, producer, film editor and director Luis Buñuel's twenty-fourth feature film which he co-wrote with French actor and screenwriter Jean-Claude Carrière, is an adaptation of a novel from 1928 by French author and journalist Joseph Kessel. It was screened In competition at the 28th Venice International Film Festival in 1967, was shot on locations in Paris, France and is a French-Italy co-production which was produced by Egyptian brothers and producers Robert Hakim (1907-1992) and Raymond Hakim (1909-1980). It tells the story about Séverine Serizy, a insatiable, distant and noticeably attractive woman who lives in a dispirited marriage with her surgeon husband Pierre Serizy, who is very displeased with his young wife whom he finds cold and unkind. Séverine's life is restrained by her poor marriage and she only finds pleasure in her vivid fantasies, but her life changes significantly when she takes a day-job at a high-class brothel in Paris, France and meets a gangster named Marcel who seems to possess everything she is looking for and more.Distinctly and precisely directed by surrealist filmmaker Luis Buñuel (1900-1983), this luminous and intricate fictional tale which is narrated from the protagonist's point of view, draws a singular portrayal of a complex femme fatale's strange experiences at a French house of prostitution and her fantasy-driven relationship with a wicked young man whilst leading a double life. While notable for it's diverse and atmospheric milieu depictions, stellar cinematography by French cinematographer Sacha Vierny (1919-2001), production design by French production designer Robert Clavel (1912-1999), costume design by costume designer Hélène Nourry, fine editing by film editor Louisette Hautecoeur and use of sound, this character-driven and dialog-driven psychological comedy-drama from the late 1960s where reality and dreams are entwined, depicts an intriguing and in-depth study of character about self-realization.This rhythmic, surreal, humorous, amoral and discreetly erotic story about a bourgeoisie housewife who has become so imprisoned by her unfulfilled desires that she has withdrawn herself into an imaginary internal world, is impelled and reinforced by it's colorful characters, substantial character development, fragmented narrative structure, the incomparable and unforgettable acting performance by French actress Catherine Deneauve in one of her most renowned roles and the fine supporting acting performances by French actor Pierre Clémenti (1942-1999), French actress Genèvieve Page and French actor Jean Sorel. A mysterious, picturesque and versatile modernist melodrama which gained, among other awards, the Golden Lion at the 28th Venice Film Festival in 1967. "},{"Title":"Well made and interesting.","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Its story makes that this movie isn't anything usual to watch. But really, that should come as no surprise, since the movie got directed by Luis Buñuel. A man who loved to create some surrealistic pictures, about unusual subjects.But as far as Luis Buñuel movie go, this one is pretty mainstream and straightforward. It still has some dreamlike sequences in it but overall its narrative, dialog and characters are easy to follow and understand, making this movie a perfectly accessible one for just about everybody. So really, don't let the name Luis Buñuel scare you off, if you are afraid for some artsy fartsy type of stuff. Really hardly any of that present in this movie, though it still remains something unique and stylish to watch.The movie and its story is being an exploration of a woman's sexual fantasies. And it's not the romantic and cute kind of stuff. Things like bondage and other masochism pass through this movie, which all seems to be in big contrast with the cute looking and soft spoken Catherine Deneuve character. But that also makes it work out, I guess. It keeps things surprising and interesting because you basically never know what you can expect next from her and where the movie will be going with everything. Despite of its serious and heavy sounding subject, this actually remains a pretty fun movie to watch as well. This is all due to the unusual fantasies and the wishes of the customers the Catherine Deneuve character hooks up with, when she starts working as a part-time prostitute.The movie handles all of its themes very well and interesting, which gets you into the mind of the main character and understand her dilemmas and motivations. You don't ever condemn her, even though she is also committing adultery on her unknowing and somewhat too sweet and naive husband.It all got beautiful told and shot, thanks to Luis Buñuel's directing approach, which had always been more visually orientated.A great and original movie to watch!8/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Intriguing and ephemeral...","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First seeing Luis Bunuel's film here, there are a few surreal aspects to it, but the premise really is a young attractive wife of a doctor, who lives in Paris but is bored with her existence and has intimacy issues with her husband.It is very odd at first as we see her visiting with her husband Pierre's friends, at parties, etc...but really her mind is elsewhere, she wants a form of appreciation, obsession, perhaps lust or love. A woman is never quite sure, but knows when her husband is emotionally neglectful.She wanders the boutique shops of Paris, eventually wandering to Madame Anais' (Genevieve Page) brothel which is a small non-described building in the middle of the city.Initially, she is just curious and wanders in, asking about employment. Deneuve as Severine is beautiful here, her pale blonde hair, demure, and sensual.After awhile she is intrigued and Madame Anais makes up her alias belle du jour, she works during the day, and encounters some very odd characters. One is an Asian businessman with a propensity for masochism, up to a motorcycle man with metal teeth, very strange.There are some interesting visuals with horse and carriage, bells, and a man with a death fetish. The visuals have to be seen to be appreciated. Basically addresses psychology of women, in a sense, and the sometime need for escapism in marriage. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Women's sexuality","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle De Jour is Séverine's sexual identity. Séverine knows her real sexuality and instinctively acts upon it. She fantasizes about her being humiliated and dominated. The scenes where her husband and Husson throw mud at her, and the one where she is wiped are part of Severine's subconscious world and an expression of her Eros. However, her working for Madame Anais is taking her true desires on to another level the real life. Séverine senses the distinction between sexual desire and the platonic love she has for her husband. Apparently, it is liberating and thrilling to taste from what you really enjoy, what really turns you on, no matter how weird or abnormal it may be. Her mistake is that she goes too far. In your fantasies you can go as far as it gets, in real life however, things can get complicated. Séverine cannot control her adventure any longer. And so, the border between fantasy and reality fades to nothing. The viewer is not able to discern what is real and what isn't anymore. The end of the movie might be seen as a symbol for that. This plunge into the abyss of the real self is Séverine's doom, because it is utterly incompatible with her real life. She is married, she lives a bourgeois, classy life. Madame Anais and the brothel are part of a different world, one that she visits every afternoon, no later than 5 o'clock, and then she goes back home. However, Marcel dares to complicate things and crosses the bridge between Séverine's two realms. And disaster occurs.And yet, many women won't find it appalling. Many modern women won't even pretend to be disgusted. Séverine managed to reconnect with her sexuality, deviant and painful though it may have been (as the sexual abuse scene suggests). Everyday, in magazines or on TV shows, we are encouraged to know ourselves sexually. Belle De Jour is an example of what this may mean. "},{"Title":"Worth the price of admission to watch the goddess, Deneuve","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After seeing Roman Polanski's REPULSION and falling in love with it and it's star, I've begun my Catherine Deneuve kick. Many consider Belle De Jour her best film. While Repulsion suits my tastes far more, Belle De Jour was definitely a wonderful film of a different breed.I can't say I've seen too many French movies from the 60's - but from what I do know, I found the film to be very straightforward. There were abstract dream sequences from time to time which did a very good job rounding out the general feel of the movie, in contrast to the simple pace of the actual events.Deneuve looks stunning as always and gives her signature I'm so shy I barely show any facial expressions at all performance. Only in this film, you get to watch her transition from her normal shy self to a wilder, smilier creature which is unleashed once she secretly begins prostituting during the afternoons behind her well-rounded husband's back! So I guess the message is that some women just need to have a lot of promiscuous sex in order to really be happy??? There is a dirty almost punk-rock looking dude that comes into play about halfway through who undeniably resembles Cillian Murphy, only with a full set of gold teeth. I thought aside from Deneuve, he stood out as a very memorable character. He was problematic, violent, and unpredictable - reminded me of a lot of people I have known throughout my life.Solid movie. Interesting subject matter. Enough twists and unexpected situations to stay entertaining. The dream sequences are the strongest parts. Deneuve makes it completely worthwhile in the end. But see REPULSION first. "},{"Title":"Plenty to enjoy, plenty to consider, especially disentangling reality from fantasy","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this when I first saw it upon its UK release in the late 60's and still love it having just watched it on DVD. The thing is, is that I didn't know quite what I was responding to back then and although the film still has many puzzles, I do understand the main goings on rather better. It is clear from the outrageous and violent and abusive opening that we are in the realms of SM and as soon as the shocking opening, where our heroine is dragged from her carriage and beaten at the behest of her husband is revealed as her dream/fantasy, we know full well that it is she who is the leading player here. Indeed he is revealed to be far too caring and understanding (that is not understanding!) for her deeper needs and it is inevitable she will seek out alternative areas where she can enjoy her humiliations. Catherine Deneuve is sensational and does not make one false move in a very tricky role, Jean Sorel has a much less attractive role but does well and whilst it is regrettable that he has seems to know nothing of the urges within his wife, the madam in charge of the brothel susses her out in minutes, as she orders her back to her client. Plenty to enjoy, plenty to consider, especially disentangling reality from fantasy. Very well done. "}{"Title":"VU's Venus In Furs Connection","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No one ever mentions this, but if you examine the lyrics in the Velvet Underground's song Venus In Furs, you'll notice that the song was written about the characters in this film. He mentions Severine and the Bootlicker. They're pretty obvious references. Here are the lyricsShiny, shiny, shiny boots of leather Whiplash girlchild in the dark Clubs and bells, your servant, don't forsake him Strike, dear mistress, and cure his heartDowny sins of streetlight fancies Chase the costumes she shall wear Ermine furs adorn the imperious Severin, severin awaits you thereI am tired, I am weary I could sleep for a thousand years A thousand dreams that would awake me Different colors made of tearsKiss the boot of shiny, shiny leather Shiny leather in the dark Tongue of thongs, the belt that does await you Strike, dear mistress, and cure his heartSeverin, severin, speak so slightly Severin, down on your bended knee Taste the whip, in love not given lightly Taste the whip, now plead for meI am tired, I am weary I could sleep for a thousand years A thousand dreams that would awake me Different colors made of tearsShiny, shiny, shiny boots of leather Whiplash girlchild in the dark Severin, your servant comes in bells, please don't forsake him Strike, dear mistress, and cure his heartAnyone out there a Velvet Underground fan who agrees with me on this one?Tom "},{"Title":"An art house classic and possibly Bunuel's finest moment","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Luis Bunuel is often regarded as one of cinema's masters and with good reason. However, many people will probably have difficult getting into his work. His sense of humor is often absurd and requires a good knowledge of cultural mores - some may simply see them as Monty Python's sketches without the punchline. The rest of us however can see him as possibly cinema's finest practitioner of surrealism. Belle de jour is probably his most accessible film. His typically stylish if minimalist direction is on display and his attacks on bourgeoisie values are included as well. What sets this apart from most of his work though is there's an emotional core. As much as I love The Exterminating Angel and The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie, I really didn't care what happened to any of the characters. However, Belle de jour has a great sense of tragedy underpinning the sexual satire. The main character remains sympathetic throughout the film. Plus, unlike many art films, this is never remotely boring or emotionally distant.As terrific as Bunuel's direction and script are, the film wouldn't be nearly as memorable if it wasn't for the casting of Catherine Deneuve in the lead role. Shes simply ravishing and full of screen presence. Her understated manner perfectly complements her subtle character, making this a film requiring of multiple viewings to appreciate all the nuances. Another reason why more than one watch are necessary is Bunuel's treatment of the themes. He never tells you what to think about social lives and sexuality, demanding the viewer to draw their own conclusions. Now, if only modern day filmmakers in Hollywood could create intelligent, mature, and moving adult pictures such as this one. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Belle de jour","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French language director Luis Buñuel is a master at cinematic surrealism. After seeing his masterpiece Le Charme discret de la bourgeoisie in film history class during college, I had been intrigued to seek out and see more from him. So, when the Sundance Channel recently aired Belle de jour I took the plunge. While at first glance it seems we have a straightforward narrative, it all soon unravels. The first glimpse of our main character, Séverine, occurs during a masochistic nightmare (or maybe welcome dream as we might later discern) where her husband betrays her on a coach ride through the woods. She awakens in bed, where we discover she has had dreams like this before. All this is in a linear stream until we soon get a lightning quick cut to a scene of a little girl being sexually advanced on by an older man. Could this be a memory of Séverine's childhood? or maybe just another puzzle piece leading us astray. Either way one thinks, he/she is in for a ride of reality and fantasy melding together, eventually becoming one and the same, where at the finish of the film no one will know what actually happened, if anything at all.Our lead is played magically by Catherine Deneuve who's striking in beauty as well as dramatic chops. Deneuve may be the most beautiful woman put to film that I have seen. She is not just a pretty face, however, as her angelic features are needed to juxtapose herself against the brothel lifestyle she soon enters. While cold to her husband physically, although we are shown signs she really does love him, she seems to open up completely during her escapades at the Madame's underground whorehouse. At first she shies away from the intimate contact, but soon is reveling in the embarrassment as she's dominated by her male suitors. The nightmares sprinkled throughout, then, could be pleasant dreams, as maybe she wants her husband to demean her and treat her as an object like those that she sees during the day. She superimposes the brutality on her husband in her thoughts because that is what she really desires.Along with Deneuve, we are treated with many great performances, including her husband's friend Hussan played by Michel Piccoli who plays the part with great duplicity. He is a man that Séverine despises yet her husband finds hilarious. An integral part of the film, Hussan could be construed as the conductor of the events at hand. He puts the idea of prostitution into Séverine's head and ultimately gets the ball rolling for what the movie's climax holds in store. Pierre Clémenti also does a wonderful job as Marcel, a regular customer of Belle de jour and the complete manifestation of everything she wants her husband to be. His brutality and emotion form a great edge to his character as you never know what he will do next. Marcel is constantly on the fence of keeping himself in check or totally losing his mind.Belle de jour is a journey into the psyche of our main character. We see her fantasies, her nightmares, her thoughts, and the horrors that all hold in store for her. She lives dangerously close to disaster, but seems to enjoy the possibility that she will be caught or hurt. The excitement is what she is really after. There are many ways to interpret a film of this kind and all are probably correct. Buñuel has created a template for thought and discussion. One leaves his films with a feeling of disorientation, much like that contained by his characters, yet also a desire to crack the code to the mystery. This is cinema at its best; an intelligent story that challenges the viewer and doesn't allow for the banal passivity that many movies churned out by Hollywood do today. "},{"Title":"surrealist black humor","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  luis bunuel, of course, was a surrealist film maker, and one of the surrealists big influences was the marquis de sade. this movie touches on some of de sade's themes-- of course in a much tamer way, and with bunuel's sly humor. bunuel uses dreams and fantasy sequences to depict severine's state of mind in a nonverbal way. there may also be a connection between severine's name and that of the masochistic male character in Sacher-Masoch's book Venus in Furs which The velvet underground recorded and released a song about in 1966/1967. The final events of the movie are humor of the strangest, blackest sort.  "},{"Title":"Godard","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do not know much about Bunuel, as this was the first movie I saw of his, but I found it intriguing.  Seeing as both he and Godard are french filmmakers of the same period, I was wondering if the two ever worked or studied together.  Godard's influence on the movie seemed apparent to me Multiple diegeses, jump cuts, and a surrealism that left us wondering exactly what the relationship of the image to the real is.  The theme of a bored and doomed bouregois lifestyle, prevalent in Godard's work was the central theme of Belle de Jour.    Additionally, I'm wondering if anyone else caught this, there is a blatant refference to Godard's Breathless, when (I believe it's Jean Sorel) is walking into the apartment building where he beats a guy up in the elevator, and there is a man selling newspapers shouting New York Herald Tribune, just like the female star in breathless. Is this a known reference, or did I stumble upon something?  "},{"Title":"Vintage Bunuel","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Vintage Bunuel.  The young wife Severine (Catherine Deneuve) of a Paris doctor can't be intimate with her husband and becomes a day prostitute at a supposedly high class Parisian brothel. She is an aloof, cold, shy spoiled rich girl who indulges in a string masochistic fantasies through out the film. But as Belle de jour,  she is a fun girl after a slow start. Through her stream-of-consciousness, we witness a parade of clients ranging from a professor of gynaecology (a masochist) to a necrophilic French duke who lives in a splendid palace. We can never really be sure what is real (if anything) and what is Severine's fantasy. Bunuel communicates by suggestion and inference, not by explicit action. The work is sexual without being blatantly erotic; Bunuel clearly respects his audience. A film for adults, but not an adult film. One cringes at the thought of contemporary Hollywood trying to do this film. Sharon Stone as Severine? Explicit S&M? Neat politically correct feminist messages-its all the husband's fault. "},{"Title":"Why I think it is one of Bunuel's best films.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Belle de Jour' combines both Bunuel's interest in surrealism and human behaviour in the way that only he can.  However, what struck me the most is his sense of humour, what the Spanish call his 'toques', his little jokes. I still wonder what was in the box of the Chinese man and more disturbingly what he planned to do with it!  This has become one of my favorite films and each time I see it I notice something new.  Despite it being over 30 years old I don't feel it's lost any of its power. "},{"Title":"Buñuel did it again","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is classic.And Severine is one of the most importants roles in Catherine Deneuve's career. Surrealistic as any of Buñuel films. Golden teeth, Jackets in summer, Funny argument. What could make a lovely wife a prostitute in the evening and get into the most sado-masoquists and kinky situations? And after all this, she still being chaste with her husband "},{"Title":"Film for polemics","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film brought me a question, which probably Bunuel will answer differently to what I think. Is prostitution an act of women will or is it a social phenomenon caused by misery and poverty? One may say that Mesalina was a prostitute while she was the emperor's wife in the ancient Rome, right, but exceptions of all rules always exist. Normally a woman being wealthy and not satisfied with her husband will either look for divorce or for somebody else as a permanent lover, i.e. what we know as adultery. The latter is far to be prostitution as such. Bunuel here presents a film plot of an exception. The so-called Belle de Jour became a kind of a modern and discreet Mesalina, she often had in her mind nightmare of acts of violence her husband may impose over her body, pure mentality of masochism, and one day she decided to test herself. Logic in her behaviour is not seen, nor with the end of the film. Technically the film is OK, it has good colors and the acting of Catherine Deneuve, Geneviève Page and other actors may be considered acceptable in all cases. "},{"Title":"Catherine Deneuve shining in a story of fantasy and ambiguity","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This meeting between Luis Bunuel - the great Spanish director close to the end of a career started as a partner of Dali in making the surrealist 'Chien Andalou' and ended as the creator of some of the best films about the morals of the bourgeoisie - and Catherine Deneuve, one of the best and most beautiful French actresses at the start of a fabulous career is really explosive. 'Belle de Jour' is the story of a young woman, victim of childhood abuse, who recently married cannot find satisfaction into her marriage and finds refuge and fulfillment of her masochistic fantasies in working as a prostitute. The moral ambiguity of the story may not look so new nowadays, but it stands well the passing of time because of the superb acting and the very reserved style applied by Bunuel in his story telling. The best parts of the film are the intermingling between reality and fantasy which place the egocentric fragility of the heroine in the context of her dreams and desires. Deneuve is young and beautiful, but already mature and mastering perfectly her acting talent in one of the best roles of her career. "}{"Title":"Ironic, often incredible film about sex--as a repression and as a freedom","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French-Italy co-production, directed with tricky élan by Luis Buñuel, has Catherine Deneuve playing another frigid beauty, this one a wealthy doctor's wife who can't seem to get her married life off the ground (after one year of marriage, she and her husband still sleep in separate beds). She fantasizes about sexual clinches, but seems to know little about what makes a man tick. After hearing about another woman who took up prostitution as a way to earn some quick money, Deneuve become obsessed with a local whorehouse (actually, a rather quaint one, with a madame and only two other girls) and gradually learns to dispel her repulsion of intimacy. It's a highly enjoyable journey to take part in, and Deneuve is often amazing in her role (it's easily one of her finest performances). The film nimbly balances different moods and ironic passages with subtle flair, although in its latter stages a moralistic tone creeps into the story that I didn't much care for (the filmmakers seem to be saying, don't let this happen to you!). Still quite good, with a thoughtful climax and terrific work from the supporting players. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For people who find pleasure in sexual kinks but aren't quite comfortable with their appetites, Luis Bunuel's 1967 classic ''Belle de Jour'' is the ultimate candy, offered in a manner that's elegant and nonjudgmental.Starring a ravishing, letter-perfect Catherine Deneuve as Severine, a bored Parisian housewife who dabbles in prostitution, ''Belle de Jour'' is a wise, enormously enjoyable film about the power of fantasy a toast to the importance of dreams.Directing with cool, wicked detachment, Bunuel strips bare Deneuve's rich fantasy life and in brief flashbacks psychologizes Severine's taste for kink. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"belle de jour","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I may have seen this movie in art school. It looked familiar. I know I was shown the one where a little kid is dressed as a bride. I rented this at blockbuster. The sexual fantasy part did not mean as much to me in 2005 as it might have in the 1960's, but the idea of middle-classed conformity encouraging dangerous behavior as an escape from a robotic existence struck an important chord when I look around.The scene with the super rich guy putting the conventional middle classed woman in a coffin, then doing only God knows what to her, and subsequently having her thrown out of his château in the rain by a servant in disguising black glasses was, in my opinion, a revealing and intelligent reference to the way average, proper, and conventional people are habitually manipulated, exploited and then discarded by those in society who are, and always have been, above the rules that bourgeoisie, like Severine and her husband are still taught to live by. The film shows this discrepancy on many levels of society with various characters encountered in the brothel by Severine. The foreigner, the chocolate millionaire and the gangsters do what they wish and are seemingly no worse for it.By the end, I feel the director implies, Let restrictive training go...to be happy and in control of one's own destiny, one may as well do as one pleases without remorse.At the end of the film the bells are still ringing, the cats still meowing, and the carriage is finally empty but still moving forward. Severine appears happier and more free at the end of the film after she has broken away from the confines of her stifling past from childhood to adulthood. Whether the illicit experiences on film were real or imagined, they have left the repressed and chilly character less enslaved and more enthusiastic than she was at the beginning of the film. "},{"Title":"And she wore Saint Laurent","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is very important to note that this movie made Catherine Deneuve really an international star since the success it got everywhere (She had made many films like Les Demoiselles de Rochefort, Repulsion and Les Parapluies de Cherbourg, but finally everybody fell in love with here in this this movie). And this Buñuel's film was one of the first approaching kinky sex and all that stuff in a serious movie. And the character she plays actually became a whore in the sake of getting cure, as you can see at the end of the film, when the rejected lover shoots her husband (Jean Sorel). And she wore Yves Saint Laurent clothes too! "},{"Title":"The French Always Does It Right","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What is true eroticism?  Most people would think watching a porno movie is erotic.  But the director of 'Belle De Jour' obviously understands that the element of eroticism comes from the mind, and is even more tantalizing when it's happening behind closed doors, in whatever form it may be. Subtleness makes this movie a real pleasure, and great directing makes it a masterpiece.I have watched this film many times already and it's great to see a film that approaches it's theme with intelligence and maturity.  Highly recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"See it with Gloria Steinem","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)This psychodrama seems a little dated viewed today, and would be an ordinary film except for the fact that it stars the legendary French beauty Catherine Deneuve and is directed by the incomparable Spaniard Luis Buñuel, although this is not his best work. The quasi-Freudian exploration of the character of a woman who can only be sexually aroused and satisfied by being treated as trash doesn't exactly play in today's world, nor would it appear on Ms. Magazine's most admired list.Deneuve demands the screen and is fascinating to watch, and Buñuel's direction, while not flashy or completely intelligible, is intriguing and focused. Buñuel has done some great work including two I recall, The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie (1972) and That Obscure Object of Desire (1977). His early work goes back to the silent film era. My favorite Deneuve film is Mississippi Mermaid (1969) followed closely by The Umbrellas of Cherbourg (1964). Deneuve is your high class, slightly cool beauty, somewhat in the manner of Grace Kelly. She looks like butter wouldn't melt in her mouth and so directors have always tried to sully her up. Buñuel smears her both literally and figuratively here as a day-tripping prostitute addicted to debasement. I don't buy the psychology, but this sort of thing used to play well. I recall an Italian movie from the same period in which the hero couldn't perform with his sweet and beautiful wife, but had to go slumming to get it on. I think it was called Bell Antonio or something like that. "},{"Title":"i found solace in the fake eyelashes","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd kind of been meaning to see this movie for a long time because everyone kept telling me how great it was, but when I finally did see it, I wasn't impressed. It's an OK movie. There are many better surrealist movies, and certainly many better movies with an anti-bourgeois theme. I quickly realized that this movie really has the same appeal as those Girls Gone Wild videos they sell on late-nite TV...well, it taps into the same male fantasy, anyway underneath the seemingly pure and chaste maiden lurks the crazed nymphomaniac. There's definitely an element of truth in that fantasy (and in amateur quasi-porn videos), but there's really not one element of truth in this sadly dated drama. Basically, the movie starts with a premise well-suited for porn and/or an interesting psychological drama, and ends up with neither this is a boring, self-consciously academic movie.I know Belle de Jour is famous for its twist ending, but, believe me, it really isn't that surprising at all, especially if you've seen a few movies like this. (Hmm. I didn't realize how much this movie bothered me until I started writing this. I really don't like it at all.)On a more positive note Catherine Deneuve's fake eyelashes are some of the most marvelous fake eyelashes I've yet seen in film. "},{"Title":"Catherine the Great","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Out of all of Denevue's movies, this is the best. Quite a few of Bunuel's movies are inaccessable, but this is very easy to follow and understand, even for those of you who hate to read subtitles.  There is no other movie quite like this one. "},{"Title":"Twisted Presentation of Male Sexual Fantasy Under Disguise","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A happily married but sexually unsatisfied wife fulfills her desire by participating in prostitution. Her psychological and sexual confusion and obsession are explicitly described in dream sequences, which include the torture scene at the beginning to open the film with the shock value. Belle de jour, an intensely erotic picture even without nudity, is a twisted presentation of male sexual fantasy under the disguise of examining female sexual exploration. Possibly Catherine Deneuve's best performance; she looks fabulous in a woman-under-the-influence role, as in Polanski's Repulsion. Sound design is phenomenal, especially the sound of a trotting wagon in the opening and ending shots. "},{"Title":" Severine Deneuve","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about this movie. I really liked it but Idisagree with those who claim that this is Deneuve's bestperformance.  I think the movie would have been better withsomeone else because, in this movie like in most her movies,Deneuve is Deneuve, not Severine.  Deneuve as a matter of factrarely espouses the characters she plays.  Some movies aretailored for that and end up wonderful (Indochine), others don't.This being said, I like the frankness of the movie (yes, yes, someof the fantasies are pretty universal). And yes, some scenes andcharacters are not very plausible, but I don't think Buñuel's pointever was for his viewers to believe what they see.  Theunlikeliness of his movies is part of his humor.I think the greatest parts in Buñuel's movies are his dreams andfantasy sequences, I always find myself waiting for them.  Theones in Belle de Jour weren't as wild as I thought they'd be (thiswas my second Buñuel).  Maybe censorship at the time hadsomething to do with this.  Although this movie is mentallyuninhibited, in action it slightly is.  It could definitely be a little moregraphic and keep its charm.I read somewhere that there was no score. I have to say that Ididn't even notice that during the movie!  I guess it works then.Very good movie overall, but not a 10/10.  Definitely worth seeingthough. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece of erotica, but in 1967 not today.","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A masterpiece of erotica, but in 1967 not today.There are moments for sure of eroticism but this is far from that if seen more objectively. There is a story of a woman who desires much more from her life than what is given to her in life. She wants money and she wants her desires to be satisfied and she walks to one of the houses and seeks a place and makes it her own. Catherine DeNeuve as (Severine / Belle De Jour) gives a fine and a subdued performance, but after a point she start becoming monotonous as she does the same thing over and over again.This is French cinema, so there is some inexplicably that will made me , a viewer think about it and here I have her dreams that come and go just like that. It begins and ends in a dream as if it comes a full circle for us. Now, is this kind of physical romance was what she liked, or wanted, I was wondering and perhaps, yes or may be no, but the interesting thing is it's not shown straight to us we only get some significant hints. Some may be disappointed for this film might not have stood up to their expectations of being seductive or sexy but sure, this film goes beyond many seductive films and just keeps us glued. Maybe it's Catherine's beauty that's so enticing for us, maybe it's the screenplay or maybe something else, does it really matter, coz I watched it and I liked it. As I said, I liked it but not loved it, so I say this is a good movie though. A 3/5 is what I think is apt. "},{"Title":"Great Bunuel","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle de Jour (1967) *** 1/2 (out of 4) A beautiful woman (Catherine Deneuve) marries a doctor but can't be intimate with him so she starts working during the day as a prostitute. Here's another surreal film from director Luis Bunuel, which I enjoyed quite a bit but I think a second viewing would make it better to me. The biggest highlight is the brilliant performance from Deneuve, which is among the greatest I've seen from any actress. The way she plays the frozen wife is terrific and her breakthrough is done wonderfully as well. Perhaps this will change on a second viewing but I thought the film went on a bit too long and the various mind games weren't really needed. The stuff with the crazy lover really bored me and I thought it led to a pretty stupid ending. "},{"Title":"Worms are eating you up...","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The line between illusion and reality is blurred to perfection in all of Luis Bunuel's work but perhaps most seamlessly in Belle de Jour, his best known (if not his best) movie. Severine Serizy (played by Catherine Deneuve), the wife of a promising doctor, is frigid with her handsome workaholic husband Pierre (Jean Sorel) but she's no good girl. Her sexual coldness masks her affliction with that most Parisian of maladies, sadomasochism.Severine's need for humiliation drives her to secretly become a prostitute by day. As one of Madame Anais's beauties she opens sexually in a series of misadventures that are often quite amusing but ultimately expose her and wreck her confused but comfortable world. By the end we're never quite sure just what has happened and are left with lingering doubts about the meaning of fidelity, love, and sexuality -- hot topics when the movie premiered in 1967.Several things stand out and make this movie a real treat. Foremost is Catherine Deneuve's extraordinary beauty. Whether in underwear or the incredibly stylish costumes by Yves Saint Laurent, she is ravishing. But just as enchanting are Genevieve Page as Madame Anais and all the actresses that haunt the picture with their suppressed loveliness. Judicious use of sound effects (there is no soundtrack - a mark of Bunuel) and color (supposedly this was Bunuel's first color film) give sensory clues to the narrative that still inspire debate. And where else could you possibly see Catherine Deneuve splattered in the face with cow dung! It is a masterpiece from the father of surrealism and one not to miss. "},{"Title":"Belle De Jour","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle De Jour, is a French film with English subtitles. The film is about a woman named Severine Serizy, who is married to a man named Pierre Serizy. Severine, loves Pierre but can't seem to really warm up to him or be intimate with him. She soon finds out about a prostitute house through a friend of Pierre's and out of curiosity she goes to it and soon asks to be one of the prostitutes during the afternoons while Pierre is at work. The person in charge is Madame Anais, who runs the business out of her suite in a building. Soon, Severine meets the two other girls and is picked by several men. Severine, who uses the name Belle de Jour is shy at first but starts to get more comfortable as time goes by. But she must keep this a secret from Pierre, and a problem arises when one of the customers falls in love with her. Winner of The Bodil Award for Best European Film at The Bodil Awards, The Critics Award for Best Film at The French Syndicate Of Cinema Critics and The Golden Lion Award for writer and director Luis Bunuel and The Pasinetti Award for Best Film at The Venice Film Festival. Belle De Jour, has good direction, a good script, a good performance by Catherine Deneuve (who plays Severine), good cinematography and good film editing. Belle De Jour, is a good character study and is a very interesting film. The film moves along at a good pace and I was intrigued by what happened to the characters and was curious to see the end results. The film also had some very unique moments which are very inspired and creative. I also liked the different twists in the movie and what happens to the characters in these situations. An interesting and compelling film that is very good. "},{"Title":"Belle!Beautiful.luis Bunuel?surrealistic movie for a realistic sexual life.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That obscure thing of desirewas great,how about this movie! I mean ,what an ending,I've seen a commentary saysEven Bunuel and jean-claude carriere don't know exactly the meaning of this ending.But whats wrong with that?It is open for us to see it ,to analyze it!WOW!what can be said!few wordswatch it before any next movie.It will stay in your mind!because it starts with the sub-conscience of bunuel. "},{"Title":"an unequalled look at female sexual perversion","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Extraordinary. A cold, clear, discomforting study of female sexual perversion, Belle de Jour distills everything Bunuel did in cinema into a gem of depravity. The stillness and flatness of the film may make it seem underdeveloped on first watching; there isn't even a musical score. But that very stillness, that appalling matter-of-factness denies us the chaperoning we're used to from films that tackle difficult subjects. We're not distanced by cheap, prim cinematic maneuvers like musical cues or forced camera angles. Immediately you can see how every problem film before Belle de Jour treated us like children by tiptoeing up to its subject and then softening it for us. Their worst offense was to offer explanations, usually some version of the trauma theory. Total rubbish, tacked on by nervous production executives (like the next to last scene in Psycho, in which Bates's behavior is explained by trauma; it was rot and Hitch treated it that way; it was only there to reel the audience back in from the pure horror they'd just watched). Bunuel was just bored enough to not even bother. Severine/Belle's compulsion has no explanation. Perhaps the most striking and disturbing scene in the movie is a flashback to where the child Severine was molested by a filthy hulking plumber. Bourgeois morality has conditioned us to revolt, but the movie here soars above convention Severine likes the molestation.That is the heart of her perversity and the film's. It absolutely refuses to help us be good bourgeois. Bunuel's naturalistic style was subversive and sadistic. Its pitiless anti-aestheticism means you watch without painkillers. No ambivalence, no softening, no way out. Either you respond from your own perversity, or you check your watch. See this film several times; its rich layering becomes more evident and more disturbing with each viewing. So does its brilliance.  "},{"Title":"Does she or doesn't she?","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In his usual fine, iconoclastic, class-shattering manner, Bunel asks the eternal question yeah, sure; everyone _talks_ a good line about fantasy as an interdimensional portal, but who's actually willing to pony up and go ALL THE WAY?My favorite moment is where the Duke's manservant expels Belle de Jour from the palace, with a neat disgust befitting his station as superego-for-hire to His Dukeship.  Never more than a breath away from a biting class commentary, that Luis! "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An interesting surrealist film, essentially about sexuality and sexual repression, it focuses on a married French woman who becomes a prostitute in order to explore other sexual partners, but yet who feels enormous guilt over keeping this a secret from her husband. The surreal elements come into play with the way that the story is told as a series of episodes that change from reality to fantasies to dreams and to memories. All these episodes are filmed in the same fashion, creating a blur that reflects the main character's mental state - she herself is unable to work out what is real and what it is not. There are clues to point out when she is dreaming though, with repeated dialogue and some situations that are similar to the reality. It is cleverly done and intriguing to watch, as one tries to put the puzzle together. In the end though, there are no straight answers as to what is what, which will irritate some viewers. Personally, I like to be able to come up with a definite answer at the end of any film, and here there is simply none. It it also contains a number of unresolved loose threads, such as what is in the buzzing box. Everything does not really fall into place too well by the end, but nevertheless the film leaves a lot to consider after it is over. The film definitely has some things to say about sexual antics - although this is basically all that it is about. If nothing else, it is a unique, very unusual film experience, complete with curious touches of comedy, drama and fantasy. Deneuve is great in the lead, and if not fully satisfying, the film is fascinating enough that the skill put into it can be appreciated either way. "},{"Title":"Artistic Masterpiece for Intellectual Emptyheads!","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you have very little experience in life and have your head buried in the New York Times, maybe Luis Bunuel's masterpiece will titillate your senses; but if you spend a day in the real world you might find this movie is just a little silly. Fun to watch, truthfully; but art it ain't.Catherine Deneuve (age 24) plays a 24 year old wife whose husband is not only very good looking but he's got a wonderful personality and he loves his wife faithfully. Besides this, he's truly rich -- a multi-millionaire -- who provides her with everything she wants; EXCEPT.... Except having everything can be so boring (Note True sympathy here. Being rich but without challenge, goals or purpose is an empty life). So Catherine will try to fulfill herself in a fantasy brothel which supposedly operates in an upscale Paris neighborhood. Nothing that happens there rings true, but I think it's especially false as a woman's fantasy. Women do not dream if the Ultimate Orgasm with a seriously overweight slob with a personality to match. But in the film's trademark scene, there's Catherine in the afterglow of a workout with this 300 pounder, orgasm fulfilled at last. Gosh!From there she gets one of these in-movies-only perverts that wants to play the house-servant brandishing a plume feather-duster and being bawled-out by his mistress. Double gosh! Where are all these rich guys that play these games? Mostly in the minds of really bad fiction writers. Does Bunuel even know that most girls in a brothel do not like dealing with freaks, at any price?One other big failure, as if the stupid writing isn't enough. Catherine Deneuve was described in 1967 as perhaps the most beautiful woman in history. Too bad she does a semi-nude scene where we find that despite her stunning face her body is not beautiful at all.In 1967, the French were producing many very fine and artistic movies. Belle de Jour was not one of them. 2/10. "},{"Title":"complicated, but catherine deneuve made it adorable (like always)","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes de film is complicated with the flashbacks or dreams. But Catherine saves the movie with her touching performance of an unfaithful wife.The Story.-Séverine, a wife how is married with Pierre (a doctor) is unhappy with her lonlyness. When she meets a friend (henry) who tells about his adventures in a house with hookers. She decide to become one. She goes working by Anaïse. When she meet someone how falls very deep in love with her, she decide to stop. But he follows her and shoot at her men (pierre). Pierre survive the attack, but the other man died soon after the attack.This film made Catherine Deneuve famous but Belle-Maman, Ma Saison Préférée were better.*But the part of Jean Sorel was very good!!!#rating (7/10) "}{"Title":"Beautiful Empty Days","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've just been reading several of the comments on this film - as I invariably do before adding my own - and the thing that comes across most strongly is a need for deep analysis that I am unable to share because frankly I don't CARE enough about the characters, plot, etc, to waste good analysis on it. Yes, it was pleasant to watch, some of the set-ups had their moments but all in all it was like the box that the Asian punter had with him. We never find out what was in it and we never will and the chances are it was as empty as this film and the buzzing sound existed only on the sound track just as any ultimate meaning exists only in Bunuel's head. If you've got 100 minutes to spare check it out but if it's a choice between this and Batman go with the guy in the cape. "},{"Title":"So she wants to be mistreated and be a prostitute? So what.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some would have us believe that Deneuve's expressionless face is right for the role. Or perhaps she can't act? In her other movies she is similarly detached, i.e. unable to act. I guess this kind of underacting, or non-acting was suitable here, but that's not to say she's brilliant as some people think. The movie is again about kinkiness, Bunuel's favourite theme. Sex and sexual perversion, the hallmarks of European cinema. Bunuel was just a dirty old man, living out his own fantasies on screen, and yet film critics would have us believe that it's a master at work. Well, even if he were a master &#x96; which he's not (he is merely a solid director) &#x96; the fact remains that he's a dirty old man. Isn't this obvious? Or is this ARTIST above such low human qualities&#x85; Film students and movie critics ought to stop regarding some film-makers as gods, i.e. stop worshipping them blindly and regard them as the mere humans that they are. Some of the dialogue in the early parts of the movie is absurd, and I don't mean weird, but unrealistic and just badly written. I have a distinct impression Bunuel wrote his scripts within days, hours maybe even; there is also very little perfectionism in the way he sets up scenes. The movie is okay, nothing more. It isn't dull, and it keeps one's attention but why shouldn't it? Anything that goes on in a brothel is easy to watch without getting bored. Does one need to be a master of cinema to create an interest in watching the daily goings-on in a brothel?Watching some of Bunuel's sex-themed films, I am often reminded of Germany's Der Schulmaedchenreport films, which is a cheap soft-porn movie series filled with humorous and sometimes perverse anecdotes. Why are those films considered junk compared to Bunuel's masterpieces? Let's face it, his movies are solid, but were he not a left-winger he would not have had nearly this much admiration from the film world which is so infested by Marxists.Roger Ebert, that genius, is particularly mesmerized by the scene with the Chinaman. This happens to be the most badly acted scene in the movie - but to Ebert the mystery surrounding what's in the Chinaman's box seems to be of prime importance. What's in the box? writes Roger in his pretentious review. WHO CARES?! That guy probably had some metal balls in there which he wanted Deneuve to insert you-know-where. Big deal! What was Ebert expecting to be in the box? Litte green men? Diamonds shaped like elephants? Letters he wrote to his first girlfriend? Amazing... Denueve is sexually not attracted to her dull fiancée. What she really craves is excitement, beatings, sexual perversion, submission and what-not. So what? Is this supposed to be deep? Believe me, I understood this movie - what's there not to understand? However, I do not see what's supposed to be so brilliant about this overrated little movie about sexual fantasies. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I haven't read the novel by Joseph Kessel on which Belle de Jour was based so I cannot comment on its effectiveness as an adaptation but as a film standing alone, I thought it to be an impressive and thought-provoking piece of art. I even felt this despite the fact that I rarely ever respond favorably to subtitled films. Although Catherine Deneuve is magnificent in what many people consider to be her signature role, and the rest of the cast is more than competent for the requirements of their various characters, I think the primary reason for appreciating this film is its ambiguous stance on sexual ethics rather than actors striving to deliver pitch-perfect performances. "},{"Title":"Fun with Bunuel.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A cheeky Bunuel has a middle class housewife work the day shift in a high-class Parisian brothel because she can't seem to-get-off on her husband. Some kinky moments and Deneuve's performance make this Bunuel film fun to watch.   "},{"Title":"Sadly disappointing","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For a film to be at least good, it should be acted well, don't you think? This may well be Catherine Deneuve's worst performance ever. When I saw her drop the vase at the beginning of the film, I thought she had mock-dropped it to tease the maid. But it turned out that she was actually trying to act dizzy. And the death of Pierre Clementi (Marcel)?!? Laughable! Laurel & Hardy used to fall down like that to amuse their audience. Sheer disappointment! "},{"Title":"Haunting, Strange Movie","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Belle de Jour is the nickname given to Severine when she becomes on upscale Parisian prostitute. Played by Catherine Deneuve, Severine is a young, beautiful surgeon's wife. Today we'd say she has some 'issues' to work through, mostly of an erotic, or downright sexual nature. Severine does not seek support from a psychiatrist, but instead goes to a madam who puts her to work in a brothel while Severine's unsuspecting husband is at the hospital. Unlike many excellent films today that layer multiple, intertwined stories together, Belle de Jour has many intertwined levels, or views of this rather simple tale. I can't explain it; it must be seen to be appreciated. An excellent rental if you are in the mood for something a little different.  "},{"Title":"'Belle' Is Beautiful But Boring","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here's another one of those shocking movies of yesteryear that is absolutely nothing now.....just mainly boring. You wonder what the fuss was all about. The critics all called it erotic. I call it boring. Judge for yourself.This is a story about a wife who becomes a prostitute secretly for several hours each afternoon. In the first hour of this film, I saw no nudity, almost no profanity and, quite frankly, was so bored with the story that I lost interest in watching the last 40 minutes.Catherine Deenuve's beautiful face, even with those awful overdone 1960s fake eyelashes, was about the only thing I enjoyed in here. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Keeping it brief..Wow! I found Belle de jour an incredibly poor film. Little if any care taken to develop character. Awkward editing. The cinematography was boring (with a couple exceptions). The dialog was banal and acting was forced (felt like a Telemundo soap opera).If you say you have to know Bunuel to understand this movie, that is evidence he did a pretty poor job. I have a feeling Bunuel could have thrown anything up on the screen and his fans would find meaning and brilliance. Set this film in N.America, shoot and cut it the same with English speaking actors ...I'm pretty sure it would be labeled as a very poorly conceived and produced film by most. "},{"Title":"Hot!","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even though this film is so out dated Catherine Deneuve is hot! The film ends up being a major disappointment for those of you who want to see the lovely Catherine Deneuve naked and having sex in multiple scenes. She does not. And you have to look very closely if you want to see a few seconds of nudity. Still, for 1967, this movie is hot! The ending is total French New Wave. I'm sure many people haven't seen it yet. Once Catherine Deneuve leaves the prostitution business most of the audience in the cinema had left for home. The ending is a giant ball of bad symbolism that makes many French Film Critics talk about it for hours and hours when it shouldn't be taken about at all. Since many people don't get the ending, for one reason or another, I get the ending for being one that is bad. The question of whether or not her husband forgives her for her doings is and is not answered by the end of the movie. The conclusion isn't important, since the climax of the film happens throughout the middle and dies out in the end. "},{"Title":"Meow","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film stars a 23 year-old Catherine Deneueve, looking older than she is, but not as elegant and beautiful as she was bound to become later in life, as a reserved wife, Severine Serizy, who, in her dreams, is humiliated and sullied (in one sequence quite literally) and through an uncomplicated series of events, ends up in a cozy little brothel. Through one pretty straight-forward flashback we get the explanation as to why Severine is enamored with degrading herself, but we're never really told why she feels compelled to seek it out (her dreams should be enough, shouldn't they?).The early surreal moments and their symbolism are pretty basic, even to a Bunuel novice like me (I'd seen a few minutes of The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie prior to watching this) and it all leads up to a suspenseful finish and puzzling final scene that, to be honest, I didn't quite grasp. The easy answer is that Severine never went to work in the brothel and that it was a less-obvious continuation of her fantasies; certainly the overly-dramatic denouement -- cop-chasing-bad-guy, bad-guy-shooting-someone -- doesn't seem to fit in the film otherwise, but that's too plain and I'd prefer to have it a little more ambiguous. But by the end of the film, Bunuel has all but removed the boundary between reality and fantasy, so even if we don't get the film on a literal level we still get a feeling and in this case that's enough.The film isn't very engaging visually, but it doesn't really need to be. Maybe if David Lynch had a crack at the basic story he could transform it into something scarred and beautiful, visually stunning and make the dream sequences weave in a way that is more technically masterful (and indeed more indicative of which segments are in fact fantasy), but it is what it is, and what it is is good. What is interesting is that while the film looks and feels almost like a soaper (I recalled the interiors of Giant for some reason), it has a barren quality. The acting, specifically by Deneuve, is rather inexpressive and there isn't actually a musical score, which I didn't realize until afterward, and which does the film no injustice. The camera in the film is nothing special, and there were a few too many obvious zooms and pans to make sure we catch something Really Important (well, not THAT important).For a movie with subject matter such as this, there was only one scene that was actually erotic -- when the thug, Marcel, kicks off one of his shoes and we get to see his ratty socks, along with Severine's unmoving feet, still clad in footwear.It's a very enjoyable trifle; sly and awfully watchable. It's not a masterwork, but if you need a break from something heavy, say, if you've had a weekend of Russian transcendental cinema, then Belle de Jour is a nice delightful vacation.***1/2 "}{"Title":"Bore de jour","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am usually a fan of surrealism...and I have reviewed plenty of foreign films here, just look at my comments history, but I found this overrated Bunuel effort a little dull.  The story is fine, but the fantasy sequences were shallow at best and unnecessary.  Deneuve is gorgeous, but the film never gets inside any one else's head.  I give this a 5. "},{"Title":"SO BORING YOU'LL KEEP SWITCHING CHANNELS!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw that this movie was airing, I got all excited because of the plot-line; but then I watched it and it was such a terrible movie. See for yourself if you have to but it is really boring. I Personally thought that it would have been better if it were more recent and it wasn't in a foreign language. The movie had no action and all the characters were sought of strange and ugly(except for Belle de Jour) "},{"Title":"quite underwhelming","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  there are several hundred foreign films that are so much better than this. It's simply more of the same Bunuel bourgeosie bashing. perhaps it was shocking in the day, but it's dated now. Even Catherine Deneuve is positively weak here. Actually, this was one of her first films, and I was also unimpressed with her performance in The Umbrellas of Cherbourg. I cannot see what is so special about this. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Lady and film are of night not day","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is not special.  It is actually quite boring.  Some cite the surrealism, but one of the problems is that the surrealism is not even defined.  In most movies, it is clear when there are flashbacks, when there are dreams.  In Belle de Jour, it is often debated which scenes were Severine's dreams, and which are real.  When a scene is surreal, I like something, light and colors and aura, to indicate it is not an exact reproduction of reality.  Maybe the mud scene and whipping scene were dreams, but what about some of the other things?   There are no interesting characters in the film.  To me, not even Severine, except to look at.  But you do not really get to look at her, if you know what I mean?  OK, this was not the point of the movie.  It was to analyze a situation of a woman who becomes a prostitute because she has abuse fantasies but cannot enjoy sex with her husband; does she need to be abused to enjoy sex?  I have to admit, Catherine Deneuve is not my first choice of someone to see in that light, no insult to the particular other lady chosen.I do not mean there was bad acting, just no interesting characters.  Severine's husband is blah.  The only livening is when someone is giving orders, someone is delivering abusive language, like Severine's client who wants complete control over her.  Nothing really happens in the movie, and there is nothing substantial in the relationships between Severine and other prostitutes, her clients, and her husband.As for the erotic scenes, we all have our fantasies.  But we get to see Catherine Deneuve only fully clothed, and abused.  If she is having mud thrown on her, can't we spare the foul name calling at her?  Or just have her mudwrestling and smiling?  At various times, she is whipped and slapped and ordered to have sex against her will.  I understand that there may be some intelligence at work in the film, but I question the entertainment value.  And if we must show this stuff, can't we have some development into something dramatically meaningful?I do not mean to totally pan this film.  I understand that the director was not necessarily trying to do things in terms of what I or others might be asking for, and it is not a worthless film, it brings out some thought.  But it is not entertaining to me, and I believe it falls short in a number of fairly objective ways.I also sometimes cannot help but wondering whether, had Belle de Jour been called Beauty of the Day and been made in Hollywood, it would be condemned rather than thought of as a classic, being French made.  Food for thought.  "},{"Title":"a good film--an easier for the average viewer to enjoy.","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This Luis Buñuel film is more normal and accessible to the average viewer than some of his strange and surreal films (such as Exterminating Angel and The Discreet Charm Of The Bourgeoisie). Although I liked it, I think his movie Tristana (also with Catherine Deneuve) was the best film of his I have seen so far. It gets a score of 7 because it was highly inventive, the acting was very good, and the film had an interesting twist at the end. However, the plot was a bit on the unintentionally silly side and the fantasy segments occasionally were not integrated well into the movie--especially the one involving the strange older man who made her wear a black see-through outfit and lie in a coffin. I still have no idea whether this was a fantasy or reality and it didn't fit into the story very well. I did like the one scene when she was working at the brothel and called the man sick because he was into whipping and submission--pretty much the SAME things she'd fantasized about herself! I recommend this movie only for adults. It's not because there is much nudity, but the entire subject matter of the movie is way too mature for kids or teens. "},{"Title":"Belle De Jour (Beautiful of the Day)","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I heard of it from many recommendations, and was hoping it would be a really good French film, particularly from the 1960's, but truthfully, I can't see the big deal, from director Luis Buñuel (Un Chien Andalou). Well, I didn't understand all of what was meant to be going on, and I was hoping for an 18 certificate film it would have a lot of sexual material that I thought it would. I can see reasons the critics gave it 5 stars, but it is not as good as bigger foreign films, e.g. Amélie and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Anyway, as far as I remember (before dozing off), Séverine Sérizy (The Hunger's Catherine Deneuve) is happily married to handsome young surgeon, Pierre Sérizy (Jean Sorel), and for some reason she becomes a prostitute called Belle De Jour. That is pretty much it, all I can remember after that is her see-through silk dress, her naked back, and a couple of men stroking her, but nothing really much that I think people would be excited over. But like I said, I can see reasons for it being five stars, and why I guess it is essential viewing. It was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments, and it was number 96 on The 100 Greatest Films. Good, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Worthless","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle de Jour is widely acclaimed as a masterpiece. I would like to know by whom? Certainly by nobody with high self-esteem. If art's highest purpose is to project life as it ought to be, then, according to this film's creators, life ought to be seen as dispensable, drab, meaningless, and amoral. What is virtue? Belle de Jour doesn't know and doesn't care. What is coherent plot and characterization? Belle de Jour puts on a blindfold and pins a tale on neither. What sort of role best suits a stunningly beautiful actress? Belle de Jour says let's stick Catherine Deneuve in a pillory of an ugly, thankless role and spit at her as a self-loathing, self-deluded prostitute. What is Belle de Jour? Worthless. "},{"Title":"Non ! Skip.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, Deneuve and Piccoli give great performances. Yes it is Bunuel. But I did not like it. The story is weird. The film seems very old, almost obsolete. Deneuve's husband character is not credible.It is definitely not a must see.My vote  7 / 10. "}]