[{"Title":"Oft-maligned film actually offers many delights","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I know it goes against the general tide to praise this film (the only other place I've ever read a really positive review of it being the back of its own video cover), but I'm going to do it--and I'll even attach my name! For, in my opinion, this musical adaptation by Leslie Bricusse of Hugh Lofting's delightful Doctor Dolittle series succeeds in a great many respects. I was enchanted as a child when I saw it in the cinema, and I still enjoy watching it on video with my own children.The admittedly meandering plot combines elements from various of the Dolittle books, but it essentially concerns the Victorian veterinarian's quest for the Great Pink Sea Snail, an animal whose language he hopes to add to the thousands he has already learned. Thus the first part of the movie takes Dolittle and his friends through several adventures on their way to earning the money to make the journey, while the second finds the entourage actually setting sail (on the aptly-named Flounder) for Sea Star Island and their goal. And, even if the musical *is* so front-end-loaded with big numbers that the second half seems anticlimactic, and even if the resolution of the plot's final conflict *is* jarringly abrupt, and even if the film's direction *is* a tad slow, it is *also* the case that I find more than enough pleasures along the way to compensate for these shortcomings.One is Bricusse's marvelous score. Besides the Academy Award-winning Talk to the Animals, he includes two other showcase pieces for star Rex Harrison's trademark powerful patter delivery, the humorous Vegetarian and the impassioned Like Animals. Other up-tempo winners are I've Never Seen Anything Like It (brilliantly put across by Richard Attenborough--the twinkle never leaves his eye!--in what amounts to an extended cameo as wily circus-master Albert Blossom) and Faraway Places, while tender ballads When I look in Your Eyes and Beautiful Things are very affecting. And if After Today seems to have been pulled from the trunk of another show by mistake, the other Anthony Newly numbers--including My Friend the Doctor and This is the World of Doctor Dolittle (as well as the lovely Where are the Words, which is on my soundtrack album but not in the video)--are spot on.Another pleasure is the cast. As the Doctor, Harrison is wonderful, of course. The film was originally conceived as a reunion project for him and composing team Lerner & Lowe, who'd written My Fair Lady, and it's clear that the part was written for the star. But I'm impressed that eventual Lerner & Lowe stand-in Bricusse, though he was obviously influenced by My Fair Lady, resisted what had to be the temptation to turn the main character into Henry Higgins--and that Harrison also didn't see the gig as a mere Higgins reprise. The charming Doctor--kind to animals, children, and people from all walks of life; educated and capable but somehow sweetly clueless at the same time; gentle but rousable to anger on behalf of his charges--is a different character, and Harrison gets him right.As for the other leads, Anthony Newly, for once, is perfect as the elfin Matthew Mugg, while child actor and whatever-happened-to candidate William Dix is a fine if underused Tommy Stubbins. Even Samantha Eggar, in the mis-conceived role of a tentative love-interest for Dolittle, does well with the part she's been given. And strong support is provided by the aforementioned Attenborough, Peter Bull as the beefy English squire who is the closest thing to a villain in this piece, and Geoffrey Holder as Willie Shakespeare, head of a quirkily-PC group of island natives encountered during the voyage.Finally, there's the appearance of the film it's beautiful. If you find you can't enjoy a musical unless it's shot on a soundstage, the wide-open spaces won't work for you, but I loved all the wonderful locations.This is a big movie, long and theatrically-structured (Overture, Act I, Entr'acte, Act II, and even Exit Music!). They don't make them like this anymore--which sounds like a straight line, but I mean it in a regretful way. -) I recommend Doctor Dolittle heartily, and I think the family will enjoy it even more if, before you watch it, you read a couple of the original Dolittle books together first!P.S.-- don't be put off this film if you didn't happen to like the similarly-titled 1998 Eddie Murphy vehicle which billed itself as a remake. They're completely different! "},{"Title":"Adorable Family Musical from the sixties with a flawless performance by Rex Harrison.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My childhood favorite still holds up! In 1967 I remember sitting in the theater in awe of this tall Englishman that could sing & talk to animals.As an adult I can sit and enjoy another brilliant performance by the Late Great Sir Rex Harrison (God bless him!), this time as the Good Doctor Dolittle. Leslie Bricusse has done a wonderful job combining some of the Hugh Lofting tales into a Big Hollywood Musical! I only wish that all the songs made it to the screen. Two were cut, I guess for time (Where are the words?, Something in your smile) but show up on the soundtrack record & CD. Robert Surtee's photography is gorgeous! It really should have walked away with an Oscar that year.Richard Fleischer brings it altogether beautifully. His direction is just the right pace, letting us enjoy all the fantasy that is set in front of us. No quick cuts, loud noises - Hell, everything that audiences today never see. There is nothing wrong with taking time telling a story - I wish the new Hollywood understood that. The circus number with Sir Richard Attenborough is just as entertaining today as it was in 1967. The Pushmi-Pullyu may not hold up to the digital effects of today but it's still just as lovable. This family film is a treasure and it certainly is more to what Hugh Lofting envisioned compared to the recent Eddie Murphy films.If you ever have a chance to see this in a Theater - GO!The DVD has a beautiful transfer - I do wish the DVD had more extras, such as the two songs they cut for the final release. But it should be in the family collection. Remember it has Rex Harrison in the title role. That alone should give you a reason to see it - If you haven't already  "},{"Title":"underrated film classic","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Highly atmospheric and splendidly acted this film is a pure joy to watch. Legendary actor Rex Harrison give one of his best screen performances as the eracable,lovable Doctor. Anthony Newley gets one of his rare screen appearances and shows just what a talented performer he was.And of course Lord Attenbourgh's comic turn as Albert Blossom gives him  rare comic opportunity.the score is well done by Leslie Bricusse (Newley's long time collaborator.)And the dialogue is sharp and witty. the performance are extremely real for a childeren's fantasy film. Its a shame that the Eddie Murphy misfire has taken recognition away from this charming film. "},{"Title":"absolutely brilliant!!","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This has got to be one of the best movies ever made. The many wonderful and most importantly, memorable songs and lively characters contribute to the exciting and magical nature of the storyline. Anyone who can not see the inherent brilliance of this movie within the constraints placed upon films from this era is clearly missing the point. The delightful characters each add their own individual ideas to a film which has touched the hearts of children and adults alike. Rex Harrison plays a wonderful Doctor, forever entertaining and much more convincing than Eddie Murphy in the tragic American remake. This film is brilliant in its own right, and is definitely one for the books. "},{"Title":"Not Just For Animal Lovers!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If the only Dr. Dolittle you've ever known is Eddie Murphy's rendition, you need to see Rex Harrison's original performance!  The first Dolittle has the remake and its sequel beat by a mile!  Sure, it has the look and feel of those campy 1960's movies, like Mary Poppins and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.  But it also has the same comfy and family-friendly appeal. The original movie best captures the image of Hugh Lofting's famous veterinarian, in 19th-century England, just as he should be!  So never mind Eddie Murphy, and enjoy the real Dr. Dolittle! "},{"Title":"The Great Doctor Dolittle","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was taken as a child to see this movie in 1967 and loved it. I ended up buying the soundtrack, coloring books, puzzles, etc. It charmed me that much. Today, I still find it to be a great yet under-rated film. The DVD is nice, but this is a movie that is really meant to be seen on the big screen. That is why I also own a copy on 16mm film. What a difference it makes seeing it in this format. Regardless of how you watch it, this movie is entertaining for kids and adults of all ages. Those who might get bored with it are those who prefer the newer version with Eddie Murphey over this classic from 1967. Which, by the way, got nominated for Best Picture and won the Oscar for Best Song (Talk to the Animals). Rex Harrison's performance is outstanding as the wonderful Doctor Dolittle. I give this timeless film an 8 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Rex makes it wonderful...","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" So attached am I to Rex Harrison's personage to the character of Doctor Dolittle, when I see copies of Hugh Lofting's books without the movie tie-in shots I actually feel cheated. There is no other Doctor Dolittle for me. Harrison is wonderful and regal amongst his animals and I love many of his lines (the spin he gives to his dialogue makes the words his own). My favorite When you say 'He can speak crab and pelican', they'll say 'Like hell he can!' (cue parrot's ruffled reaction). Admittedly, Doctor Dolittle gets off to a clunky start with Anthony Newley telling of Dolittle's beginnings...and the film goes into stillborn flashback mode. I get defensive if a movie foists a flashback on me in the first 15 minutes (and this flashback is a long one, laden with silly slapstick). Why not start the story with Dolittle finding his voice, cut the introduction with Newley, and then get on with the plot? After this tiresome, talky opening, the pacing does pick up (right about the time Richard Attenborough enters as circus-owner Blossom). Harrison is on-target throughout but, story-wise, momentum doesn't build until the second hour, when Dolittle and his companions hit the South Seas in search of the Great Pink Sea Snail. Overall, the film simply LOOKS smashing, with marvelous locations in England's most beautiful city, Castle Combe. It is flawed (with that bad opening), but stick with it and see if you find Rex Harrison as charming as I did. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Classic Gem Not To Be Hidden At Bottom Of Treasure Chest","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you don't appreciate wonderfully made movies that make people happy, go find a small island to keep away from the rest of the world. Once again, movies like this prove 'a well thought out and developed plot and storyline' makes the movie a success at its foundation.  The 'allstar cast' is just the beautifying of the cake with icing. The writers seemed to realize that you can't always or do not have to force the plot lines to make a certain length of movie.  They allowed the musical numbers to fill it up.  On top of that, they didn't try to constrain the timeframe and edit out important details that allow a movie to flow.  This is geared towards the family to make people feel good about anything and everything.  Many writers these days are leaving films like this up to cartoon animators as cartoons seem to thought of hollywood as the Childrens' Medium.  This is a film that people of any age can feel good about and laugh together with.  Dr. Dolittle brings imagination to life by speaking to animals in a more realistic way.  He's studied them and learned from experience how they communicate.  He then takes his intelligence, almost by force, out to the world to find rare and unique animals and help out the world with the help of nature.  This tale is often inspiring to many children to take care of animals.  For those that have grown may remember some of the tunes and find yourself singing along.The is truly a masterfully done marvel that any treasured classic video collection should have. "},{"Title":"Utterly delightful","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Yes the movie has the world is a wonderful beautiful magical place feel, yes the premise is pretentious at best, yes, yes, yes, but I love it. I have bought it many times as a gift. I will continue to do so.Not only is this movie suitable for all the family even when the minister is in the room, but it is fun. The songs like Talk with the Animals and the song about the Pushme-Pullyou are sure to have your children singing and dancing, while other songs like Beautiful People (not the song by Melanie) will draw in even the most adult audience.This movies comes from a time when people hoped to be able to look to a future without the problems that plagued our past. To all the cynics out there, if you ever get tired of only looking at the bad side of life I strongly recommend this movie, it is food for the soul. "},{"Title":"A more family friendly Dolittle","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Having grown up loving the music, storyline and animal interactions in the origional Doctor Dolittle, it was a jarring shock to watch the scatological-joke loaded remake.Doctor Dolittle is a wonderful clean family film, with plenty of adult jokes to keep the parents chuckling and visual slapstick to tickle the young ones' funnybones. The music is top rate with the Oscar winning Walk With the Animals leading the way as the good Doctor searches for the Great Pink Sea Snail, encountering a number of wacky adventures along the way.Doctor Dolittle would make a great companion to Chitty Chitty Bang Bang for an evening of old fashioned family entertainment. Suspend you disbelief for a few hours and watch this one with your kids and toss the remake in the garbage disposal. "}{"Title":"Blimey, nostalgia mate","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I haven't seen this since I was about 6 years old but I remember loving it. Yes, it was bloody long, but I used to watch it loads so it must've done something to hold my attention.  I always fast-forwarded some of the more boring songs though 'Here I Stand at the Crossroads of Life' - I don't care, i want big jolly songs about mad animals. YES.There's nothing like this about nowadays so we should treasure it whilst we still can.I haven't seen the Eddie Murphy version and i have no plans too either, # R.I.P. Rex, you old star you...... "},{"Title":"re-discovered childhood treasure","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My mother used to read me the Hugh Lofting stories of Dr. Doolittle and I recently found a copy to read to my son (and self). I had the picture album that I used to play over and over. The 1967 movie, to my memory, follows cleverly to the stories of far away adventure and local flavor of the caring doctor who talked with animals. This movie sweeps me to good childhood country. I cried when the Doctor released the seal and sang a song When I look into your eyes... And when they found the great sea snail but the Doctor hitched a ride home on the giant moth. THAT WAS MUCH CLOSER TO HUGH LOFTING'S VISION THAN EDDIE MURPHY'S WEAK VERSION THAT HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH ADVENTURE. Some audiences may never, ever know how truly magical Doctor Dolittle really was. But if they can re-make Batman (Begins) as the awesome dark knight, or King Kong a la Peter Jackson; then perhaps Dr. Dolittle can talk once again. But then again, why mess with a treasure. "},{"Title":"Enchanting Entertainment","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this one as a kid (in my 40's now.) Never forgot it. It really stayed with me. I've recently spent a small fortune on big screen musical extravaganzas on DVD and this one was especially enjoyable. First of all, the message at the heart of the story is one of simple kindness, which speaks of a gentler time that I think we all long to return to. Today's entertainment, with it's gratuitous sex and violence and shock-for-the-sake-of-shock value just can't hold a candle to the art that was being expressed in the films of this type and era. It was designed to uplift the human spirit and the commitment to excellence of those involved could not be more evident.The performances are first-rate all around. Attenborough's dancing really brought a smile, Eggar's spunky yet romantic portrayal was right on and Rex Harrison is one of the True Originals that you never tire of watching. I thought Anthony Newley brought the whole story along very well. And the animals! What a clever bunch! I especially enjoyed Polynesia, the Doctor's parrot. She was just a real PAL! In a way it's kind of sad to see what movies have come to in the years hence. But to be able to own this film on DVD and CD makes up for that. I remember when you either got to see it while it was in release at a theater or you just plain missed out, period. (Unless you were lucky enough to catch it on TV. But who could really get involved in the film when it's being chopped up by commercials?) No, it's a wonderful thing that technology has enabled us to be able to have these things at our fingertips now, and in such sterling quality. It's really beautiful. The scene where the boat, the Flounder, is shown on the open sea is so breathtaking. It certainly was a beautiful day when they filmed that scene! That sky is SPECTACULAR.So I can sum all this up by saying this is one wonderful movie with wonderful music and performances and great visuals and heartfelt and uplifting content. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Flits between maudlin and joy at regular intervals.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Revisiting this one for the first time in what must be over 25 years, I was sort of surprised to find a double fold of emotions of it being both good and bad. I think the first thing that came to mind was that it's a wasted opportunity to make a truly classic fantasy musical. There is much going for it production wise, the sets, the colour, the cinematography, and the leading man ensure the film keeps its head above the murky water of averageville. Yet the good points are done down by a quite boring plot structure, the meandering pacing, and quite simply awful execution of very average songs by the supporting cast. Clocking in at over two and half hours long, it's not hard to see why critics of the time dubbed it Doctor Does Little.Rex Harrison plays Dolittle with a sense of grace and charm, and allowing for the fact that he hadn't wanted to do the project in the first place, it's with much credit that he carries the film on his shoulders and makes it certainly worth a viewing at least once. Emma Fairfax (Samantha Eggar is a pointless character that the film really didn't need, and Eggar's screech like timing with the tunes is almost unwatchable, yet even she isn't the worst thing in the film, that accolade falls to Anthony Newley who is unwatchable as Matthew Mugg. The film was nominated for 9 awards, wining just the one for best song the chipper Talk To The Animals, which just goes to show the divisive nature of the piece, and in reality the film's appeal to children is understandable. Because it's cute enough with the various scenarios that the good doctor finds himself in, and of course the animals both real and not. It's just such a shame that a film that nearly bankrupted its studio doesn't realise the potential it obviously had on the page. A frustrating 5/10. "},{"Title":"The Movie that Almost Bankrupt 20th Century Fox","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Dr. Dolittle is the 1967 musical dud that almost put 20th Century Fox out of business for good while simultaneously receiving an Oscar nomination for Best Picture of 1967.Based on stories by Hugh Lofton, this is the story of John Dolittle, an anti-social doctor whose disdain for humans and love for animals motivates him to stop treating humans and only treat animals. He then discovers he has the ability to actually communicate with animals, an ability which ends up getting him arrested and on trial for his sanity.Rex Harrison, fresh off his Oscar win for My Fair Lady comes off a little stiff in the title role. I learned later that Harrison was never comfortable with animals and hated every minute of making this film and some of that tension is evident in his performance. Anthony Newley plays his over eager sidekick Matthew, Samantha Eggar is lovely as the obligatory love interest, and Richard Attenborough nails a cameo as a circus owner named Mr. Blossom.The lackluster musical score by Newley and Leslie Bricusse (who also wrote the screenplay) includes My Friend the Doctor, Beautiful Things, When I Look in Your Eyes, At the Crossroads, After Today Never Seen Anything Like it (delightfully performed by Attenborough) and the Oscar winner for Best Song of 1967, Talk to the Animals. The film is overlong and interest wanes long before the final fadeout, but small children might find some fun here. The film was re-imagined almost four decades later as a vehicle for Eddie Murphy. "},{"Title":"One of the best children's movies that never was!?!?","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After watching this movie yesterday, and, then reading all of the poor reviews and negative online information about it...I just cannot believe it!?!?This movie, to me, has a wonderful cast; storyline; music; animal choreography; scenery; props; settings; etc...everything there is to like about a movie, and nothing to dislike. Yet, it was a commercial and critical failure!?!? I realize that this movie went over-budget; had many mishaps while in production; took a bath at the box office and with its merchandise; but, I feel the end result was a great children's classic movie.Personally, I believe that it did so poorly was because this movie is a bit too complex for the young audience it was made to target; and, it is too silly for teens and adults. Also, musicals were on their way out at this time. In 1967, teens wanted to hear The Rolling Stones and The Beatles sing, not, Rex Harrison and Anthony Newly; whereas, most parents (adults in general) can understand someone talking to a horse or a cat, but, talking to a snail or a flea!?!?If this movie was made twenty or more years earlier (somewhere in between The Wizard Of Oz and Carousel), it would have received much better reviews and been a money-maker. It's the same as when Pennies From Heaven was made in 1981, it bombed, sadly...it was out-of-style and people just didn't get it. Then, again, Fantasia (1940) was even panned by many musicians claiming it (robbed) the musical pieces of their integrity.Someone always has something bad to write or say about most anything, however, I happen to like musicals; plus, with this movie being a childhood favorite of mine, maybe I'm being a tad too positively-biased, but...I love it! "},{"Title":"A wonderful, colorful adventure for children of all ages","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" DOCTOR DOLITTLE (1967) is what a family classic should be. Entertaining the whole way through, with catchy and witty songs, colorful performances, plenty of cute animals, and a script packed with imagination and a sense of fun.DOLITTLE was a favorite in my family, and I grew up watching it on a VHS we'd taped from an old television broadcast. To me Rex Harrison was always Doctor Dolittle, even though the film came late in his career. When I discovered his earlier film work, I was amused at seeing a young Doctor Dolittle. So my views may be colored by nostalgia, although I recently saw the movie in its entirety for the first time in many, many years and found it to be great fun.The story has the feel of an episodic adventure, taking our heroes to different places and having them do different things. This keeps the audience engaged throughout the nearly two and a half hour running time. Doctor John Dolittle (Rex Harrison) is a physician in 1840s England who is more interested in the various species of animals than in his human patients. So he becomes a strictly animal doctor (veterinarian) and, with the help of his genius pet parrot, learns hundreds of animal dialects. The various side-adventures in this film are all in service of Dolittle's quest to find a mythical giant pink sea snail. First he showcases a rare two-headed llama (a pushmi-pullyu) at a circus until he can earn enough money to set sail. From there come legal complications, a jail break plot, adventure on the high seas, and still more fun on an exotic floating island.Harrison gives a signature performance as the good doctor. Dolittle's a very kind fellow whose ideas about treating animals with as much respect as humans (and his practice of fitting short-sighted horses with glasses, for example) run counter to the prevailing minds of his civilized community. The man's an eccentric genius who doesn't fit in with human society. Harrison's portrayal gives Dolittle the amusing peculiarities of an absent-minded professor. His performance is pretty funny in an understated way.Singer-songwriter-actor Anthony Newley plays Irishman Matthew Mugg, one of Dolittle's few friends who, along with young Tommy Stubbins (William Dix), accompanies the doctor on his adventures. Matthew introduces Stubbins (and the audience) to the wonderful world of Doctor Dolittle, and the two ordinary characters act as proxies for the audience amid the fantastical happenings that seem to follow Harrison's character wherever he goes.Lovely Samantha Eggar plays Emma Fairfax (affectionately known to Matthew as Fred), who first sides against Dolittle, but comes to be enchanted by the life he leads. Miss Fairfax is meant to give the film a romantic subplot, but the intended romance is a bit confusing (surely Rex Harrison is much too old for Eggar).Richard Attenborough gives a tremendous, high-energy performance as Blossom, the owner of the circus. I love seeing him bounce around as he sings I've Never Seen Anything Like It. Caribbean actor Geoffrey Holder (LIVE AND LET DIE) is great as the surprisingly literate tribal chief on the floating island.The songs by Leslie Bricusse are delightful. Talk To The Animals is a classic. My Friend The Doctor is contagiously joyful. I think the lyrics are particularly well-done on numbers like I've Never Seen Anything Like It and Like Animals.The world of DOCTOR DOLITTLE is unforgettable. A mild-mannered Englishman travels the world in his top hat, conversing with dogs, pigs, whales, fish, horses, chimpanzees, seals, and elephants. It's a world of dancing two-headed llamas, centenarian parrots educated in thousands of animal languages (including dead languages like dodo and unicorn), islands that move about the globe, and giant moths that fly back and forth between the Earth and the moon (constantly attracted to the other's light). The script is clever and imaginative. Several scenes stand out the horse eye exam, the circus, the cunning seal escape, the absurd shipwreck, the tribal execution, the pink sea snail.Having now seen the film as an adult, and finding the experience thoroughly charming, I can't believe how lowly regarded it is. DOCTOR DOLITTLE entertains from beginning to end with a sense of wonder, a sense of adventure, and a sense of humor. Rex Harrison anchors a solid cast and the songs are great. The movie is something unique. Something original and self-contained. Where else will you see a whale pushing an entire island across the ocean? Or a dog giving testimony in court? Or a tribe of natives performing Shakespeare? It's a family classic. What's not to like?I may have been pre-conditioned since childhood to like this film, but some of the criticism seems a bit over-the-top, stemming from dissatisfaction with the film's Oscar attention. Even if you don't enjoy roadshow-length family musicals, you must admit that the production is impressive from a technical standpoint (the sets, the cinematography, the special effects, the animal wrangling).I actually like DOCTOR DOLITTLE, directed by Richard Fleischer (20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA), better than its popular contemporary CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG. The latter is fun despite its weaknesses, but DOLITTLE is something wonderful. "},{"Title":"With Sleepwalking Harrison in the lead, the title sounds ironic and cynical","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The thing about getting older is that nostalgia begins to rear its head and one looks at films from one's youth through a haze of sentimentality. Back in 1967 when I was ten years old, Doctor Dolittle was all over the place. Toys, dolls, games and posters were everywhere, and the radio and TV variety shows were full of Sammy Davis Jr. singing If I Could Talk to the Animals. Even with all of this, Doctor Dolittle seemed just the kind of family entertainment that I tended to avoid. Now, more than 40 years later, I've finally got around to seeing the film, but I'm no closer to knowing if I would have liked it any better at age ten.The problem with the film seems to be one of mistaken premises. Studios looked at The Sound of Music, Mary Poppins and My Fair Lady and tried to duplicate their success, but they seemed to have paid attention to all the wrong things.The adaptation of a popular children's book (like Mary Poppins) was a good idea, but rather than attempt to recreate the rather dumpy doctor described in the books (Mary Poppings David Tomlinson would have been great, but he lacked marquee value, likewise Dolittles, circus-owner, Richard Attenborough would have made a great Dolittle&#x85;certainly a livelier one) they opted for the stiff and starchy Rex Harrison. The actor's lack of warmth may have fit the character's unease with humans, but his clear disinterest in anyone else in the film comes across as merely distant and bored. The apathetic Harrison doesn't even try to make Dolittle even a little bit different from My Fair Ladys Professor Higgins. Coming across solidly as a misanthrope, he fails also to demonstrate any real rapport with the menagerie of animals on display.The charmless Harrison was greatly helped by the winning softness of Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady. Here Harrison has zero chemistry with Anthony Newly (whom it's reported he disliked for being Jewish) nor the requisite veddy-British female love interest, Samantha Eggar who is not only waaaay to young for him, but, despite her stunning looks, adds absolutely nothing to the film because she seems even more distracted and bored than Harrison. Lastly, there is a mush-mouthed little boy thrown in for no apparent reason (William Dix) beyond giving Newly someone remotely human to give plot exposition to.The songs from Mary Poppins and, to a somewhat lesser extent, The Sound of Music had the quality of being witty and smart while having a sing-song, nursery-rhyme quality that made it easy for kids to remember and want to sing along. The undistinguished collection of songs in Doctor Dolittle sound more like they were written with hopes of becoming standards or Oscar contenders than on being anything that kids might find fun to listen to.From beginning to end Doctor Dolittle is a clumsy musical almost on par with Lost Horizon in its inability to entertain on even the simplest levels. I think fans of Rex Harrison may like the movie, for it is what he does film after film, and it is a pretty good showcase for the phenomenon that was Anthony Newly (an oddly fascinating actor/singer whose unconventional looks and singing style could only have made it in the 60s), but Doctor Dolittle is dreary when it should be cheerful, lumbering when it should be light-hearted, and long-long-long. If the filmmakers were less cynical about tapping into the The Sound of Music money-making zeitgeist and more concerned with actually making a fun children's classic, there's no telling how much could have been done musically with the Doctor Dolittle books. "},{"Title":"Oft-maligned&#133;and deservedly so.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film's reputation is so bad that you may be tempted to watch it. If so, you'll find a few charms (Talk to the Animals and When I Look Into Your Eyes numbers, great production values and a very game Rex Harrison) and riches of embarrassments.It actually starts off fairly well with Anthony Newley introducing Dolittle and explaining how the doctor shifted from human patients to animals. But as it grids on, songs begin to sound similar, dropped in only when it's time for something different (rather than growing out of the plot and characters). The script has a few clever lines, but mostly unbelievable characters (in particular, Samantha Eggar's character is angry without motivation, whereas she could have provided some much needed romantic interest) and situations. (Yes, it's a fantasy, but fantasies can be convincing.) Amazingly, Rex Harrison puts a lot of effort into his part and many of his scenes do pay off (When I Look Into Your Eyes song; courtroom scene). The photography, sets, costumes and other production values are gorgeous and you can see the money up there on the screen. But by film's end, one is appalled by the huge investment of time, talent and money, which yield so little result. "},{"Title":"Take a zoo home for the kids","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Doctor Dolittle was something of an endearing movie for 1967. It captured two Oscars, for best music original song, and for best effects, special effects. But it received seven other nominations that year. The film had many problems in the making, and got mixed reviews. It did OK at the box office, but wasn't able to cover its bloated budget. The story is a simple one, and it combines an almost encyclopedic close- up look at real animals and birds, with a couple fantasy creatures. The search for a giant pink snail and a lunar moth are the fodder for such tales that stimulate the imaginations of young and old alike. Most of the roles were OK, but not special. That is, except for Anthony Newley whose Matthew Mugg did a yeoman's job of escorting Tommy Stubbins and we viewers through the film. He did this very nicely with song and dance and dashes of wit and humor here and there. Rex Harrison plays the main character, Dr. John Dolittle. Samantha Eggar is OK as Emma Fairfax and Richard Attenborough is very good as Albert Blossom. But the stealers of this show are the animals and birds. I tried to count the number of different critters but lost count half was through. There are a lot of animals and birds in the film, and many that have small roles of talking with Dr. Dolittle. The critters were supplied and trained by Jungleland of Thousand Oaks, California &#x96; later known as Jungleland USA. That former filming zoo and theme park entertained people for nearly four decades until it closed in 1969. During that time and before then, it was home to some famous animals of filmdom. Mr. Ed, the talking horse from the popular TV series of eight years (1958-1966) lived there. Bimbo the elephant from the 1950s TV series, Circus Boy, was at home there. Tamba, the chimpanzee from the Jungle Jim movies was a resident of Jungleland. And Leo the Lion, the famous MGM mascot, lived there. This original film of the man who could talk to animals remains a fun movie for the family. Small children who often are enthralled by animals especially enjoy this film. I look for films like this for my grandchildren. "}{"Title":"If he could talk to the animals, why didn't he calm down the elephant involved behind the scenes?","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Like Ronald Dahl's Willy Wonka and Matilda, Doctor Dolittle is really not a musical for children, extremely dark in its themes, even though it would appeal to young audiences because of its usage of many different animals. Hugh Lofting's stories were the basis for this big budget musical which 20th Century Fox thought would be their financial smash hit follow-up to The Sound of Music. What is obvious here is that they put way too much in it, and even if it doesn't reach the length of The Sound of Music, it is missing that Oscar Winning movie's huge heart which showed you can make it past adversity. Here, Doctor Dolittle (a perfectly cast Rex Harrison) is going up against the prigs of society in conversing with animals, a fact which upsets his sister (Portia Nelson). This leads to confrontations with the imperious General (Peter Bull) and his uppity niece (Samantha Eggar in an impressive musical performance) and the adventures which Dolittle and his various friends take as he explores his ability to talk to the animals.There's so much to like here, starting with Harrison's performance. He's a common man in comparison to his Oscar Winning Henry Higgins, but he's more fond of the furry creatures than his own species. Of course, he hasn't met Mr. and Mrs. Blossom (the very amusing Richard Attenborough and Muriel Landers) yet, and the rubber-legged Matthew Mugg (Anthony Newley) considers Dolittle his very best friend, along with little William Dix. Then, there's the gregarious Geoffrey Holder, named after William Shakespeare, the king of a tropical island and another reason for Dolittle to open his heart up to people. So in short order, it's a very busy plot, filled with lovable and cuddly creatures both realistic and mystical, most memorably the Pushmi-Pullyu, a giant snail and a large moth that is obviously no relation to the infamous Mothra of science fiction camp legend.As for the songs by Leslie Bricusse, they are really enjoyable, making the actual soundtrack a 10. Talk to the Animals was the most popular, winning an Oscar and becoming a hit for Sammy Davis Jr. Eggar is very moving when she sings At the Crossroads which reveals a lovely lady behind a cold demeanor. You know that she's going to open up to seeing things from Dolittle's point of view. Ironically, Harrison's My Fair Lady had him opposite Eliza Dolittle and sharing witticisms with her father Alfred P.Anthony Newley is sometimes a bit hard to take in large doses, and like many stage stars, is a bit too big for the screen. Here, he is a lot more subtle and as a result, he comes off unscathed. Attenborough's big production number, I've Never Seen Anything Like It! gives the typical British music hall type number (here in a carnival setting), and he is a joy to behold, winning a Golden Globe but not even nominated for an Oscar. Children might love the animals, real and imagined, but they will find the story a bit heavy, especially if they've seen the totally unrelated Eddie Murphy film.A stage production of this toured the United States to mixed reviews, but even though it performed at the Macy's Parade (with Tommy Tune in the title role), it never made it onto the Broadway stage. Perhaps, in memory of this movie not making a profit, producers were reluctant to take on a project that would definitely need to be re-tooled for the Broadway stage with stronger sets that would cost more for an intended longer run. But then again, a national tour is guaranteed to create a curiosity in audiences who don't get to New York, so perhaps it is just as well that it didn't. A mixed bag no matter how lovely to look at is still a mixed bag. "},{"Title":"Doctor Dolittle Charm","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's 1845 in Puddleby-on-the-Marsh, England. On a rainy day, proud Irish cat-food salesman Anthony Newley (as Matthew Mugg) introduces blond pre-teen pal William Dix (as Thomas Tommy Stubbins) to the greatest animal doctor in the world &#x96; he's Rex Harrison (as John Dolittle). The trio become fast friends. Doctor Dolittle is a genius who can talk to all kinds of animals, in nearly 500 languages. A veterinarian, Doolittle is a reluctant vegetarian. This is understandable, because many animals live with him. To raise money and good will, Dolittle and his two friends take a newly acquired Pushmi-pullyu (picture a two-headed llama) from Tibet to display in the circus, which turns out to be quite an adventure...The main problem with this adventure is running time. This film is way too long. Perhaps, if it were better, one wouldn't be so bored. Original writer Hugh Lofting's books were delightful and ended too soon, but movie seems to go on forever. Although it initially sounds like a great casting choice, Mr. Harrison is unable to summon the needed charm. The veteran actor should have walked through the role with few problems, but is done in by poor pace, staging and (again) running time. Harrison also butchers the strongest song in the musical; hopefully, he re-recorded Leslie Bricusse's (If I Could) Talk to the Animals at some point. It became a hit in other versions. Perhaps the most memorable version was recorded by Anthony Newley...To add a love interest, the 20th Century Fox team slips a new character in Dolittle universe &#x96; pretty young Samantha Eggar (as Emma Fairfax). At first, it seems like the studio will attempt to duplicate Harrison's My Fair Lady (1964) romance. Harrison sings, I like the way you look, in lieu of, I've grown accustomed to your face. However, Ms. Eggar also appears interested in Mr. Newley and the llama. None of stars show much chemistry on screen...Highly-regarded actor Richard Attenborough (as Albert Blossom) provided the Golden Globes with an easy Supporting Actor award target, while money and muscle helped the studio to an otherwise inexplicable nine Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture. Cut by half and presented in two parts as a TV Special, this work be fine entertainment for kids, but to make entire families sit through it in a movie theater veers close to child abuse.*** Doctor Dolittle (12/5/67) Richard Fleischer ~ Rex Harrison, Anthony Newley, Samantha Eggar, William Dix "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Movies that lost enormous amounts of money are often regarded as bad films, when often this is not the case. It's pretty easy to see why audiences who flocked to see 2001 and Rosemary's Baby did not take to Dr. Dolittle, but it is is a delightful film - I actually prefer it to My Fair Lady, and I like the songs better too. Of course my judgment is probably clouded by nostalgia (I watched this many times on video as a kid) but I still feel the film is unfairly maligned. It is a beautiful old-world adventure that hearkens back to a time that does not exist anymore. Rex Harrison is completely charming, the animals are all adorable, and Richard Attenborough's brief appearance is perhaps my favorite cameo of all time. "},{"Title":"The Title Says It All.","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Back in 1967, ''Doctor Dolittle'' was intended as the BIG ONE from Twentieth Century-Fox. Thanks,in no small part to it's huge budget, it received much more than it's share of publicity, both pro and con. Long before it was released, a major merchandising campaign began, much like those used by the Disney Studio. Countless singles and albums were released with everyone from Barbra Streisand to Bobby Darin putting their own talents to work on the songs. Elaborate plans were made for the various premieres. So Far, So Good. Then, the film opened.And what went wrong?. Just about everything. Sadly, what might have made a tolerable 90 minute fantasy,had instead become a bloated,stodgy bore,which satisfied neither kids or adults. The original Hugh Lofting stories were all but thrown away for another attempt to grab the brass ring with a hit ''Roadshow Musical''. Though Fox wasn't alone in trying to foist an over-produced would-be spectacular on an increasingly fed up public (Think ''Camelot'' ''Half A Sixpence'' ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang'' as well as their own ''Star'') ''Dolittle'' is the one which nearly closed it's studio. And it's all to clear why. Even if the film had the requisite appeal for kids (which it did not) the idea of marketing a then-colossal $18 million dollar production to them, was plain suicide. Still, the movie has it's good points. Rex Harrison, (in the title role ) who, at one point, pulled out of the film, (and was briefly replaced by Christopher Plummer) does manage to be fairly ingratiating, though his character doesn't have much dimension. The songs, while no great shakes, do provide attractive background music. The photography is beautiful. But both Samantha Eggar and (Sir)Richard Attenbourough are wasted, Anthony Newley, as usual, mugs his way through his part-as, appropriately,''Matthew Mugg''. William Dix, the talented young co star of ''The Nanny'' is literally, just along for the ride. Where are they off to?. A voyage to find the ''Great Pink Sea Snail''. And that's about it for the ''plot''. Not surprisingly, the film was cut prior to it's national release, one of the casualties being a musical number. At the beginning of the film, there was even a hint of a possible Love Triangle between Harrison, Emma Fairfax (Eggar) and Newley which was also apparently cut. And, with it went the only (possibly) interesting conflict in the film.It was probably no surprise after a listless thirty minutes,that a film taking so long to get where it's going, ends up going nowhere. And, for this, audiences were expected to pay inflated ticket prices and reserve seats in advance. However, thanks to the early negative response, they were spared the expense.The same was definitely not true for Twentieth-century Fox. "},{"Title":"Hit-and-Miss Musical.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I do admit that I like Dr. Dolittle for the most part, but the film struggles with a sometimes silly story and unclear direction. The titled character (Rex Harrison) learns that dealing with animals is better for him than dealing with human beings. Thus he becomes a doctor for the animals and learns how to speak their various languages. He goes on a long and seemingly empty journey to find a giant pink snail and an equally over-sized moth. The screenplay is not too strong and most of the performances are sophomoric. However, Rex Harrison somehow makes it all work with an enthusiastic and very likeable performance. The songs are not bad either. In fact the Talk to the Animals is one of those few songs from a movie that just seems timeless for some reason. Dr. Dolittle did receive a Best Picture Oscar nod in 1967 along with much, much darker films like In the Heat of the Night, The Graduate, Bonnie and Clyde and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner. Dr. Dolittle was the beginning of the end for the Hollywood musical as it had been in the past. Overall the film stays above water, but do not expect a masterpiece. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Laborious","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I can't be as kind as many of the other commenters. I didn't see it when it first came out, although, I was inundated with the Talk With the Animals song everywhere I turned. Seems like we even played it in our junior high band.I was under the impression that this was the most heralded musical in history with regard to the hype surrounding it. It was only recently that I realized that it was panned by the critics.I finally watched it on Turner Movie Classics and realized what a snoozer it was. I kept thinking there might be some romance between someone in the film - Samantha Eggar and Rex Harrison... Samantha Eggar and Anthony Newley... Samantha Eggar and Geoffery Holder... Samantha Eggar and the Push-Me-Pull-You... Anthony Newley and Geoffery Holder... anything that would give this story a little life.Rex Harrison is a great actor and carried this exhausting effort as bravely and heartily as he possibly could, however, in the end, it was a pointless story that dragged on and on and on.Talk to the Animals was a reasonably good song for a musical, however, the rest of the songs rated banal in my estimation. Even Anthony Newly couldn't seem to pull it out of the fire with his pleasant voice and apt song styling.It seems that the only thing that might have held children (since it was a family movie) would have been the animals, which weren't really used all that dramatically.As much as I admire the actors who performed in this insipid tale, I have to say, it barely held my interest. My apologies to those who truly loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Talk to the animals?","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Directed by the curiously untalented but always employed Richard Fleischer, DOCTOR DOLITTLE is a nerve numbing experience with Rex Harrison as a veterinarian who can literally talk to his patients. WHY would he WANT to? Harrison is fine, if a bit stodgy, as he sings/talks his way through a few innocuous faux-show-tunes. Unfortunately, he's surrounded by some pretty crude production values. The special effects are not very special but will likely thrill three year olds. The Push Me-Pull Me is not very convincing and frequently acts like a couple of drunken guests at a Halloween party. The giant snail is clearly some sort of motorized tug. Worst of all is the presence of the singularly untalented Anthony Newley. Proving definitively that he's the Donald O'Connor of England, the always annoying Newley doesn't fail to deliver...he's very annoying. 'Nuf said on that. Inexplicably, this thing was nominated for a slew of Oscars against such films as BONNIE AND CLYDE and THE GRADUATE!BIG QUESTION WHAT is Samantha Eggar doing in this film? After making such a strong impact in THE COLLECTOR, Eggar is relegated to supporting Harrison and his motley, sometimes obviously fake, menagerie of animals. Her agent should have been fed to the giant snail. "},{"Title":"The reviewers are adults","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I think one of the things leaving a bad rep on this movie is that most of the reviewers are adults. Well sure, watching it as an adult I found this movie to be cheesy, lame and weird, not at all like the books I fell in love with as a little kid, but when I was a kid I remember seeing this on VHS and I loved it. I found the acting to be excellent, the stories were funny and exciting and I still remember the lyrics to songs like, My Friend The Doctor right out of the movie. I do agree with most reviewers that Dr. Dolittle is pretty bad by most standards, but it's a movie for children, and it was very effective for me as a child. I recommend watching this for nostalgic value or for fun, don't watch it expecting something amazing, but just watch it to laugh at it and you might be surprised. "},{"Title":"I quite enjoyed it.","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have to say that it flags in the second half, but I thought the first half was absolutely wonderful, the songs were terrific, it looked beautiful, it was by turns funny and touching. I was sitting there saying, Why in the world did this flop? It's wonderful! But I guess it cost an enormous amount to make.Loved Harrison; Loved Newley; Loved the songs; Loved the sets. I DO wish it ended as strongly as it began, though.Like Animals - which I had never heard before - floored me. What an incredible song for someone who loves animals. And what a fantastic performance of it. "},{"Title":"Has its charms, but altogether disappointing","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I loved this film as a kid. I thought it was magical and beautiful. Seeing it again, I wasn't so impressed. Granted I do not hate it as it does have its charms, but the film also does have glaring flaws that prevent it from being anymore enjoyable. The film does look colourful, with beautiful costumes, scenery and photography, the music and songs are gorgeous and memorable and Rex Harrison's lead performance is superb. I also liked the animals, they were cute and charming and actually much more likable than the human characters.Conversely, while the dialogue has its witty moments, it can have a tendency to be slushy and unfunny. The story is also very slight and poorly paced and the direction is a little too relaxed. Harrison excepted, I wasn't impressed with the other acting. Anthony Newley is very annoying and dull, while Samantha Eggar while beautiful is underused and has no chemistry with her co-stars. Overall, a big disappointment despite its charms. 5/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Animal Whisperer","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Remake of Doctor Doolittle is better known than the original. But despite the fact what you think of the Eddie Murphy staring vehicle (I kinda liked it), this is the original. And almost every time the original is better than the remake! (there are of course exception of the rule, see Ocean's 11 for instance).But Rex Harrison is a great actor and even with animals as partners he's on top form here. The story isn't that easy to follow or better said, you're not sure where this is going. Does it have a goal or is it aimlessly drifting along? Of course it does have one, but it's difficult to spot. I enjoyed it, but it's just not everyones taste!Edit I finally figured out, why it seemed a bit off. Because it actually was more than a bit off. The making of this movie is far more interesting than the end result we can watch. There was a back story on this movie in the magazine Empire. It shed quite some light on the difficulties the makers were confronted by, while making this movie. Rex Harrison was one of those problems. It's too long a story to list here, but search for it and you will be amazed ... or utterly disappointed "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Loved it as a kid and still do and so do my kids. It is no doubt part of the reason for me becoming a vegetarian. I make it a policy not to eat my friends. This had bad reviews because most people do not want to be reminded that the food in their plate was an animal and had a mother or father or was a mother or father or baby.I am sure this is why it was hated. I have seen very badly done children's movies with very bad acting and scripts that got better reviews than this, but they did not offend the Meat growers or cow and pig killers.The effects were very good for the day and even now. The story was good thought not what a meat eater and animal killer would like.I was a children's movie. I have it on DVD and still enjoy it. The remake had no guts. If you could understand and talk to animals like the new movies would you eat your friends. No but that was not mentioned in the new movies. No guts they did not want to offend the beef industry! "},{"Title":"Starring Anthony Newley And 20th Century Fox","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Firstly, let me say that I am a sucker for any epic made at Fox between about 1950 and 1977. During this period, artists such as Bernard Herrmann, John Williams, Richard LaSalle, L.B Abbott, Howard Lydecker, Irwin Allen, etc would give the studio a special identity it no longer has today. Maybe my love of Fox has blinded me of the various problems others have seen in Doctor Dolittle (1967)? Or maybe the movie that almost killed Fox title has partly blinded some of the greatness of Dolittle? Is it un-cool for some movie-fans to call Dolittle a classic? Well, I have got news for you, it is a classic, even better than The Wizard Of Oz (1939) in fact.A very Fox-ish film. Things in Dolittle would appear in 1960s Fox TV shows. When that giant whale first appears in the sea it resembles the whale seen in an episode of Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea. The inside of the giant snail would later be used in an episode of Land Of The Giants. When the ship sails in the storm it looks like an L.B. Abbott warm up for his Poseidon Adventure (1972) miniature effects. Was that island set used in Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea? And so it goes. But it takes more than special effects to make a movie really special, yes, this film has great songs from Anthony Newley.Thanks to the new DVD release, we can now jump to different parts of this very long film with the click of a button. I just got the DVD three weeks ago, and since then, I have made an estimated 30 viewings of the various Newley numbers in this film. There is nothing like coming home from work and flicking on a DVD of Newley singing in the rain and jumping around on old British village. The ultimate feel good experience. You end up feeling as happy as Newley (in that opening number).Unlike some other posters here, I have no problem with the ending of this film, I have no problem with some of the songs being a bit pointless, I have no problem with some of the slow scenes, I don't know where everybody in coming from with these issues? Then again, maybe I am partly blinded by wonderful memories of childhood viewings and my love of 20th Century Fox? Whatever the case, Doctor Dolittle is still a gem. "},{"Title":"Dr. Dolittle- A Disappointing Does Little for a Film **","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In a year of Bonnie and Clyde, The Graduate, Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, and In the Heat of the Night, how did Dr. Dolittle manage to get the 5th nomination for best picture? If the academy were looking to nominate a musical, they should have nominated Thoroughly Modern Millie, which was far better.You have to give credit though to song writer Leslie Bricusse for writing songs to fit Rex Harrison's limited voice range.The real delights of the film are Samantha Eggar (did she sing?) and Anthony Newley, both of whom were wonderful in their respective parts.The plot is quite ridiculous. It regards an animal doctor who is more at home with animals than people. This will eventually somewhat change when he falls for Ms. Eggar. This film is a poor imitation to the much better My Fair Lady, of 1964, which garnered Harrison an Oscar. I actually thought that when he fell for Eggar, he would sing  I've Grown Accustomed to Your Face.The sets and cinematography are absolutely beautiful but the story line is a little too much for adults to live with.Harrison's off-screen antics of calling Newley a cockney-ed Jew, his drunk escapades with wife Rachel Roberts, off the set, must have been memorable. Harrison didn't want Sammy Davis, Jr. to be in the film since he didn't want a song and dance man. Davis threatened to go to the NAACP over this. Sidney Poitier was supposed to play the Bumpo role until the latter role was written out of the film. Lucky for Sidney. The film was awful. "},{"Title":"Not so Absolutely Brilliant As Some Believe","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It should be noted that Doctor Dolittle (1967) was Fox's effort to cash in on what everyone assumed was a ripe genre, as evidenced by the outstanding box office reception of Sound of Music (1965). Not only did Dolittle do little at the box office, but because of its inflated budget it, among other studio musicals, sent Hollywood into its greatest recession since the 1930s. It required an act from the Nixon Administration (see, not all bad) to bail out the floundering studios. Only after a blood transfusion of new Hollywood talent did the studios begin to rediscover their audience. Maybe Dolittle and those catchy tunes stand the test of time, but it's hard to argue with history. Of course, they were wrong about Citizen Kane, too. "},{"Title":"Sheer Annoyance or Theatrical Masterpiece","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The movie begins in 1845 in Puddleby on the Marsh, England.  Dr. John Dolittle is a physician with a love for animals from alligators to zebras. Both his career and reputation fall apart when he starts to pay more attention to the animals than his human patients.  His talking parrot Polynesia gives him the idea of becoming a veterinarian.  John thinks this is a good idea, because he feels he has nothing in common with the human race.  Polynesia says she can teach the doctor to speak to animals, and she knows over 2,000 animal languages.  John thinks this is a good idea because he feels he has nothing in common with the human race.  Dr. Dolittle learns 498 languages from Polynesia and is busy learning two more.  After he finishes learning these last two languages, he plans to go on a voyage to find the Great Pink Sea Snail. Dr. Dolittle chose to give up his human patients for animal patients. Before John can go on his voyage to find the Great Pink Sea Snail, he must learn to master speaking the last two languages.  They are older languages such as the archaic languages of the goldfish and mackerel.  John had sacrificed nearly all contact with people for his animals.  Now he has decided to leave Puddleby on a voyage with his only friends to find the Great Pink Sea Snail.  On his journey he uses his fish language to see if anyone knows the location of the Sea Snail, but to no avail. The movie had several annoying coincidences.  Upon Dr. Dolittle's voyage to find the Great Pink Sea Snail, he is shipwrecked and finds Sea Star Island. This island is one that floats around in the ocean and has natives and animals on it.  The storm that shipwrecked Dr. Dolittle blew the island off course and the colder weather is causing the animals to get sick.  Dr. Dolittle then gets in contact with a whale and has it push the island away from the cold weather.  The whale pushes the island so hard it finds the exact place where it broke off from the mainland and it rejoins.  Come to find out, the Great Pink Sea Snail lives in an underground cave on Sea Star Island.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is an incredibly slow, clunky, and plotless musical. I couldn't wait for it to end. Richard Fleischer definitely wasn't the right man for this movie. It was a big money loser when it first came out (only made half of its cost back), and it took over twenty years for it to make it all back - deservedly so. Even Chitty Chitty Bang Bang was better than this. "},{"Title":"a beautiful film, much better than modern version.","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Forget the cynical cold hearted versions by Eddie Murphy, this is the real thing. The cast are fabulous especially the great Anthony Newly who stands out in a great cast.Newly was a genius and a wonderful performer especially on stage and its great that the Newly magic lives on film. His opening number is a tour de force. Rex Harrison is wonderful and who cares if he is not much different from Higgins. The talk to the animals number is great.It is one of many movies that were under valued at the time of their release. It probably had much to do with people expecting another My Fair Lady. The score of the film is great. The film is a bit long but its still superb. THe film has a great message and promotes a love of animals. Samantha Eggar is great and looks wonderful. The effects are remarkable. I love that giant snail and the great moth. The animals themselves are simply delightful and the film exudes great charm and warmth. The Richard Attenborough number is a real winner and the film is great to look at. The scenery by the way is lovely. What a pounding this fine film got from critics.Not fair.. it should be seen on the big screen but I doubt there would be many brave enough to revive it. "},{"Title":"I've Never Seen Anything Like It In Me Life","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It wasn't until Eddie Murphy did his two versions of Doctor Doolittle acting as a straight man to some hip talking animals in a modern setting that Doctor Doolittle made some real money. I certainly suppose the film was done a bit too soon before the age of computer graphics.I remember the film flopped badly and was roasted by critics at the time of release. I saw it back in the day and have seen it a few times over the year on television. Maybe a simpler story of a Doctor in Puddlesby- by-the-Sea treating animals might have been better. Certainly computer graphics would have been easier than all the animals that director Richard Fleischer had to deal with and who ran the budget up so bad with their difficulties there was no way this film could have made money.Still Rex Harrison for all the difficulties encountered plays the fantasy doctor who's learned the animal languages and can speak with them plays it absolutely straight under some trying circumstances. Just read some of the trivia on the film and you'll see what he, Anthony Newley, young William Dix, and Samantha Eggar had to deal with.Anthony Newley and his song writing partner Leslie Bricusse contributed the score which included the Academy Award winning Talk to the Animals which Sammy Davis, Jr. enjoyed a hit record from. Rex sings it here in his talk/sing style perfected from My Fair Lady.However my favorite in the cast who is so infectious in his delivery of his one number, I've Never Seen Anything Like It In Me Life is Richard Attenborough. He plays the circus owner to whom Doctor Doolittle reluctantly parts with a two headed llama called a PushmePullyou to help pay the rent. Attenborough looks like he's having a ball doing this elaborate production number where in the end the whole circus is serving as his chorus. Doctor Doolittle might have been better done in the way it was done today. Still it does have some charm to it and more than little children might actually enjoy it now. "},{"Title":"Doctor Dolittle","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Obviously I first saw the recreated film with Eddie Murphy, then I heard of this original from a short trailer. I decided to watch it both to see if it was any good, and I have grown quite fond of musicals over the last few years. Basically Golden Globe nominated Sir Rex Harrison plays Dr. John Dolittle, a doctor veterinarian who has the ability to communicate with animals, difference with this to Murphy's version is the animals don't talk (apart from a parrot). The film mainly just shows his journey of communicating to animals, and a search for a giant snail. Also starring Samantha Eggar as Emma Fairfax, Anthony Newley as Matthew Mugg, a terrific Golden Globe winning Lord Sir Richard Attenborough as Albert Blossom and Geoffrey Holder as William Shakespeare X. I guess I can believe that this film nearly killed 20th Century Fox studios. It won the the Oscars for Best Special Effects (they were rubbish!) and Best Song for Talk to the Animals (also won the Golden Globe), and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Music, Original Music Score for Leslie Bricusse, Best Music, Scoring of Music, Adaptation or Treatment for Lionel Newman and Alexander Courage, Best Sound and Best Picture, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy and Best Original Score. It was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, and it was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Worth watching! "}{"Title":"Didn't do much for me","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not one of the better musicals for my money. Except for a couple of the songs I couldn't generate much enthusiasm for the entire production. A story about a doctor who has less interest in his patients than he does in animals, a drunken irishman, and an odd quest for a pink snail is a bit juvenile for my tastes. It wasn't a totally useless production, the players did a good job; I simply couldn't get into the tale. "},{"Title":"Do-Nothing Movie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I am so glad I didn't actually spend money on this film!  (It was given to me)  It has to be one of the most boring 2 1/2 hours I've ever spent.  I even had to break it up at the intermission midway through the movie to recover from the appalling boredom (with the intermission, it seems even the producers recognized this movie was too darn long!).  I wanted to give my children, aged 5 and 2, some alternative to the Eddie Murphy version and the sequel due out soon.  I thought an earlier movie might have a little better humor and not go so lowbrow.  I was right.  In fact, the only commonality between the versions is that the Doctor can understand animals.  Nothing else is the same.Unfortunately, like Matthew Mugg (as in mug-o-beer), the stereotyped drunken Irishman, this movie wanders and rambles and meanders through various settings with no seeming rhyme or reason.  One of my children, who loves animals and playing with animal figures was in the next room playing in 20 minutes.  The other soon followed.  Even they had trouble enjoying the movie.It is rife with vegetarian propaganda, as the doctor sings about how hard it is to eat his friends and turns down flatly meals with meat in them. Hardly a choice I'd like to force on my kids.Like the Doctor, the movie makes more of itself than it is.  It pretends to be a grand musical, but without any good writing or songs to back it up. The ending is tacked on, which seems odd to say after that long a torture session.  The sound is bad, with the music booming and the dialogue inaudible.  Add to it the paltry special effects, which in todays day and age of digital work, look sad and downright goofy.  And the quest for the pink sea snail results in no grand discovery or point other than they're in a different place.  Perhaps I'm spoiled on Rogers and Hammerstein, but I truly view this movie as a waste of time.The only bright point is Geoffrey Holder, whose lines are trite but cute and snappy.  When he approaches the doctor for the first time to introduce himself, the doctor talks pigeon english to him.  He remarks to a friend, What a funny accent, in the Queen's english.Skip all 3 Doctors Doolittle and you will save yourself time and money.  "}]