[{"Title":"Razor-sharp and light-footed analysis of emotional vanity","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"37 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Art dealer, in need of serenity, finds that the holiday villa is shared by a hedonistic young woman. He becomes obsessed with ignoring her and pretends to himself that she wants to seduce him while he remains unaffected. The holiday thus turns into a love triangle between the indifferent but flirtatious girl, the man's unacknowledged desire, and his incessant, pompous self-rationalizations (the best cinematic use of voice-over EVER!). A sunny, witty, and deeply ironic moral tale that explores, like most of Rohmer's work, the uneasy vacillation between intellect and eroticism.  "},{"Title":"Charm and Guile between the Sexes","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  La Collectionneuse, the third film in Eric Rohmer's six moral tales, is packed with lacerating observations on life, love, and the nature of man. It is a sensitive conversation piece with elegant people commenting poetically on their lives and of those around them. Attractive men and women who reflect openly about the conflicts of intellect and impulse; inclination and action, solitude and companionship. Rohmer characteristically paces this eloquent tale of sexual temptation with long, fluid takes. La Collectionneuse(Collector Girl) centers around a young, hedonistic girl(Haydee) who saunters laconically around the provincial environs of a large vacation home, seemingly indifferent to the two older men's(Adrian and Danele) existence. Haydee exudes a casual independence and an unflappable reserve. Her cursory dealings with her young lovers prompts Danele to cast her as 'the atrocious ingenue'. Though they find her unexpectedly alluring, both men regard 'the idea of collecting boyfriends opposite of purity'. Rohmer, the director of Chloe in the Afternoon and A Tale of Springtime, enjoys revealing which individual can best cast their charm and guile to their best advantage. This 'game' between the sexes only leads to unwanted desires for the men and a resumption of her search by Haydee. Rohmer handles the material with a light touch throughout and concludes his story by offering a tenuous solution to the prevailing tension in the movie between one's solitude and fraternity. Adrian privately confesses that 'I was overwhelmed by a feeling of delightful independence, of total self-determination. But in the emptiness and silence of the house, I was overcome with anguish'. A universal truth clearly-rendered by one of cinema's most ingenious and graceful filmmakers.    "},{"Title":"For me, this is the Rohmer's masterpiece","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to explain what is the Rohmer's cinema. In his movies you can't find heroes, incredible adventures or great action sequences. Everything happens inside the mind of the characters, and the most important aspect is the psychology of them.La Collectioneuse is simply the masterpiece of Rohmer. The plot is very simple two boys and one girl in their friend's house in St.Tropez. That's all. There are not incredible events that happen, they simply LIVE there. It's an typical situation of Rohmer who likes to study the evolution of love triangles, in different situations. The explanation of the development steps, made by the usual interior voice of the main character (Adrien), it's incredibly accurate and likely. It's fantastic that sometimes Adrien's thoughts look at first to be absurd, but even in this case if we reflect a bit to that we can realize that it's true, that really in similar cases we have non-sense thoughts like those. In this way, Rohmer is unique the psycho-evolution of the characters is incredibly real. Dialogs, internal and not, are superb and the directing essential. Rohmer shows us how it's possible to make a masterpiece with a ridiculous budget, and how an intellectual movie can be also enjoyable and not so heavy.The vote, of course, can't be different by 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous film; Best of the first three moral tales","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first feature length moral tale, La Collectionneuse is easily better than its predecessors. Offering a realistic look into the lives of three young people and narrated perfectly by one, La Collectionneuse is a beautiful film. This is Eric Rohmer's first color feature and it is absolutely magnificent to look at. There are several gorgeous beach scenes. The cinematography all around is just glorious. Aside from that, the acting is wonderful. There is so much chemistry between the main characters that it electrifies the film. It also provides a realistic tale of the struggle to keep morality. Translated as The Collector in English, La Collectionneuse is an overlooked, underrated film that should be considered a classic.The story begins with three prologues. The first, Haydee's prologue, simply shows the girl on the beach in a skimpy bikini. The second prologue introduces the viewer to Daniel, a painter, who becomes a key character. Adrien's prologue, the third and last, gives us an introduction to Adrien, who becomes our narrator throughout the rest of the film. These three characters are whom the story revolves around. Sharing a mutual friend, the three of them come to share a villa during their vacation. Adrien, an art dealer who is played by Patrick Bauchau, has made it his goal to do absolutely nothing during his stay. He and Daniel (Daniel Pommereulle) become friends fairly quickly, but both keep their distance from Haydee (Haydee Politoff), the beautiful young girl who beds a different guy every night. Adrien is at first disgusted with her behavior, calling her a collector of men, but eventually becomes intrigued by her. As he grows more and more attracted to her, Adrien must decide whether or not to sleep with her and forget his moral integrity or to abstain and do what he knows is right. Through his narration, Adrien debates this and plays mind games with Haydee, although he's not sure if she shares the attraction or if she simply wants to add him to her collection.This film is simply beautiful. The sexual tension feels very real, which is due to both the performances of the actors and the direction of Eric Rohmer, who is quickly becoming one of my favorite directors. The narration is refreshing, offering a good look into Adrien's mind. La Collectionneuse is very sharp with its dialogue and themes. Like the other Rohmer films I've seen, this one ends very abruptly. It reminds us that we're watching these people's lives for only a short time. The 87 minutes is completely worth it, though. La Collectionneuse is a great film and should be regarded in higher esteem than it seems to be. I can't imagine why this one isn't ranked alongside the greats.10/10 "},{"Title":"Everyday life elevated into art","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In The Collector, the first feature-length film of the Six Moral Tales series, mind-games, strategies, and overt manipulation thwart the possibility of satisfying relationships. The 54-minute film is beautifully photographed and has an elegance, charm, and wit that bears favorable comparison with his more acclaimed works. Adrien (Patrick Bauchau), an art dealer, and Daniel (Daniel Pommereulle), a painter spend the summer in a house on the French Riviera. Also vacationing there is Haydee (Haydee Politoff), an elegant but rather aloof young woman who sleeps with many boys in the area and has earned the title of collectionneuse, a collector of men. Adrien, smug and self-centered in a charming sort of way, is interested in Haydee but tells himself that her promiscuity is a trick for him to seduce her and he refuses.The summer turns into a love triangle with Adrien convincing Daniel to pursue Haydee to ease the pressure of his own conflict between his rationalizing intellect and his passions. In the moral scheme of things, Haydee may represent the sexual revolution of the 60s and Adrien that of traditional morality, yet the film takes no sides, presenting the issues without judging the characters and giving us much to think about. The Collector is perhaps the most philosophical of the six but in the end the pursuit without passion leads to a feeling of emptiness and missed opportunities. Like most of Rohmer's films, there are no peak dramatic moments or confrontations, just everyday life elevated into art. "},{"Title":"Venus and Two Mercurial Men","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" LA COLECTIONNEUSE is Eric Rohmer's first color feature, and along with cinematographer and frequent collaborator Nestor Almendros, he uses a bright palette to maximum advantage in a story that like its time frame, is bursting in warm, vibrant hues that pretty much parallels the equally lightweight plot. Straying habitually close to the same story that makes up what the Moral Tales are about, this one concerns a frisky female, Haydee (Haydee Politoff), who captures the attention and equal repulsion of two other young men Daniel (Daniel Pommereulle), an artist with a penchant for making art that literally cuts its viewers who aren't sharp, and Adrien (Patrick Bauchau), a young art dealer who is soon to make a lucrative purchase from an American artist.Haydee is first seen in a frank, objectified way walking on the beach of Saint Tropez, alone, as the camera lingers on her face (reminiscent of Charlize Theron), her torso, her legs. It's, in a way, Rohmer's mode of possibly depersonalizing his heroine since she remains a murky character with little definition -- one moment submissive, another moment quite take-charge, but always obscure. It's also a way of introducing her carefree way to the viewer; had she been introduced as a buttoned-down, prim female, it would have been clear her role would be that of a woman of stiff mores. But, as we see throughout the movie, Haydee is living in the middle of the swinging Sixties and she could care less about those things. Nor if her partying disturbs the sleep of Adrien or Daniel.Their share at the summer house in Saint Tropez is anything but placid. The two men are appalled at her behavior and decide not to have sex with Haydee for her own good. Adrien even decides to dub her The Collector -- a moniker that makes up the title of the movie and points at a spiteful machismo because where men can be womanizers and be called studs, women who take on this attitude are sanctioned. He stays at a distance from Haydee as she becomes involved with Daniel. Their liaison, however, becomes rocky and both soon part ways, leaving Haydee and Adrien with an open door to come one step closer. In a shocking move, Adrien offers her to a prospective client in order to secure a Song vase. Surprisingly, she accepts, not without an incident involving the aforementioned vase, which in turn leads Haydee right into Adrien's arms.Rohmer's movie is not without its Rohmerisms where characters introduce themselves with lengthy discussions as to the nature of life, love, attractions, and repulsions. In fact, every character minus Haydee does so, which makes her the more elusive and difficult to describe. Is she just floating along with what the men think they want? Or is she really clueless, a woman who has a simple view on life and who doesn't find any guilt in her actions? Interestingly enough, her philosophy is rather close to that of Adrien's girlfriend (every male character in his Six Moral Tales arc has a steady) who sees love as universal, indifferent to beauty or ugliness. That Haydee acts upon Adrien's girlfriend's statement says a lot more about who the girlfriend might be, but sheds an accessible light on Haydee.And anyways, she comes off better than any of the two men, as do the other females of Rohmer's sextet -- Maud, Laura, or Chloe. (It's also interesting that all of the other women are mainly brunette and aggressive or assertive in temper, whereas the ideal one is frequently blond or passive in character.) Even when objectified, there is a mysterious likability within her that is missing in his two male leads. Adrien is a little hypocritical of his own observant nature and while he openly derides Haydee he also wants her. Daniel is a dark guy in this story and in all of the Six Moral Tales collection, not just because of his pain-inducing art, but a veneer of violence just underneath his arrogant demeanor. Maybe, in this story -- as well as all of his others -- Rohmer seems to be the Ultimate Observer, painting a picture in regards to immature men, their attraction to a worldly female, and their decision to remain in a complacent union with another one that can only be there as a Barbie doll. "},{"Title":"Rohmer's Slow Burning Tale Of Sixties Hedonism And Moral Pomposity","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Eric Rohmer's movies are, it seems almost without exception, slow- burners that reward those with the patience to sit through them, preferably more than once in some cases, and think about whats being said as much as whats being shown. This, his first feature in colour requires considerable thought on the part of the viewer, serving up nothing in the way of dramatic excitement and featuring three loathsome main characters who's morals are very in keeping with the era of late- 60s self satisfaction and hedonistic excess. Not that the hedonism is very wild. Jimi Hendrix does not blast from the simple record player that sits near a chair and provides the only music in the film. No one smokes anything illegal or pops any pills, talks of Indian mystics or goes in for meditation. But there is the very liberated (nowadays we'd say reckless) attitude to casual sex, although we don't see very much; the relaxed tangle of naked legs half glimpsed through one doorway, a brief an unrevealing shot of the main protagonist, the disturbingly young looking Haydee, quietly enjoying the intimate attention of another one-night-stand. Otherwise it's all hints and the more effective for that. Haydee is the very image of a swinging-sixties bed hopper. Young, slender, independent, cool and seemingly amoral she wrecks the plans of Adrian, an art dealer with time on his hands, when he finds her resident in a borrowed holiday villa at which he intends to devote himself to doing nothing at all for a few weeks while his girlfriend is in London. Haydee's noisy night-time frolics disturb his sleep and offend his self- declared sense of morality and the added presence in the house of his lazy, grumpy painter-friend Daniel sets up a spiralling tension between them all. But this is pure Rohmer and that tension manifests itself not in fist-fights, broken furniture, tearful confessions and blood-letting, but insults, low-key/nigh-brow arguments, teasing, sniping and political manoeuvring. In fact the more one thinks about the film, and it's one of those movies that does hang around long after the credits, the more one realises it's actually rather more like real-life, certainly as most of us endure it from time to time, than the over-dramatic offerings we are used to from mainstream movie-makers. Haydee maybe cute, Adrien describes himself as handsome and the setting is idyllic but you really wouldn't like to be on holiday with these unsympathetic characters. Observing their antics from without is one thing but to be part of it would be a nightmare! Oddly with it's morality so perfectly fixed in it's own time, this seems far more like a film from the 1970s. Something in it's look and after-the-party sense of deflation and disenchantment fits in with that later decade. Seeing it without knowing the release date you might well guess at 1972 or even later. If Godard's BANDE A PARTE is set in a Swinging-Sixties that hasn't yet arrived, Rohmer's film portrays one that has already left the building, although it's after-effects continue to create a problem. It all sounds somewhat depressing on paper and to some extent it is! It's not an easy film but if you give it time and maybe second look, you might well find there is more to this outwardly simple tale than you thought. "},{"Title":"Unravelling ego of a socialite art dealer","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Adrien, the narrator and main character of La Collectionneuse, vacations at a house of a friend and patron in the south of France. He is planning to open an art gallery after years of supporting himself in a murkily defined role in the art scene, based on his connections, his personal charms, and his scheming. He is separated, perhaps permanently, from his girlfriend, a polished model beaming with positivity who doesn't take him altogether seriously. While on vacation, he shares the house with Daniel, an awkward, intense avant-garde artist with a hatred of mediocre society, and a pretty, inarticulate young drifter, Haydee. Adrien wants to center himself in a feeling of solitude in preparation for his gallery opening, but instead becomes increasingly obsessed with Haydee, who is not his type, but whose escapades with other men dent his ego. Neither Adrien nor Daniel find it acceptable to be just another in a long line of mostly mediocre men that the somewhat generic and vague Haydee finds only okay, yet they don't want to be left out either.The tropical location and good looking leads of the film provide eye candy, but the overall message of the film is sour and bleak. However this is a bleakness and sourness that is enjoyable, revealing a psychological terrain that is realistic rather than filmic. None of the relationships pictured are profound but overall are driven by a need to score points over others or a involuntary desire for acceptance and gratification. Reunion with his girlfriend in London is less a moral triumph of true love, and more a desire for a more satisfactory ego prop.Most striking is the anti-romance at the heart of the film. Adrien and Haydee are not dissimilar, both of them bohemian outsiders who don't take well to conformity and the 9-to-5 life, both of whom get by on their personal charm and willingness to ingratiate themselves with the more stable. However, far from finding true love together, they never really connect. Haydee's attention drifts from man to man, and Adrien is caught up in posturing to prove that he is someone. The simple, childlike Haydee with her lack of ambitions and pretenses is not good enough for him in his mind, while to her, he is perverse and feels superior for no reason.Two of the best moments in the film are the beginning and the end. In the beginning we are presented with Haydee. She is beautiful, young, healthy, walking on a beautiful beach. It is a perfect picture. Only, she is walking back and forth, to nowhere in particular, her face is rather plain, her haircut silly, her expression vague and dissatisfied. She's desirable but there's nothing especially impressive about her, hence the dissatisfaction to haunt the protagonist. Then at the end, the protagonist finds himself alone in paradise, freed from bickering. Far from being peaceful, there is a sense it is depressing. One longs to return to the happier days of unhappiness, just as Haydee expressed in her simple and seemingly stupid fashion earlier in the movie, and like the narrator is forced to admit in the end.This is one of my favorite of the Moral Tales, feeling less talky and ultimately moralizing than most. It's a somewhat small film, ultimately about one man's imperfect character and his squabbles with a few others. Nothing much happens and the point seems to take the cheap shot of snarking on the egotist male protagonist. However, still, it's a movie well worth seeing and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Portrayals Without Heroes!","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really appreciate the comments of other reviewer in helping me sort out the reasons I like Rohmer's Moral Tales, even though I cannot identify positively with the players. Of course, that is what it is all about. When one cannot pull for someone, and must listen to the pretentious verbiage, it would be easy to dismiss such films. Here we have several characters who are either incredibly cynical or hedonistic. Haydee provides a true match for the two young men who seem to have an incredible amount of time on their hands. One could say that it's remarkable that they seem moneyed when their personalities are so caustic. Our narrator is a tall handsome man who once again has what he considers an unattainable moral code. Haydee is sultry and cute and steals every scene she is in. She could easily be done in by the barbs tossed at her, but, ultimately, he is her own person and ultimately makes the decisions. Most would have been intimidated by the two asses at the summer house. She rolls along. Rohmer does some amazing close-ups to show the emotions in the faces of his characters. Quite a masterful film. "},{"Title":"A Film More Likable Than Its Characters","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the fourth film in Eric Rohmer's Six Moral Tales film series, and, since I'm watching the six films in order, the fourth film in the Six Moral Tales series that I've seen, as well as the second best (after the excellent My Night at Maud's). However, as much as I love this film, a majority of the it's characters are absolutely horrible people! But, I feel like this was intentional with at least a couple of these characters. For example. the character of Daniel is so utterly annoying and pathetic that I cannot help but believe that he is the type of character that was designed for the audience to hate. There's one scene towards the end in which the main character (named Adrien) introduces Daniel to another character, and Daniel just insults him and his profession.As unlikable as the characters may be, the film they're in is wonderful. It's entertaining, witty, well written, and beautifully made. The cinematography is absolutely lovely! This was Rohmer's first color film, and it works wonderfully with color.La collectionneuse is a genius work of art "}{"Title":"Rohmer's lesser achievement","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is truly disheartening to calmly embrace the fact that the aftertaste of watching this film is a certain degree of disappointment, against my almost irrational desire to love Rohmer's oeuvre, but I just don't like THE COLLECTOR, the fourth chapter of Rohmer's MORALE TALES series, the first feature length in the series and his very first colour feature too. Searching inwards, what takes me aback actually is the three protagonists, Adrien (Bauchau), an art dealer, Daniel (Pommereulle), a painter, and Haydée (Politoff), a young girl, the titular collectionneuse, none of them is really simpatico enough to deserve viewers' attentiveness, on top of that, after three rapid prologues introducing those three, the entire film is vexingly hinged on Adrien's viewpoint with his , and he is the most obnoxious one among them, narcissistic, supercilious and self-centred, ever since he meets Haydée, a stranger who stays with him and Daniel in a villa of their their common friend in Riviera for vacation. The arrival of Haydée disrupts Adrien's doing nothing plan of his holiday, especially when he can smugly occupy the moral high ground to hold her promiscuity in contempt, meanwhile, his resolution of not being one of her collection is persistently being challenged by Haydée's sensuality, a typical tug-of-war between moral superiority and libidinous inferiority. Haydée, sports an ingénue appearance, is in another quandary, as she confesses without the usual pretence, she is looking for a normal relationship, but every man she meets only attracts to her sex appeal, obviously she forgets, birds of a feather flock together, if she wants a more meaningful relationship, she should opt for a different potential market, not those hormone-driven lads. Yet the heart wants what the heart wants, she is too young to realise that, and which is why she enjoys playing the catch-and-release game with Adrien, treats him like her usual prey, starts the first move then retreats to a blasé niche towards his tentative courtship, as titillating as it can be, sometimes it backfires. As the finale points out, the game-changer sometimes arrives unpreparedly, just a spur of the moment, that's how frivolous a man's thoughts are, this is where Rohmer hits the home run, but only if we could be saved from all the metaphysical jibber-jabber. Daniel, the third footing of the triangle, is more elusive since mostly he is more of an outsider observing the game emotionlessly, until he participates in as a catalyst to meddle with the imbroglio, at one time it seems he would play a more significant counter-part in the contest, but after a bit, he is defeated and drops out, leaving the room for Sam (Archer), an American art collector whom Adrien is doing business with, to be manipulated for another test of the bottom line between the sex battle, only it will cost him an expensive Chinese vase from Song Dynasty. Majestically shot under the natural light, after all, as cerebral and insightful as Rohmer's master stroke is, THE COLLECTOR doesn't strike the same chord as his two latter films (THE AVIATOR'S WIFE 1981 and PAULINE AT THE BEACH 1983) I've previously watched, but it will not discourage me from his works, it is just a little bump on the road, never mind. "},{"Title":"Arrogance, False Value Judgment and Pretentious Intellectuality of a False Moralist","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The arrogant and pretentious intellectual art dealer Adrien (Patrick Bauchau) invites his girlfriend to travel with him to the coast to spend one month vacation with his close friend and painter Daniel (Daniel Pommereulle) in the house of their Randolphe. Adrien expects to do nothing but read and rest in the house and meet a possible investor in an art gallery that he dreams on having; however she prefers to travel to London. When he arrives, he discovers that the sexy and promiscuous pleasure-seeking Haydee (Haydée Politoff) that had one nightstand with Randolphe is sharing the house with Daniel. Along the days, Adrien becomes obsessed in a sick game of humiliating Haydee and imaging that she is trying to seduce him; however, his lust for her increases but his moral rationalization of their possible relationship keeps them apart. La Collectionneuse is an erotic tale of arrogance, false value judgment and pretentious intellectuality of a false moralist. The witty and cynical screenplay uses excessive narrative in off of the unlikable lead character Adrien that is despicable as well as his friend Daniel. Actually, the only likable character is the libertine Haydee that accepts passively the cruel comments and treatment of Adrien and Daniel. Eric Rohmer uses the successful idea of a triangle of love with two men and a woman of Jules et Jim in a different and monotonous approach. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) A Colecionadora (The Female Collector) "},{"Title":"Dreadfully boring and filled with unlikable jerks.","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Eric Rohmer is a very well respected director and my hating many of his films flies is not typical of many of the reviewers here on IMDb. You might wonder why I keep watching his films and it's because sometimes I have enjoyed them--such as with Autumn Tale. But too often I find his films extremely talky and slow...too slow.This story is about a pretentious and morally superior man named Adrien. He is the sort of guy who THINKS he's somehow better and more intelligent than most, but in this film he just seems like a jerk. This jerk goes to stay at some summer home along with his friend, Daniel. Daniel is a sullen and grouchy jerk and perhaps even more difficult to like than Adrien. Into this joyous household comes a free-spirited and VERY sexually liberated young lady, Haydée. Daniel and Adrien immediately look down on her because of her blasé attitude about sex but soon it becomes clear that the two men would be more than willing to score with her. Adrien takes the approach of a guy who is indifferent to her and he seems to spend most of the film convincing himself he does NOT want Haydée. By the end of the film will Adrien and Haydée 'hook up'?The idea of a pseudo-intellectual snob who feigns indifference towards a sexually adventurous lady isn't the most exciting thing but it could have been much more interesting. First, injecting the movie with ENERGY would have sure helped. Instead, this movie is almost glacially slow and dull. Second, making the characters likable in some way would have increased the audience's connection with the film. I hated Adrien and Daniel in particular. Third, the movie should not have been done mostly with voice-overs by Adrien. Allowing the characters to talk and allowing everything to unfold without narration would have made it more interesting and less pretentious. Overall, I guess this is another one of Rohmer's stories that I just don't get. "},{"Title":"Two Frenchmen and a dimwitted harlot. No, this isn't Jules & Jim.","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"16 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Prologue 1 A flat-chested French actress walks along a beach. She turns around and walks in the other direction. Art.Prologue 2 Two French pseudo-intellectuals, with mail-order Philosophy degrees, engage in a discussion about a coffee mug with razor-blades glued to it. The deep thinker on the right suggests it means something. The other deep thinker agrees. Nothing gets the blood of two 60s New Wave hobby-thinkers boiling like a cup with razorblades clumsily attached to it. Art.Two friends, Adrien and Daniel (the cup gluer), are resting on the French Riviera. They have decided not to do anything, be idle for a while. And when two New Wave French cinema deep thinkers are on vacation you just know it won't be long before they do two things 1) exchange philosophical musings about the world, and 2) share a woman. Which brings us to the to-and-fro beach-walking floozy from Prologue 1, Haydee. She and another man, lover no.23,783, join Daniel and Adrien. The gal and her loveur hurl pebbles at a group of chickens. Adrien is not amused, but his curiosity is tickled. Art. The narrator initially wants nothing to do with this chicken-hating harlot; he finds her too base even for his amoral, hedonistic ways (he claims to have high morals in the dating arena, but we know better than to believe him). Haydee has the voice of an 11 year-old boy and just as much below the neck i.e. you can certainly understand why art-loving men fall for her in their thousands. To be fair, she has a very cute face i.e. not at all boyish &#x96; which might just explain why she isn't an instant object of desire for Daniel and Adrien.Nonetheless, our monotone-voiced narrator soon starts to rationalize the growing number of Haydee-induced erections in his pants by deceiving himself that his growing interest in her is because she isn't empty- headed like the others. Art.How he reaches the rather suspicious conclusion that her IQ is higher than a chimp's, I do not know. Her sentences rarely contain more than 3 words. But I guess when you do nothing all day but read Rousseau your judgment tends to get a little clouded. French philosophers will do that to you&#x85;Soon we find out what German Romantics do to the floozy. Rather unconvincingly, she holds a book called Les Romantiques Allemandes, in spite of the fact that even the average episode of Asterix the Gaul must be far too demanding for her. That very day, as if wanting to release her from the boredom of having to spend the whole evening pretending to read a philosophy book, Adrien suggests a night out. Soon he makes his moves, but she plays hard to get. She runs away (sobbingly? laughingly? the editor decided not to make her weird grunts comprehensible to the viewer) straight into the hands of Daniel, with whom she had a brief fling a few days earlier. The two embrace passionately &#x96; in spite of the fact that Daniel and Haydee were supposed to be not on good terms. Don't ask me what the hell is going on. I'm just the viewer. Needless to say art.Next up is a brief scene in which Adrien shows a 10th-century vase to Haydee. He turns it around so the cameraman can capture its other side too (which looks pretty much the same), and then he flips the vase back to its original position. I'm just glad this wasn't a 15-minute scene. Art. Later, grumpy Daniel (vaguely resembling David Warner), bangs his right foot against the living-room floor, over and over, like a semi-catatonic lunatic. Haydee dares complain about the annoying noise. Daniel reacts to her with a vicious yet pointless diatribe about beauty and ugliness. Being unusually homely himself, I'm a little surprised that he'd even dare touch the subject. He also mentions the Sun briefly, making some New-Waveian analogy not worth repeating here. Summa sumarum this entire venomous anti-Haydee tirade occurs just because she rightfully complained about his childish behavior. Daniel should be glad that a cutie like Haydee ever even looked at him &#x96; let alone actually agreed to bed him.Breaking the bliss of this slightly idle trio is an art collector, Sam. He sounds like Darth Vader, and throws in a few exciting comments about the much-touted elephant-based ancient vase. Daniel shows up, and true to his fickle 60s New Wave temperament, starts berating Sam for being an art collector. The rant is mercifully short though, and the message is as simple as it is moronic and pointless I hate art collectors, so I refuse to kiss your behind. Was Daniel molested as a child by a similar kind of baritone-voiced art collector, or is he merely as dumb as a doorknob? Later, Sam decides to berate Adrien for his sloth, while the latter defends himself by trying to rationalize his layabout existence as some form of higher existence a typical language-rapist, in the best New Wave tradition.In the end, we find out that these 80 minutes of New Wave French cinema were about Adrien's attempts to start feeling independent. Hallelujah.Rohmer once said that he focused on the cinema of thoughts rather than actions. So why didn't he just publish books then? Cinema happens to be largely a visual medium. Perhaps someone forgot to tell him&#x85; But next to Godard he must be a genius.Still, LC is a watchable flick, some of the dialog being fairly interesting. On the other hand, I'm not one of those Tabula Rasa viewers who are easily impressed by any thought or conversation deeper than a pub discussion about a Premier League draw. It takes more than coffee- table philosophers to get my adrenaline going&#x85; "},{"Title":"Bon Vivant Neo Nazis","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's amazing how diabolical those people sound when they declare that the ovens are the only place for those lacking beauty-completely ignoring the variety of good human attributes. This is the trap that many architects,artists, and designers get stuck in the search for beauty. The film is interesting despite my hate for it's characters because of it's exploration of the ideas of beauty and perception,it also was filmed in a gorgeous old mansion in the country. 1967 was an interesting year in film Week End,Oedipus Rex,The Graduate,2 or 3 Things I Know About Her,Point Blank,Belle Du Jour,Bonnie and Clyde, Dirty Dozen, this one is worth checking out in addition to those others. "},{"Title":"Rohmer's dullest conte moral?","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a flimsy story, as slight as Le Genou de Claire but not as well acted. Patrick Bauchau has a splendid profile, Haydee Politoff's mouth is adorable and Daniel Pommereulle knows how to tense his lips for dramatic effect but the story is dead in the water.A typical Rohmer protagonist is on holiday or somehow separated from his partner, and we are shown how he copes with temptation (Trintignant does so, splendidly, in Ma Nuit chez Maud). Who cares what happens to Bauchau's marriage here, when the actions of the characters are so uninvolving? "},{"Title":"Bores","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `La Collectionneuse' was not my favorite of Rohmer's moral tales.  I had a problem with the two male leads, not their acting but the characters they portrayed.  I thought they were self-indulgent, rather shallow, bores. Haydee was the only one with some life in her.  I saw the story as a conflict between Haydee's  doing something lifestyle and the inward looking lethargy of the two male leads.   God they were bores.  This  moral tale is hardly worth seeing.  "}]