[{"Title":"This seminal work is a must for serious fans of Czech film","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a cult classic in Milos Forman's native Czech Republic, where the previous Communist regime banned it for its biting social satire (and because Forman emigrated to the US).The director brings out a number of themes and devices that would become his trademarks on later award-winners such as One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest, Hair and Amadeus. Non-actors and first-timers predominate in the cast, giving the film a gutsy realism. As in Forman's later films, the pace and tone of the film are light and comedic, setting the viewer up for the shock of the tragic denouement. And it is worth noting that the film's cameraman (M. Ondricek) and art director (K. Cerny) later continued to work with Forman in Hollywood, winning Oscars as well.The Czech subtitle translates roughly as In which they dance, steal and extinguish and that about sums it up. A retiring small-town fireman is treated to a farewell ball by the rest of the brigade. The retiree, clearly a holdover from the pre-war democratic society, represents the old values of personal decency and integrity, contrasting pointedly with his younger colleagues. Most of the film is taken up by the ball itself and depiction of the townspeople involved. The characters drawn range from gentle caricature to fierce satire. Highlights include a hastily-arranged beauty contest (each girl uglier than the next), a table full of disappearing door prizes (another one is gone every time you look - and the couple guarding the table are doing some of the stealing, too) and the final presentation of the award to the retiree the box with the ceremonial fire-ax is empty, but the old man stoically hides his confusion and disappointment.In these episodes Forman is indirectly criticising not just a decadent society but the Communist regime whose lawlessness and twisted sense of values brought about the decay. The final moments of the film - when an actual fire breaks out in the town - make the point uncompromisingly people have forgotten what is really important in life.If you don't care much for European films and aren't interested in life in the former East bloc, this film may seem tedious and the humor hard to understand. But if you want to see one of the classic films of the Czech New Wave and gain an insight into the early development of an Oscar-winning director, this film is definitely worth an hour and a half of your life. "},{"Title":"Avoid it if you must","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Firemen's Ball (1967) **** Watching Forman's acclaimed comedy ''The Firemen's Ball'' was a very unique movie-going experience. It is filled with the extraordinary subtle humor, compassion for its characters, very realistic setting, acting & feeling and some brief satire. It got various reviews upon releasing. Some critics hailed it as a minimalistic masterpiece (Roger Ebert) others just was ''resistant'' to it's so-called charm (Leonard Maltin). I just know I wasn't. Judge for yourself. I can't, however, recall so sharp and intelligent script and so believable performances packed in mere 70 minutes. I find it superior to acclaimed Oscar winning Czech comedy filmed a year before by Jiri Menzel &#150; ''Closely Watched Trains''. By the way, interesting note Czechoslovakian movies were nominated four years in a row for the Best Foreign Language Oscar in 1960ies. ('65, '66, '67, '68). Two of them won it (''Shop on a main street'' in 1965 and ''Closely Watched Trains'' in 1967) and two didn't (''Loves of a Blonde'' in 1966 and ''The Firemen's Ball'' in 1968). "},{"Title":"Sincere comedy takes place at a drunken Czech firemen party","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Often hilarious comedy was an early effort by Forman. The characters reveal their attributes and flaws over the course of a drunken bash that involves stealing, sex, abundant alcohol consumption, and a Fireman's Ball Beauty Contest. Forman had to deny that there was a political message behind the film in Socialist late 60's Czechoslavakia. He has a rare talent for presenting humans, not necessarily pretty, but engaging and natural. Forman encourages us in an introduction to not think too much. "},{"Title":"One of the Top-Five Comedies Ever","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Without hesitation, I place The Firemen's Ball to the apex of world comedy, together with Buster Keaton's The General, Stanley Kramer's It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad Mad World, Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein and Billy Wilder's Some Like It Hot.Funny-wise, this is the definition of INTELLIGENCE, WITS, SPIRIT, INSPIRATION, BRIGHTNESS. The laughs are coming non-stop, in an atrocious vein. But there is much more than that...Yes, there is much more - because, all being said and done, we watch an extremely sad story... The poor blundering provincials, limited, foolish, ridiculous in their stupidity, pathetically try to have a good time, and they only arrive to set-up a grotesque, sub-human masquerade... Innocent in their insanity, childish in their ignorance, their solemn ball looks like a parade of apes dressed as human beings. And the (you-know-what) hits the fan at the moment when things get really serious the fire at Pan Havelka's house. During that excruciating scene, we really see the fallacy of it all.The ending - all of it! - is the top of the masterpiece. The solemn delivery of the homage (that was stolen also from its case!), followed by the dawn shot of the two poor old men covering themselves with the same blanket, under the gently beginning snow-fall, is worthy of Chaplin. Definitely, with this movie, Forman offered a priceless heritage to the world of cinema - and culture; and spirit; and HUMANITY. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not much of a foreign film fan, and tend to avoid subtitled films.  But I ran across this film on TV one day, and it captured me.It feels as real as a documentary, and it is as funny as movies get. You'll also pick up a real feeling of how another society might be.Don't miss this, even if you have to buy it. "},{"Title":"A  masterpiece indeed.","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is great taken at face value. One does not really need to know anything about Czechoslovakia or the time period to appreciate its brilliance, the same way one does not need to know much about Medieval Denmark to appreciate Shakespeare's Hamlet. Therefore, I wish some of you here would refrain from making all kinds of clever comments about communism or how this film attempts to ridicule it. It's a simple story that is both hilarious and tragic, and it could have taken place anywhere. After all, human greed, dishonesty and stupidity are all around us. It just so happens this film was made in Czechoslovakia in 1967 by a Czech director, but the message is universal, and that is what makes it so great. So, to those of you who try read a whole bunch of stuff into it, please drop the condescending western attitude and just enjoy this gem of a movie without analyzing it too much. "},{"Title":"Milos's Greatest Achievement","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you're only familiar with Milos Forman through his latter-day works, such as the People vs. Larry Flynt, Man on the Moon, Amadeus, or even Cuckoo's Nest, you should probably do yourself a favor and seek out his earlier films made in his native Czechoslovakia. Made during that country's years as a Soviet satellite, The Firemen's Ball can be seen as an underhanded commentary on the shambles of communist rule but more importantly it can be seen as an exploration of human foibles. Abiding by Murphy's Law, apparently, everything that can go wrong does go wrong with the Firemen's Ball, planned to celebrate the retired fire chief who is now dying. Prizes are stolen and ugly girls become contestants in a beauty pageant. It's all very funny and everyone is quite silly, but the film doesn't lack empathy. Forman sympathizes with his characters because he knows that they're just like the rest of us--bumbling through life causing and becoming affected by minor catastrophes.As I said, it's very funny but not without a tinge of melancholy, which primarily emanates from the old chief. The film recognizes that, yes, these mishaps are funny but sad too--sad because this is the only send-off the old man is likely to receive and sad because he doesn't necessarily want the send off. The film is an amazing amalgamation of pathos and humor, quite like some of Woody Allen's more inspired comedy-dramas (Manhattan comes to mind). This is whimsical film-making at its best and a wonderful, if too short, film. Forman has attempted to capture the same sense of silliness, spontaneity, and joy in his American films, but they come up somewhat lacking. Along with Loves of a Blonde, this is likely his crowning achievement and for what posterity should remember him. From my perspective, it's also the film most like Forman himself. About six years ago, I met him at a film festival in upstate New York. He shuffled into a panel discussion with Michael Ondaatje, Paul Schrader, and Russell Banks about fifteen minutes late. Forman wore sweatpants and looked exhausted, yet he was the liveliest and most amusing member of that panel--you could see pieces of Tom Hulce's performance in Amadeus or Nicholson's performance in Cuckoo's Nest there. Having seen The Firemen's Ball, I know what I actually was seeing was this film in the flesh. "},{"Title":"Funny but awkward","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a pretty funny and witty slapstick comedy, until you realize that you're laughing at the objectification of women and the corruptness of bureaucracy. So, in that sense, it's a pretty sly sociopolitical commentary. So sly, in fact, that you don't even notice it in the film. You've got to read up on it to figure out what Forman was making fun of, and even then he denies any meaning behind the humour. The non-actors and natural dialogue add to the absurdity of the situations, and the end's got a similar sharp veer towards tragedy as One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. In fact, the humour in both films is the same, as what you're laughing at really shouldn't be that funny at all, but it is. Overall, this is a light but deep (if that makes any sense) product of the Czechoslovak New Wave, and it's definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"What communism it's all about....","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great film,meaningful, complete,short(73 min.).I'V just seen it for the first time today,a DVD Criterion Collection(a big 'THANK YOU').You have everything in therecomedy,drama,etc. I was born in Romania in '69 so I remember very well times like that. Stealing was a national sport and,unfortunately,it doesn't stop today.If you are born and have live in a former communist country you'll treasure this film and you'll laugh with bitten tears remembering old times.If not,try to understand how life was for the others,less fortunate than you.Don't miss the features on DVD,Milos Forman talks about the politics in that times. "},{"Title":"The Firemen's Ball","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Milos Forman's best known film is probably the awarded 1975 mental institution tale One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest with Jack Nicholson, but his early Czechoslovakian movies are not to be missed either by admirers of his later work. The 1967 comedy The Firemen's Ball has been interpreted as an allegory for the Socialist system that had a major effect on how people lived in Eastern Europe at the time, but it also works as an entertaining little flick in its own right.The loose plot was inspired by an actual firemen's ball that Forman and his screenwriter friends once attended. The aging fire department of a small village is arranging a ball in honour of their elderly chairman who is turning 86 and, unbeknownst to him, dying of cancer. The program is to include at least music, dancing, a beauty contest for the ladies and a lottery with various prizes, but it seems that Murphy's Law is alive and well in the village the lottery prizes keep getting stolen at an increasing rate, nobody wants to participate in the beauty pageant and the general chaos grows more and more out of control. Soon the firemen get to demonstrate their occupational skills in a genuine incident.Most of the actors were reportedly real firemen from the town where the movie was shot, but despite their lack of acting experience they fit in their roles perfectly. The grumpy men's arguments about the stressful arrangements are pretty hilarious, but the women are funny too even though their roles are somewhat smaller. Also, personally I didn't find any of the reluctant beauty contestants ugly at all, unlike the frustrated committee members! In addition, I should give a nod to the catchy ballroom music that is playing for a lot of the time and even references a Beatles song at one point. It is possible that the atmosphere-driven collection of errors and misadventures may feel aimless to some viewers who would prefer a stronger plot, but those with a fondness for looser narratives should find it easy to enjoy the firemen's adversities.Besides the comical bumbling, there are also more melancholic moments in the short movie. The fire scene near the end carries a feel of powerlessness when an old man watches his house burn down while the firemen futilely try to put the flames out by shoveling snow into the fire. Still, the service of drinks is never interrupted during the turmoil, keeping up appearances no matter what. The whole plot line of the stolen lottery prizes also culminates in a wistful moment when the honorary chairman finally gets to accept his gift after sincerely thanking his colleagues for the help they have given over the years. This lack of the oft-mentioned solidarity among the masses (not so much among individuals) may have been what prompted the Czechoslovakian officials to originally ban the film forever.As for myself, I can say I enjoyed The Firemen's Ball more than Loves of a Blonde (1965), the other early Forman film I have seen at the moment. Czech cinema in general is something I'd like to get better acquainted with later, but for now I can say that The Firemen's Ball is probably my favourite of the handful of movies I have seen from the country. "}{"Title":"Very interesting","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie, but then I like slower moving movies with actors that look like real people. This film gives real historical insight into a communist society, including how artists such as Forman tried to get a message through without being completely censored. I have a question about this film, however. I keep reading and hearing that this film uses no professional actors, and the firemen you see are the real firemen from a small town in Bohemia. However, several of these actors were also in Loves of a Blonde, which was an earlier film. So, I surmise that some of the firemen were the real firemen, and others were actors he had used before. This film is well worth seeing. I laughed aloud several times, and smiled through all of it. He has a gift for the small moments of humor and pathos in anyone's life, and it is quite a humorous comment on Czechoslovakian communist society. "},{"Title":"Superb lost comedy","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Reaching 70 years young in a few weeks, I was thinking about some of the films I most enjoyed when young and would I still enjoy them now? The Fireman's Ball seems to be a lost comedy here in the UK. It never pops up on TV and does not appear in film festivals or revival houses.What a loss to those who were not alive in 1967. If your a Brit reading this think Dad's Army and then fireman instead and your nearly there.Its country of origin is Czechoslovakia,with a little help from Italy, a big hit with a best foreign film Oscar, a running time of 73 mins and not one minute wasted.A town's fire department celebrating with a ball to honour it's retired elderly chief, a beauty contest and a large table with raffle prizes that vanish one by one, that's it,but oh boy it is good, totally droll and very funny.The punchline at it's end maybe posted but who cares. If only some of the comedies today knew when to stop. Really pleased that this was one old film I rerented. "},{"Title":"Interesting film from Milos Forman","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Fireman's Ball was a very interesting film from director Milos Forman. I personally prefer Amadeus and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, but I was surprised at how good The Fireman's Ball was. My only real problem is the length, if anything I wished the film was longer.That said, it is very well made with a realistic setting and superb editing. Forman directs wonderfully, the script is deep and funny and the story changing from gently mocking small-town manners to a blazing allegorical satire on the incompetence of the rulers drew me right in. The pace was taut, there are many details to be admired not just with the ball but with the satire and politics too and the acting is great.All in all, a very interesting film but not the career-best film from a talented director such as Forman. It is still worth a watch though, and works on repeat viewings. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Firemen having a ball","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The volunteer fire department in a small Czech town organizes a ball in a town hall with lottery and a beauty contest.They also plan to give a small fire axe as a 86- year old birthday gift to their honorary chairman who has a cancer (which he doesn't know).But things start going as wrong as they possibly could.Hori, Má Panenko (The Firemen's Ball) from 1967 is directed by Milos Forman.The other of its producers is Carlo Ponti.The movie uses mostly no real actors.The firemen are real firemen of the small town where it is set.But all of those people do a fine job.Jan Vostrcil plays Head of Committee.Josef Sebánek is Committee Member #2.Jan Stöckl is Retired Fire Chief.The movie has got some scenes to make you amused.It's most amusing when the man and the woman go under the table to play with each other.And when one of the beauty contestants takes off her clothes.Or when the old man starts walking towards the stage.This is the first film Forman shot in color.It is also the last film he made in his native Czechoslovakia.Then he went on to America to make some classics. "},{"Title":"Appealing More as a Historical Example Than a Film In and Of Itself","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Milos Forman's $65,000 black comedy, which clocks in just above one hour, takes place as small town firemen reckon on their festivity, are present at it, and endure it. They've arranged the titular ball in honor of their former chief, though it may be in the chief's eleventh hour. The beginning scene seems to promise an airy screwball comedy with lines like, We should have given it to him last year, when he was 85 instead of now when he's about to die. As is made clear while the simple men theorize on the reasoning contrary to that observation that the antiquated fireman, diagnosed with cancer unbeknownst to himself, will be awarded a princely little fire ax in a velvet-padded box. Following this opening scene, a fireman balances carefully on a high ladder to carefully singe the sides of a paper banner until his ladder loses its footing, he is left dangling, and the poster bursts into flames. Beyond these actually quite underplayed scenes, the comic feel diminishes in consistency.One scene which stands out is easily one of the funnier moments, but even still it could have been funnier In the course of the ball, a local barn catches fire, and the firemen rush the rest of the town to the scene. But their truck getting stuck in the snow is much more pivotal and potentially funny than its execution here, as by the time they get there, the barn is overcome by an inferno. Nonetheless, there are laughs to be had at this point The sullen farmer is staring longingly at his blazing barn, the firemen heed the suggestion that his chair be turned away from it, but the farmer simply turns his head to continue staring longingly at the barn. And when the farmer whines that he is cold, the firemen do the only thing they really can and move his chair closer to the fire.The swelling to that scene consists of the firemen's struggle for a beauty pageant, with the queen deputized to bestow the ax. They fill a table with raffle prizes that are salivated over, as implied in a very restricted sense within the context of the film's time and place. So, the prizes begin to depart a bit too early from sight. The beauty pageant is a catastrophe of ignorance and disorganization, and not least owing to hardly any of the neighborhood girls, none of whom are beauties, have any desire to be involved.Siding very much with the film itself concerning its treacherous political history, Forman is not scoffing at his characters, but at the system they populate. Frankly, I think the censors knew this when they condemned it as a damaging picture of Czech society, because that is the reactive approach in a fragile system that panics about criticism. Censors have always feigned the role of patriots, regarding any criticism as unpatriotic, when in effect criticism is a patriotic responsibility. Even now here in America, when the media is judged for disapproval, it most often merely signals that someone has had the nerve to probe the guiding principles of the party in power.So, this presently obscure installment in the tremendous Criterion Collection appeals to me as a historical example, particularly with which to further open the elements of the Bush administration, and not so much for the film's content in and of itself. As a raucous comedy by Milos Forman, it today sponges no oomph from its hazardous time, as it clearly did then. And it is as a indirect topical commentary where this film gains momentum, and alas Forman cleverly for the sake of his film's spirit did not urge his political arguments, leaning back with a grin to let them make themselves, insinuating with poise from the histrionics. "},{"Title":"a great way to deliver hidden messages by Forman","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What happens when a director is trying to deliver a social message where he is pointing towards our bad society through a comedy film... a ban by the government of course.Mirlos Forman, who after this movie became one of the greatest foreign film directors, tries to point out at the white collar thieves in our society in a very comic and light hearted way.This movie centers around a group of fireman who have organized a party to honour their former chairman who is dying of cancer. for entertaining the audience , a group of firemen try to gather a few girls in the party(each turning out to be uglier than the one before) for a fashion show.but they soon realise that all their prizes for the lottery from their prize table are being stolen one by one by the rich people in the party. This movie is funny at times and quite entertaining. But the best thing about this movie is a lot of hidden messages Its very well edited and directed and the actors do a great job. A joy to watch!!Enjoy "},{"Title":"Milos Forman's versatility and sense of humour knows no boundaries.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Milos Forman is one of those directors with an incredibly unique voice but such an extensive career that it's difficult to believe they're from the same man. Amadeus and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest are some of the better Best Picture choices from the Academy and Man On The Moon was a sentimental favourite back in the day. I'd always been curious about his earlier Czech career but only now have I watched The Fireman's Ball and realized that he's always been a talent. Most of its scenes feel like a farce, almost like a Jacques Tati film seen through a veritie lens. It's pure joy to watch things escalate out of control over such small things. Despite the 43 ratio limitations, the colourful cinematography is wonderful and it fits perfectly with the music and ensemble of characters. It's a truly great satire which is always interesting and surprising if very simple. I wish more films were like this as through its satire it says a lot about the attitudes and behaviour of society. I'm definitely going to look out for more Forman.9/10 "},{"Title":"concept goes from funny to sad","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i really enjoyed the first 3/4ths of this movie. it was quaint, cute, clever and a bit off-the-wall, with likable characters and a simple but funny plot line. the scenes with the beauty show contestants and how they reacted to what was going on were priceless! without giving too much away, a fire occurs nearby while the party is going on, the whole town goes to help, and the happy, fun feel of the movie turns to depressing. the very last scene is especially heartbreaking concerning the 86-year-old former administrator. maybe my take on the first part of the movie is a bit pie-in-the-sky, but i wish the movie could have kept the silly, sweet, happy, small-town feel all the way through. "},{"Title":"A hard to resist gem of sharply inspired, charmingly humane comedy","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't know much about Czech history or its cinema, so I suspect some of the subtleties of The Firemen's Ball went over my head, but as a skillfully mounted, sharp edged comedy its an absolute delight and bears every bit of the ability that director Milos Foreman showed in his later American work. Banned soon after it was made by Soviet authorities of the time it uses the story of a chaotic retirement ball thrown for the aging chief of a fire service by his underlings to poke fun at failings, both of government and those of people themselves. Lack of planning, of clear leadership and or authority or respect causes the bureaucratic planners of the ball to slip at every turn, prizes at a raffle go astray, a beauty contest turns to farce and the fire team completely fail at their actual job. The bureaucrats themselves often lack even names, they are denuded of much personality. Like machine parts not quite working right and getting worse as things go on, it is not hard to see why the film was so disliked by the authorities, but it is sharp rather than harsh to its subjects. The film builds up its comic events with consummate ease and the camera is alive to to humanity in the faces of every character, picking up on frustrations and mounting agitation, for the townfolk at the ball confusion and for the younger people there a sense of fun and freedom, of exuberance just waiting to burst out. The film doesn't spare foibles, it is quite an even handed work but most of its ire seems directed at a system rather than individuals. And happily in amongst the mounting comic chaos there are moments of beauty and of pathos, charming and evocative cinematography from Miroslav Ondricek. Altogether this is a little beauty of world cinema for me, a lovable and highly amusing work, all the more impressive for actually making me laugh. I don't tend to enjoy comedy and don't even like to laugh much, but I found The Firemen's Ball, it may not be for fans of latter day comedy, those who like things lewd or crude or even just speedily paced and surreal, but for fans of a gentler humour, of world cinema and of satire sharp without cruelty this is well worth a look, quite terrific stuff. "},{"Title":"Old Flames","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To see any film for the first time some 30 or 40 years after its initial release is to attempt the impossible, to view it through eyes not in synch with the prevailing climate be it political, social or whatever and when a given film is laced liberally with satire and/or social comment it becomes that much more difficult to view it objectively. In the hands of a master like for example Billy Wilder (his script 'Ninotchka' is still a joy today despite its barbed topicality) the finished product transcends its immediate targets and survives as entertainment and so it is here. For the last film he made on his home turf Forman has fashioned a bauble that spins around a tribute to a retired fire chief and reflected in the bauble are the mores of Czech life at the time. The dinner is destined for disaster from minute One when even a prologue is fraught with problems. As the evening progresses and one by one the raffle prizes disappear - not least into the pockets of those ostensibly guarding them - and each would-be contestant in the Beauty Contest turns out to be less prepossessing than the last, so does the laughter content because the humor is based on keen observation and when finally and in circumstances less grandiose than the organisers envisaged the presentation is made it seems only fitting that the handsome case housing the ceremonial fire axe proves to be empty. A very charming and entertaining film. "}{"Title":"Great European Humor","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The fire department in a small town is having a big party when the ex-boss of the department celebrates his 86th birthday. The whole town is invited but things don't go as planned. Someone is stealing the prizes to the lottery and the candidates for the Miss Fire-Department beauty contest are neither willing nor particularly beautiful.The film has widely been interpreted as a satire on the East European Communist system, and it was banned forever in Czechoslovakia following the Soviet invasion of 1968. Forman reflected that the film was not intended to be a satire of any particular government, saying, I didn't want to give any special message or allegory. I wanted just to make a comedy knowing that if I'll be real, if I'll be true, the film will automatically reveal an allegorical sense. That's a problem of all governments, of all committees, including firemen's committees. That they try and they pretend and they announce that they are preparing a happy, gay, amusing evening or life for the people. And everybody has the best intentions... But suddenly things turn out in such a catastrophic way that, for me, this is a vision of what's going on today in the world. And he is right. This is not anti-Soviet or anti-Czech. It plays just as well in the United States as a satire on bureaucracy, or could be seen without any satire at all... why not just a group of bumbling men? When Abbott and Costello pretend to be something, is it an insult to that profession? Of course not. "},{"Title":"still sticks in my mind","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Firemen's Ball is a pretty short movie - less than 80 minutes in fact, maybe just at 70 - and it's been several years since I've seen it in full. But so much of it is still fresh in my mind, it speaks to the enduring power and weird comedy that Forman put together. I remember there was dancing, and also a lot of pointed commentary about Communism. The basic premise is that a big party for an 86 year old ex-boss is happening one night, but there are things going wrong people aren't as beautiful as they should be for a Beauty pageant, and prizes are missing for a lottery.But what's so memorable about the movie is that it's not really about any plot. Incidents just... happen in the movie, but they're all building to a big something that will happen... or maybe might not happen. It's all a big indictment about a society that wishes one thing and just cannot deliver, at all. But it's also funny, very funny, because of how the characters want and wish and act and are so wrong-headed in how they think things will work out. The air around it has a bit of sadness to it too, but it comes from people who have lived through this through generations (and at the time the Czech Republic didn't have nearly as many freedoms as those in the West). "},{"Title":"Hilarious and very wonderful","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ignore anybody who tells you you can't enjoy this movie unless you know what was going on in Czechoslovakia in the 1960s. That's pompous, ignorant bull. This is a delightful, gently but ruthlessly hilarious movie about human incompetence, which is not limited to any country in any decade, or to any political or economic system.We human beings like to imagine we're clever and competent, but were aren't and never have been. We're destroying our beautiful world and ourselves along with it, and the more we try to stop the faster we career toward self-destruction; we aim for the brakes but always hit the accelerator. We're a race of idiots, and anybody who believes otherwise is the biggest fool of all.This is a great movie, and its greatness has nothing to do with Communism or any other ism but with its uncompromising but compassionate and very funny look at what bumbling dolts we all are. A very special and very wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"More significant as piece of cinematic history than contribution to the art of comic screen writing","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Released three months before the Soviet crackdown on the progressive Dubček administration in Czechoslovakia, Milos Forman still had to deal with a negative reaction to 'The Fireman's Ball' from both Communist censors and his own producer, Carlo Ponti. Forman's farce was intended as a good-natured ribbing of the Communist system, specifically its corruption and bureaucratic ineptness. The censors and Ponti didn't like it because in their eyes, it had no sympathy for its working class subjects, who come across as complete fools.As the story goes, Communist officials decided to play the film in the small town where the film was shot, which featured locals playing themselves as members of the local fireman's committee. As things turned out, the officials were shocked when the townspeople vigorously applauded the film. They identified immediately with the broken down system, where a fire breaks out across the street, but the firefighters are unable to do anything, as their fire truck ends up stuck in the snow. As for their farcical characters, they regarded it as simply 'acting' and obviously were flattered to be chosen to be part of a professional film production. Forman was ultimately saved by French director Francois Traffaut, who ended up buying the film with some partners and distributing it outside of Czechoslovakia, where it was permanently banned after the Soviet invasion.As for the film itself, 'The Fireman's Ball', manages to be distinctive, mainly on the basis of the authenticity of its performers. You have to love the amateur cast Forman has assembled here, as they seem to have a natural flair for farce. Nonetheless, the basic theme of the film, the corruption inherent in the Communist system of that time, as evidenced by the constant thefts that occur during the event, go on ad infinitum. That's not to say there aren't occasional laughs. When the Chairman has the lights turned off, expecting the thief to return the lottery presents, when the lights do come back on, the opposite occurs the rest of the gifts are all missing. The deepest laugh remains subtle one of the firemen attempts to return a headcheese (cold cut) to the dining table, after he discovers his wife has pilfered it. Completely embarrassed, he passes out when everyone observes what he's trying to do and an argument ensues right afterward between two of his colleagues, one shouting down the other that by being 'honest', he's embarrassed the fire brigade. It seems that being honest, is much less desirable then looking out for one's own self-interest.The Fireman's Ball plot involves the fire committee's inept manner in which they attempt to choose a local beauty queen. The young women who are conscripted appear not to take the fire officials seriously, and end up running off to the ladies room, where they've made it clear that they have no intention of participating in the committee's ultimate goal (the idea is for the winner of the pageant to present a memento to their retiring chief). While it's one thing for the firemen to be overwhelmed in dealing with the 'larceny problem' at the ball, it's another to come off as completely ridiculous, which is what they appear to be, when they foolishly attempt to put the pageant together and then atrociously fail, with all the young women giggling, and running away from them. Perhaps this is why Mr. Ponti, the film's original producer, did not care for the film.Forman does well in breaking up the action at the ball, when he introduces the fire at the old man's house, near the dance hall. The event turns out to be bittersweet, as there's also some humor attached to the somber events. We see this when the crowd moves the old man closer to the fire, as he complains about being cold. And later when they want to give him some lottery tickets, he asks for money instead, as it's obvious all the prizes now have been stolen.'The Fireman's Ball' ends on two additional humorous notes. First, the chief finally receives his honorarium from his colleagues--but of course it turns out to be stolen. And the old man whose house has burned down, joins another old man in his bed, without a roof over it!Forman's talent here was in getting much out of his amateur cast as well as stretching out a one joke idea, to a full length feature. He makes his point about corruption in Communist society well, in a series of memorable scenes but is less successful, as he dumbs down his firemen committee members, a tad bit too much. 'The Fireman's Ball' is more important in the overall history of international cinema and world history, than as a critical contribution to the art of comic screen writing. "},{"Title":"The Fireman's Ball","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From director Milos Forman (One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest, Amadeus, Man on the Moon), this film was highly recommended to me by the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and being admirable about the director I was interested to see a film in his native Czechoslovakian language, the last before going to America. Basically in a small Czechoslovak town the volunteer fire department are organising a ball in the town hall, with a lottery and a beauty contest included, this is also to celebrate the birthday of the honorary chairman who has cancer, but they don't know if he knows that, and they will present him with a small ceremonial fire axe. As the ball gets underway the fire-fighter committee members have not done the best planning for the beauty contest, so they have quickly got together eight candidates to compete for the prize, it is only after they have been drinking too much alcohol that one of the fathers gets them to accept his obese daughter. The lottery of the ball also suffers problems when food and drink as prizes start disappearing from the table, fire-fighter Josef (Josef Kolb), unaware that his wife is one of those stealing, tries to get the stolen prizes back, without success. Eventually enough women have been found to compete in the beauty contest, and the winner they are told will present the gift to the honorary chairman, but the women all lock themselves in the bathroom and refuse to take part, so the committee are forces to find another bunch of candidates to put on stage. Soon though everyone is running out of the hall, drinks consumed being unpaid for, because the siren sounds because the house of an Old Man (Frantisek Svet) is on fire, but snow is causing the fire engine to get stuck, so they are unable to put out the fire, only to save furniture from the house. The fire fighters decide to help the old man by letting him get all the prizes in the lottery, but almost all of them, besides the smaller and less valuable ones, have been stolen, everyone is told to bring back whatever they have taken, but in a moment of darkness the rest are taken also. So that their reputation will be saved the fire committee members move back stage to discuss the situation at the ball, but they return to see everyone has gone, apart from the honorary chairman, and when they want to give him the axe in the gift box this has been stolen as well. Also starring Jan Vostrcil as Head of Committee, Frantisek Debelka as Committee Member #1, Josef Sebánek as Committee Member #2, Josef Valnoha as Committee Member #3, Josef Rehorek as Committee Member #4, Vratislav Cermák as Committee Member #5, Václav Novotný as Committee Member #6, Frantisek Reinstein as Committee Member #7, Frantisek Paska as Committee Member #8, Ladislav Adam as Committee Member #9, Jan Stöckl as Retired Fire Chief, Stanislav Holubec as Karel and Josef Kutálek as Ludva. You do not need to have knowledge of Czech politics to enjoy most of this film, it portrays the time setting of the 1950's pretty well, it mocks the incompetence and lack of manners of the characters, the comedy parts mostly come from the moments of idiocy as a celebratory event goes wrong, it is a likable political satire. Very good! "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite stand the test of time","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sadly, The Fireman's Ball can hardly be watched anymore as anything more than a historical curiosity. Without the proper background, and without knowing that it's an early work from the very same director who would later create American classics like Hair, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Man on the Moon, you'll almost definitely pass it by and you certainly can't figure out by yourself that it was considered harsh enough political satire at the time of its release that it was banned in Czechoslovakia for being damaging to the communist regime. By itself, there isn't much about The Fireman's Ball to set it apart from the British Carry On movies or from any other oddball comedy made in Europe in the 60's and 70's.That's not to say the film doesn't have some excellent scenes; the one with the beauty pageant contestants in the officers' office is the most famous but certainly not the only memorable one. The humor is black and dry but the very natural acting by the local, unknown actors makes all the difference, their facial expressions telling a complete story all by themselves, and the film has some truly inspired shots (especially considering the meager budget). The great scenes are few and far-between, though, and they can easily get lost in the general messy chaos, and it's easy for the viewer to get bored quickly. To sum up, I recommend it for cinephiles and lovers of cinema history, especially cinema made under Communist regimes - I'm glad I saw it even though I didn't enjoy it as much as I hoped to - but not for the general public. "},{"Title":"Common people","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Horí, Má Panenko is a very intelligently lain out film about people - people in general.This kind of comedy always comes in handy when there's a huge public effort underway to turn them into heroes. The lay out is intelligent, because it focuses on old people, of whom such propaganda would speak of as unpleasant residues and who are hence free to behave in any unpleasant way.Old people from a small village somewhere in the province. That makes it even safer.So, after establishing that there's enough room to deflect any criticism of doing that what one is actually doing - namely using the unpleasant residues as a mirror image of the so called heroic elements of society.And what to say, people are nasty! They steal and portray themselves as St. Martins at the same time. They steal and make those who suspect them of that look like senile paranoiacs. They envy others property and hide it behind well meant care for them. Essentially, it's a film about people who want to have that what they like for themselves without thinking about other people. They don't always get what they want, but they always want the best, even if they are ever so small.The high light of the film is the fate of the lottery, Moe should have watched this, at least he'd kept his trousers then. But though the Simpsons film is funny, the original is even funnier. "},{"Title":"The eye of the beholder...","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm sure that there are those who will look at this film as little more than a busman's holiday tale (a busman's holiday, for those of you who aren't familiar with the term, refers to a bus driver who works all week driving a bus only to end up spending his days off riding the bus), but my own political awareness came in November of 1963. I was just a kid, but I remember it all very well my mother crying, my father (a World War Two vet) staring at the television coverage like he'd been beaned with a hammer. My political education resumed in 1968 with not one but two more murders. In an age when we can only look to comedians like Bill Maher, John Stewart, Louis Black and documentary filmmakers like Michael Moore for the truth, THE FIREMEN'S BALL comes across as much, much more than a busman's holiday... "},{"Title":"Satiric look at the emptiness of entertainment","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Czech satire is nearly perfect for what it is, but you'll have to decide its value for you. It's smart and thought-out.But it's illuminating how it is unlike the previous film of the same team of writer and filmmaker, Loves of a Blonde. Both films are about social situations as they engage and spin humans. In Loves however, each situation was both a skit and sensitive insight of the heroine exploring herself through her stories of having been explored by men.The main situation here is that it's the annual firemen's ball. But each new one on top of that is simply diversion, plainly so. The beauty contest as diversion from honoring the previous chairman. The fire as diversion from gawking at the girls. The stolen lottery as diversion from the plight of the man whose house burned down. There is a lot of hiding around and fooling others. The childish firemen in their fine uniforms may as well be Party higherups, tasked through the night to carry out a few simple duties, all of which they bungle, all because they wanted some diversion. (the girls are deliberately ugly, to keep us from gawking and missing the point)Where Bunuel would cruelly emphasize stupidity, Forman shows petty but human beings, retains a spontaneous flow of life, all of which elevate the film to something I can enjoy.But as with every film, it comes down to what you think sufficiently explains the world. Is it foolishness in the gears of state? Is it desire, stifled or overflowing that's causing misery? Some more puzzling urge for story in the soul that is creating images?More to the point, the film is about the emptiness of having to be entertained. So it is perfect for what it is. At what cost though? The film itself is empty. So you'll have to decide the value and novelty of the lesson. "},{"Title":"It must have been a slow year at the Oscars","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Firemen's Ball was nominated for the Oscar for Best Picture (oddly, for 1969--despite debuting in 1967) and all I have to say about this is that it must have been an off year! Now the eventual winner of this award, the Russian version of War and Peace, was truly an incredible and deserving picture...but I just can't see how such a slight and seemingly inconsequential film as The Firemen's Ball could have been nominated. Now I am NOT saying it's a bad film...but it seemed relatively ordinary.The film is a comedy of errors for the fire department. This group of men (mostly elderly guys who look incapable of saving anything) kept experiencing disaster after disaster during the course of this awful evening. Some were unavoidable, many were due to the larcenous neighborhood of this awful little town and many were due to the ineptitude of the department. I could say more about what happened, but this would spoil the film--which is mostly fun, though it has some slow moments.As far as the style of this film by Milos Forman goes, it reminded me a bit of the Italian neo-realist films--with lots of ordinary looking people who did not appear to be actors. This wasn't bad, though...I just think the script was not exceptionally great. Some nice moments, sure, but also some that were too painful and too drawn out to make this anything other than a curious and occasionally funny comedy. Also, for me, the film might have worked a bit better had I liked the people in the film or the town. By the end of the picture, I really found them all to be pretty awful.By the way, this film was banned because of its anti-bureaucratic slant. It seemed that the film made the Czechoslovakian (and therefore the Russian) government look inept and the town was anything but a workers' paradise. "}{"Title":"Enough original, Enough dramatic, Enough impressive.","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When i started watch this movie i had understood - that film unusual, but not interested and even boring. But last 20 minutes was strong and significant. Sure, that film incomparable with Amadey or Larry Flint quality and screenplay worse, scale of events insignificant, but final sense in any case very serious. Main point of film - human being is brutal, dirty, miserable... Scene with owner of burnt house (old, pitiful man) great. Exactly from this scene till end film became dramatic effect and intrigue. As for me - it very Slavic film. And it good film. When you be going to watch this film - Hold on oneself first 50 min and watch it till end film worth it. "}]