[{"Title":"Goofier and more entertaining than the original.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well it looks like I'm in a minority with this one as I think 'In Like Flint' is better than 'Our Man Flint'! It's goofier than the original and for me that makes it more entertaining. It's filled with silly stuff like exploding golf balls, brainwashing via hairdryers, Flint talking fluent dolphin and Lee J. Cobb in drag. It's similar in approach to the 'Batman' TV series (Yvonne Batgirl Craig even appears as a Russian ballerina) so if you enjoy that show, and yes, Austin Powers, you'll have lots of fun.  "},{"Title":"Good, But Not AS Good...","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Derek Flint's second outing falls juuuuuust a bit shy of recapturing the fun-filled spirit of this short-lived series' first film, 1965's OUR MAN FLINT.Being more in the style of the BATMAN TV series (which 20th Century Fox produced at that time as well), this film accentuates more of the absolutely outlandish camp, as opposed to the more subtle (okay, not REAL subtle, but...) tongue-in-cheek, nudge-nudge, wink-wink of the original Flint film (at one point, the audience is invited to follow the bouncing Russian Star & sing along with the Russian National Anthem as our hero, disguised as Fidel Castro, hijacks a plane FROM Cuba TO the Virgin Islands to foil the villains' E-ville plot... oh, yeah, & rescue his bevy of Flint-ettes).For the record, even if this film had fallen WAY shy of the first film in everything overall, it'd still be better than the thankfully-aborted TV pilot, Our Man Flint Dead on Target.  Sorry, but no one else but James Coburn can bring the character of Derek Flint to life.  Even so, it seems that Coburn's interest in the character had begun to wane a tad by this time; after all, 2 years had gone by since OMF, the world's political view had begun to change radically, & the Summer of Love was in full swing, baby... yeeeeaaaaaaahhhh!!IN LIKE FLINT still has some of the first film's charm, but quite a few of the plot points are VERY dated & insulting, especially when viewed in the cold light of today's often harsh, overly-PC environment.  The filmmakers' attitude toward women being able to quite easily take over the world are not as readily accepted as in The Avengers episode, How To Succeed... at Murder.  In fact, most of the time, the general mentality -- even that of the suave & cool, ultra-hip, super-modern Derek Flint -- is downright primordial, even in light of, or despite, the '60s Women's Rights Movements.Even though it ain't great, it still ain't too bad, all things considered. I've seen much worse go around for years & if this is to be considered possibly James Coburn's only celluloid crime, he's waaaaaaaaay ahead of the game.  Not a terrible feather to have in one's acting cap... or DVD collection. "},{"Title":"A great James Bond parody","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Like Flint is a sequel to the spy parody film Our Man Flint starring James Coburn. It posits an international feminist conspiracy to depose the ruling American patriarchy with a feminist matriarchy. To achieve and establish it, they kidnap and replace the U.S. President, discredit the Head of the Z.O.W.I.E. intelligence agency, and commandeer a nuclear-armed space platform, all directed from Fabulous Face, a women's spa in the Virgin Islands. Circumstances compel ex-secret agent Derek Flint to help his ex-boss, and so uncover the conspiracy. Actors James Coburn and Lee J. Cobb reprise their roles as Derek Flint and spy chief Lloyd C. Cramden, Flint's ex-boss.Like all parodies, it's not fair to compare it to the original genre and you have to expect it to be at least somewhat silly - especially in this film the plot of feminists trying to take over the world. The last reviewer who gave it a low score obviously totally missed t.he point it's a parody It's a fun movie that moves along at a fast & Coburn is great in the James Bond spoof role. Enjoy the film & don't take it too seriously & you'll have a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Fun, but doesn't live up to the original.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is James Coburn's second outing as Derek Flint.  Though it is ultimately worth a viewing, it doesn't quite live up to it's predecessor. The film takes a while to get going and at times the spirit of fun that infected the original seems to be missing.  But when that spirit is present, the film is loads of fun!  Anyone know where I can buy a copy of Flint's Dolphin Language Dictionary?  Never know when it might come in handy. "},{"Title":"Zowie!","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Our Man Flint is possibly the greatest film ever made. But amazingly, In Like Flint is even better. That would make it The Really Greatest Film Ever Made ... The Super-Greatest Film Ever Made! ZOWIE! Most sequels don't come close to the wonderfulness of the original productions, but In Like Flint does. It's sense of fun, spoof and action equals the original as super secret agent Derek Flint fights yet super-duper evil organization, this one run by America's richest and most powerful women, including the knockout blond Jean Hale; and veteran actress Anna Lee, who was John Wayne's squeeze in Flying Tigers in 1942. But James Coburn is the main reason. Without his subtle over-the-top Coburn Cool, there would be no Derk Flint and therefore, no Flint series. And as before Lee J. Cobb is marvelous as Lloyd Cramden, head of our super-duper secret spy agency, Z.O.W.I.E.Jerry Goldsmith returns to handle the spyalicious score, chock full of hip tunes like Your Z.O.W.I.E Face. Coburn is great and the two Flint films are just so darned fun! How can anyone not have a great time with either Our Man Flint' or In Like Flint? "},{"Title":"FLINT#2 Super Spy vs. Super Ladies","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" MASTER PLAN take over an orbiting space platform, have the nukes ready and use mind control - again. In this sequel to Our Man Flint, a further parody of the James Bond films, the threat is again a weird organization which plans to rule the world. In the previous Flinter, 3 scientists led the new way; here, it's 3 captains of industry who happen to be female. They also have an island base, somewhere in the Caribbean (the Virgin Islands?) - females, females everywhere! Flint is again played by Coburn as a super-smooth genius who seems to play the secret agent as a side job, called away from his Hugh Hefner-style existence into spy activity when something really unusual rears its nasty head. In this case, he doesn't show up until 15 minutes in, to save the bacon of his former boss (Cobb), who has been discredited and embarrassed in a scheme perpetrated by traitors within the U.S. government. All of this sounds kind of serious and some of it is, especially in the final act, where-in straightforward action goes against the grain of the overall satirical tone. A lot of it is still silly, of course, especially the scenes of Coburn imitating dolphin sounds (I can't believe Coburn was talked into these). The pace is a bit slower than the first film, mostly with all the stuff revolving around Cobb's character getting bamboozled in the early going. It takes awhile for the action to get going. The main femme fatale (Hale) lacks some spark, sort of playing the role as if this was a dull daytime soap opera. The actress Craig, known for her Batgirl role, pops up briefly as another femme fatale, Russian in her case. No sign of Adam West, who would've fit in well here.The premise proposed by the villains, as in the first film, is that the world needs to be run better; in this case, they feel the planet needs a more feminine touch - a new matriarchy. Though there's the expected glitz and camp of sixties psychedelia, the femme fatales (and there are many of them) are not a total joke; they're pretty well organized and make some valid points, though even Flint appears to sneer at their goals. This is ironic since he, at one point, says he doesn't compete with women, the inferred downside of most men. This foreshadows the reveal of the actual threat, a rogue military - male, of course. The main traitor turns out to be a general (played by actor Ihnat, who would soon be seen as the crazed Garth in the Star Trek episode Whom Gods Destroy with actress Craig). None of this is a surprise - the general looked suspicious in his first scene. The President of the U.S., who kept calling on a red phone in the previous pic, is now revealed (Duggan), but is quickly replaced by a double early in the story. Some of this also recalls the Seven Days in May thriller done up as comedy. The film is a bit too long, having a padded feel at some points Flint has an exciting running fight with the soldiers towards the end, but he's captured anyway, so the whole thing was just an excuse to show off his martial arts. The ending is awkward, unlike the explosive conclusion in the first one the filmmakers had to figure out a way to get Flint into outer space and it's done clumsily. The outer space theme, reflecting the space race between the U.S. and the Soviets of that time, was also prevalent in that same year's Bonder You Only Live Twice. Flint would return in another incarnation in a TV Movie in the seventies. Hero7 Villains6 Femme Fatales6 Henchmen5 Fights7 Stunts/Chases7 Gadgets6 Auto4 Locations6 Pace6 overall6 "},{"Title":"This Sequel should be a Disaster, but it isn't.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Derek Flint reappears with four more lovelies on another mission to save the world.Again, the strong point of this film is the interchange between James Coburn and Lee J Cobb. Again it's more realistic than it first appears - especially since I myself have said to someone about a book no, I haven't read it I wrote it! Other features to watch out for are Coburn talking to dolphins, suddenly appearing in Castro garb on a Cuban plane and the delectable Yvonne Craig as the ballerina.Obviously, the sequel squeezes the last drops of humour out of Lee J Cobb's reaction to Flint's universal talents. But it was right that a further sequel was never made; so the Flint series ends at just the right moment. "},{"Title":"Kinda dated now, but still fun","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Basically another in the endless series of Bond-knockoffs of the late 60's, the second Flynt movie (for some reason I keep missing the first one) is fun enough as a semi-parody.  It's nowhere nearly as offensive/dumb as the Matt Helm stuff.  Coburn makes a decent superman spy, although his lanky physique makes him look rather ungainly in the fight sequences (only Ted Danson looks more awkward).  It's your basic Cold War type movie with some women who want to rule the world (and *oh the humanity* are betrayed by the military man they put their trust in, played by a fiendish Steve Inhat) tossed in. "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This follow-up is much goofier and sillier than the original, but still every bit as amusing and entertaining. This time hip, clever, and dashing freelance spy and playboy extraordinaire Derek Flint (James Coburn in splendidly wry and laid-back assured form) must thwart a dastardly plot by a gang of lovely, yet formidable ladies who have developed a method of brainwashing so they can put arrogant and domineering men in their place and thus take over the planet. Director Gordon Douglas, working from a bright and witty script by Hal Fimberg, relates the delightfully wacky narrative at a steady pace, maintains an engagingly blithe and madcap very 60's camp sensibility throughout, and stages the rousing action set pieces with real skill and gusto (Coburn's fancy martial arts moves in particular are quite impressive and exciting). Coburn's amiably breezy'n'easy persona fits the character of Flint like a fine pair of stylish slippers; he talks fluently to dolphins, romances an endless bevy of beautiful babes, dons various disguises, briefly poses as a ballet dancer (!), and beats up numerous baddies without ever loosing a single ounce of his divinely unflappable cool the whole time. The rest of the cast are likewise up to par Lee G. Cobb returns as Flint's loyal, but disgraced superior Lloyd C. Cramden, the gorgeous Jean Hale excels as classy and crafty head villainess Lisa Norton, Andrew Duggan does spirited work as both the hearty President and the hammy actor impersonating him, and Steve Ihnat hits it out of the ballpark with his excellent portrayal of the sneaky and cunning General Carter. Yvonee Batgirl Craig has a small, but nifty part as fetching, yet duplicitous Russian ballerina Natasha. Moreover, this movie in some ways was uncannily ahead of its time The cabal of angry women Flint opposes neatly foretells the 70's feminist movement while the premise of an actor as President offers a frighteningly accurate prediction of Reagan getting elected into office as Chief Executive a mere decade or so down the line. Jerry Goldsmith's funky swinging score and William H. Daniels' slick widescreen cinematography are both on the money, too. A tremendously fun film. "},{"Title":"Today The Hairdryer - Tomorrow The World!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With 'Our Man Flint' ( 1966 ), it seemed as though Twentieth Century Fox had themselves a spy franchise to potentially rival that of James Bond. The late James Coburn possessed magnetism and agility comparable to Sean Connery. However, things did not go according to plan when they made the first sequel. It begins at the 'Fabulous Face' health and beauty resort in the Virgin Islands. A group of beautiful and powerful women - headed by 'Miss Elisabeth' ( Anna Lee ) - watch through telescopes as America puts the world's first space platform into orbit. Unbeknowest to Cramden ( Lee J.Cobb ), head of Z.O.W.I.E., aboard are two Russian cosmonauts. Relaxing with the President ( Andrew Duggan ) over a game of golf, Cramden notices that a swing took over three minutes ( during that time, the President was abducted and replaced by a double ). Baffled, Cramden goes to see Flint. The adventurer agrees to investigate once he has returned from Death Valley. Cramden is then caught in bed with a Skid Row hooker ( Jean Hale ), and loses his job. Flint sets out to clear his friend's name. Something seems to have gone with security at Z.O.W.I.E. and no-one in the organisation can now be trusted as it has been infiltrated by traitors... Interviewed by 'The T.V. Times' in 1981, Coburn claimed that Fox were so keen to get the picture into cinemas they didn't care if the script was ready or not. Hal Fimberg reversed the premise of the original, the 'baddies' here are women attempting to impose a new world order whereby men are slaves. Which makes it all the more strange why they then have to rely on General Carter ( the late Steve Ihnat ) of Z.O.W.I.E. and actor Sebastian Trent. Coburn is, as ever, terrific and Cobb generates some laughs. The film looks marvellous ( have you ever seen so many beautiful girls in one film before? Jean Hale is absolutely stunning! ) and gets off to a cracking start, but goes awry when Flint goes to Russia, and never recovers. Why haven't 'Fabulous Face' prepared for the possibility of Carter turning against them? How is he able to take over their operation without so much as a shot being fired? Why does Carter go into space with the bombs when he knows Flint is in the rocket too?There are some funny moments - the ballet sequence and Flint's line The President...an actor? - but not nearly enough. The action sequences are inferior to those in the first film, in particular the fight in outer space is distinctly unspectacular. Poor effects work from the normally reliable L.B. Abbott. What little excitement there is comes mainly from Jerry Goldsmith's wonderful music. Compared to 'You Only Live Twice' - which came out soon afterwards - this is limp stuff indeed. Coburn claimed that Gordon Douglas was ill for most of the shoot, hence much of the film was directed by the cinematographer. A rewriting of the script was badly needed to eliminate tedious scenes such as Flint's seduction of Natasha ( Yvonne Craig ). The Russian Premier's ( Herb Edelman ) phone call to The President ( named as 'Melvin Muffly' in the novelisation ) looks suspiciously like an attempt to parody 'Dr.Strangelove'. There was to have been a third movie - called either 'Bride Of Flint' or 'F For Flint' - but it was never made, due to Coburn's concerns over typecasting. In 1975, an attempt was made to transfer the character to television, with 'Our Man Flint Dead On Target' starring Ray Danton. It did not lead to a series. More recently, it was announced that Flint would be returning in comic book form, as 'That Man Flint'. "}{"Title":"The Precursor to Austin Powers!","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you ever wondered about how the film series like Austin Powers came to be inspired, James Coburn does a memorable performance as Flint, original man of mystery in this film. The film is a spoof and farce from the James Bond spy thrillers. The plot includes the world being overthrown and manipulated by smart beautiful seductive women on a Caribbean Island where their leader is played by Anna Lee (General Hospital's beloved Lila Quartermaine). She is fantastic in her role. The film is a comedy and a statement about women's movement. The ending is now considered to be outdated by today's standards almost camp humor. Still, James Coburn did some of his best acting work here as the hero. The film is colorful and imaginative as well. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel to a Very Good Original","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The producers of this movie did a credible job with this sequel. This is exactly what you'd expect Flint to do in another adventure to save the world. His side as a scientist is better highlighted in this sequel as he is studies dolphins, and also shows his aptitude for plants and chemistry as he analyzes the drug that was used on Cramden. The colors are bit more wild, and true to this series, there're lots of nice looking women.The movie shows the belief that the western world had on science to better our world. But looking at this movie, it seems that people of this period had better life than we have now. If you look at the millionaire lifestyle of Derek Flint, and compare it to the millionaire lifestyles of today, it seems Flint had more lavish homes, and lifestyle. Which begs the question, did science really improve the quality of life we live now.One thing I can tell from this movie is there were less people back then, and things weren't as cramped or as hectic. Take for instance Louigi's restaurant Cramden has his dinner in. There's room to spare everywhere. You won't see that in restaurants these days. World population was less than half of what it is now, and it shows.Getting back to the action of Derek Flint, he doesn't disappoint. James Coburn was perfect fit as super agent Derek Flint. His adventure to save the world is just as exciting as the original. Good sequel to the original. "},{"Title":"Flint Gets too Silly","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Coburn goes way way over the top in ILF. In OMF he plays Flint as someone who is 'sort of real' ... for example, when Cramden asks him, Is there nothing you don't know? A great many things, sir. In the fight sequences, they are also played 'not campy' ... the fight in the bathroom ... it's more fun when it looks somewhat real, and when the toilet paper and grunt of Gruber comes at the scene's end, it's the right touch.The same with the fight with the two guards outside Cramden's office. Great stuff. I think Coburn's style influenced Bruce Lee ... or other way around? If Coburn did OMF in 1965 or so, and he met Lee a couple of years later (I'm not certain) .... And after the fight, the comedy is just right; a blend of silliness (the light bulb) and straightness, with Flint saving a life. Notice also when Cramden is darted, and Flint doesn't mug when he does the cut.But in the sequel, Coburn is all over the place, over-mugging. While most of the credit for the downsizing of Flint goes to the writers, Coburn also has to take some blame. There is hardly an action scene where he plays Flint like a fighting master ... just for laffs. Again, counter this with OMF  when he climbs the ladder with the guitar rift, happily Coburn doesn't wink and mug. With that great music, it would've ruined the scene(s).However, the scene in the penthouse, with Flint talking about eating grubs is the Flint form the first movie. The director should have seen this. Or maybe Coburn thought the script was so dumb, he just let loose and had his own jokes. But Flint loses his fun when it became too much Austin Powers.Btw, the Powers movies would have been much better if they had been played as a homage to Flint/Bond. That's what OMF did so well. Created a great character with the perfect actor to play him.But even tho ILF is so inferior to the first, it's still a lot of fun. How can I say this? Because he's still Flint! "},{"Title":"A Genuine Romp; The Funniesr Cold War Comedy; Clever and Genial","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a writer and as someone who suffered the 1970s as a burden, I find this late 1960's projection of women's lib and computers run mad about as funny as any film I know. James Coburn was a thin, charismatic and intelligent actor with limitations by way of his accent but in no other respect. He should probably have been hired to make more westerns and more high-tech thrillers; but in Derek Flint, zen-trained super-spy, in the two films he was allowed to complete in this series, he found his most famous and acclaimed role. The first was Our Man Flint, also co-starring Lee J. Cobb, which was in my opinion a superior satire but less successful The storyline in the second entry has to do with an offer to Flint's three female assistants to visit an Island run by an outfit's leaders calling their operation Fabulous Face. As if the girls needed improving. Of course, the corporation's heads turn out to be furious women's liberation advocates bent on world domination, planning to rid themselves of male frustrations, advice and competition forever. Forget the plot. Derek Flint's girls are in danger and that leads his organization, Z.O.W.I.E., his boss Lloyd Cramden and Flint into the exotic blackmail-the-world plot involving female astronauts and nuclear Macgoffins. But first there are the lethal tricks the ladies have thought up; Cramden loses ninety seconds on a golf course; Flint discovers hair driers are being used for brainwashing sessions; and the island resort Fabulous Face runs in the US Virgins turns out to be replete with pretty girls and pretty dangerous ideas. This is a comedy, let us remembers, with an underlying satire targeting both excessive women's lib and male chauvinism thrown in. And in a comedy, actions speak louder than ideas. The film is subtle in unexpected ways unlike its satirical predecessor which was less funny and more a direct comment on gimmick-heavy spy movies. Here we have mostly guided missiles, the world's most lethal cigarette lighter and Flint. His comment to the board of the ladies who are trying to take over the world is exactly right--But you can't...you're--women/ladies/females refers to their idea that they ought to do so merely because they're female, and to the methods they are employing in the name of liberation. Lloyd Cramden in a dress is hard to take, but this production if colorful, only occasionally cartoonish in its look and very-well constructed. The music is overdone for comedic effect, Action film veteran Gordon Douglas kept the pace moving nicely; Harold Fimberg was given sole credit for a film which obviously had several parents, not one. The art direction for this eye-filling romp was provided by Dale Hennessey and Jack Martin Smith, the many fine costumes by Ray Aghayan, makeup by Margaret Donovan, and the elaborate set decorations by James W. Payne and Walter M. Scott. Forget the postmodernist analyses; this is a send-up of spy movies with knocks at both antagonists in the war between the sexes thrown in. It's an entertainment. It is played strictly for laughs, cornball and subtle ones. In the cast, James Coburn looks awkward at times but handles the super-spy cerebrations and courage aspects well. Lee J. Cobb has much less to do than in the first installment. Jean Hale has a large part and is bright and adequate, not more. Others in the cast include dependable Andrew Duggan as the president and his replacement, Anna Lee as the leader of the lethal ladies, Stephen Ihnat, Yvonne Craig, Hannah Landy, Herb Edelman and many others. This is a seventies-style sexy romp born before its time, less estimable than Our Man Flint but funnier and a worthy successor. It was made for people who wanted to forget the Cold War and get on with man's favorite sport--being male and female and having fun exchanging one-upsmanships. "},{"Title":"I loved it for all the right reasons (but it's short on credits)","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" and multiple reviewers pan it. But it's by far my fave 60s flick (surpassing Our Man Flint--at least in hot girls; too bad women--make that people--of color were excluded) and credits were minimal (blacklisting fear remains today; on-film credits always elusive). The plot addressed feminism (a mid-60s U.S. taboo) in an industry that only reluctantly credited ingénues (a Stepford Wives film-making bug alive and well four decades later--esp. in the Republican party. Star-making machinery has little room for nobodies), keeping rich men rich and in control! Note how the bad guys were finally subdued? The women were in command (a usual ending). Silver screen life's corny but sells. I'm misty for films like this but glad the era's bygone. Douglas had an eye for one flavor of female beauty vanilla (and Hollywood isn't so racist--they simply sell flesh and fantasies to a racist, lazy country), and directed James Whitmore in Them! (1954/Warner) and slews of other B pix (and was a child actor in the 30s).The music sucks. Jerry Goldsmith, of extraordinary work elsewhere, fails miserably here (even for tongue-in-cheek)! But the script is packed with more stuff than most action films. Like it or not Coburn was a great actor in his prime (see also Steve McQueen--whom women in my family detested for womanizing ways and resented me for liking--it was the battle of the sexes period). Coburn was well paid and enjoyed his roles, obviously informed by Sean Connery's Bond, James Bond. Here Fox boxes with the slick MGM/UA Secret Agent 007 franchise and I think wins despite the production values (I wonder how much it cost to make)... but (like Lee Marvin an ex-Marine) I can relate to this nonsense just fine, thanks, even the weak story lines.Bring on the ladies! Didn't Coburn also frequent the Playboy Mansion? The hard if shallow life of a Hollywood legend in 74 years he must've had some fun playing a character irresistible to women and awed (envied) by men, to smoke Cuban cigars, and to generally be the man of the hour. He led a charmed life and was a charmer--certain roles suited him. I should be half as suave (though I'm a new-age non-actor). Guesting on the Tonight Show Coburn didn't take himself too seriously; I think he embodied the fantasies of a lot of wannabe male actors. His look was in for men in those days and he did martial arts in real life (Bruce Lee eat your heart... although action sequences are lame).Lee J. Cobb in drag?? I lol'ed at this in the zenith of the Beatles era AND while watching the DVD in my car last night 40 years later.What people overlook (their loss) is what's best about In Like Flint the EYE CANDY! Also Flint's magazine collection included Architectural Digest s/b Female Anatomy Review? in his so-manly library--maybe Hef dressed the set with incredible furniture. Dig reel-to-reel tapes, swimming pool w/compassionate dolphin caretaking (nod to Flipper/Miami?) and false-wall bookcase, etc. What's hip? High echelon multilingual sexy private detectives save the planet, mix their own bach-pad music on RTR and love women (w/Sinatra-like ability to make 'em swoon over artistry/machismo). Same old story... this film's about *smoking & sexiness* and how to remain manly in the face of more T&A than a fistful of films including Goldfinger it spoofs (no more seriously than TV Batman spoofed comics). Hello folks... it sold popcorn, tickets, smoking, and male superiority, not season tickets to the Metropolitan Opera (like Fox does today). Hey, we never learn all 82 functions of his lighter--but who cares?--imagine how many gold lighters Flint&#151;get it? this film sells. I haven't seen a single full-head turbo-dryer in a women's salon in a long, long time (dismantled by people in real fear of mini-tape players?--possible inspiration for the Sony Walkman). Pity, the end of a glamorous era. But for me cheesecake and heroism aren't over, and I surrendered to the ladies long, long ago... Sorry fellas, you're on your own. I got most if not all of the jokes.Now the spoilers (sorry, long review--you can leave now to avoid) In a rooftop scene with the only shoot-'em sequence (note nearly all of the action is fistfight/jujitsu, not gun play), Flint leans on what's supposed to look like a stone roof parapet and it bends, proving it's really papier-mâché. And other things were pretty lame and improbable, like the de facto astronauts removing their space helmets in outer space. Yeah right, that's where my review coincides with others here. But Goldfinger only won an Oscar for special and sound effects, so in most respects this was just Hollywood taking care of competitive business as usual. And was the lead's name Fred in early filming? Maybe another inside joke they didn't bother to fix, or the script girl got her job for sexual favors (my wild idea)? Am I the only one who noticed this?Still, I'd plunk down the cash for the DVD, even making Murdoch richer. The trailers of other 60s Fox Flix are well worth seeing, too. Goodbye to the 60s a quirky, colorful, expansive time in American politics and film. I wonder what happened to several of the nonspeaking females in this one but few others from the 60s. Raquel Welch had *speaking* roles at Fox (a trailer's on this DVD), but men weren't interested in her elocution. Film, the great American art form born in France. We like champagne and pretty girls too. "},{"Title":"Colorfully humorous","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" James Colburn is a super genius and super spy. He aids in a friend to help find three minutes missing while on a golf outing with the President. Something appears to be amiss. Colburn is a ladies man and ends up all over the world showing his many talents. I happened to find all of the set designs very detailed and colorful. I will be watching it again just for the costume design, furniture design and set designs. I love Colburn, this was nothing I expected from him. It is light heartedly silly and comical. I will leave all the critical reviews for someone else. I found it goofy and entertaining and it was surprising to see this side of Colburn. If I was a design student, artist or interior decorator, definitely worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Flint steps out of Bond's shadow","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The sequel to OUR MAN FLINT is an even wackier spy spoof than its predecessor. After the first film, which closely imitated the James Bond franchise, it seems the creative minds behind Flint felt free to do their own thing. Take the parody a step further.Derek Flint is irresistible to women, skilled in martial arts, and a master of disguise. The Flint movies were said to be an inspiration for Mike Myers's Austin Powers movies, and the influence is more apparent in this film than the first. The sequel involves an all-female terrorist group, a kidnapped President, an outer-space science lab, hypnotic cigarettes, and Derek Flint communicating with dolphins.Lee J. Cobb is great as perplexed Z.O.W.I.E. chief Lloyd Cramden and James Coburn returns as eccentric secret agent Derek Flint. IN LIKE FLINT is a classic '60s spy comedy. Silly, but action-packed. This second Flint adventure doesn't rely as heavily on spoofing 007. By this movie, Flint has become a character all his own.In my opinion, even more fun than the first. "},{"Title":"Starring Fox And Jerry Goldsmith","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Better script than the first one! Better support cast than the first film! Our Man Flint (1966) has a sometimes dull opening 60 minutes or so but In Like Flint (1967) remains a good film from start to finish! Dare I say it, yes I will, after Goldfinger (1964), In Like Flint is my favourite spy movie of the 1960s...but then In Like Flint is as crazy as I am! Yes, 20th Century Fox has done it again, no matter what genre they touch (musical, sci-fi, historical epic, etc) they nearly always come out on top...but not always at the 1960s box office.The film is loaded with Fox quirks When the opening credits appear we see a woman reading a magazine with Fox's Fantastic Voyage on the magazine cover. Shortly after, the TV plays with the actor who played Doc in Fox's Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea interviewing someone. Batgirl - Yvonne Craig - soon appears and the digital clock seen in Fox's Time Tunnel later does a cameo! The film's most memorable line is By this time tomorrow, women will be running the world. Flint is more light hearted than in the first film, which I like, but it partly depends on the personality of the viewer as to which of the two films you like best. The song playing at the end is a knockout, I am still singing it now in fact. "},{"Title":"No wonder this is Austin Powers favorite movie.","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Basically Derek Flint is the Austin Powers of the '60's without the silly over-the-top humor. Perhaps the Austin Powers movies also got somewhat based on the Flint movies and there are obviously some small references to it.This movie is a James Bond satire on its own right. James Bond movies never really have been known for its strong feminist elements or strong female roles but in this movie it are the ladies who are trying to rule the world. The movie also features lots of other typical James Bond element such as of course lots of spy-elements, females in bikinis, a womanizing main character and silly gadgets and this all combined with an unmistakable '60's atmosphere and typical style of film-making. The '60's were perhaps not the best time period for film-making but it definitely was a colorful era, to say the least.It's a good written spy-comedy with some fine characters and actors that are portraying them. Of course it's a silly comedy story but at least it's something original and also has some action thrown into it. It all helps to make the movie very amusing to watch.Quite amazing that actors such as James Coburn and Lee J. Cobb are involved in a comedy such as this one. They are respected serious actors, especially Lee J. Cobb isn't exactly best known for his comical roles. There presence definitely uplifts the movie and makes it something special to watch.It's simply a well made movie, with lots of professionals involved, which makes this movie work out so well and make it more than just another silly '60's comedy. Director Gordon Douglas had already 30 years of experience before he made this movie.Definitely a fun recommendable comedy.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Barbara Parkins opening the safe with her toes was silly but sexy.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Barbara Parkins opening the safe with her toes was silly but sexy.  I thought she was the most beautiful woman I had ever seen.  She is all I remember from the movie thirty years later, and she isn't even credited as being in it.  Weird. "}{"Title":"Rampant stupidity & a quaint remnant of the 1960's","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Like Flint (1967) So&#133; Hollywood money moguls are sitting around trying to come up with another idea to compete with the VERY successful James Bond/007 fliks. Out of desperation, this was their return salvo. Ker plunk, in the drink. Coburn claimed that Fox wanted to get 'In Like Flint' into cinemas so badly, the script was of little concern. And, James Coburn is no Sean Connery. Still, you HAVE to luv the awful fashions, bad snappy lines, faux-classy decors, lousy special effects, swingin' Mod score, a lame-ass version of Cold War with the Commies, TONS and TONS of bikini chix, and a story line that will send you into fits of &#133; uh &#133; fits of &#133; anti-nostalgia. The moguls must've thought THIS Joanie-come-lately, anti-equality, anti-feminist, keep 'em bare foot and bikinied theme would really sell&#133; to&#133; uh&#133; someone. It's a funny film, but only because of all the rampant stupidity. A history lesson &#150; a guilty pleasure &#150; nothing more. "},{"Title":"Daft but likable sixties spy spoof","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Very daft but likable sixties spy spoof with a great soundtrack (with bonkers vocals sung over the closing titles '&#x85; I love your Z.O.W.I.E. face'). A cross between the sixties Batman series and James Bond with just a touch of 'The Prisoner' thrown in. There's hypnosis, freezing gas, an automated document incinerator &#x96; the dogs again (from the first film) &#x96; cryogenic cabinets, Lee J. Cobb (Flint's boss) in drag, Flint learning to speak dolphin, exploding golf balls, a bunch of girls with brain-washing hairdryers, a doppelgänger president and a final fight in outer space. To be honest it isn't very good but even so it's still a light, enjoyable sixties confection brightly filmed in technicolor (the mock Moscow location all done in a bright red colour palette) and it's one of the last films to be shot in Cinemascope. Production and set design is very good, but the special effects in outer space are badly dated. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Humor, Action and Eye-Candy","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Somewhere in the Virgin Islands a group of feminists are planning on taking over the world. They kidnap the President of the United States, President Trent (Andrew Duggan) and replace him with a duplicate to impersonate him. They hijack the space lab by smuggling in female Russian cosmonauts. Additionally, they also implicate the head of the secret organization known as Z.O.W.I.E. in a sex scandal in order to minimize his effectiveness. Only the semi-retired secret agent named Derek Flint (James Coburn) can stop them. Knowing this the feminists kidnap his 3 weaknesses named Terry (Mary Michael), Jan (Diane Bond) and Denise (Jacki Ray) and try to brainwash them into joining their organization. And most of this occurs in the first 30 minutes or so. Anyway, rather than reveal the entire plot and spoil the film for those who haven't see it, I will just say that this is a pretty good sequel to Our Man Flint produced a year earlier. Good performances are turned in by James Coburn, Lee J. Cobb and the beautiful Jean Hale (as Lisa Norton). There is also plenty of humor, action and eye-candy all around. All things considered then, this is a fun movie which should entertain most viewers as long as everything is kept in perspective and not taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"Marginal improvement","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Like Flint, the second and last Derek Flint movie, is arguably a bit better than its predecessor, but not better enough to compete with the Bond films of the same era (or with Deadlier Than The Male, for that matter). The production is once again colorful, with some truly beautiful shots and some neat gadgets (like a time-freezing device!); the plot is more elaborate and not fully revealed until the second half of the movie; and the sexism of Our Man Flint has been considerably toned down (Flint is trying to cut down his harem habit - he has 3 instead of 4 girls in it now! - and despite his mocking the idea that women could rule the world, he acknowledges their value and even counts on their athleticism to assist him on his mission). James Coburn is once again very good in his fight scenes; the problem is that, just like in Our Man Flint, those fight scenes make up about 90% of the total action. Gordon Douglas' direction lacks pace, and there are certain scenes that just play on too long. The result is a movie that looks good, as do many of the women in it, but feels overlong and drawn-out. (**) "},{"Title":"LITTLE SPARK TO THIS FLINT.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  IN LIKE FLINT is a disappointing sequel to the truly exciting and humorous original and looks as though it was rushed into production to replicate that movies success.The story is comparitively dull and plodding with little of the zest of the original although James Coburn is still charismatic as the panther-like Flint but is given little to work with.He is as athletic as before in the fight scenes and it is a shame that the Flint series ended abruptly here as I am quite sure that at least one more adventure would have been welcome although Flint is very much a creature of the 60s.A warning noteLee J.Cobb appears in drag towards the end of the movie and it is not a pretty sight! "},{"Title":"The Inferior Sequel","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most people would agree that this film does not live up to its predecessor. So why did Coburn do it? He was popular at the time. He was good friends with Bruce Lee who was giving him personal tuition, and I guess with Bruce rubbing shoulders with a popular actor such as Coburn could not harm his reputation. To say I train James Coburn to fight in 'In Like Flint' most have done more for Bruce than it did for Coburn. At 27, Bruce would still have to wait until the early 70's when Hong Kong would open their doors to him rather than Hollywood. "},{"Title":"In And Out","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's ironic Derek Flint gets not one but two post-mortems in James Coburn's second and final turn as Twentieth Century Fox's goof on James Bond. Twice in the film his boss Lloyd Cramden (Lee J. Cobb) mourns the secret agent's passing; each time he learns Flint has managed an impossible escape.Of course it's impossible, that's why he's Flint! a teary Cramden chortles.Flint was always a tricky balancing act; making a spy that genuinely wowed viewers with his feats of daring-do while simultaneously mocking his ability in that and other departments. The first Flint film, Our Man Flint, managed to develop the character quite well that way; it works as a comedy as long as there's some attempt at grounding it as a serious adventure.This time, goofiness takes over early. In Like Flint pits Flint and Cramden against a female conspiracy that supplants the president with an actor and works toward a society where men no longer get much of a say. Of course, Flint is the ideal weapon against this crew; just a flick of his famous cigarette lighter sets hottie opponents a-purring.Unfortunately, even with tongue in cheek, In Like Flint doesn't really have the craft to pull off this idea, or a related one about a renegade general who wants to use the nation's nuclear arsenal in some diabolical if unexplained way. At just under two hours, In Like Flint drags noticeably, suffering from plot sprawl and a tendency to play things too cute.The film boasts a visibly larger budget than Our Man Flint, a sign of that film's left-field success. This time, the enemy lair is well- designed, and the cinematography quite brilliant in places, especially when the movie moves to Jamaica, Bond's home territory.Cobb, a boon in the first film, really shines here, showcasing a warmer side in Cramden's relationship with Flint. For his part, Coburn employs his growing star power at close to full magnitude, never taking things too seriously, even allowing himself to be introduced in conversation with a dolphin. He has three women living with him, catering to his every whim.Didn't there used to be four? Cramden asks.There were five at one time, but that got to be a bit too much, Flint replies.Not much else is too much for Flint; whether ballet dancing in Moscow or riding a rocket into space. His brilliance was more fun the first time, though; when it took you more by surprise. Here, it amuses, thanks to some nice twists, but still, after two hours the joke wears thin.I did like director Gordon Douglas's fight scenes, especially one set in a document disintegration chamber and another in a gymnasium, where action and comedy are well-mixed. Otherwise, what passes for a plot moves aimlessly from scene to scene. Whatever what Flint doing in Moscow? Watching Coburn have a rather steamy kissing scene with Yvonne Craig put me in an accepting mood, but too many U-turns make you feel the film isn't really playing fair. James Bond stories never got quite as goofy as this.Coburn apparently had enough after this, retiring the lighter and the harem for keeps. It's a fun film, but there's nothing in In Like Flint to make you think he shouldn't have gotten out. "},{"Title":"Titan II Missile footage","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Somebody must have visited a 60's-era Titan II site. The missile launch, the silo door opening and other footage were old USAF reels. I know, I worked there during those years. The cable-way (tunnel) closely resembles the Titan passageway also. During the orbital fight scene, those two sure had a lot of room to knock around! Compare to any photos of the super-squeezed Gemini astronauts, also launched on a Titan rocket! Still, it was fun to catch this on TV last night. Couburn always played the cool guy, (Great Escape, Magnificent Seven, et al) and this series plays that image to the hilt. Yes, we wince at the chauvinism, and non-PC parts, but that was how it was back then! I'm surprised at how beautiful those ladies were (and probably some still are!) "},{"Title":"Dolphin Speak?","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You have to keep in mind that this movie is a sequel and made in the mid sixties. If you're not sure why the latter is important, then you obviously aren't familiar with that decade, and it's influence on pop culture, music, dress...well, basically everything was different after the 1960's.Thank God political correctness hadn't been created then, or otherwise we wouldn't have most of the scenes of this movie, i.e., the Cuban passenger plane...I'm reasonably sure that recreational drugs were quite prevalent throughout the writing and filming stages of this movie (plus post-production, too?). Otherwise, why would the filmmakers think it necessary for the main character to be able to speak dolphin? If you've never seen the scenes where Colburn speaks dolphin, they alone are worth the time lost while watching this film. Ultimately, this film suffers from sequel-itis, in that it looks hastily written, and lacks most of the uniqueness of the original. Except, of course, for the dolphin speak. Load the bong man, I got another scene to write!! "},{"Title":"Spy riff on the 007 franchise...which was mostly satire anyway","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sequel to 1966's Our Man Flint has James Coburn returning to role as agent Derek Flint, here thwarting secret society of beautiful women plotting world domination. With a premise that sounds better than it plays, and a script knee-deep is smug irreverence, it isn't any wonder this was Coburn's final spin with the part. The production is classy, Coburn's Flint is wiry and smart, but the film just doesn't have the exciting pacing of a James Bond addition--nor does it have the humor. If you're going to send-up a genre, shouldn't you shoot for the genre's boundaries? Flint ultimately plays it much too safe and, as a result, is a fairly forgettable entry in the '60s spy craze. The character made a return in the 1976 TV movie Our Man Flint Dead on Target. ** from **** "}{"Title":"In like pizza","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This second installment in the Derek Flint spy spoofs is not as good as its prequel, being much looser than that, but like pizza, even when it's not as good as the legendary Pizza Malabon, it's still pretty good! "},{"Title":"Ho Hum, ZOWIE","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike the innovative OUR MAN FLINT (the `contact' scene in the restaurant was later reused in THE FRENCH CONNECTION) IN LIKE FLINT is a shallow retread.  Word has it that producer Saul David quit 20th Century Fox because the `message' was cut from one `key' scene.  He needed have bothered. There is nothing in IN LIKE FLINT to back up that message (i.e., that women ruling would be no different) because women are given such precious little to do in IN LIKE FLINT.  Using the then `daring' concept of `Women's Liberation' simply doesn't work if you plan to reinforce it by portraying women and simply seductive, conniving playthings.  Yet, that is EXACTLY what IN LIKE FLINT presents us.  Imagine what a better movie I.L.F. would have been if the writers and producers had given us a `Pussy Galore' or `Mrs. Peel' to slam Flint around.  Instead, they gave us the vapid Jean Hale, a beautiful but cold platinum blonde. No, men provide all the `action' (such as it is) in this slightly inferior sequel.  I say `slightly inferior' because there are still some entertaining elements here (i.e., funny sight gags, competent music, terrific cinematography and locales); and, let's face OUR MAN FLINT isn't THAT great a movie (in retrospect). Oh well, ho hum ZOWIE is better than no ZOWIE at all&#133;  "},{"Title":"I've just watched a Comedy?","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't remember how the hell this movie fell on my hands. What I DO remember though is that I didn't know anything about it so I wasn't sure what to expect, although the cover made it quite clear that this would be a 007-like film set in the 60's. So I start watching it and see a LOT of girls doing various stuff, in what seems to be a beauty parlor. But is it? Some older women that look like the head-honcho-err- ets, are observing a missile launch and talking about how things are going according to plan&#x85; although nothing has been actually said that could give you even a hint about the plot and that is something that I hate in movies, because there is a big difference between throwing in a couple of stuff to make people interested and anxious to understand what's going on and simply not giving anything at all! But, OK, not all movies have Hitchcock-like intro's&#x85; so I forget this little mistake and carry on with watching the film since I am sure that things will start becoming better as we move on&#x85; right?After a couple of scenes, we get to meet our protagonist, the spy-man himself, Flint. And THAT'S when I started thinking that this movie was actually a parody of the genre. The reason was the existence of some scenes that weren't exactly funny... but silly. Was the silliness intentional or accidental? Was it a more lighthearted Bond-clone or a satire\parody of Bond films? I honestly couldn't tell! I'm not being ironic or anything&#x85; I'm dead serious&#x85; I just couldn't tell! Also, as the movie progressed my initial complain about it would become my main one. The movie simply has no plot. It's scene after scene of stuff that don't create any interest to the viewer. It's only in the very end that EVERYTHING concerning the plot will be hand-fed to you in such a way that it will instantly make the rest of if the film nothing more than an exceedingly long intro. Due to this, my belief that this was actually a comedy became even stronger and my curiosity won, since I did a small search on the Net to find out that indeed it was!But that is actually the second problem of the movie, something that also serves as its tombstone. Most parts of the movie were so unbelievably dry that I couldn't even realize that they were SUPPOSED to be funny. With what should I laugh here? With the lamest action scenes in the world? With Flint's hypnotizing effect on women? With the downright stupid rule the world plan of the women in the intro? Honestly, I don't know!!! I know that humor has to do with personal tastes and all, but if you can't even tell that a movie is a comedy then this movie has a serious problem... Not everyone likes the smart British humor of the Monty Pythons, or the slapstick humor of the Three Stooges, but it's not hard to realize that both of these are actual comedies! In Like Flint is a boring and plot-less spy film and a worthless attempt at a funny movie. I wonder why Austin Powers likes it so much&#x85;FINAL VERDICT Can't even tell if this was supposed to be funny (3/10)Also Check Austin Powers (1997) &#x96; Our Man Flint (1966) &#x96; Top Secret (1984) "},{"Title":"Flint stoned","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched In Like Flint (cool title) not long after watching its predecessor Our Man Flint but was similarly underwhelmed. Yet again, just about the only reason for watching it is James Coburn's cool persona in the title role while the several reasons for not watching it include a literally hair-brained plan for women to take over the world by means of hairdressing/brainwashing appliances, Lee J Cobb hamming it up as Flint's boss and of course the decade long tradition of using scantily-clad women as eye-candy. The stunts are nothing special, the mock-up of the orbiting space craft resembles nothing so much as a rotating thimble while fight scenes are tame in the extreme. Perhaps like the camp classic 60's T.V. Series of Batman, the aim was the same, namely to get the audience to laugh at, as much as with the characters, with all the actors in on the joke.I just don't think this was the best way for Hollywood to rip-off, sorry, take inspiration from the successful James Bond series, the over the top approach hardly helping the movie appeal to latter-day audiences. Coburn gets one great accidentally prescient line An actor...as president? and otherwise stroll through the film in cool clothes. He was wise not to make a third entry in the series. "},{"Title":"Well, it was too good to last...","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Like Flint is one of those considerably less successful sequels that killed a potential franchise stone dead. In the opening half hour Coburn only has one scene, while the film strains a little too hard to be wacky and loses the straight faced charm of the original. With the exception of one excellent fight in a gym the action scenes are sloppier too. Then there's the sexism to contend with (although the notion of brainwashing the women of the world via hairdryers is ingenious), not to mention the sight of Lee J. Cobb in drag... Still, Goldsmith does have fun providing nifty variations on his themes from the first film while generally adding a more Neal Hefti tone to the proceedings. "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The original was okay but this sequel is a slight decline. Coburn does his job, Lee J. Cobb (12 Angry Men) is excellent, the colorful sets and decor are nice, and there is plenty of eye candy but the script felt very uninspired and much of the film was an actual labor to sit through. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Flint's Folly","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Somewhere between James Bond and Austin Powers lies ZOWIE agent Derek Flint. In In Like Flint, the supersuave agent goes up against a cabal of women hellbent on world domination.  This is another spoof of James Bond, with all its gadgets, Flint's impossible skills, roguish attitude and his way with women. (Is it any wonder this is Austin Powers' favorite movie?) Of course, today it's a ridiculous movie, not to mention very un-P.C.  They don't make a movies like this anymore...for a reason!  But, if you can overlook all the sexism, it's a silly spy game, worth a look. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's good","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those films that are so bad, they're fun to view.  Worth seeing once, but watch out for stomach-wrenchingly bad/unnecessary scenes and an extremely 60's mentality towards women.  It's as if they made Austin Powers without inteding it to be a comedy.cheers. "},{"Title":"Flint just isn't funny","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Americans have launched a new space platform. The President enjoying his success on the golf course is kidnapped and replaced with a double by the feminist organization Fabulous Face. The head of Z.O.W.I.E. Lloyd Cramden (Lee J. Cobb) is suspicious noticing 3 minutes of time missing when they were gassed. Derek Flint (James Coburn) agrees to take the case. Cramden is tricked into a scandal by operative Lisa Norton (Jean Hale) and the fake President sidelines him.James Coburn continues not to be funny. This franchise desperately needs an actual comedian at its head. Talking to dolphins could be funny but the best this movie can get to is silly. The idea of an evil feminist organization holds some possibilities. However the girls are nothing more than pinups and have limited charisma of their own. I just compare it to Leslie Nielsen doing Naked Gun and it's no contest. That may not be fair comparing different time periods. This is three years after Dr. Strangelove and it definitely fails in that comparison too. "},{"Title":"Oh boy, they don't make sexism like this anymore!","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SPOILERS*Oh boy, they don't make sexism like this anymore! These days we have more than enough opportunity to be familiar with the degradation of women, the objectification of women, the infantilization of women, the marginalization of women, the belittling of women, and even the downright hatred of women, but this movie gives us the died-in-the-wool FEAR of women! It's amazing!The plot is simple. *SPOILER* A secret group of women (operating in the Virgin Islands of course. I kid you not!) plot to take over the world by conspiring with a high level army general, replacing the president with a look alike, and swaying the world's women to their cause through brain washing hair dryers. The underlying idea is also simple. Men are great, but our one problem is our uncontrollable attraction to beautiful women. Damn them and their curves! They're like our kryptonite. Why one of the first things our evil pulchritudinous plotters say about Flint is that they've been studying him, and he has three 'weaknesses', meaning the three women who live with him. So what better as our only hope against those women we can't ignore than the man whom women find irresistible, Flint! Good thing there are no homosexuals of either kind in this universe. Although, the awesome Lee J. Cobb (See his work in _Twelve Angry Men_ and remember that he originated the role of Willy Lowman in _Death of a Salesman_ on Broadway.) does a baffling turn as the bumbling, emasculated head of intelligence. Though far from effeminate, he does end up the movie in a dress.So much does the movie fear women that its women are all eroticized beyond any reality pale, china doll skin; heavy make up; over styled hair that has been mostly bleached and blonded within an inch of its life. I swear, at times Jean Hale and her clones (not actually clones in the film) either look like dolls or animated corpses. It's too much! I'll say one thing; standards of beauty then were more forgiving in at least one way in that these women looked like they were at least allowed sit down to a decent meal every once in a while.So live it up! It's 1967 and all we have to fear is nuclear devastation and an attack force of gorgeous, Caucasian women in bikinis and sailor suits. Kick back and remind yourself why there was a cultural revolution in the late 60s and early 70s. Oh yeah, Coburn's Flint is great &#133; but he runs like a girl!  "}{"Title":"No spark","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Parts Queen of Outer Space and Deadlier Than the Male, this sluggish and shoddy film reaches it's peak in pre title titillation thanks to the opening montage and titles credited to Richard Kuhn and National Screen Service. That and Jerry Goldsmith's fetching score are the only pluses here. Jean Hale who made an impression opposite Stephen Boyd in The Oscar is given nothing of interest to say or do and as an adversary to Coburn's Flint she's like a firm, but polite flight attendant. Lee J. Cobb is featured as much as Coburn's Flint who's busy with dolphins and the ballet. Coburn is not traditionally handsome and isn't believable as someone women would find as irresistible as the dialog often alludes to. And for a spoof the film is silly rather than amusing or witty. It's easy to see why this film ended the series. The inane plot could be funny like Revenge of the Stepford Wives, but Gordon Douglas' direction and the special effects are on a par with TV's Gilligan's Island and Lost in Space respectively, and the ultimate effect is flat and dull and the same could be said for most of the cast including James Coburn whom I've liked before and since this film. There's no conflict or tension, sexual or otherwise in this dull, camp misfire. Roger Ebert gave this turkey 1 and a 1/2 stars out of 4; chalk it up to generosity. "},{"Title":"Disappointing production","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well directed and acted (for the most part), poorly produced and written. This movie, which in no way presents itself as a comical 007 ripoff, takes itself so seriously, it's a shame it wasn't better. Semi-decent plot development in dated production (a film like this could only have been made in the late 60s or early 70s ) with complete lack of witty dialog, pathetic special effects (dig those space shuttle shots and that cheesy wrist-watch compliant gadget he uses in Z.O.W.I.E.'s headquarters to count the heartbeats of the cosmonauts in the space shuttle), several somewhat illogical scenes (read on), and an abundance of average looking women with the exception of the luscious Yvonne Craig. Good, catchy theme music becomes INCREDIBLY annoying after 15 minutes or so as it is INCESSANTLY played throughout the film. The only witty dialog centers around Flint being irresistible to women and even that dialog is often times awkward and embarrassing.Flint is amazingly laconic in all the scenes outside of his penthouse and comes off like a COMPLETE dunce when face to face with the leaders of Fabulous Face. To paraphrase Flint, Women shouldn't lead the world because, well..., like..., duh..., they're women. Have a seat, Pig...Mr. Pig. James Coburn finally takes a seat and looks completely lost in the last minute of this scene.Flint visits Natasha to inquire of cosmonauts aboard the space shuttle and yet is shocked when he discovers she's involved. Like, duh, do his inquiries not indicate that he FULLY expects her to know SOMETHING?Two figures grapple on the shadowy walkway in Z.O.W.I.E. headquarters and yet a simple flashlight convinces Colonel Carter that Flint is dead? Colonel Moron leads a top government agency?  How does he know who won? The producer or director probably told him.Lloyd C. Cramden is the top cat at Z.O.W.I.E. and yet when Flint tells him to trust NOONE, he practically tells the ENTIRE agency that Flint suspects an inside conspiracy.Why does Flint tie up the pilot and co-pilot of the plane going to Cuba when he is fully aware that he's expected in the Virgin Islands? Even if they know Flint opens the door to parachute out, Flint knows he's expected. It makes no sense, especially when he parachutes out in full view of all the other passengers.Good idea had the potential to be a much better movie.  "},{"Title":"Pretty unfunny","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In Like Flint is much inferior to its predecessor Our Man Flint as it manages to be even less funny and witty, the plot is so corny it hurts and besides, much of the jokes are recycled from the first one. A movie to see on TV. 5/10 "}]