[{"Title":"Not many of the serious Westerns can match the mood and authenticity of Ritt's Hombre.","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"49 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" There has been no tougher or more formidable Western heavy than Richard Boone... He was a fine, respected actor and powerful presence, one of the screen's most efficient scene-stealer...In 'The Tall T,' Boone was Randolph Scott's intelligent, embittered adversary, smooth as a rattlesnake and twice as treacherous; in 'Man Without a Star,' he wrapped non-conforming farmers in barbed wire; in 'Way of a Gaucho,' he was a mean, sadistic Major who persecuted Rory Calhoun; and in 'Hombre' he gave Paul Newman a rough ride 'Well, now, what do you suppose hell is gonna look like?' Not many of the serious Westerns of the late sixties can match the mood and authenticity of Martin Ritt's 'Hombre.' It is a suspenseful Western melodrama pointing up racial bias and hypocrisy, with a plot modeled on greed, nobility, prejudice and resignation...John Russell (Paul Newman) has no emotion (except anger) and little vitality; he's totally alienated from mankind and is 'alienating' as well&#133; Russell is a white man raised by the Indians, who call him Hombre, and with whom he identifies&#133;Choosing to isolate himself from white society, which he despises, he lives on a reservation and looks and dresses like an Indian&#133; But he's persuaded to cut his hair and return to civilization to take over some property&#133; He winds up on a stagecoach with white passengers, who, learning his background, force him to ride with the driver&#133; Not quite an Indian, and banished by whites, he's the classic outcast in no man's land&#133; Ironically, Russell is the only one capable of rescuing the passengers from bandits and guiding them back to civilization&#133; The drama depends on whether he will accept responsibility for his fellow man&#133;Hombre, which reunited Newman with the Hud team (director Ritt, writers Ravetch and Frank, cinematographer Howe), resembles John Ford's classic Western, Stagecoach several people, whose personal crises are outlined, are thrown together, and their interactions provide a social commentary on avarice, bigotry and responsibility&#133; But in Ford's film, those deemed worthless by society reveal their inherent nobility, and only one man, the absconding banker, is bad&#133; Here, the embezzler of Indian funds&#151;Favor (Fredric March), is not much worse than the others&#133; Except for Jessie (Diane Cilento), an honest, earthy woman in the Patricia Neal-Hud vein, they're all helpless, coward1y or selfish&#133;In this context, Russell is an inversion of the John Wayne hero&#133; He's strong and silent in the traditional manner, but instead of being the expected virile defender of the weak, he helps the others only when his own survival is at stake&#133; He refuses to intercede when the malevolent bandit Grimes (Richard Boone) deprives a soldier of his seat; is willing to leave the helpless passengers stranded; indifferently sends Favor out into the desert without water; and declines to rescue Favor's Indian-hating wife (Barbara Rush), left by the bandits to bake in the sun&#133;Even though he acts out of a justifiable outrage, Russell is not meant to be a sympathetic character the white man's mistreatment may have made him indifferently cruel, but cruel he is, nevertheless... Perhaps to soften our attitude, the filmmakers have him suddenly abandon his disengagement at the end, and perform the traditional act to rescue Favor's wife&#133;Newman's performance here is unlike any of his others&#133; His style has been stripped away to the bare essentials; to call it underplaying would be an understatement&#133; He imparts a sense of transcendent stillness; when he acts he does so suddenly, returning immediately thereafter to his relatively immobile state&#133; He speaks laconically, in clipped sentences, with a solemn, deliberately monotonous, almost lifeless voice&#133; In addition, his facial expression hard1y changes; at times it approaches an infinitesimal smile, but otherwise it is unsociable, severe, bitter, or inscrutably neutral&#133;At first glance, it seems that Newman is hard1y acting, and some critics called him wooden&#133; Russell's inscrutable expression is a mask to cover his ingrained hurt, and suggests a man in a constant state of meditation or deep reflection on the chaos around him&#133; Appropriately, the film opens and closes on close-ups of his face, and throughout, our attention is directed toward the blue eyes, which are constantly watching, thinking, judging, condemning&#133;Newman also frequently folds his arms as if protecting or insulating himself from the world&#151;a natural defense mechanism of someone who's suffered a great deal of pain, and a physical equivalent of his psychological introversion&#133; This is Newman's most completely self-sufficient, isolated, and inhuman loner, and he gives a performance that bravely risks complete alienation of the audience&#133; And that's what happens; as in Torn Curtain, the character is ultimately non-involving&#133; But it's an extremely interesting piece of disciplined acting&#133;Martin Ritt puts the whole picture together in a straight, precise layout of plots, accumulating action that holds interest up to the big scenes... Of all the sequences which stay in the mind, perhaps the most memorable is that in which the Mexican bandit (Frank Silvera) painfully congratulates Russell as a sharp shooter 'Hey, Hombre! A compliment on your shooting. You put a hole in me.' "},{"Title":"Late  Classic Western.","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" NOW I OWE YOU!.......YOU PUT TWO HOLES IN ME!20 Century Fox's HOMBRE is an excellent and engaging western! Although somewhat unappreciated when it was first released in 1967 it has since gained cult status and is now recognized as a splendid example of the genre. Like the brilliant The Stalking Moon made the following year HOMBRE initially suffered from the drop in appeal of westerns with the general public that occurred in the sixties. But now with the production of the western all but extinct and western fans yearning for it to make a meaningful return (sans inane revisionist remakes like the awful 3 Ten To Yuma) - Hollywood's past efforts at producing them in the forties, fifties and sixties have gained considerable popularity with a younger generation. This has resulted in the works of John Ford, Raoul Walsh, Anthony Mann, Delmer Daves, Budd Boetticher and Henry Hathaway becoming just about as popular today as they were all those years ago. From a fine novel by Elmore Leonard HOMBRE was brilliantly written for the screen by Irving Ravitch and Harriet Frank. Produced by Ravitch and Martin Ritt it was beautifully photographed in Panavision and Deluxe colour in the mountains of Arizona by veteran genius cinematographer James Wong Howe (King's Row/Body & Soul) and was masterfully directed by the underrated Martin Ritt.Paul Newman is John Russell - a white man raised by the Apaches. He is a discriminated passenger on a Stagecoach occupied by an array of quirkish characters. Jesse (Diane Cilento) is on her way to Bisby to start a new life after her marriage proposal is turned down by (about to go bad) Sheriff Frank Braden (Cameron Mitchell) (I don't want a wife Jesse...I want out!). There's Dr. Favor (the always wonderful Fredric March) as the Indian Agent who has just embezzled the Indian funds from the reservation accompanied by his beautiful and pert wife (the lovely Barbara Rush). And Cicero Grimes (Richard Boone) who intends to hold up the Stage and with his waiting gang make off with the Indian funds. But after a series of events in which Russell kills some of the gang and retrieves the money it falls to him to lead the hapless passengers all the way back to town on foot. They take refuge in an abandoned mine-works fending off Grimes and his men until finally Russell confronts Grimes face to face and his Mexican gunman (Frank Silvero). that Vaquero is more than a fair hand with a gun Grimes warns Russell followed by what is a climactic but ultimately tragic fast draw shootout.Performances are quite exceptional from the entire cast! Newman is terrific in what is one of his best ever roles. It is certainly the best western part he played. Terrific too is veteran Fredric March in what would be his third and final film. The rarely seen Diane Cilento (Mrs. Sean Connery at one time) is superb in the female lead and never better is Martin Balsam as the Stage driver. But the acting honours has to go to Richard Boone as the baddie with the cracker of a name Cicero Grimes. His role not terribly unlike that which he played ten years previously in the Randolph Scott classic The Tall T. And lest we forget the effective brooding score contributed by composer David Rose which lends a melancholy and reflective quality to this memorable and outstanding western.Classic line from HOMBRE....... When Grimes sees he has been duped by Russell with empty saddle bags he snarls quietly.......Well now....and what do you suppose hell is going to look like?. "},{"Title":"I got one question. How you gonna get down that hill?","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Superbly written and acted, Hombre is one of the two or three best end-of-the-West Westerns ever made.Based on the Elmore Leonard novel and starring Paul Newman, Hombre is the story of John Russell, a white man raised by Apaches forced by circumstances to be responsible for the lives of a group of people who despise him.Dr. Faver You've learned something about white people. They stick together. John Russell  They better.Newman is sterling as Russell, whose sense of honor puts him into a no-win situation, and whose tenacity will not allow him to back off.  Richard Boone was rarely better than as Cicero Grimes, who matches Russell, steely-eyed glare for steely-eyed glare.  His performance here is on par with his portrayal of gang-leader John Fain in Big Jake, just a few years later.Grimes Well, now. Now what do you suppose hell is gonna look like? Russell  We all die.  It's just a question of when.Also outstanding are Diane Cilento, Barbara Rush, and Martin Balsam. A strong performance by character actor Frank Silvera as an unnamed Mexican bandit is one of the film's many gems.Russell (after wounding the Bandit)I would have done better, but I think you moved. Bandit You can be sure I moved!The magnificently desolate northern Arizona desert becomes an additional character in the film.If you are looking for the ultimate tough-guy film, you need look no further than Hombre.  "},{"Title":"Hombre is a Great Western With Excellent Performances All Around","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This brutal western is easily one of Paul Newman's best performances, hearkening back to HUD in its power and forthright honesty. Newman plays a white man raised by Apaches on the reservation in Arizona who grew up to become a member of the Indian police. His real father has died and he cuts his long hair and goes down to the town to claim his inheritance, a boarding house which he intends to sell for a herd of horses down in Contention. The residents of the building, including the attractive female manager, are thus made to leave and he accompanies them on their stage coach journey down to Bisbee. They are joined by the Indian agent, skillfully played by Frederic March, his snooty, sheltered wife, and a sinister stranger, wonderfully acted by Richard Boone at his most gritty and threatening.The characters in this movie, regardless of their importance, are fleshed out convincingly. The writing is spare and fraught with meaning, in fact, it is almost too perfect. No words are wasted and no act appears frivolous. Newman plays the quintessential stoic, an Indian mystic who rises above the circumstances of his harsh existence out of sheer detachment. He accepts the brutality of the world at face value and harbors absolutely no illusions. He doesn't stick his neck out like some damn fool in order to impress anybody and he survives because he deals with what comes his way, yet refuses to be affected by it, no matter how tough things get. Just to watch his very convincing interpretation of this sort of person is rewarding enough, but that is only one of the roles so well evoked in this excellent drama. Richard Boone has some of the great lines, such as, Mr., you've got some mighty hard bark on you coming down here like this, followed by, Well now, what do you suppose HELL is gonna look like? Frederic March hands in a good performance as the crooked Indian agent, a role quite unlike his great offerings in earlier films such as Man in the Gray Flannel Suit or The Best Years of Our Lives. Hombre is first-rate movie fare, an entertaining, action-filled story brimming with conflict. As art, it is right up there with the best films ever made, a philosophical masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A Character Study or A Study of Character","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Is this movie not a micro-view of society?  We have a certain class structure.  We have heroes and villains.  We have one man, who, perhaps by virtue of his Apache affinity, is essentially at one with himself.  He tells the person who comments that they had mistakenly believed that he was taking the money for himself, What you think is your business.  He is unaffected.  He knows who he is, what he's about, and is not on the string, dancing to the tune that others would call for him.  He has his own code; his own values, and he demonstrates them -- in action -- throughout this fine film.  Richard Boone is great as Grimes, and the overall cast is very good.  This movie, in some ways, could be taken apart, viewed, and reviewed much the same way as Henry Fonda's 12 Angry Men.  There is much to admire about this movie . . . much to admire in the character, John Russell.   "},{"Title":"One of the best westerns ever made","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Outstanding direction, writing, acting, and cinematography make this film perhaps the best western ever made, and certainly outstanding in it's genre. The good guys aren't all that good, and the bad guys are despicable.  The dialogue is from Elmore Leonard, and is some of the best dialogue ever written, western or not.  Example  Early in the film Diane Cilento has retreated to the privacy of a shack to remove her petticoat because of the heat.  Paul Newman is in the room, and watches her silently as she bears her legs.  Then he says, You'd better stop right there lady, or I'm gonna know all there is to know about you.  Ms Cilento's character Jessie (a hard frontier woman who runs a boarding house and sleeps with the town sheriff) retorts, You might have cleared your throat.  Newman says, I couldn't, my heart was in it.  The minor part cast is also outstanding  Martin Balsam, Richard Boone, Cameron Mitchell, David Canary.  I also mention the cinematographer, often overlooked, because it was James Wong Howe (Molly McGuires, This Property is Condemned, Hud, Fantasia) who was one of the greatest cinematographers that has ever lived.   "},{"Title":"Cause I Can Cut It.","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Paul Newman did a whole bunch of films with Director Martin Ritt and Hombre, one lean and mean western ranks as one of the best.Newman is John Russell, the ultimate in the Stockholm Syndrome in the western film. He's a man who was kidnapped by the Apaches as a child, raised among them, and then when he was rescued from the Apaches, turned his back on his rescuers and went back to live among them. The opening of the film has some closeup shots of Newman as an Apache and he does look like a figure of interest with those baby blue eyes of his. The viewer is already involved, this is a person of interest, there's a story here, let's find out about him.Circumstance has put him on a coach with several other passengers, including the Indian agent at the San Carlos Reservation, Fredric March and his wife Barbara Rush. Unbeknownst to everyone else, March has embezzled a whole stash of money from the tribe and is on the run, like Berton Churchill in Stagecoach. Of course Churchill is not taking his young pretty wife along with him.The outlaws led by Richard Boone know about the loot and they ambush the coach, but the holdup is unsuccessful. Nevertheless the passengers are left afoot with the loot, but limited water on the Arizona desert.It falls to Newman to lead them to safety, a guy they had previously snubbed. Hombre gets deliciously ironic that way.Next to Newman, I'd say the best performance in the film is easily that of Diane Cilento, the very wise and earthy boarding house keeper. She's one experienced with life woman who if everyone heeded it would have been better all around.Why are they with Newman, cause he can cut it. And as a film, Hombre definitely cuts it. "},{"Title":"You ever been hungry, lady?","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Paul Newman plays a half breed Apache caught in a tight spot, and one who shows his mettle when the chips are down.  Trapped on a stage that is robbed by a gang of thieves, he is forced into a situation where he must defend people he doesn't respect, and fight people he has no quarrel with.  In typical Elmore Leonard fashion, the lone quiet man is far more than he seems to be, and honor and simple dedication to truth are the shining jewels of human existence.  (See also Valdez is Coming.)  Elmore Leonard's westerns are the very best of the genre, as long as you include The Searchers and The Wild Bunch and Monte Walsh.  Paul Newman's performance is all fierce inner fire and incredible fury at injustice, never losing control even when he is lashing out with devastating effect.  The special highlight here is Richard Boone, always a great performer, but in this movie he is just fabulous.  The scene where he verbally bullies the last spot on the stage away from an Army officer just drips with a finely tuned malevolence that you can feel in the air.  Brilliant movie, one you shouldn't miss.  "},{"Title":"Best Paul Newman Movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  There are so many rave comments here about Hombre I won't repeat them. I'll just say this is my favorite Paul Newman movie of them all, and one of the best Western's ever made. Richard Boone is terrific as the villain. Newman's low-key performance is remarkably powerful and authoritative. Great cast, story, mood, with an almost Zen like quality in the unfolding and resolution. Hombre has stayed with me for 33 years.   "},{"Title":"My Favorite Western","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This was a great production, with a fantastic cast, unforgettable script and an excellent director and cinematographer. My hat goes off to Paul Newman for taking a role that goes against his normally expected cutesy performances and portraying a character we all wish we could be more like. I will also applaud the performances of Diane Cilento, Frederick March, and Richard Boone. You all can cut it.When Hombre was released, it received mixed reviews especially in the foreign markets. I really have a hard time believing this considering it's competition. I love a good western and I have always had a problem with foreign made spahgetti westerns and never understood the popularity of Fistful of Dollars or The Good, Bad and the Ugly. Not taking anything away from Clint Eastwood (because his presence was the only thing that saved those films), but there was no credible dialog or memorable cliché's to ever make me want to watch them more than once.In my mind this has to be one of the top five westerns ever made and ranks up there with High Noon or Stagecoach. It always amazes me that people can criticize the performance of Paul Newman. I have a hard time envisioning anyone else that could have delivered as good a performance. (Possibly Gary Cooper Newman has made many great films and just because he is so handsome, we have a hard time relating to him as the cold, unpretentious, supporter of the weak as was John Russell. "}{"Title":"Hombre, cool as the other side of the pillow","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hombre!   As I sat lazily on the couch, surfing the 999 Direct TV channels for something, ANYTHING, that might possibly be nonSalsa, nonSpike and nonStupid I know, I know, the odds were decidedly against me, I ran across this gem of a movie that I had not thought about for years, even decades! Hombre?  HELL YES!!  Even with the annoying commercial breaks I thoroughly enjoyed watching this 36 year old  western, where less is MORE when you have top talents like Paul Newman and Richard Boone.  How many of you kiddies out there remember Have Gun Will Travel?  I didn't think so.....MOVIE  9.5/10.0 Paul Newman & Richard Boone, what can I say? Hombre is an end of an era western with a subtle political message about discrimination. Instead of The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly, this movie might have been characterized as The Good, The Bad and the Wimpy.  The supporting actors and actresses play their roles splendidly, portraying human weakness, fear, greed, hubris, inexperience, and frailty, complementing Paul Newman as the stoic, low keyed, brooding but intensely powerful Hombre.  This was a low budget movie and the script is a little weak at times, but the power of Neuman and Richard Boone overwhelm any weaknesses to make this one of the best westerns ever.  Johnny Russell shows all, good and bad, especially those who looked at him initially with disdain, just what character, principle and courage are all about.BADASSCISSITY 20.0/10.0 or maybe a lot moreFrom the opening scene in the bar, where John Russell disciplines a range bum who is disrespecting two Indians, the tempo of badasscissity is set. Harelip time! This classic western is all about badasses and wimps and provides a stark contrast in the individuals who can cut it and those who show their inexperience and lack of backbone.  Richard Boone is simply fantastic as the tough, craggy, foul-mouthed Cicero Grimes, a bad man with a knack for intimidating ALMOST everyone in a dark, hostile and very calculated manner.  He is so tough that even when crossing a desolate desert, he takes only whiskey, no water.  ALL RIGHT!  Paul Newman plays a tight-lipped, stoic, blue-eyed Indian who is not to be messed with, even by the smarmy Grimes.  Johnny Russell is as ice cold as the other side of the pillow, a tremendous acting effort, just what you would expect from a Paul Neuman.  Frank Silvera is the Mexican bandit who in spite of being gut shot by Russell,  laughs it off and gains much respect for the Hombre adversary.ONE LINERS  one million/10.0 Never has one man said so much by uttering so littleHombre has to rank up there with some of the Clint Eastwood and Schwarzenegger movies with one-liners. Awesome!  Here are just a few....John Russell  Eaten one and lived like one.  Referring to Indians eating dogsGrimes  You're coming one way or the other... You're coming..John Russell Because I can cut it, lady.John Russell  Try not to puke, you may have to lie in it for a while. Talking to the inept MendezMexican Bandit Hey, Hombre.. A compliment on your shooting.. You put a hole in Me..' John Russell I would have done better, but I think you movedDr. Favor You've learned something about white people, they stick together. John Russell  They better.Jessie Well, what do you figure yours is going to read referring to grave head stone John Russell Shot dead, probably Jessie Don't people take to you, Mr. Russell? John Russell It only takes one who doesn't.John Russell You want a lot more than that from me, lady. Grimes Mister, you have got a lot of hard bark on you comin' down here like this. Now, you put two holes in me and I owe you. John Russell Two's usually enough for most. Grimes Did you bring the money? John Russell Guess I brought my dirty laundry by mistake.Grimes Now what do your suppose hell is gonna look like.John Russell We all gotta die, it's only a matter of when....And perhaps one of the best one liners in a western ever... How are you planning to get back down that hill?'   Hell Yes!!!in context John Russell Hey. I got a question. How are you planning to get back down that hill? Russell shoots the hell out of Grimes all the way down the hill as he tumbles head over heals among the rocks....  Did I say `Hell Yes? Jessie As Grimes crawls away after being shot Cicero Grimes, meet John Russell.SAPPINESS  1.0/10.0 Very little hereThere is wimpiness, but not much sappiness in this movie.  Three distinctly different women characters are portrayed as the naive, the seasoned and the sanctimonious, but there is hard hitting action and drama rather than gooiness.  John Russell and the 'wedded, bedded & loved & let down' Jessie entertain a good-natured, succinct battle of the sexes, but no love here, only genuine respect, especially at the conclusion of this drama.  Jessie is the only one of the motley passenger crew that shows backbone, the kind of woman that you  definitely want on your side.~SPOILERS~Paul Newman plays it cold as ice all the way through.   The scene at the bar was absolutely awesome, I always feel like jumping up and cheering for the Indians when Russell makes the loose-lipped cowboy eat the shot glass. HELL YES!Richard Boone as Grimes just has a bad attitude from hell as he shows right off the bat in the stagecoach station.  He intimidates and bullies everyone with a cold and calculated ferocity that is so believable that it invokes anger every time I see it. Johnny Russell shows mettle like a combat hardened veteran as he calmly hops up on the top of the stagecoach and methodically blows away the harelipped cowboy and the sheriff gone bad, immediately assuming the role of leader of the stranded group of passengers. No fluff, just a masterpiece of a scene. The final shootout scene was also a masterpiece as it invokes tremendous courage and character along with irony and frustration. The frustration was that the most courageous character and all of the badasses died in a blaze of battle as the others survived, in spite of their human frailty.  The obstruction of the line of site by the rescued Audra Favor was an especially ironic twist, but Russell was still able to dispatch Grimes and the Bandit, but at the cost of his own life. Grimes' line 'Now what do your suppose hell is gonna look like?' was brilliant and chilling, extending the continuity of the dark personality of this disturbing character.A must watch!  A classic!  How are you going to get down that hill unless you watch this movie right now?SS  "},{"Title":"Best Western Ever","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A unique, thought-provoking story about the unheralded qualities of a brooding, social outcast.  Well-written, well-directed, well-cast production without pretense.  Paul Newman is excellent and low-keyed like his character (few words, no-nonsense, non-idealistic); his presence gives the other actors room to perform.  Newman's character is a self-controlled savage but with a legitimate grievance as a half-breed Apache.  Richard Boone is outstanding as the outlaw lead who won't take no for an answer.  His character is mean and overbearing but he meets his match in Newman's - although Boone's character is slow to recognize that fact.  Cameron Mitchell is also excellent as the burnt out lawman who 'goes bad' and joins Boone's gang.  Diane Cilento is a delight as the housekeeper who slowly takes an interest in Newman's callous character.  Martin Balsam plays the Mexican friend of Newman's; another very good, low-key performance.Fredric March plays a bitter, aging, two-faced reservation agent whose greed creates the circumstances that forces Newman's character to 'defend bigots against bandits'.  The stand 'Hombre' takes requires the courage to deal with the harshness in unhesitatingly brutal fashion while ignoring the fact that the odds are increasingly stacked against you.  The irony in the final scene is a pretty good metaphor for the cruel unfairness in life that too many of us suffer. "},{"Title":"More than a great Western","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Are you interested in human nature? Great films like Hombre work by putting a bunch of people together in a dramatic situation that needs resolving. The unfolding of the story grips your attention because you can relate to the emotions involved and you can understand the games being played by the characters. You can see into human nature.Hombre works at the highest levels. Flawlessly acted by an ensemble cast, it never misses a beat in its understated style as it explores Good, Evil and everything in between. Would you risk your life for a bunch of strangers? What sort of person does, and why?Hombre tells the story. "},{"Title":"Hombre- redux","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I first saw the movie when I was a mere teenager (430 movie ABC) and before Elmore Leonard was a bestselling author. I saw half the movie again last nite on AMC with commercial interruption. I'm struck with how much Frank Silvera reminds me of Eli Wallach (bandit in the Magnificent Seven). The character of John Russell reminds me of Jake Holman (Steve McQueen/Sand Pebbles). Morally he always has the high ground yet he is destined to get into trouble and is prepared ultimately to sacrifice his life for others.I have thought about why Russell sacrifices himself for Mrs Favor. I think ultimately it's because he knows that the only way the stolen money will get returned to his tribe is if he acts. He realizes this when Diane Cilento's character (not in the book) is about to sacrifice herself to free Mrs. Favor.Leonard has not gotten enough credit for this tale. Granted the movie has some differences from the book. The opening introduction of Russell as mustanger does not appear in Leonard's novel/ There is so much more here in the movie than meets the eye; perhaps a thesis in comparing the two characters and films.I need to see this wonderful film again, but uncut. Eh, Hombre? So I went out and bought the DVD. Now how about some mescal at Delgado's? "},{"Title":"One of the most unusual Westerns ever filmed...","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Long before Elmore Leonard became the darling of mystery thrillers, I heard once upon a time, he wrote several Westerns. Still, I was amazed to see that one of them had actually been adapted to the screen and I'm very impressed with the results. John Russell (yet another great performance from the ever-excellent Paul Newman) has to be one of the more unusual protagonists that I've seen in a Western. Strong-silent types are a dime a dozen, but Newman adds an extra level of intensity that makes Russell's characteristic silence something more unsettling. Whenever he explodes into violence, it's twice as scary to me than usual.Everybody else in the cast is, more or less, about who they are and what they're about (thankfully, we get the sense that we're watching real people as opposed to classic Western stereotypes), but not Russell. Russell is the only one I couldn't quite figure out. It's obvious that he does care a little (as the initial scene in the cantina showed), but most of the time, all I could see was a stony indifference to the petty concerns of the people under his charge. His primary goal is more basic survival. Despite that, he dies saving the life of a woman who'd insulted him more than once on the initial leg of the trip. Now why would he do something like that? I can't say that I know, but I very much doubt that it's for such noble reasons as self sacrifice for a fellow human, etc. Keep in mind that this guy heard this woman scream for several hours for someone to come and get her without batting an eye.Ascribing easy answers and platitudes to this film is less than pointless. It's really about human nature more than the Old West and when it comes to that subject, there are no easy answers. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman Incredibly Sexy","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is one of the four great H movies that Newman made (Hud, Harper, and the Hustler are the others) and it still holds up marvellously well. Despite his baby blue eyes, Newman makes you believe that he IS half-Indian, and we delve very deeply into his character by explicitly revealing very little, but he says all with those magnificent eyes.  I think Newman is more sexy here than in any other movie.  10/10. "},{"Title":"A wonderful slice of strength, needed, but not appreciated or loved.","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film made Paul Newman my favorite male actor for decades. It affected the way I have seen every one of his roles, even his salad dressing. The story line brings John Russell's (Newman) personal strength of character and survival into sharp contrast with many of the other characters' own sense of strength, and therefore the viewers' as well. There are villains all around and innocent (and not so innocent) victims for the taking. Personal values of all kinds (racial, greed, criminal) are set up for display and comparison against Russell's simple personal strength and integrity like a painting competition at a state fair. My most remembered quote from this film is Russell's response to Dr. Favor(the embezzler)when Favor attempts to educate Russell that white (implying civilized) people stick together and help each other out and Russell responds, They better. "},{"Title":"Hombre screenplay","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" You'd eat dog. You'd fight for the bones too.You ever been hungry? I don't mean 'ready for supper' hungry. I mean when your belly swells.What do you expect me to take with me? Your life. How's that? And if you make it, we'll drink to your good luck.That Grimes. He think it going' to be easy. He doan brink no water, only whiskey. Well, it's going to get a lot harder.I would like at least to know what his name was. He was called John Russell.These were all just off the top of my head not having seen the movie in over 8 years. (not counting the ones that have already been posted) One of my favorite movies ever.I am pleasantly surprised that there are other people out there that have seen it recently and/or remember it. Many other lines. I'll post when I watch it again. "},{"Title":"Strong ongoing praise for a film that holds up well.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Elmore Leonard meets Arizona and racism. Terse, strong Martin Ritt helmed exploration into human frailty. Richard Boone sings rich as always.Caustic, thoughtful, dark, and vital. It still involves.A film that never falters in its ability to grab you. "},{"Title":"this is a great movie","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" i saw this movie when it came out & thought it was good...i've probably seen it 6 or 7 times since then & i find it's one of a small number of movies that i will watch whenever it's on...as an aside i find it interesting that people now will watch a movie over & over...think that started in the 70's with the star wars/star trek things...in some way movies have become the equivalent of listening to a record...and i cant quite figure that out...i mean, you would buy a record & play it over & over, but why would you watch a movie over & over??...you know what happens...you've seen it...music seems much more immediate...much more sensory (perhaps because it involves only one sense)...movies require at least two, maybe three (remember smell-o-vision??)...but back to hombre...i think this is the best western ever made & one of the best movies ever made...i've looked at a lot of reviews of movies on this site & a lot of them try to critique a movie by lauding or denigrating some aspect of the movie...the direction & cinematography were excellent but the characters were ill-defined & the whole exercise was derivative & futile...but back to hombre...just watch it if you get the chance...they don't get much better "}{"Title":"Elmore Leonard's wonderful anti-hero story","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Martin Ritt made a lot of good movies. This is one of his best. It deserves to be remembered and to live forever. Elmore Leonard wrote this wonderful western of a man who is no hero in the classical western-style. He is of white origin, brought up by Indians. He wants to live in peace with his fellow man, and faced with violence he withdraws, but when it comes to injustice or survival he turns out to be some sort of hero just the same. Paul Newman's leading role as Hombre is a performance as convincing as ever. And all other leading characters are played by wonderful actors too. Richard Boone's bullying criminal is almost to be smelled through the screen. Even in the smaller roles there are some real gems. See this movie again and again - and again! "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I saw this on a channel that usually shows terrible crap, so I didn't feel like watching it. But I immediately liked the 'feeling' of this film from the opening scenes so I got myself a drink, some smokes (it's a Western after all) settled down on the couch and kept watching. Was I glad I did. It starts a bit slow , but the characters, plot and everything are interesting from the beginning. Others here can explain a lot better than me what is so good about this movie so read their comments. I'll just add that if you have a change to see this movie on the tele, stay home for it or tape it, you will be pleasantly surprised like I was.   8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Minutely Observed Drama","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Although frequently overlooked in any list of 'great westerns', the movie 'Hombre' is nevertheless one of the most intelligently crafted of the genre.It is very much 'revisionist', turning a lot of western standards about ethics and role models on their heads. In this respect it's not so much a 'western' as a human morality play set in the west. The dramas we are presented with could be placed almost anywhere.Paul Newman plays the titular 'Hombre'. His is a role that's perfectly suited to his screen persona. He's a half-breed Indian taking a ride on the stage-coach. None of the other decent white folks want to sit next to him so he's relegated to the outside. But he doesn't care. He doesn't appear to care about anything. To him; bigotry isn't new. Like a war-vet, he's seen just about everything in terms of human suffering, cruelty, greed, selfishness, and duplicity. Nobody ever gave him or any other Indian an even break. So he gives none. He's not only a man's man; he's a masculist, yielding no more to female sensibilities than those of males. He looks out for himself, and knows how to. Straightforward, uncomplicated, laconic.The Hombre has inherited a guest house from his father. He means to close and sell it. He serves immediate notice on its comely proprietress, who evidently had other ideas. There's no ceremony, no latitude; it's his. He wants shut of the place, so she's out; that's it. Her presumption of womanly whiles count for nothing.Richard Boone does what he does best, playing a bad guy. There's a wonderful scene where he terrorises a passenger into surrendering his coach-ticket. He was going to start on the Hombre, but this passenger intercedes and gets bullied instead. Our Hombre does nothing. He never asked this man to speak on his behalf.During the journey, they are ambushed. The bandits are Boone's men. He knows exactly who on the coach has got what. One of the passengers is an Indian agent. He's been swindling the red-skins blind and carries a bag full of money that are both his proceeds and the bandits' particular interest. Their ambush goes awry. With the passengers abandoned to effectively die of thirst; the Hombre kills one of the bandits, recovering some water and the money. The others stampede.Now the passengers must walk. He knows where he's going. The others can follow or not, as they please. The despised is now the master. He's an Indian, and a wilderness survivor, all too familiar with privation. The white folks are not. They're civilised. Boone and his bandits haven't given up on the agent's stash.Although Newman has this movie by the throat, there are no bad performances at all. It's a small group of character actors each giving an excellent turn. Settings are well chosen. All the technical elements are up to snuff. The pace and length of the movie are perfectly matched, confronting us with human issues only in sufficient depth to make us think, without labouring any preconceived morality. We make of it what we will. The script is excellent, with plenty of spiteful, sarcastic and well-observed repartee. There are not enough thought-provoking movies like this. Aldrich's 'Flight Of The Phoenix' is one, in which the Hombre is played by a German aircraft engineer. Hitchcock's 'Lifeboat' is another.Highly recommended. I am tempted to call it a classic, though not necessarily a classic 'western'. Maybe that's why it's not so popular.       "},{"Title":"All time favorite","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Paul Newman is at his best in this film. Strong, silent, self-sufficient, slow to speak, but when he speaks, it would be a good idea to listen. I have seen this film at least 20 times, and I get a kick out of it every time. I'm not a real fan of Mr. Newman, but he shines in this one. Richard Boone is about as nasty as a nasty ill-tempered ruffian can get, I wouldn't like to encounter someone like him. Frederic March gets as low as you can get, and has you hoping he will evaporate in the desert heat sooner than later. Frank Silvera is the most likable scumbag you will ever find, I love his witsky pronunskiation. The rest of the gang on this little journey through the desert are your basic wishy-washy change your mind at least 3 times a minute westerners out for stagecoach ride, and make John Russell look like the only real man within a hundred miles or more. "},{"Title":"Ultimate anti hero puts Eastwood to shame","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hombre was made in the era of the anti-hero (1940-1990, an awful big span), when the male protagonist of most movies was a bad guy in his right. The character of John Russell was perhaps the best anti-hero of the Westerns, putting the overrated Eastwood character to shame. The hombre was a quite believable character, and the viewer shared his feelings. Newman was spectacular in the role. The plot involves a motley crew on a stagecoach road that gets held up. There a lot of twists that would put modern twist movie makers to shame, too. The most horrible of the bad guys is the one who is robbed himself, and yet Fredric March pulls a remarkable acting job of a slimy super salesman who still seems to redeem himself (with slimy evilness) in the eyes of some of the other passengers. There is a lot of macho gutsy delivery in this, and it is riveting. A lot of great lines, and the best line of any Western, when bad guy Richard Boone is parlaying with the good guys while he has a woman tied to a stake to burn in the Sun, the hombre says I've got a question for you. How are you going to get down that hill? He echoes the thoughts of multitudes in those situations. And he persuades us his way is the best way. Oh, and Richard Boone has a habit of opening ransom packages in movies and being very disappointed. A lot of great characters, but Basalm may be the one who stands out and steals the show among these giants. A classic among classics. Action, adventure, great characterizations, enjoyment, everything you could want "},{"Title":"universally good performances in a solid Western","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" What really makes this classic Western work out so well is not just the fantastic direction by Martin Ritt, the sparse but suiting music score by David Rose, or the fantastic scenery. What really holds the movie together is its universally wonderful performances by the cast. Paul Newman, of course, portrayed a magnificent character. Here, he plays John Russell, a white man raised by the Apaches who has found little or no use for the ways of the white men and their prejudice toward the Native Americans. He inherits a boarding house from the man who raised him, but sells it for again, he has no use for it, and takes a stagecoach out of town along with several bigoted passengers who find his presence disturbing. As it turns out, one of them, Ceceril Grimes (portrayed in a blood-chilling way by Richard Boone) is the leader of an outlaw gang that holds them up and leaves them for dead. Newman's character suddenly becomes the only hope for survival for the other passengers for the outlaws are going to be coming back for more water and the money they had intended to steal the first time around.Co-starring Newman and Boone, we have a fine cast of actors who all fit their roles perfectly, even in the smallest parts, which hold the movie together and keep it sold. Fredric March, Cameron Mitchell, Martin Balsam, and especially Diane Cilento were also very good in their roles. I do feel that Richard Boone was the best performer in the entire cast, for he really made his villainous character really seem frightening. When he talks in a threatening sentence, as his type of characters ALWAYS do in some part of a Western, he really sends chills up our spines as well as the other characters'.Hombre is also a fairly good technical success. The guns look like real guns rather than just mock-ups with blank cartridges and no recoil, the sound design is fairly good, and the hits look fairly real. Yes, there were a few points where the sped-up shots of the hit characters falling over looked overwhelmingly fast and not very convincing, but then again, what does it matter? It does not spoil the enjoyment level of the film.Bottom line, Hombre is an excellent Western film that mostly gets its level of success and stability from the solid performances by its cast as well as its magnificent screenplay and direction. A true masterpiece full of professional craftsmanship, where everybody involved knew what he was doing. "},{"Title":"A simple, straight forward story with complex characters. The best there is.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Beginning in the late 1960's Hollywood produced a series of movies that revolved around the concept of the encroachment of the coming 20th century on the Old West.  Hombre was one of first, and was followed by several other excellent films including McCabe and Mrs. Miller with Warren Betty and Julie Christie, and Butch Casidy and the Sun Dance Kid with Paul Newman and Robert Redford and the short-lived James Garner TV Series Nichols.  Hombre is arguably the best by far.In most listings, Paul Newman would doubtless be given star billing, but this is an ensamble effort with no one much more important that the others. The acting is even and honest and nearly flawless.  These are real persons presented to us as themselves.This is Newman's second best film acting with only his portrayal of Eddy Fellson in The Hustler outcalssing it, and that not by much.  It is Richard Boone's best acting job ever by a long mile. Barbara Rush is so insidiously selfish as the driving force behind Fredric March's complete amorality that only Shakespeare could have written it better in Macbeth.This is not as it first appears to be on the surface the parable of Good triumphant over evil.  It becomes in the end the parable of one man being true to himself.  Paul Newman has one of the best exit lines in the history of movies when asked for his knife so that the hostage tied out in the blazing desert sun can be cut free.  Jessie says All I want is your knife. Paul Newman says, You want a lot more than that from me, Lady.  He is actually speaking to God, I suppose, and he gives far more than that.We do not know how the play ends.  We hope well, but where desperate people and huge amounts of money collide, who can predict the result for sure. But what we do now is what a truly good western movie is.  This plays well on the small screen as well as in a movie house.  See it at your next opportunity "},{"Title":"Good western......has one of the best lines ever in a film. SPOILERS","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  HOMBRE is based on a ELMORE LEONARD novel. PAUL NEWMAN plays a indian/white half breed who is scorned by whites. He ends up coming to the aid of a bunch of those same whites who scorned him. It is ironic that a man who has known nothing but rejection and racial injustice, ends up giving his life to help save some of those responsible for it. Paul Newman's character doesn't need to help these people, but he does!!! In this film, we have one of the greatest lines ever put into a movie. Paul Newman is involved in a three way standoff, in a effort to save a woman from the clutches of some criminals. The head criminal looks up at Newman and smiles, knowing they are all going to kill each other. I wonder what hell's going to look like?! Newman gets his meaning and cooly replies, We all die, it's a question of when. He then dispatches both villians and then dies himself. That has to be one of my favorite movie endings....the good guy and the bad guys are all goners...yet the good guy keeps his cool....he also takes both of them with him! This is a great movie!!!! In the end we see that the half breed had more compassion and humanity than the status quo whites. With an ending like that, it makes me wonder who the half breeds really are. Isn't self sacrifice one of the greatest of civilized human traits?????? "},{"Title":"How human values stand at critical moments.","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  There is great acting by Paul Newman  here, completely against his type, in his portrayal of John Russel as a quiet and defensive man, suffering injustice and racism, shown by his body image.  This is not a typical western, there is too much truth in it  to be easily absorbed.  At the beginning it might look  similar to `Stagecoach' but it soon changes. Newman used to be a white man living with the apaches, as one of them. He goes back to the white men world on the stagecoach trip, where he is looked down upon by Fredric March and Barbara Rush. Diane Cilento, Richard Boone, Martin Balsam and a young couple are also on the trip.They are thrown in a dangerous, desperate situation and that's when the moment of truth arrives.  One of the best westerns ever made.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing western treatise on prejudice and morality...but there's no reason why director Ritt has to dawdle so over the narrative","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Elmore Leonard's book about stagecoach passengers left stranded in the Arizona desert by a gunslinger-crook in their midst, and the outcast half-Indian who takes the thief's posse on, comes to the screen with beautiful visual composition and a commendable attention to character and dialogue. However, director Martin Ritt nearly gets himself sidelined early on by an apparent need to stretch artistic muscles, and his prologue with the wild horses 'communicating' is arty and pretentious in the worst sense. Once Ritt gets down to business, pitting Richard Boone's jowly, vulgar bully against Paul Newman's steely-eyed half-caste (white, but raised by Apaches), the film delivers a good Old West stand-off. Ritt certainly takes his time in the final stages, deliberately elongating the unsettling scenario for what amounts to a downbeat conclusion, yet in this instance the strong performances come to the fore, resulting in a very fine genre effort. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Paul McQueen!","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I'd given this movie a straight ten had Steve McQueen been given the title role. I don't know what Mr. Newman was thinking doing this movie. Was he doing his Steve McQueen impersonation? If so, he got it down to a 'T'! It would have been a very enjoyable movie to watch had it not been Paul Newman's Steve McQueen look/act-alike brooding performance. Paul's acting wasn't very convincing. He should have come up with his own way of method acting, not rip off Steve who practically perfected the method. Maybe smiling once or twice..? Moving his lips perhaps? Sorry, folks, but this movie should have been directed by Mel Brooks what with the Gold Hat Mexican bandito character from Treasure of the Sierra Madre doing an almost spot-on impersonation of Gold Hat. Basically, this movie was a farce. A rip-off. A joke. "},{"Title":"One of Ritt and Newman's finest collaborations","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The Indians must conform to 'the white man's ways', peaceably if they will, forcibly if they must. They must adjust themselves to their environment, and conform their mode of living substantially to our civilisation. This civilisation may not be the best possible, but it is the best the Indians can get. They cannot escape it, and must either conform to it or be crushed by it. The tribal relations should be broken up, socialism destroyed, and the family and the autonomy of the individual substituted. - Commissioner Thomas Morgan Director Martin Ritt and actor Paul Newman made several films together. One of their best was Hombre, a 1967 revisionist western. The film's a masterpiece of the genre, but receives little notice today.The plot? Newman plays John Russell, an Apache-raised white man living in 19th century Arizona. When his father dies, Russell learns that he has inherited a house and land in the town of Bisbee. The film's first act thus watches as Russell &#x96; essentially emblematic of persecuted Native Americans &#x96; journeys out of the wilderness, sets upon his new home and struggles to acclimatize to both modernity and western civilisation.The film's second act then leaps off into another director. Here Ritt introduces us to a number of wildly divergent characters. Foremost amongst these is Jessie (Diane Cilento), a middle aged woman who struggles to survive in the Arizonan deserts. Hardened by time, she's a unique mixture of self-sufficiency and neediness. Like the other two women in the film &#x96; one wealthy, one a pauper, both sexually dissatisfied &#x96; she's also been repeatedly burnt by men. Mirrored to the three women are men in positions of power. One's a soldier, one's a sheriff, one's a professor in charge of taking care of Indian Reservations (essentially concentration camps in which Native Indians were housed). Each character betrays his position of authority and reveals himself to be a corrupt, selfish brute. By the film's end, the only positive male roles will be assigned to a Mexican man, Henry Mendez, and Newman's John Russell, both marginalized or minorities.The film's third act then essentially becomes an existential morality play. Here the film's title, which means man in Spanish, alludes to mankind in a more generalised, philosophical sense. In Ritt's hands, all men, and indeed all civilisational institutions, are seen to be inherently corrupt. Because we view the world through John Russell's eyes, a man who has been persecuted all his life and who has learnt to both keep his distance and view others with apathy and scorn, Ritt's nihilistic stance is seductive. This easy seduction is questioned, though, during the film's highly abstract final sequences, in which community, altruism and self-sacrifice are positioned on one hand, and ego, individualism, apathy and selfishness are positioned on the other. Various characters are asked to jump from one extreme to the next, but it's only John Russell who makes the leap, risking his life to save men and women who'd readily watch others rot if it made them a buck.What's odd about Hombre is how much it says about the treatment of Native American Indians without actually being about Native American Indians. The film's racism is mostly alluded to and treated as unspoken, psychic ripples. Elsewhere there are possible allusions to then contemporary civil rights issues (Russell excluded to the top of a stagecoach, like African Americans shunted to the backs of buses), and it is hinted that it's not Russell who has come to civilisation, but he who brings civilisation to Arizona; he who shows them how to act like a man, and they who must learn to conform to him.One must remember that Ritt was once a radical leftist who had loose affiliations with various communist or left-leaning movements, a fact which got him blacklisted during the Hollywood's horrible Witchhunt Years. Ritt's films can themselves be divided into loose groups. One group tends to be preoccupied with watching as characters, who represent the modern ethos of capitalism, come into contact with their opposites (Hud, Hombre etc). Another group focuses on the lives of the marginalized, often African Americans who struggle with various socio-economic problems (Sounder, Conrack, The Great White Hope etc). Yet another chunk of Ritt's films tend to deal with groups or organisations being infiltrated and undermined by the literal or figurative foot-soldiers of either communism or capitalism (Norma Rae, The Spy Who Came In From The Cold, The Molly Maguires). Hombre belongs to the first group, but Newman's character is also very much like the spies of Cold, Molly and Norma Rae, infiltrating groups and changing them from within.Hombre was shot in Death Valley and around the Halvetia Mines. It features some fine photography by James Wong Howe, director Martin Ritt's camera work is simple but classy, Richard Boone impresses as a craggy villain, and the film, quite interestingly, moves from melodrama to abstract, philosophical ordeal, its characters slowly dying, dehydrating and climbing absurd stairs seemingly torn out of the Myth of Sisyphus. Unsurprisingly for a film derived from a book by Elmore Leonard, the film's dialogue offers a kind of blunt poetry.Incidentally, this period saw a number of excellent revisionist westerns (Sitting Bull, McCabe, Bad Company, Soldier Blue, Little Big Man, The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid, Broken Lance, Hud etc). Most of these films are overlooked when discussions on Westerns arise. Those westerns which are praised, in contrast, tend to merely be giant allegories for the passing of an era and its assorted totems. Nostalgic (and oft reactionary) films which pine for a specific type of outlaw masculinity, most of these Westerns are thin (Leone, Ford, Peckinpah etc), using steam-engines, railways, machine guns, or blaze of glory bloodbaths as clunky metaphors for what is essentially the death of a false image.8.9/10 &#x96; A strong Western, marred only by silly early scenes featuring Newman in a wig. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Strange and interesting western with splendid dialogues and performances.","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It is an extraordinary Western, unconventional, with impeccable development with arid and mountainous landscapes very compelling and extraordinary cast of actors. For example Fredric March making Dr Favor, a responsible officer of an Indian reservation which steals not with money but with ink and paper, Richard Boone in an impressive role Grimes, type abuser and rustler, Martin Balsam in the role of Mendez a Mexican worker and a man of conscience, David Canary, great actor, in one of his great interpretations of provocative, Peter Lazer, here in the role of Billy Lee, a young man who married a girl very attractive and eager fun, which is bored in this place lost in the West and no distractions which has brought her husband after her marriage; etc..Of note is the high credibility that Newman brings his character to the point that even if go with long hair like Indians still seems totally a native.The dialogues are of great substance philosophical, ethical and intellectual level, while rarely been seen in the Western genre exchanges words with such a high level of rationality.Hombre is a strange and interesting western director who was in the blacklist. It remember the wonderful film Stagecoach (1939) but not enough, yet the psychological game is entertaining established between all the characters, good and bad. "},{"Title":"A Superb Western","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Hombre is a special film which ought to be owned by all Western Lovers!  Set in the 1880's Southwest, Hombre is a film that is focused on the exploitation and racism experienced by the Apache shortly after they submit to reservation life.Paul Newman portrays a fascinating character named John Russell.  As a half-breed Apache, Russell serves as a White-looking member of the reservation police. He is a quiet yet intelligent man. Although he is generally a calm and considerate individual, Russell lashes out at enemies of the Apache with severe mercilessness.  He is a strong and brave man who will not hesitate to initiate violence if he feels the need. Nevertheless, Russell wants a peaceful life and he wants to experience love. A difficult combination for the harsh environment of the Old West!An unexpected legacy puts Russell on a stagecoach journey with White Americans including the crooked Reservation Agent and his wife. When his relationship to the Apache is discovered, he is shunned by most of the travellers.  When they experience trouble, however, the travellers depend on Russell as a leader for their survival. Russell experiences both love and hate for the travellers, and demonstrates that the greatest act of heroism is self-sacrifice. As a Western, this film is a 10!                "},{"Title":"We all die, it's just a question of when?","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hombre is directed by Martin Ritt and adapted to screenplay by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank Jr from the Elmore Leonard novel. It stars Paul Newman, Richard Boone, Fredric March, Diane Cilento, Cameron Mitchell and Barbara Rush. Music is by David Rose and cinematography by James Wong Howe. Plot finds Newman as John Russell, a white man who has been raised by the Apache. Travelling on a stagecoach after collecting his inheritance, Russell finds himself ostracised by his fellow white travellers. That is until something goes wrong and the group find they now need Russell's skills in order to survive.If it's all right with you lady, I just didn't feel like bleeding for him.One of the best things about 1960s Westerns was that writers and directors were now more comfortable in portraying the Native Americans more honestly. Yes there were some excellent ones in the 50s as well, but as the 60s wore on things started to get more gritty, characterisations had more daring depth to them and darker human thematics drove the narratives on. One of the finest of the decade is Hombre, a literate and often bleak story that thrives on truisms as it spins off about racism, tolerance, corruption, selfishness, hypocrisy and vengeance. Crucially here the makers aren't just about kicking the white man for injustices against the Native Americans, Russell, too, is not being portrayed as a stoic, moral, defender of the Apache. He too has major flaws, his bile consistently rising, he's one cold fish. The film does indeed have a liberal slant, but it's also kinked in places and ultimately plays out as a complex morality piece, while there's not much to like about any of the characters here, this is down and dirty stuff.You wagged your tail in the mans face and got his attention.The dialogue is sparse, but what there is is to be savoured. The script has intelligent barbs and rough edged ironies dotted within the exchanges, the group dynamic is frayed from the off and Ravetch and Frank's script keeps the mood sombre. And with Ritt unhurried and pacing it on the simmer, it's a film begging to be heard and understood. Filmed in Panavision on location in the Coronado National Forest area and the Helvetia Mines in Pima County (a real ghost town), film has a beauty that belies the tone of the story. Photographer James Wong Howe composes some striking images for the scenery and deals in memorable deep-focus shots for John Russell's telling moments. Howe, Ritt and Newman were a great team, four years earlier they had made Hud, with Ritt and Newman getting nominated for Academy Awards (Best Director/Actor respectively), and Howe winning for Best Cinematography (Black & White). Their understanding of each other is evident in Hombre, it's a lesson in how to get three of your key Western elements right (direction, photography and leading actor).Cast are led superbly by Newman, piercing blue eyes with an icy cold demeanour, there's a boldness to the role that brings out a wonderfully simmering bitterness to Newman's acting. Perfect foil to Newman is Boone (The Tall T/Rio Conchos), who is nicely restrained in an uncouth bully boy role. Balsam (Psycho/Cape Fear) is one of the few character actors of the time who could get away with playing a Mexican without inducing cringes, and March (Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde/A Star is Born) scores well in a two fold character portrayal of some shiftiness. Of the girls it's Cilento (Tom Jones) who leaves the lasting impression, she has Jessie as a lady not for turning, who has taken her knocks but ploughs on with strength of mind and a tongue as sharp as a tack. Rush (It Came from Outer Space/Bigger than Life) is the weak link, never once looking or sounding right in a Western setting, she compounds this by looking hopeless on a horse. A decent actress in the right genre, but an Oater? No way.That gripe about Rush aside, this is a cracker of a Western. Not one for the all action guns a toting brigade for sure, but one for the adult who likes a bit of moody cranial splendour in their Western diets. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Only Hope For Survival--A White Man Raised By Apaches","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The Western was a genre in flux during the 1960s, and one of the films that reflected that turbulence was the highly underrated 1967 Martin Ritt-directed film HOMBRE. Like more than a few westerns of the second half of the decade, it took on the kinds of social issues that only a mere handful of films in the genre ever really did before, and which could not really be found in a John Wayne flick.Based on Elmore Leonard's novel, HOMBRE stars Paul Newman as John Russell, a white man who nevertheless was raised by Apaches that captured him after he had been abandoned by his real-life family. He feels far closer to the Apache, especially those on the San Carlos Reservation, and, as such, is discriminated against by many of his fellow passengers on a stagecoach going through the vast expanse of the Sonoran Desert in Arizona. He is forced by them to ride on the outside with the Mexican-born stage driver (Martin Balsam). But when two very nasty outlaws (Cameron Mitchell; Richard Boone) hold up the stagecoach on a mountain trail near a deserted mine and take not only money and horses, but, even more importantly, water, they all realize that the man that they had turned out because he had been raised by people who lived like dogs is their only hope for survival in terrain full of cacti, sagebrush, sand, and extreme heat. Newman, understandably, has no reason to feel compassion for anyone in the group other than Balsam, and certainly not for the Indian agent (Fredric March) whose wife (Barbara Rush) is being held by the outlaws. His only motivation for helping them at all is to get them to understand what it's like to have to survive while being damned by bigotry and racism.In no small part due to Newman's low-key and seemingly indifferent performance, one that actually contains more than a hint of rage, HOMBRE is an extremely compelling sociological western, superbly directed by Ritt and scripted by co-producer Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank Jr., teaming up again four years after the much-lauded 1963 contemporary western HUD, which also starred Newman. Balsam's performance, although it might be criticized for being slightly stereotypical, adds some gravitas as his character is practically the only truly sympathetic one on the stagecoach, aside from Diane Cilento's. James Wong Howe's cinematography, done primarily on location near Tucson and using the abandoned Helvetia mine, is excellent, and emphasizes the vast emptiness of the Arizona hinterlands; and the music score by David Rose is appropriately brooding.Although wildly under-appreciated in its time initially, mainly because it was one of the first to openly critique the white man's treatment of Indians (after John Ford's 1964 film CHEYENNE AUTUMN) at a time when the John Wayne mentality of Indians still prevailed in the genre, HOMBRE has since gained a great deal of currency, not only because of the stand it took, but also the elements one expects of the Western, and the acting on hand, especially Newman's. It is a subtle gem of its genre, and of its era. "},{"Title":"Against My TV Sensibilities","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Easily the most disturbing movie I saw as a sophomore in high school, Martin Ritt's Hombre blows big, bloody holes in our TV sensibilities of who are the real good guys. I remember sitting there sweating, actually getting drippy watching Hombre on CBS around '73 or '74. I was pulling for Paul Newman's John Russell, but he, like The Man With No Name, didn't give a damn about the sensibilities of the good folks he's chosen to ride with on a stagecoach across the Mojave.When Newman asks the Indian-hating Bureau Agent and his prissy wife if they've ever been hungry enough to eat a dog, when Richard Boone intimidates a cavalry soldier into giving up his seat on the stage, when it becomes clearly obvious that John Russell is going to die, Christlike, for some of the scummier inhabitants of the Old West, I realized I was watching the non-Bonanza, the anti-Big Valley. I was watching a beautifully-crafted and coldly-cynical indictment of the bigots and bullies that make up a large portion of the human race.I actually was a little shaken by Hombre. Probably what Ritt would have wanted.Sitting there in the comfort of my mom and dad's suburban living room, watching the big Magnavox console TV. Warm and comfortable.No dogs in danger. "},{"Title":"they don't make 'em like this anymore","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  superior western that incorporates a morality tale into some deep characterisations.  Newman's character is one of the great archetypes of modern cinema. Can anyone tell me if this grainy photograph at the end is real or created for the movie? "},{"Title":"Intelligent Western,  well directed and  wonderfully performed by Newman and Boone","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The movie is set in Arizona , circa 1880. John Russell(Paul Newman) is a tough Indian-raised man, he's disdained by his respectable stagecoach passengers, Dr Favor(Fredric March) and wife(Barbara Rush), among others(Diane Cilento, Martin Balsam, Margaret Blye). He's enticed into helping when a bandits(Richard Boone, Frank Sivera, David Canary)attack the stagecoach. Russell becomes involved and he results to be the only hope for survival , facing off dangerous outlaws across treacherous country.Exciting Western plenty of thought-provoking drama, shootouts, action and quite amusing. Various studio-characters furnishes the basis for this Western-drama. Terrific Paul Newman in an enjoyable performance, though using the Stanislawski method. Richard Boone gives a superb acting as cruel baddie. Colorful cinematography by James Wong Howe, he's a classic cameraman who won two Oscars(Hud,and Rose tattoo), working from mute cinema . Interesting screenplay dealing racism theme by Elmore Leonard, he's a noir cinema(Jackie Brown,Get shorty,52 pick-up) and Western expert(3.10 Yuma,Tall T, Valdez is coming,Joe Kidd), and working nowadays too. The motion picture is well produced and directed by Martin Ritt, who worked with Paul Newman in ¨Hud and Outrage¨. The film will like to Western enthusiastic and Paul Newman fans. Rating  Above average, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Now what do you suppose hell is gonna look like?","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This grim, dusty western looks at the injustices and indignities visited on Apaches from the viewpoint of a half-breed white man who was raised by them. The story's plot is one of stagecoach travelers being held up by gunmen who want the money an Indian agent stole from his agency. Paul Newman, as the laconic but heroic loner, is an outsider and held at arm's length by the passengers because of his Indian upbringing. He knows his way in the wilderness and leads the group through desert and mountain on a survival trek to escape the pursuing outlaws. The film has several hard-hitting exchanges between Newman and Diane Cilento, who tries to light a flame of humanity under Newman. Richard Boone also weighs in with great work as a surly, bullying outlaw who has some memorable lines of his own. The picture stands more on social consciousness and racism than gun play but in many ways is still a rewarding film. James Wong Howe's beautiful camera-work is like a painter's canvas and the spare music score is in keeping with the film's measured pace. "}{"Title":"This is a vastly superior western.","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A tough, sun bleached western from Martin Ritt, this is well served by fine performances and some tremendous cinematography from James Wong Howe.John Russell (Newman) is a white man raised by the Apaches, who travels by stagecoach with a group of people whose lives aren't as simple as we first believe. Threatened by bandits, Russell unwillingly leads his fellow passengers towards safety. His moral code is sparse and unforgiving, but he is surrounded by others of a different persuasion, most notably Jessie, played by Diane Cilento. When the bandits hold a passengers wife hostage, Russell's moral code is challenged, and it's his unexpected attachment to Jessie that causes him to behave differently. Newman and Cilento are excellent. Richard Boone is the perfect counter weight as Cicero Grimes, the principal bandit. Martin Balsam (stagecoach driver) and Frederic March (an Indian agent) make an impression too, as does Frank Silvera (Mexican bandit). This is a vastly superior western. Superlative work from the stars and an intelligent script, added to the dusty Death Valley location work, create a tense, sparse western well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Not One Of My Favorite Paul Newman Films, But Good","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Russell (Paul Newman), disdained by his respectable fellow stagecoach passengers because he was raised by Indians, becomes their only hope for survival when they are set upon by outlaws.Clearly the point of this movie is the exposure of racism against Native Americans, and Newman shows how (in the right situation) you might come to rely on someone who you disliked for irrational reasons. That is always a good message, even when it is presented so blatantly (which I think takes away from the film a bit).The overall plot of the film is good and a western of the highest caliber. Sure, it may not be High Noon, but it has that flavor to it -- an outsider protecting a group of people from some bandits. Always a winning plot.My biggest complaint? Paul Newman looked more like a cast member of Jersey Shore than an Apache... "},{"Title":"Fine western but also a fine film","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" HOMBRE - (1967) - I'm quite reluctant to watch most films from 1965-1990. I don't enjoy films from that time period like I do the ones before and after it. HOMBRE was a bit of a risk, but I figured I could look at Paul Newman for a few minutes while I made up my mind. Once the film got underway, I knew I'd stumbled upon a rare keeper. This is a fine western and a fine film.Right away I was mesmerized by the beauty of the horses and intrigued by Newman's character. The story picks up quickly with the characters being well-developed either before or shortly after the stagecoach embarks on its journey. Russell (Newman) is the one character who remains quite an enigma. Russell is a white man raised by the Apache who speaks Spanish and English and prefers to keep to himself. He's not chatty, chivalrous, a womanizer (that we see), or self-obsessed. He is clearly logical, patient, smart and very loyal. Russell is only mildly inconvenienced by a complex scenario that causes great physical problems and mental anguish for the rest of the cast. It is Russell's loyalty to the Apache that motivates him to take up the cause of the stagecoach passengers. This leads to an eventual climax with the Mexican outlaw and the tough as nails Richard Boone character, Grimes, who is one heck of a bad guy and has an amazing screen presence.The scenery is barren but beautiful. The sound is excellent. The story, direction, and cinematography are all well done. There are numerous great one-liners and exchanges that are a reflection of a top notch script. The supporting cast is so good that I'm surprised some awards weren't passed out. The main reason to watch, though, is for Newman's understated yet totally believable performance. He also looks mighty fine, but that wasn't the reason I stuck it out. It's a unique film that was probably ahead of its time yet it seems timeless. That's what makes it not only a fine western, but also a fine film. "},{"Title":"Less a western than it is a morality play","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" SPOILER ALERT! Less a western & more of a morality play. A group of disparate types have their stagecoach robbed and they're left without horses. They soon find themselves being pursued by the same gang of thieves. Paul Newman is a white man raised by Apache & serves as the traveler's protector and he's not particularly convincing. The supporting cast is large and includes Richard Boone, Martin Balsam, Diane Cilento and Barbara Rush. Fredric March is a bull-headed professor who tangles a bit too much with Newman. Most of the acting is very good and Cilento is a standout as widow who's seen it all and has very little patience for the wild west's bigotry and heartlessness. Filmed in the Coronado National forest in Arizona by the great James Wong Howe. Frequent Ritt collaborators Irving Ravetch & Harriet Frank Jr. did the script based on a story by Elmore Leonard. Ritt & Newman made several great movies together (HUD, THE LONG HOT SUMMER), but this is not one of them. It's a bit too preachy for its own good and the miscasting of Newman is an obstacle it never really gets over. "},{"Title":"Antihero Actioner Rings True","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Paul Newman sure could cut it in 1967. Not only did he give the performance of the year as Cool Hand Luke, but embodied the role of action antihero in this gritty, downbeat western as the laconic part-Apache John Russell, reluctant helper of assorted, sordid white people.Russell has been living off the land with his Apache brethren when he is left a boarding house in a will. Russell sells the boarding house, which leaves its beautiful-but-weathered caretaker Jessie (Diane Cilento) on a long stage ride with Russell and a number of others with varied reasons for wanting to leave town. Unfortunately for everyone, one of them is a particularly ornery character named Cicero Grimes (Richard Boone).Hombre is a coming-out party of sorts for writer Elmore Leonard; he had works adapted for screen before, most notably 310 To Yuma, but Hombre brings out the quotability and toughness we associate with Leonard today. Credit Newman and director Martin Ritt, as well as cinematographer James Wong Howe, for giving the film the space and terse energy it needs to deliver the action without underselling the human drama. Russell doesn't want to stick his neck out for people, and you don't blame him, yet you understand why he helps them in the end.Screenwriters Harriet Frank and Irving Ravetch provide many memorable lines. A favorite, when a thief is being robbed at gunpoint It looks like you did good and we did better. But there's a tendency to overexposition, of people giving their life story at a drop of a hat. Everyone except Russell, who keeps it very cool throughout. Maybe it helps Newman look better.Takes a lot to light a fire under you, don't it? Jessie asks him.The story doesn't exactly hold together well upon reflection, and there are a number of what Hitchcock called icebox scenes. One character walks around for days after being gutshot. Another is developed at length without having anything to do with the story except dying in it. But with icebox scenes you don't notice the incongruities until later. You are caught up with the energy and vitality, especially when things begin to happen in the second hour.Newman is working Eastwood/McQueen territory here, and working it quite well. An important conflict in the film pits him against Dr. Favor (Fredric March), a self-righteous Indian agent who looks down on Russell for his American Indian roots despite the fact Favor has done well off the Apaches. When Favor's jaded wife (Barbara Rush) scoffs at the Apaches for eating dogs, Russell tells her if she was as hungry as they were, you'd eat it. You'd fight for the bones, too. Newman doesn't raise his voice, doesn't even lean forward, but his burning blues make his anger palpable.Rush's character is especially interesting, a reflection perhaps on the classic Leonard opportunistic female, or maybe even worse. I'm still not sure what she was playing at, but I enjoyed her character enormously. With Cilento, March, and especially Boone as well, you have performances that would provide engaging centers for other films, yet Newman towers over them without resorting to histrionics or even much in the way of humor (his wisecracks are few, however well-placed.)Hombre is a near-classic Western that doesn't play by classic rules. But it makes its points well, keeps you involved, and allows you to relish one of Paul Newman's most indelible roles. "},{"Title":"Good Newman stuff","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Sometimes you get your best views of accomplished actors in movies that aren't top shelf. Not that there's anything wrong with this one, it's just a fairly standard Western that has a better than average cast and one or two good twists. The plot accommodates Newman's 60s' anti-hero look very nicely, as he goes from insulted passenger on an endangered stagecoach to a potential (and somewhat sullen) savior. Frederic March and Martin Balsam are always appreciated, in this case in supporting roles from which I expected both to see an early exit, and Richard Boone as a very convincing villain. The longer I go the more I appreciate Newman and Cary Grant, more so even than McQueen, I don't think there's an actor out there now that can match these guys (including Hanks). I will watch a movie simply because Newman or Grant is in it, might add William Powell to the list, can't say that for anyone I can think of nowadays. Some of this dialogue is a little intellectual, but this is fun stuff with an interesting wrap up. I love the Western scenery and backdrop, wish someone could do a good Western nowadays. "},{"Title":"Here's one thing I never understood about the movie","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  When John Russell (Paul Newman) shoots one of the bandits from the top of the stagecoach (where his gun was hidden), the blood on the bandits face seems to be drawn on the film itself and not as makeup as one would expect. I love this movie, but this part always fascinates me !!! "},{"Title":"Best Western of All Time Absolutely!!!","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film contains dialog that develops the individual personality of its actors to a higher degree than nearly all film scripts ever written- western or not. May be one of the most underrated films in cinematic history- 4 Oscar actor nominations should have been awarded, with cinematography, musical score and arguably best picture. This film was panned and not seen by most of the academy.The problem with this film is this it is too subtle to be appreciated by the average person. Not every person can appreciate film making at the highest level or savor the subtle finish of a vintage wine.I emphasize with Newman in the film whose one act of compassion, defines his character and the character of people who the US government sought to exterminate. (Hitler claimed he used the same policy towards the Jewish people as the US govt. towards Indians.)This film portrays one of those countless indignities.My writing does not do justice to a film that deeply affects me each time I see it. See it, listen carefully and savor it slowly. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The most underrated Western -- possibly the best.  The very last simple line is crushingly powerful.  An extremely adult script packed with action and suspense, with characters beautifully and economically defined. A potent commentary on the nature of class, belonging and altruism.  None of the sentimentality of Shane, and without the cardboard villains and phony gunplay of High Noon. Superb in the highest degree. "},{"Title":"Martin Ritt on the Range!","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Under-valued Western by Marty Ritt that's quite good!  Paul Newman underplays magnificently as a white man raised by Indians.  The scene where he busts David Canary in the mouth with his rifle butt for insulting the Indians is classic.  Diane Cilento (Sean Connery's first wife) is beautiful and haunting.  Richard Boone oils his way across the screen very effectively.  Martin Balsam as a Mexican is a bit much, but Frederic March (wonderful actor) is right on as is his unhappy wife Barbara Rush.Ritt was a great director and this one is always forgotten.  A 7 out of 10.  Best performance = Diane Cilento.  Great ending! "}{"Title":"The Worst of the Human Race in a Western Movie Without Clichés","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John 'Hombre' Russel (Paul Newman, in another great performance) is a man raised by the Apaches, in an Indian colony. He lives with them, when he is informed that he has inherited a lodging-house in the city. He goes to the city and decides to trade the place per a herd. He need to move to another city and gets the stagecoach, which is being replaced by the train, in a special trip paid by Faver (Fredric March) and his wife Audra (Barbara Rush). The stagecoach gathers seven very different passengers (like in John Ford's 'Stagecoach'), and during the journey, they are robbed. With the leadership of John Russel, they escape with little water, the money that the bandits want and having them in their tail. Along their running, most of them reveal their selfish essence, showing the worst of the human race. This western movie is very different of most of others, since it is a film without clichés. Paul Newman's character is nasty, very unpleasant, but also very honest. The bandits are really 'bad guys', feeling no mercy for the persons in the stagecoach. A great movie indicated for fans of 'cowboy' movies. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Hombre "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This movie is amazing! Action, adventure and thought-provoking philosophies on human nature. I don't really care for the title because I think that it scares people away from such a fantastic film. Forget about it, Arnold; no way, Samuel Jackson - Richard Boone is the ultimate Bad-Ass! "},{"Title":"intriguing characters","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hombre (Paul Newman) is a white Apache wrangling wild horses for stagecoaches, but they're soon shutting down with the approaching railroad. He has many names. One of them is John Russell. Old man Russell had rescued him as an Apache boy in Army prison but he returned back to the Apache life. Mendez (Martin Balsam) comes to him with news of the old man's death and that he has inherited a boarding house. Jessie manages the home. Couple Billy Lee and Doris are boarders as well as Mendez. John Russell trades the house for a herd of horses leaving everybody without a home. The group joins the stagecoach hired by Indian agent Faver and his wife Audra out of town. John Russell is dressed as a white man. When his heritage comes out, he's forced to ride on top. They are robbed by bandits led by Cicero Grimes and it turns out that Faver had stolen money out of the government leaving his Indian charges short of food.Based on the Elmore Leonard novel, this has a cast of intriguing characters. There are a couple of instances where it struck me wrong. Hombre is facing a wounded bandit in one scene where he should have killed him. It seems wrong that Hombre would let him go. The man is out in the open and wounded right in front of him. Another scene in the last act has Billy Lee worried about shooting a bandit in the back. It's pushing the point too hard. I would certainly love to see an even harsher remake. The acting is great. It's a special western despite a couple of awkward scenes. "},{"Title":"One of the best written westerns of all times","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" No need to tell that the cast is fantastic and the camera impressive.What impressed me the most were the use of time and the dialogues. The movie is extremely slow but never looses its tension. This is done in a way that seems to be forgotten in cinematography nowadays. Still the whole movie looks astonishingly modern.And the dialogues are just perfect. Deep, multi-layered, minimalistic. Probably the best written western ever - next to Garden of Evil (Frank Fenton) and Terror in a Texas Town (Dalton Trumbo).Same for the story there is a clear similarity to stagecoach, but this time the evil guys are the white man. The only reasonable human, the white man raised by apaches, representing not a race but just a culture, wastes his life in that awkward moment, when he is dragged into the dubious moral concepts of the white.Wow! "},{"Title":"Excellent Martin Ritt Film","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Excellent film by Martin Ritt from a novel by Elmore Leonard, with stand out performances by Newman and Boone. This really is a voyage into the abyss of the soul and contains some of the most controversial questions on morality and creed ever put onto celluloid. This is not a film to compare with the popular Spaghetti Westerns of the period, which dramatically changed the genre forever, but more in keeping with the formula set down by John Ford and Howard Hawks. I read (from another review on IMDb) with a certain dismay that Leone's Westerns were lacking in cliché's and important dialogue. So-called Spaghetti Westerns revived a genre which was in dire need of an overhaul. if all westerns continued to be like like Hombre then I think there would be little to say on those that followed. Ritt is no Sam Peckinpah and does not have the suavity and vision of Sergio Leone. But what he does give here is an object lesson in how to seem gritty and appear real without any compromise of the drama that this slow-burner delivers; almost as if John Cassavetes had made it. And that for me is this great films strength and one where as we move farther away from the 1960's it would be no surprise to see Hombre sit reasonably comfortably next to One Eyed Jacks, Ride The High Country, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and The Wild Bunch as the finest American-made Westerns in that decade. "},{"Title":"If it bothers you, why talk about it ?","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Newman is John Russell, a white man raised as an Apache. Travelling on a coach with a mixture of white men and women who make their loathing of him clear, they come to need him when he defends the coach against attack from Richard Boone's gang of outlaws, who want the stolen money carried by a fellow coach traveller, an always value for money Frederic March, playing a unscrupulous Indian agent. Newman is an island of self control and self reliance while his dismissive and arrogant travel companions, when the chips are down, turn out to be weak, unreliable, duplicitous and desperate. Only Diane Cilento shines as a tough and morally unshakable frontier woman, who doesn't exactly get the better of Newman's icy Russell, but certainly gives as good as she gets. Russell doesn't need or even like these people, and their bond is fragile as they despise what he is but need his unquestionable skill with a gun. They are afraid of him, and dislike him, but are more afraid of being left without his protection. Throughout the film Russell is seen to be a cold and calculating hero, and a hero he is, thrown into stark contrast by virtue of the evil that is Cicero Grimes (Boone), who in the final analysis reveals himself prepared to torture one of the female passengers to death to get his money. Ironically, it is the backbone of Cilento's Jessie, and the cowardice and the moral vacuum of the other coach travellers that spurs Newman into action. Dr Faver, the Frederic march character haughtily tells Russell You've learned something about white people. They stick together!, a comment he makes after he is allowed back into the group after Russell turns him out into the waiting desert for trying to steal the money a second time, while Russell's back was turned. They better is Russell's somewhat laconic yet layered response. Dr Faver and the other coach travellers then look on while Faver's wife is left out in the desert sun to die. Only Russell understands the hellish mathematics of the situation, knowing it to be a trap, with a waiting Mexican gun hand (Vaquero) lying in wait behind a nearby wagon. Then Cilento's Jessie, perhaps for the first time in the movie, forces Russell's hand. With the whimpers of the tortured and dying woman in their ears, Jessie picks up the money bag and moves to go to her aid. Russell cannot and does not let this happen. He quickly assesses the situation and realises his best chance is if he doesn't have to concern himself with Vaquero. He hands his rifle to one of the coach party, a young man named Billy Lee and tells him if the Mexican gun hand draws on him (Russell), Billy Lee must shoot him. Billy Lee agrees, and Russell goes to confront Vaquero and Grimes, with Billy Lee and the travellers looking on. The end of the sixties saw a series of good westerns, but this is a great one, and all the supporting cast give solid performances, but it's Newman's show all the way. "},{"Title":"3 out of 5 action rating","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" See it &#x96; This movie has some of the best dialogue you'll ever find in a western. Which is good because there is a lot of talking. But after a pretty slow first half, the movie heats up in the second half. It stars Paul Newman in a rare old-fashioned western role. He plays a white man who lives amongst the Indians, and is looked upon with contempt by the white townsfolk. But when he embarks on a dangerous stagecoach journey through rugged country, the fellow passengers look to him to save the day. This film is part Shalako part Navajo Joe, and part Stagecoach. And as usual, you can't go wrong with Paul Newman. 3 out of 5 action rating "},{"Title":"A fine minimalist western","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" In the opening scene we see a long haired Paul Newman with a couple of Indians as the work together catching wild horses. We soon learn that Newman isn't playing an Indian; he is playing John Russell, AKA El Hombre, a white man who was raised by the Apache, was 'rescued' but returned to the Apaches as soon as he could. He learns that he has inherited a boarding house but decides to sell it which leaves manageress Jessie out of a job. They end up leaving town together on the last stage coach along with several other people. The coach has been hired by Indian agent Dr. Alex Favor, he has the air of a civilised gentlemen but unknown to the others he has embezzled several thousand dollars that was meant to be used to feed the Apache on the San Carlos reservation. Somebody knows about the money and they are ambushed on a remote desert road. Russell kills two of the attackers and retrieves the money but the gang's leader, Cicero Grimes, has taken Dr. Favor's wife hostage. The group weren't too keen on Russell, due to his Apache upbringing, when they were on the coach together but now they know that if they are to survive against the bandits and the desert they will have to stick with him.It may take some time for the action to get started but that only serves to let us get to know the characters and when the action starts in is well worth waiting for. Paul Newman puts in a brilliant minimalist performance as Russell; he doesn't say much, he doesn't even do much but what he does shows his character perfectly. He isn't the only person putting in a good performance; the rest of the cast do good jobs too; making us believe in the group and in the bandits who are determined to get the money. The setting is both bleak and stunning; it really looks as if a person would die out there is they hadn't brought water.The story is solid with a good range of characters; John Russell is more of an anti-hero than a hero; quite willing to let others die if he feels it is necessary; Dr. Favor, a man who robbed the Indians and would willingly let his wife die than risk his own life and Cicero Grimes, a thief who is determined that he will get the money and Jessie a woman who finds herself out of a job and must move to find a new living. The ending is not the happy sort that we get in most westerns and we can only assume the money would get back to the Apache as promised. Overall I'd certainly recommend this to any fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"one of the best western's ever","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Russell/Paul Newman plays a white man who is raised by the apache community of Indian's.the story starts a bit slow with john Russell going to town to sell a lodging house he has inherited.the story picks up when a doctor 'fever' and his wife 'Audra' hire a stagecoach to go to a city and 5 others including john Russell join them. Audra and fever treat john in a derogatory manner as he is raised by Indian's.the rest of the movie is about Paul Newman trying to make a point about himself to fever and Audra,and also about apaches community of the Indian's.Paul Newman rocks as usual with is natural charm,a cowboy kinda look with a captivating smile. he used a similar look later on in his career to give him one of his biggest hits 'butch cassidy and the sundance kid'.the blue eyed actor steals the show from start to finish..the movie does have its weak links but Paul Newman holds it together and as rightly named its this 'hombre' that rocks the show. A must watch for all you folks out there) "},{"Title":"One of Newman's Great Performances, In a Timeless Story","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Just a few observations on the source and themes of this classic film that I haven't seen mentioned here. The source novel, or novella, really, at 99 pages, differs from the film in its collection and details of characters. Elmore Leonard's John Russell is about twenty- one years old. Newman was forty-one at the time - this required some changes to the plot and characters. The passengers in Leonard's story feature an eighteen-year-old white girl who has recently been freed from the Apaches after being held for a few weeks. She had to be changed into Diane Cilento's character. Russell's attraction in the novel doesn't become obvious until the climax. The novel is narrated by the kid, who is unmarried and leaving on the stage to seek his fortune in the world. Thus the screenwriters set the stage for a new thread of dialog during the trip around the nature of civilized relations between the sexes vs. that of the Indians. This not only replaces the brief discussion of the young girl's experience, but provides padding for the longer form of the movie. It does seem out of place in this story, however, as a distraction from the buildup of suspense. But it is almost a requirement for Westerns from this period. The bad guys in the novel featured both cowboys from Delgado's bar, including the one who got his nose broke. The film, for some reason, substitutes Cameron Mitchell's bad sheriff for one of them, and this only reduces the suspense of whether Russell will be recognized, the irony of which is a central point to the plot. So, if Ford's 1939 story makes the point that Ringo Kids are sometimes necessary in times of war, Elmore Leonard offers a more nuanced take on whether the good guys are all that good, and where virtue might be found. "}{"Title":"The Case against Mrs. Favor","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Russell, a white man raised as an Apache, ends up on a stagecoach with a variety of characters, one of whom is Dr. Favor, the Indian agent at San Carlos, and his wife. Along the way, the stage is held up, and one of the passengers, Cicero Grimes, turns out to be the ringleader. We then find out that Dr. Favor has been embezzling funds by starving the Indians, and the bandits steal the money he has with him. But things get complicated when Russell kills a couple of them, getting back the money, which he intends to return to the Indians. The rest of the movie is a struggle between the two groups of people, until Russell ends up losing his life rescuing Mrs. Favor. The irony is that Russell dislikes Mrs. Favor because she expressed contempt for the Indians.It has occurred to some that Mrs. Favor may have been in on it. It certainly is an interpretation that makes sense of some of the peculiar things that happen in this movie. From what we can gather, Dr. Favor has been embezzling the Indians for years. For some reason, he suddenly decides to take the money and run. Perhaps he found out that the Federal Government was sending someone to San Carlos to do an audit, and he figured he would get out before the embezzlement was discovered. So, using the excuse the he and Mrs. Favor were going to Bisbee for a couple of days to settle some affairs, they go into town to take the stagecoach, intending to go to Mexico.And yet, when they get to town, the heist is all set up. Not only do the bandits know that Dr. Favor has been stealing from the Indians, but they also know that he has chosen just this moment to make off with the money, and that he and his wife intend to take the stage. Furthermore, because most of these bandits were from out of town, they had to know about Favor's intention to abscond well in advance, so they could ride into the area and get things ready. Presumably, they had inside information. And a likely source would be Mrs. Favor. She could have been having an affair with Grimes, and during some pillow talk, told him about the money and exactly when she and her husband would be taking the stage.After the robbery takes place, Grimes says to Mrs. Favor, I figured you'd ride along with us a way. And Mrs. Favor says, I'd better not. I'd better not? That is not what an attractive woman says when she is about to be abducted by a bunch of desperadoes that, she has every reason to fear, will gang rape her and leave her for dead in the desert. What we would expect her to do is scream.By way of contrast, consider the movie Niagara (1953). Marilyn Monroe is married to Joseph Cotten, who is very jealous and possessive. One night some young adults who are staying at the same hotel are having an outdoor party. Marilyn asks a young man to play her favorite record for her. He does, and then he asks her to dance. She looks over at her hotel room and sees her husband watching her through the window. She turns back to the young man and says, I'd better not.Now, that is where that line makes sense, when a woman is worried about making her husband jealous. What would explain this is that Mrs. Favor and Grimes planned this robbery, and they agreed that she would rendezvous with him later in Mexico. This sudden change in plans worries her, for it might make her husband suspicious, especially since he has had time to wonder, as we do, just how the bandits knew so much about his plans.Finally, when Grimes is shot three times trying to get down the hill, he collapses in the doorway of the small shack. Mrs. Favor drags him inside, saving him from being shot any further. This would suggest that she cares about Grimes, confirming the theory that they were having an affair. On the other hand, this could be an instance of the Stockholm syndrome. In fact, just prior to Grimes' being shot, he asks her if she wants to send her husband a message, and she says, Tell him I'm being well looked after, which is characteristic as a victim, she might be grateful that she has not been raped, thereby bonding with her captor. Furthermore, since they are alone in that scene, we would expect some kind of communication between them making it explicit that they were in cahoots, if indeed they were, but nothing of that sort is forthcoming.Let us further undermine the case against Mrs. Favor. A running theme through the movie is the irrational way white people, from Russell's Apache perspective, will stick together and protect one another even after acts of betrayal. That Mrs. Favor would drag Grimes to safety would be just one more instance of this. That he would subsequently tie her up to a post in the hot sun without water would simply underscore Russell's attitude that white people are foolish to be so trusting and forgiving of one another.Finally, since the sheriff was also in on the job, he might, as a law-enforcement officer, have gotten wind of Favor's treatment of the Indians, and might have also found out through someone connected to the reservation that Dr. Favor seemed awfully anxious to make that so-called trip to Bisbee.In short, while there is a strong circumstantial case that can be made that Mrs. Favor was in on it, it is equally possible to make the case that she is innocent, at least in the sense that she did not betray her husband. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman as a Native American in a Classic Horse Opera","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is one of the few big screen Elmore Leonard adaptations that truly hits the mark. In a change of pace, Paul Newman is cast as a tight-lipped Native American named John Russell who has grown up in white culture who comes into some money and takes a stand. He is playing an anti-heroic western character who doesn't survive the film. Nevertheless, his unfortunate demise doesn't make this straightforward picture depressing. Hud director Martin Ritt has staged a superb western that has stood the test of time despite its low-key approach. Hombre is not the kind of oater that stands out because of its flamboyance, but it still contains several incredible scenes and the Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank Jr. screenplay has some choice lines of dialogue. Old-time western buffs may want to compare this horse opera with John Ford's Stagecoach because most of the action occurs in a stagecoach after Newman and company leave the boarding house and set out on the trail. They encounter Richard Boone and his villains and several things happen. The scene in the abandoned mining operation is good, especially when Boone's slimy bandit tries to negotiate with John Russell. Hombre is one of those few westerns where the supporting cast stands out and serves a purpose other than just filling the screen. Fredric March is especially good as a greedy banker, and Diane Cilento is memorable as a woman who doesn't mince words. If you love westerns, Hombre is a must see with lots of authenticity. "},{"Title":"Hombre","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Paul Newman said his best movies were the ones that started with the letter H, seeing how The Hustler and Hud were successful, and this was the third one, from director Martin Ritt (Hud). Basically John 'Hombre' Russell (Paul Newman) is a man who was raised by the Apache Indians in the colony, and he only leaves them when he is informed that he has inherited a lodging house in the city in Arizona. Instead of taking the house, he trades it for a herd, and he decides to ride the stagecoach, soon to be replaced by the train, to another city. The journey is being paid for by Dr. Alex Favor (Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde's Fredric March) and his wife Audra (Barbara Rush), and they are joined by four other passengers. During the journey, the stagecoach is robbed, and fellow passenger Cicero Grimes (Richard Boone) is the leader of the gang, and they are after the money that Favor stole from John's people. Grimes and the gang ride off taking Favor's wife as hostage, luckily John shoots the bandit with the sack of money, and now he and the stagecoach passengers are on the gang's tail. Each character along the way expressed their own variation of selfishness whether for the money or their lives, but they all pull together for the final showdown in an old cabin. Also starring Diane Cilento (Sir Sean Connery's ex-wife and Jason Connery's mother) as Jessie, Cameron Mitchell as Frank Braden, Peter Lazer as Billy Lee Blake, Margaret Blye as Doris Blake, Martin Balsam as Henry Mendez and Skip Ward as Steve Early. Newman gives a pretty noble performance and his piercing blue eyes get a good starring role too (in close ups), there is some story to find interesting, so it is a western that I suppose should be seen. Paul Newman was number 16 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Very good! "},{"Title":"A  Though  Newman  in a  Good  Western","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Martin Ritt makes a very good western here about a white man raised by Indians (Paul Newman) who gets involved with a bunch of different people escaping from bandits through the desert after they survive a stagecoach robbery. Newman is the sort of man that minds his own business and doesn't care much about other people's but though unwillingly he becomes the natural leader of the group.The picture sustains on a clever direction by Martin Ritt with a constant rhythm and tension, a colorful photo in open-wide locations, very well managed action sequences (the final shooting is a highlight) and a perfect cast.Newman's performance is excellent as the Indian minded man that sees no reason why worrying about the white people bunch he is leading each one showing their miseries and weaknesses; Richard Boone is excellent and menacing enough as the main villain and so is Frederick March as a corrupt Indians agent. The supporting cast is also very good including Martin Balsam, Barbara Rush, Frank Silvera, Cameron Mitchell and mainly Diane Cilento as a woman who has lived and is a sort of conscience for Newman's selfish behavior.Hombre was released in 1967 when interest on westerns was beginning to decrease after fifteen years of demand by viewers and that's perhaps why this movie was somehow overlooked, but in my opinion it stands as a very entertaining an amusing film in the genre. "},{"Title":"The best small Western of all time?","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hombre is one of those movies that sneaks up on you. It starts out quietly in the Arizona badlands where John Russell (Paul Newman)&#x97;who we learn later is a white boy raised by the Apache&#x97;stealthily stalks and traps a herd of wild horses with two of his Indian compadres.Upon reflection, the symbolism of that scene is striking Russell shortly after outsmarting the horses into captivity is told that the white man who came to care for Russell at some point in Russell's early life (and gave Russell his name) has died. The old man has willed to John a boarding house and a gold watch... both symbolic of settling back into the white world.The metaphorical question is whether John Russell will now be outsmarted into an alien cultural captivity like the horses. He sits at the barrier between the white and Indian cultures, and lives as much as possible like his Apache friends&#x97;wild and free in nature. It's clear he considers the Apache his people. But with one foot in the white culture, and now, with the inheritance, he's wondering about putting both feet back over there with Whitie. ...For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2010 "},{"Title":"Mister, you've got a lot of hard bark on you walkin' down here like this","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" With the arrival of the Revisionist Western, filmmakers began to question the traditional nobility of the Western hero. John Russell (Paul Newman) isn't necessarily a noble man. In an early scene, he watches indifferently as a decent soldier is threatened and bullied by an arrogant thug, Cicero Grimes (Richard Boone). Indeed, Russell is strikingly passive for the film's entire first half, receptive but indifferent to the plight of those around him. Russell was raised by a Native American tribe, and, having witnessed white society's racism first-hand, he has come to harbour prejudices of his own. 'Hombre (1967)' confronts the rottenness of the common man, and how the pervasion of sin can conceivably corrupt even the most steadfast of hearts into apathy (in this case, not only Russell, but also Cameron Mitchell's disillusioned Sheriff Braden &#x96; who's given a wonderful monologue on the hollowness of his career). Though director Martin Ritt surrounds the viewer with largely unpleasant characters, the film concludes with a blink of hope on the horizon, affirming that there are, indeed, certain human qualities worth fighting for.The character of John Russell was based on Jimmy Santiago McKinn, who was captured by the Apaches in 1885 and assimilated into the tribe. A real-life photograph of McKinn closes the film, the boy's face oddly alien and unsettling. Newman plays the role with masterful restraint; there's always something going on behind those blue eyes, though his face scarcely shows it. The character is not all that dissimilar to Clint Eastwood's The Man With No Name in Leone's Dollars trilogy &#x96; both characters, laconic and enigmatic, wander like ghosts through the affairs of other men, searching for something or someone worth fighting for (these similarities are probably deliberate; Russell often goes by the generic name of Hombre, which means man). Diane Celenti, as land-lady Jessie, characterises the smart, independent and sexually- aware heroine that also rose to prominence with the Revisionist Western, not unlike Claudia Cardinale in 'Once Upon a Time in the West (1968).' Richard Boone is deliciously wicked as a cocky, thuggish bandit, and ever-reliable performers like Fredric March and Martin Balsam round out an excellent, intimate cast of characters. "},{"Title":"Gloomy but Effective","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" HOMBRE is an interesting,if slowly-paced and rather gloomy western,with a fine cast,literate script,effective direction and even better photography.Paul Newman is excellent as a white man,John Russell,raised by Indians,who has inherited a hotel in an isolated old west town left by his recently deceased guardian.Russell is ultra-cynical and highly mistrustful of the white man,having witnessed the injustices committed by them on Indians over a period of time.In a subsequent Stagecoach journey,he is seemingly unconcerned over the plight of fellow passengers after they are raided by various bandits,led by the menacing Grimes(Richard Boone).Stranded in a desert location,the passengers have no choice but to follow Russell,with his prowess at tracking and shooting(qualities sadly absent with the rest of them) to find some way to safety.The characters are very well drawn,most of whom are given some interesting,if not poignant dialogue to utter,with Diane Cilento(as a lovelorn divorcée),Martin Balsam(an affable,if somewhat cowardly Mexican)and Fredric March(a greedy banker type) coming off best.Barbara Rush is forced into her usual histrionics(my dear mother thinks she cries somewhere in every film she made!),and Martin Ritt,a superb director of actors,but not always as impressive with scenes or cinematic narrative,sometimes lets the pace drop into occasional lethargy,but there's some fine visual imagery of the dusty and barren desert plains,impressively shot by the distinguished James Wong Howe. But Newman dominates the film with his taciturn,unsmiling,sarcastic performance;not basically a sympathetic or likable character,yet in he end,you do eventually root for him,which is a tribute to the actor's skill. "},{"Title":"Great camera shots and 'Those Eyes@","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" There are some wonderful moments in this film, but quite a few ordinary scenes, the latter perhaps working in the sixties. I first saw it mid seventies and it felt a bit clunky then. The exploration of racism seems extremely clumsy today. This was made 14 years after John Ford's Searchers and yet it still goes little further into the depths of racial conflict in the Wild The West. In the sixties I expect Newman's anti-hero was a refreshing change and welcome relief from post John Ford, John Wayne, and other cloned superficial world weary, tough guy gunslingers. Gripes apart, I like many aspects of this film; the the long focal length shots, the sprinkling of one liners - the Mexican driver who, puts up with racism 'out of habit'. However, it's old 'Beautiful Blue Eyes' who steals the show - mainly with his eyes - just a pity the script did not give him more to say. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Impressive movie, travelers in a stagecoach, and then by foot, no humor (the seeing of the legs was nice), no spoofing, delightful landscapes, realist relations, the director thought it in terms of drama. A drama with an exciting cast Newman, March, Balsam, Boone, and &#x85; the mellower blonde from 'The Wicker Man' (there, a teacher), astounding cinematography, and a good director, who does a work of exquisite craftsmanship, the fans have already quoted here the lines, the scenes; it's _unsurpassable, and should be acknowledged as the equal of more famous masterpieces. As with other masterpieces, it is offered the work itself.It's a drama; an action drama, if you will. It accomplishes the possibilities of a ripe age. Its maturity shouldn't be taken for granted, as other movies from the same age, or slightly later, don't have it.Delightful suspense, superior cinematography, awesome performances, great dialog, sharp characterizations, and the acknowledging can go on; the movie has a sense a freedom, and belongs in the genealogy of the A western (as represented by earlier movies starring Cooper, Gable, Peck, Lancaster, Douglas, Stewart), being also the meeting of the style of Actors Studio with a beloved genre, by the unleashed director and one of his fetish players (before he took on the spoofs of Cassidy, Bean, Bill, thus defining a wholly different approach, in the ironic, revisionist, New Hollywoodian western). This movie begins with the metaphor of the wild horses being led by one of them to water, where they get trapped. Ritt made a keen social drama. "},{"Title":"Cicero Grimes, meet John Russell","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Like everyone else has said, this is an outstanding movie. I'm not going to attempt to rehash what's been said before, most of the preceding evaluations have been excellent. Just wanted to say that my favorites in this film were Paul Newman (of course) and Frank Silvera, who played the Mexican bandit (but was not a Mexican in real life). AND, my favorite line was mumbled by Diane Cilento (Sean Connery's 1st wife) just before the final show-down as she acknowledges that the evil Cicero Grimes (Richard Boone) has met his match, and worse, in John Russell (Paul Newman).All but one of the players in this film are no longer with us, several left more than 20 years ago. "}{"Title":"Brilliant beginning, nice Western","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The first part of the film, from the very beginning until the trip starts, is simply perfect. My favorite scenes are the one in which the main character is in the bar with two Apache fellows and the one in which intimidating Grimes gets his ticket for the stagecoach. If the movie had kept in the same path this would be one of the best Westerns ever made. It did not, though it is still a good Western. Both Paul Newman and Richard Boone did a very good job. Filmmaking is also remarkable, a very careful work. The screenplay explores competently the different moods, interests and backgrounds of each character. Although not in the same average level of the first part of the film, the trip also has amazing moments, both in the interaction between passengers and in the final conflict. "},{"Title":"A Revisionist Stagecoach","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is an example of what I have come to think of as the Stagecoach plot, although it was not invented in John Ford's film of that name, nor is it confined to the Western genre. Maupassant's Boule de Suif was an early literary example, and other cinematic examples include Hitchcock's The Lady Vanishes set in a disguised Nazi Germany, The Journey, set during the Hungarian Revolution, and North-West Frontier, set in British India. The basic idea is that a disparate group of people are forced by circumstances to travel together in a single vehicle on a dangerous journey through hostile territory. As one might expect from a Marxist director like Martin Ritt, Hombre brings a revisionist slant to this basic plot. It is one of a number of Westerns from the fifties and sixties which sought to call into question the heroic Myth of the West and the assumptions (such as white men good, Indians bad) on which many earlier Westerns had been based. The hombre of the title is John Russell, a white man who has been raised amongst the Apache. Upon hearing of his father's death, Russell returns to the white world to collect his inheritance. A sequence of events leads to him travelling in a stagecoach with a mixed group of others. When the truth about Russell, namely that he has been brought up by Indians, becomes known, he faces prejudice from the other passengers, who force him to sit outside with the driver. When the stagecoach is robbed, however, the others are forced to rely upon Russell's tracking skills to lead them to safety.In terms of plot there is nothing particularly ground-breaking about the film; what makes it revisionist is its treatment of Native Americans. Among the passengers on the coach are Dr Alexander Favor, an Indian agent, and his wife. The reason why the robbers hold up the coach is that their leader, Cicero Grimes, has discovered that the Favors are carrying a large amount of money. It transpires that Dr. Favor has embezzled this money, which was meant to buy food for an Apache tribe, with the result that the tribe have been hit by famine. Favor is outwardly a civilised, cultured intellectual, but his veneer of respectability only serves to disguise an underlying dishonesty and selfishness. It is ironic that a man like Favor affects to despise Russell as an uncivilised half-savage. This was the sixth and final film which Ritt made with Paul Newman. (I have only seen one of the others, The Long Hot Summer). Newman plays the leading role, and yet the amount of dialogue spoken by him is surprisingly small. Russell is a laconic man of action who prefers to speak through deeds and gestures rather than through words, in contrast to the garrulous Favor. Newman gives an excellent performance; although he does not say much, his is a commanding, authoritative presence who holds the audience's attention throughout. He receives good support from some of the other cast members, notably Fredric March as Favor, Richard Boone as the thuggish villain Grimes and Diane Cilento as Jessie, another passenger on the coach. The action takes place in the Arizona deserts, and the pale, bleak, sun- baked look of the film is appropriate to the location. The main colours are greys, dull greens and pale blues and browns. A few ends are left untied, especially the story of the feuding young married couple Billy and Doris. (Billy will play an important role in the denouement, but the story of his marriage to Doris, which seemed to play a major part in the early scenes, is neglected). Overall, however, this is a taut, well-made Western in which the differences between the good guys and the bad guys is rather more blurred than had often been the case in the genre. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Oh, about as far as Delgados, will all have some musquel!","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Russell's reply to thug robber David Canary after he has shot holes in the stage's waterbags and asks Russell how far he's going to go from the robbed and disabled Stagecoach. Canary then realizes this is the same man that smashed him in the face with a Rifle butt after he harassed two of Russell's Indian Friends at Delgados earlier in the film when Russell still looked like an Apache. Bad move on Canary's part as he gets shot in the face by Russell as well as Mitchell's character too.One of Newman's best performances from a film that didn't get that much attention until it reached the cable TV Market. All great performances from supporting Cast. After watching Richard Boone as PALADIN on TV for years it was quite amusing to see him as the Bad Guy. The scene where he takes the solder's stage ticket and the attempted assault of Maggie Blythe's character lets you know he's not really a nice guy.I have probably watched this Film at least 30+ times and I never get tired of it. Aside from the costcutting phony blood scene coming from Canary's face after being shot by Russell.(which was added optically in post editing) this film has always been one of my Favorites. If HUD had been shot in color I would probably give it the Nod for a slightly better film, but both had outstanding performances by Newman..s.m. "},{"Title":"Newman","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Paul Newman reunites with Hud director Martin Ritt for this stark western. Newman plays John 'Hombre' Russell, a white man raised by Apaches who is shunned by the community as a result. When he inherits a boarding house in town, he decides to trade it for a herd, and must take a stagecoach to complete the deal. With him on the journey are Favor(Frederic March) and his wife Audra(played by Barbara Rush) a snobbish couple, along with ruthless gunfighter Grimes(played by Richard Boone) The trip is rudely interrupted by bandits, who force the passengers to flee into the mountains for safety, but with the bandits in pursuit, leaving Russell the only man to protect them... Interesting tale of prejudice and irony is quite cynical, with a familiar plot, yet works very well because of fine acting and direction. "},{"Title":"Like the slower and less exciting version of Stagecoach.","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" There are plenty of people around that can enjoy a slow-paced western but this just isn't my thing! People sitting and talking a lot just isn't my idea of a good western. However I can still appreciate the movie for what it is and the way the movie is made and the very human side of the story.I only wished that the movie would had grabbed me from the very start. I really wasn't into this movie, till its last 30 minutes or so. The start of the movie is basically very slow with its buildup of the story and setup of the characters. It just wasn't very interesting to watch, which caused me not to get drawn into the movie and its story or felt anything for any of its characters.The last part of the movie is so much better and far more involving and intriguing. It's when finally the good drama starts to kick in and the movie starts to concentrate on the moral conflicts of the characters and their human sides. No, this really isn't a western John Wayne and John Ford would had liked, since it shows the characters as real humans, with all of their fears, emotions and weaknesses. A more realistic western you could say but still not without some of the usual clichés and gun fights.I'm actually really fond of Martin Ritt as a director and he has made some truly underrated and forgotten movies throughout his career. I however just can't regard this movie as one of his finest. Not that the movie is bad in any way but I still wouldn't really recommend it to anyone, unless you are really into westerns.It was nice to see Paul Newman playing a tough western roles and also see him pull it off. Even as an Indian he is convincing. He was a bit mumbling too much at times, in order to come across as more tough but overall I think Paul Newman was actually really suited for the western genre, with his looks and style of acting. He also played in a few but he is mostly known for his roles in other movies. It was also fun to see Fredric March in this, who was a big star from the early days of film-making and winner of two Academy Awards.It's definitely very watchable but just not my idea of a great movie, that I will ever want to watch again.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The most realistic western ever!","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I can't really say more than you have already very well put in your account of the film except to say that Hombre' really did put in to perspective (on film) the true value of the native American and how much he knew and cared about his fellow man, even in the midst of such cruel bigotry by some of the people involved. Although John Russell was white he was reared as an Apache and considered himself one, Yet still saved the lives of all the people in his company although most (except two or three) were not worthy of this. I must say though Richard Boone was brilliant as the villain! "},{"Title":"Tough lawman lays down life for others.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Paul Newman's half-Apache character is as alienated from the white man's world as he is from the Indian's; he calls no man his friend, yet when called upon, lays his own life on the line for people he despises.Richard Boone is absolutely great as the immensely hateable Cicero Grimes.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful but not exactly original.","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I am very surprised. Usually the CONNECTIONS tab on IMDb is very helpful and lists all the various versions and remakes of a given film. However, no credit is given to the film Stagecoach (1939)--and Hombre is clearly a remake of this classic film. Now perhaps this omission is because it's really more of a reworking of the original film--with quite a few changes to the plot--but still, the original story is easy to notice.The film begins with Paul Newman dressed like an American-Indian. I thought the film was stupid as the idea of the blue-eyed Newman playing an Indian is ridiculous. But, you then learn that Newman was NOT an Indian but had been raised by them--and this was an interesting twist. That's because there's a lot of prejudice he faces throughout the film--and it makes sense to have a plot line like this as the film was made in the 1960s--when racial matters were at the forefront.Later in the film, a motley group (again, very much like those from Stagecoach) are stuck in the desert when a group of robbers attack. But, it turns out to be a bit of a standoff--and the stupid folks now have to rely on Newman--a guy they'd treated like dirt because of his Indian ways. And, the 'savage' turns out to be their best friend in this predicament--whether he wants to be or not! While some may find the film a bit downbeat (particularly the ending), I liked the film quite a bit because of its plot about racism. Also, Newman, as usual, does a fine job. The only reason I didn't score it higher is because the plot isn't exactly new--but they did manage to breathe some life and originality into it. "},{"Title":"a good western...and human reflexions","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Cowboys, apaches, horses, a stagecoach, beautiful arid landscapes,&#x85; a good western ... nothing special.Nevertheless, Hombre has a well done good plot, supported by large Indian issues represented by an amazing character cold, but just, starring Paul Newman. This Indians racism and his disrespect increased the interest of this film beyond a simple and convincing entertainment. A interesting travel in the human reflexions.To note, a good achievement and a very beautiful images quality and colors.Enjoy it.jeliosjelios@hotmail.fr "},{"Title":"Admirable,  (C) right on","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Like the man said there are only so many (seven is often cited but not exclusively) plots and everything else is a variation on one or more. Here we have Barrie's The Admirable Crichton transposed from a desert island to the wild West. English Majors may recall that Crichton was a butler travelling by sea with his employers when they were shipwrecked; as the only one with any practical knowledge he became upwardly mobile at a stroke, moving from servant to master. This time around Paul Newman, travelling with a motley crew of passengers, faces discrimination because of his Indian connection but again when the stage is attacked the social outcast is the one they turn to for practical help. This is an excellent Western with all major credits - Script, Direction, Acting - out of the right bottle. "}{"Title":"Absorbing Western","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A white man raised by the Indians escorts a stagecoach across dangerous territory. In the last of his 4H films of the 1960s (The Hustler, Hud, and Harper preceded it), Newman is as cool as ever as the stoic tough guy ostracized by whites because of his Indian upbringing. The stagecoach is populated by a motley cast of characters, including March as a greedy and cowardly old man, Balsam as a kindly stagecoach employee, Boone as the bad guy, and the sultry Cilento as a woman past her prime looking for a man to settle down with. Ritt, who often worked with Newman, provides solid direction of the Elmore Leonard novel, creating a tense and absorbing Western. "},{"Title":"Good Western","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A very good western movie with fine performances from Paul Newman, Fredric March, Martin Balsam, Richard Boone and Diane Cilento.  Well worth a rental. One of the few movies that successfully adapted a Elmore Leonard book. Jackie Brown and 52 Pickup are other fine adaptations. "},{"Title":"Try not to puke, you may have to lie in it a long time.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" His adopted white name was John Russell, the Apaches called him Ishkanay. If you didn't know either, he was simply 'Hombre', the Man. I was startled to see Paul Newman's first appearance in the film, he definitely could pass for an Indian. His character is a man of few words, though when he speaks it counts for something. When his heritage is discovered by a handful of stage travelers, he's relegated to sitting out the journey atop the coach next to driver Mendez (Martin Balsam). For that honor, he gets to defend their racism and hypocrisy with his life.Hombre is a little known but powerful Western casting Newman as a white man raised by Apaches, to which he returns after seeing just how civilized the white world can be. Though he inherits a two story house from the father who raised him, that doesn't figure much in the story. Instead, Hombre puts his cunning and survival skills to good use when outlaw Grimes (Richard Boone) and his gang attempt to rob a motley group of stagecoach travelers. Central to the group is Indian Agent Dr. Favor (Fredric March), who carries on a running battle of wills of his own with Newman's character.It'a always a treat for me to have Richard Boone pop up in a film, his portrayal of Paladin in the TV series Have Gun Will Travel was always a favorite. Somehow he's even more delightful as a villain, and here he's about as nasty as they come; he's so tough he doesn't need to take water along to fend off the desert heat, only whiskey.Obviously, one has a pretty good idea of how this one will end, but the formula is turned on it's head with a stunner; Hombre doesn't survive the final showdown with Grimes and his Mexican bandit guide (Frank Silvera). In death as in life, Hombre was his own man, who's stoicism was ever focused on what's right, not who's right. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A finely done, realistic western, it gives an insight into attitudes and life in general during the time of the Old West, while at the same time managing to be exciting too. It is very slow to build up and it is sort of predictable, but the most unappealing element in the film is some recognisably fake blood. The Mexican Bandit character is great when he is on screen, and the script has a number of memorable lines. None of the performances are particularly striking, but the film does not need these elements to do a reasonable job. There is little that detracts from this film, even if there may be little that is very remarkable in it. "},{"Title":"Strongly plotted, but the characterisation is weaker","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" 'Hombre' is a bleak western without any of the dreadful comedy interludes so beloved of the genre; a sparse tale of life under a harsh climate on the very frontier of civilisation. With it's small cast and essentially static settings, this does not feel in any sense like an action film; and the short gun battles are massively more realistic than anything from Peckinpah. What's pleasing about it is it's refusal to make lazy compromises or allow it's heroes an easy ride; what's disappointing are the central characters, Paul Newman playing the tall, silent stranger who talks with his gun, and Diane Cliento the feisty female who dares to challenge him; these models are too familiar from countless other movies to be of great interest. The best acting comes from Fredric March, in an ambiguous role that might have been expanded to great effect. 'Hombre' might not be a great movie, but it is a interesting demonstration of how the western was, as best, a highly stylised art-form, and a world away from the action movies that have displaced it from our screens. "},{"Title":"A Great Film Classic of Paul Newman!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"                    Viewed this film when it first appeared on the silver screen and thought it was a great film with a fantastic cast of great actors.  It has become a great classic because Paul Newman,(John Russell),Message in a Bottle,'99, played a half-breed Native American, who is willed a home with some very interesting people living in this house.  In one scene at a local bar, a Native Indian has a glass of booze thrown in his face and John Russell simply blows him away right in the face!  Martin Balsam,(Henry Mendez),Psycho,'60 tries to calm John Russell down because he wants him to be able to adjust to living with the local town people and live a normal life.  If you are a Paul Newman fan, this is a great film to watch. "},{"Title":"Politically Correct Western With Some Unforgettable Performances.","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Two out of the three female characters in this intimate film come off VERY badly and there is no solidarity among them. The youngest is a whiny, brainless, blonde flirt. Of the two older women, the one played by the elegant Barbara Rush is a college educated snob and racist, and a tramp beneath her patrician exterior. In a childless marriage to a much older man, she protests for only a moment when Richard Boone as the virile outlaw boss takes her as his prize **cum** hostage. But the third woman character is a lusty, wisecracking widow who is both quite attractive **and** has more balls than any of the men except for Russell (Newman), the **Hombre** himself.With Newman speaking lines so ultra cool they could have been written by the late underground journalist Hunter Thompson, the script has a distinctly sixties sensibility which does not square with the time in which the movie is supposed to be set the 1880's. It also wears its left-wing sympathies on its sleeve. (Not surprising with the team of Newman, lifelong supporter of radical causes, and Blacklisted ex-Communists Ritt (director) and Ravetch (scriptwriter).) Several swipes are taken at marriage, that bourgeois institution. Here the Apache are a sensitive, superior race who, being in harmony with nature, can cut it in the harsh desert of Arizona where the soft, corrupt White man would soon die. Small wonder the blue eyed Russell had wanted no part of the White man or his ways when he was rescued. But these Indians now are victims of the capitalist White man's greed and treachery, as embodied in the character of Dr. Favor (Frederic March), former Indian Agent at the San Carlos Reservation. He and his wife are on the stagecoach, literally running for the border, he carrying thousands in embezzled money that was supposed to buy provisions for the Apache families under his care. Nor is it by chance that only the non-white member of the outlaw gang is sympathetically portrayed-- a tour de force by veteran actor Frank Silvera. And the Law? Yes, the town marshal (Cameron Mitchell) does show up, as one of the robbers!This film makes surprisingly good use of color, considering director Martin Ritt's historic preference for working in black and white. Very entertaining altogether if you can get by the irritating political points. "},{"Title":"good westerp","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" We all have to die sometime, it's just a matter of when. Excellent western from the time of change for that genre. Based on a book by Elmore Leonard (I'm reminded just how good Leonard's dialogue is and wondering why I haven't got back into him yet), it tells the story of a white man raised by Indians, John Russell, who inherits a home from the man who adopted him after his death. He decides to sell the place and leave town, just as a rich man and his wife, a disillusioned young married couple, and a gruff bully named Grimes also happen to decide upon leaving town by coach driven by a Mexican named Mendez. The anti-racism theme of the film is pretty obvious, as Russell is voted to ride shotgun with Mendez instead of in the comfortable coach by the others. Without spoiling too much, the coach is held up by outlaws, and it's up to Russell to save the day, winning over his fellow travellers. The performance from Newman is excellent, exuding a kind of warmth and humanity half-masked by stoic Indian pride and assurance. He does what he has to and doesn't blink in the face of the hypocrisy of his fellow travellers, especially the rich Favor played by Frederic March, who scammed the government out of money but starving Indians on a reservation he was in charge of. Another fine performance comes from Richard Boone as Grimes, who is so ill-mannered and overbearing it's comical. I also liked Maggie Blye as the tough cookie woman. All in all an excellent western, one of my favourites of the new kind of western that was emerging at that time. "},{"Title":"Slow paced, psychological","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a western with very little violence. It is about intimidation with understated threats, mostly by exuding confidence. It is about how selfish people become when their backs are against the wall.Its slow pace engages you more that modern fast cuts. Things happen on a more believable time scale. There are plenty of pauses between the sentences.The basic predicament, of being stuck out in the middle of nowhere with only a little water is not an immediate threat, but one rather than looms larger and larger over time.For the time it was made, it was a gritty movie, showing some of the unpleasantness of daily life in a tiny frontier town. This a great western, second only to Silverado. "},{"Title":"One of the best roles from Paul Newman I have seen . . .","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When I really understood this film was when i saw it after several times. It is not classic film about Indians and all but a really true story about a half-breed man who must decide between life in society who doesn't accept his magical nature and mystic way of living and his death because of a silly woman and another tortured, dying woman in the place of a burning sun. The Way Paul Newman played this role is excellent. I really believe him and don't like the end of his decision to sacrifice. For this cruel world is more important this half-breed Indian than this woman. But I liked the way Paul Newman played this wrong choice not of his own and how he accept it. Actually the whole film is something . . . "}{"Title":"It didn't do much for me.","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A slow first half and a lack of interesting (with the exception of scene-stealing Richard Boone) or likable characters keep Hombre from rising above mediocrity, though I must admit there isn't a lack of nuance to them or the story itself.Paul Newman is cool, calm, and collected as John Russell, a white man raised by Apaches. He's discriminated against by fellow passengers on a stagecoach but when it's robbed and they're all put in a dangerous situation, the passengers look squarely on him for help.Newman's cold performance and sparse dialog keeps the viewer from getting inside his head and finding out what makes him tick and in the end I really didn't warm up to him. That being said, he was the most likable person in the movie! Everyone else was scum!One thing I found puzzling was Cameron Mitchell's character appeared to be set up to play a larger part in the desert drama but he was written out early leaving Boone with a few cardboard cutout bandits as backup. Those turn of events didn't make much sense to me.I've heard others say that Mitchell's scenes were cut so the combined power of the two heavies wouldn't threaten to outshine the laid back performance by Newman. That sounds plausible to me!The one thing I really enjoyed about Hombre was the climax at the old mine. That alone made the film worth viewing "},{"Title":"Hombre hombre, riba riba","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Slow-moving, but still occasionally gripping western in the modern idiom, too much in the shadow of Leone's work to really stand out as exceptional. Newman can do stoical, monosyllabic character-study but not as well as Eastwood, likewise director Martin Ritt's work owes too much to the hugely popular Man With No Name prototype.It gets off to a slow start when the biggest questions are exactly when the first piece of spoken dialogue will emerge and will Newman retain his ill-fitting Red Indian wig all the way through the film. The fact that he doesn't and in fact very quickly can pass himself as an almost everyday, if exceptionally moody, white frontiersman goes against the rebellious spirit of his character. Is this the same steely individual who is happy to take on a couple of stereotypically racist cowboys who taunt his Red Indian cohorts and who at other parts of the film displays a total nerveless calm in the eye of danger? Maybe Paul just didn't enjoy wearing the wig.After we go through a fairly predictable meet-the-cast introduction, it's all set up for a tense climax as Newman and his fellow stagecoach-travellers are staked out by hijacking robber Richard Boone and his gang for corrupt accountant Fredric March's ill-gotten-gains. Throughout, I was aware of the film trying to make wider points about the subjugation of native Americans (then termed Red Indians), at the time a hot topic in contemporary U.S.A.(and by extension perhaps, the then burgeoning Civil Rights movement) but it lets itself down badly with sloppy characterisation and outmoded attitudes towards women, the latter highlighted by an unnecessary and poorly written encounter between the big bad guy and the flirtatious and sexually dissatisfied young wife of the even younger-looking stagecoach rider.The acting's less than top-drawer too, I like Newman as an actor, but he's sleepwalking here and Boone, for all his cackling just isn't threatening enough as his nemesis. Then there's Diane Cilento as the local tart-with-a-heart who eventually prevails on Newman to do the manly thing and get himself killed saving March's kidnapped wife, who earlier of course has derided pejoratively the very Indians that Newman's affiliated with. As I said, the big message about racial tolerance is just writ too large and overloads the narrative. I also can't quite figure out the motivations of Cameron Mitchell's character as Rush's ex-boyfriend the sheriff who goes bad as he puts in the worst piece of exposition in the whole film.On the plus side, James Wong Howe's cinematography is excellent and when they eventually come, the action set-pieces are well constructed. On the whole though, this movie seems a little too big for its boots and would have worked better with a less ambitious and message-laden story. "},{"Title":"Stagecoach Redux.","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" First of all we have to note that of the two people playing Mexicans, Frank Silvera (an African-American) is better at it than Martin Balsam. I've always admired Martin Balsam as a character actor who invariably brings something a little extra to his roles, but he's miscast here. Silvera's Hispanic accent is unimpeachable. I know this because I myself have become fluent in the language since moving to New Mexico. Or rather, almost fluent. To illustrate, I was trying to follow a conversation in Spanish recently between my barber Luis and another customer. I happen to know Luisito raises fighting cocks, and I heard the word for rooster, gallo, and the name of a nearby little town (Hatch), and the word Bluebonnet, so, putting two and two together, it was easy to deduce that they were talking about Luis entering one of his guerreros named Bluebonnet in a cock fight in Hatch. Just to show off, I later asked Luisito if I should bet on Bluebonnet at the cock fight in Hatch. He looked puzzled and then said, Ahhh, no. He was talking about butter! That's what I meant by almost fluent.Anyway, what we have here is a screenplay by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank, directed by Martin Ritt, starring Paul Newman. This is the same team that brought us the far superior Hud. What a movie THAT was. This one doesn't deserve plaudits of the same magnitude. It's a good, tense, entertaining Western but the characterizations that made Hud so memorable are just not here. These are little more than stereotypes. Newman is the noble stoic Indian, part human, part wilderness. Frederick March is the corrupt financial officer, straight out of John Ford's Stagecoach. Barbara Rush is the rich Eastern snob, looking fine and giving probably the most nuanced performance of her career. Diane Cilento plays the role of Pat Neal in Hud, the earthy, warm, no-nonsense woman who's been around. Richard Boone is pure e-vil and does extravagantly well by the part of the fulsomely masculine, utterly heartless bandido. Of all the characters, Frank Silvera is probably the most likable although he's a thief and murderer. The guy is a philosopher.None of the acting is bothersome in any way. The problem is that there is virtually no development. The characters begin as good or bad people and they more or less remain that way throughout. Oh, I guess Paul Newman starts off a little unfeeling, but he's given a good reason for it. What you see at the beginning is pretty much what you get at the end.The dialog sparkled in Hud. Here, it's sometimes fine and sometimes infelicitous. We'd better deal with each other out of need and forget merit, is a line I don't expect from the character who speaks it. And this is unworthy of the writers If he tries to leave, shoot him once. If he tries to leave with the money, shoot him twice. And if he tries to leave with the water, you empty your gun. But Barbara Rush's description of her marriage to the older Frederick March is peerless. When she was his student at eighteen he read Browning to her. But now she's thirty-five and she listens to him cough up phlegm.If you watch this -- and I certainly recommend you do -- and if you enjoy it, and especially if you enjoy the character of Diane Cilento, and if you haven't seen Hud, you really should see Hud. "}]