[{"Title":"In many ways, Hitchcock often wore the same pants.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"99 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock made a few clunkers in his day, but this isn't one of them, despite its reputation. I don't know if I could get away with saying it's one of Hitchcock's ten best features, but I found it to be easily one of his top ten most entertaining. I enjoyed watching Torn Curtain a lot more than some of his established classics, like Notorious and the Birds, even if it's not quite as psychologically complex as those films.The main thing about Torn Curtain is the photography. It's full of pretty pictures--one of the most beautifully filmed of all Hitchcock's films, with lots bold swaths of primary colors and attractive and constantly changing locations--some scenes look like they were shot on location, while others are wonderfully artificial studio creations, and they're blended together perfectly. Another cool thing about Torn Curtain is that it's constantly on the move. It never stagnates. The pacing is deliberate, but engaging. It's well-plotted and suspenseful. It's full of fantastic little directorial touches, like the scene where Paul Newman ducks into a bathroom to read his secret spy message. Hitchcock never shows us the room. He keeps the camera tight on Paul Newman, so we can't tell who or what might be in that room with us, just out of frame. It's totally simple, but it creates a highly effective feeling of uneasiness and paranoia. This movie also features one of the strangest and best-filmed death scenes I've ever seen. Hitchcock was still on top of his game here.Most of the bad reviews for Torn Curtain seem to focus on the acting. I don't know why. A lot of people bash Julie Andrews just for being Julie Andrews, and that hardly seems fair. Typecasting sucks. And while I wouldn't say she turned in one of the most memorable and overpowering performances of all time, her role didn't call for that. Torn Curtain wasn't a complex character study, it was a plot-based thriller. And Julie Andrews was perfectly adequate for that, even pretty good when she was given a chance to be.Paul Newman was perfect. He wasn't his usual charming self here. He was grim and tight-lipped and stiff--as would be appropriate for a scientist feeling out of his league, playing a spy in a hostile country, having to pretend to be a traitor--a role which he found objectionable--all with his girlfriend annoyingly tagging along and complicating everything. I understand that Paul Newman found working for Hitchcock objectionable. It makes me wonder if Hitch deliberately made life unpleasant for Paul just to get this kind of tooth-gritting performance from him. Whatever, Hitch and Paul were both great.And so was this film. "},{"Title":"less than Hitch's best","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"49 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The first time I watched Torn Curtain, I grew bored and turned it off before it was over.  I've watched it in its entirety more than once since then.  It's difficult not to conclude that the master director's age was beginning to take its toll by 1966.  It could have been a great film except for some major flaws.First, the main characters.  Newman and Andrews look distinctly ill-at-ease and their acting is wooden.  There is very nearly no chemistry between them, and viewers are not really drawn into their somewhat implausible situation.  Both actors are compelling in other films, but for some reason not in this one.Second, Hitchcock would have done better to keep his villains' identity less specific.  In The Lady Vanishes, The Thirty-nine Steps, and North by Northwest, the identity of the foreign agents is left deliberately vague and thus little plausibility need be attached to their actions.  Here they are East German communists, of which we know rather a lot.Third, there are inconsistencies in the plot.  At one point Newman and Andrews are forced to go out into an open space to avoid being overheard.  But in another scene a pro-western spy communicates confidential information to Newman in a hospital room, seemingly oblivious to the possibility of wiretaps.Finally, there's John Addison's score, which seems to have been written quite independently of the film's action.  A suspenseful scene is inappropriately matched with cheerful, melodic music.  Everyone knows, of course, that Hitch's longtime musical collaborator, Bernard Herrmann, wrote a mostly complete score for the film, but the two had a falling out on the set and Herrmann was dismissed.  Another example of poor judgement on Hitchcock's part.  Herrmann's score would have immeasurably improved a mediocre film.  (Look at Obsession nearly a decade later.)  With all the recent film restorations, I would love to see someone redo Torn Curtain and put in as much of Herrmann's score as the composer was able to finish.  (But perhaps there would be copyright problems.)  Had Herrmann's score been used, the murder sequence in the farmhouse might have become as famous as the shower scene in Psycho.As I was watching the protagonists flee through the East German landscape in their efforts to reach the west, I found myself thinking that, if they had only waited another twenty-three years, the wall would have come down anyway and they could simply have walked out!  That's how much their plight gripped me. "},{"Title":"Cannibalizing His Own Art.","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"49 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" If MARNIE was the Director's first out-right failure in more ways than one -- it didn't make money, it was reviled by critics who failed to read into the story, and tensions between he and Tippi Hedren came to a standstill -- TORN CURTAIN didn't help. The story of a double agent and his involvement on both side of the political wall was too convoluted and too unfocused to create any real tension, any suspense, and according to accounts, Hitchcock became totally uninterested with the product. So did I on viewing this.The introductory setup is good. Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) defects to East Germany and his girlfriend (Julie Andrews) follows. There he meets Gromek (Wolfgang Kieling) who has been sent to do away with him. Their encounter leads to one of the most excruciating murder sequences committed to celluloid, and this is by far the best part of the movie. From there on, the plot meanders and it's as if Hitchcock had decided to go on autopilot and let matters resolve themselves, most notably in a lousy theatre sequence in which Armstrong, in an escape sequence, yells Fire! into a room full of non-English speakers.That it could have been better is obvious, but I believe Hitchcock had succumbed to the times and was in his short Cold War transition in which some of his technique shows but his choice of actors and story fails. Newman and Andrews have zero chemistry together and Andrews at times doesn't seem to know why the hell she's in this movie anyway. Lila Kedrova sticks out as a sore thumb -- why would a countess of all people be panhandling for American sponsors when her diplomatic status would have her able to come to the US with no problem? A complete distraction. Snippets of the theatre sequence are interesting, as when ballerina Tamara Toumanova whirls around in dance and spots Newmann hiding among the crowd in photographic freeze-frames she pinpoints him out.Other than that this is a fairly routine effort, like the many routine efforts directors sometimes do when they're either in an unsettled period or want to buy themselves out of their contract with a studio. Hitchcock would do one more Cold War themed film, the disastrous TOPAZ, before returning to almost full form (and his English roots) in FRENZY. "},{"Title":"A little enjoyable repetition of old situations...","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In Hitchcock's Torn Curtain, Newman plays an American nuclear scientist who pretends to defect to East Germany, so that he can trick a scientist into revealing a missile formula&#133; His bewildered, abandoned fiancée (Julie Andrews) follows to see what he's up to&#133; Not wishing to involve her, he lets her think he's a traitor, but when her confusion jeopardizes his position, he tells her the truth&#133; Overjoyed, she helps him, and they end up in a series of chases and escapes&#133;Newman does come across as unemotional, or at least not very warm; in fact, critics complained that he was too intense and gloomy in a part that they thought required humor&#133; But coldness and seriousness are actually essential to the character and to Hitchcock's conception&#133; Initially, we are supposed to share Andrews' alienation from him&#133; Later, when we learn that he's not a traitor, we may want to view him differently, but immediately afterward he commits a gruesome killing, of a most likable villain, which again distances us from him&#133; From that point, even though he's apparently the hero, his actions are never purely motivated&#133; His attitude toward Andrews is indicative by following him, she endangers herself, which concerns him slightly, but she also endangers the mission, which is what really troubles him&#133;Hitchcock, therefore, is portraying an anti-hero&#151;not a glamorous spy, patriotically following his country's orders, or an innocent, sympathetic victim (Cary Grant in North by Northwest), but a man on his own, deliberately pursuing a selfish goal (the formula might get him back his job). Newman is therefore well-cast his indifferent rejection of the woman, his ruthlessness, his willingness to endanger lives and engender chaos, are familiar aspects of the Newman image&#133; Here, since there isn't the balance of charm, humor or self-realization, he is non-involving&#133; The neutral emotion may serve Hitchcock's plan, but it leaves the audience out in the cold&#133; "},{"Title":"Stealing What's Locked Up in the Grey Cells","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Paul Newman nuclear physicist has volunteered for an unusual espionage mission. He's to fake a defection in order to get close to East German scientist Ludwig Donath and find out what advances he personally has given the Soviet bloc.As he says to agent Mort Mills, he's one of the few people in the world who would know exactly what to look for. The trick is to make Donath write it down.Nice plan, except for that fact that intrepid Julie Andrews, Newman's fiancé suspects something's up and follows him first to Copenhagen and then East Berlin. It would have run so much easier without her, but then again there would have been no film.This was Alfred Hitchcock's last star vehicle. His last three films were done with second rank players. At the time this was made Julie Andrews was fresh from Mary Poppins and had all kinds of roles offered her. I suppose she couldn't turn down a chance to appear in a Hitchcock film, but she and Newman really have no chemistry at all. I suppose Newman also wanted to work with Hitchcock.There are some good moments in Torn Curtain. The highlight easily has to be the killing of an East German security agent by Newman and Carolyn Conwell with the creative use of a gas stove. The agent is played by German actor Wolfgang Kieling and has the best role in the film. Funny how during World War II, Germans were sometimes shown as colossally stupid, Kieling is not. He's a very tough and shrewd adversary who catches on to Newman's scheme and has to be eliminated.Hitchcock also stole from himself here. The ride and Newman and Andrews take on a bus from Leipzig to East Berlin that is stage managed by David Opatoshu is ripped off from Saboteur and the bus passengers are just like the circus people in Saboteur. Good, but done before.Devoted fans of the stars and of Alfred Hitchcock will want to see Torn Curtain, others might want to for curiosity's sake. "},{"Title":"Under-rated Hitchcock gem.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"53 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This hardly ever appears in the lists of the master's best films, but it is a real gem - superbly acted, inventively filmed with great music, dialogue and plot.  Julie Andrews and Paul Newman work really well together - a very sexy scene early in the film is a delight, filmed in extreme close-up.  And Lila Kedrova's cameo is Oscar worthy.  This is also a memorable look at the Cold War at its height, and although the pro-West propaganda is a little thick at times, there is still a sense of the absurdity of the situation.  And there is a murder scene of unbelievable savagery that really left me shaken - excellent work here from Newman and Carolyn Conwell.   The most memorable scene is the bus pursuit sequence, and the theatre audience turning into an hysterical mob when Newman yells fire is a great Hitchcock moment.  One of his best cameo appearances too.  I think this film deserves re-examination. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's best - and I can prove it","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Between The Birds and Frenzy Hitchcock made three consecutive critical and box office failures Marnie (1964), Torn Curtain (1966), and Topaz (1969).  It's natural to want to rehabilitate one or other of these, and most fans and critics, following (of course) François Truffaut, pick Marnie.  But the real hidden gem is Torn Curtain.People have found all manner of trivial things to complain about.  The leads, it is said, aren't Hitchcock leads.  Julie Andrews certainly isn't unlike most of Hitchcock's American actresses, she imbues her character with warmth and good sense, qualities that may well be out of place in other films - certainly they'd be out of place in Marnie - but which are needed here.  And Paul Newman is as convincing and sympathetic a Hitchcock hero as any other.  ANY other, including my personal favourite, Robert Donat.  It's hard not to like Jimmy Stewart and Cary Grant, but (this cannot be denied) for some reason they're never at their best in Hitchcock films.  Paul Newman is.Then there's the score - everyone has to take turns sinking their boots into the musical score.  Yes, it's not by Bernard Herrmann.  Yes, Bernard Herrmann was unceremoniously dumped from the project.  Yes, Bernard Herrmann was one of Hollywood's best composers.  Yes, if his score had been used instead (not that I've heard it), it would probably have changed the character of the film.  For the best?  That's hard to say.  There's more than one musical personality capable of complementing a Hitchcock film, and if you ask me Miklós Rózsa (Spellbound) and John Williams (Family Plot), writing very differently, do just as well as Herrmann would have with similar material.  John Addison's score for Torn Curtain isn't quite as good, but it's pleasant, and it casts a warm glow over chilly grey surroundings, just as the photography does.  And everyone admits the photography is wonderful - Technicolor greys and beiges, with flashes of red.  Hitchcock had never been quite this good with colour before.  (And no wonder.  I just noticed this in the credits the production designer was the Hein Heckroth - in fact, it was his last film.  His first was The Red Shoes.)Moreover it's one of Hitchcock's better stories.  A man is sent to a foreign country on a mission he finds distasteful; his girlfriend follows him, suspicious about what he's planning to do; they must escape together.  It's one of those stories where we can happily follow one party or the other without feeling cheated out of the other storyline.  It was Hitchcock's first stab at the distasteful mission theme since The Secret Agent (1936), which was a failure - not BECAUSE the hero's mission was distasteful to us, but simply because it wasn't a good film in other regards.  Hitchcock was wrong to think that when a character does dirty things we'll cease to like him.  There's such a thing as moral sympathy the compromising moral position into which Michael is pushed makes us care about him all the more.I'll never understand critical consensus about Hitchcock.  When he takes one of his successful British films (The 39 Steps), one that can hardly be improved upon, and makes a pale imitation of it (North by Northwest), critics and audiences cheer.  When he takes one of his weaker and more muddled British films and turns it into gold, nobody, not even Hitchcock himself, has a kind word to say.  I don't get it.  Torn Curtain has two fantastic scenes as good as anything Hitchcock ever did (the fight with Gromek, the consultation with the East German scientist) and one of his best bit-part characters (the older middle-aged woman who wants to migrate to America).  And there's nothing - NOTHING - wrong with the rest of it. "},{"Title":"Torn Curtain is no rip off","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Too bad Hitchcock had to create this film in 1966. The spy vs. spy craze was at its height with super-spy James Bond played by ebullient Sean Connery at the top of the movie ladder. Dozens of Cold War espionage thrillers were marketed that year. Even non-spy films touched on espionage from time to time. Adding to the spy mill in 1966 were several espionage television series including the classic spy spoof show Get Smart, created by the comedic giants Mel Brooks and Buck Henry. So to most movie goers of the day Torn Curtain was just another film capitalizing on the spy vs. spy trend. Torn Curtain, however, is one of Hitchcock's best with two scenes that are among his most intense, the almost endless killing of communist agent Hermann Gromek, played with skill by Wolfgang Kieling, and the bus getaway that will keep you on the edge of your seat. The crying fire in a crowded theater is exciting but predictable--the viewer is just waiting for Professor Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) to jump from his seat and yell. Lovely Julie Andrews has a juicy role as Dr. Sarah Louise Sherman, the soon to be Mrs. Armstrong if the good professor doesn't run away and leave her. When my wife watched this movie for the first time, she asked in a surprising tone of voice, Is that really Paul Newman and Julie Andrews together? This unlikely combination works. It works better than the movies Newman made with his wife, Joanne Woodward. The role of Dr. Sherman is also somewhat unique in that she is unwittingly involved in espionage without her knowledge, following her fiancée to Communist East Germany without knowing that he is on an extremely dangerous assignment which only a nuclear scientist can carry out. Hitchcock's film making was beginning to taper off in the twilight of his years. But the masterful hand was still orchestrating film techniques highly original and creative. Lesser directors would have used just anyone to play the small but significant part of the prima donna Countess Kuchinska. Instead Hitchcock searched and found just the right person with the right face and attitude for the role. Lila Kedrova was chosen because she could actually sing opera and because her face and mannerisms stand out in a crowd. In her first appearance when she is getting off the plane, she becomes agitated because Professor Armstrong is receiving all the attention from the press. Hitchcock zooms the camera in for a closeup of her face with its distinctive features. It's well over an hour later that Countess Kuchinska reappears. This reappearance is crucial for the development of the film. Because of Hitchcock's methods, the viewer automatically recognizes the Countess, instantly remembering that she had been upset with Professor Armstrong because of all the attention taken away from her and showered on the professor. She definitely has an ax to grind.Though it has not received much attention compared with many other Hitchcock films, Torn Curtain is among his best and should be savored by all. Even though political conditions have flip flopped since 1966 and there is no longer a communist East Germany, this Cold War delicacy is worth a bite. Oh, and watch the somewhat hidden ironic humor at the beginning where there's a room full of top scientists during the Cold War and the heat doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Intriguing  and suspenseful story set behind  the Iron Curtain","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" During Cold War a professor named Michael Armstrong(Paul Newman stars as a stoic and subdued scientific)and his fiancée/secretary named Sarah(an enticing Julie Andrews) find in a Sweden science congress. But the espionage embroils the couple in escape and murder.The scientific poses as a defector at Berlin in order to discover details of the soviet missile program by professor Lindt, located in Leipzig. Once again the protagonists get an information that comes across something what place them in jeopardy and winds up being chased all over the country. Then happens a violent grisly killing, filmed on an exciting and nail-bitingly images , proving how difficult it actually is to murder someone. The duo is being pursued by the communists and they go a bus guided by a resistance fighter(David Opatoshu). Newman apparently defecting to East Germany but the secret police are soon on his tracks, the couple go on the run and encounter a refugee Polish countess(an extravagant Lila Kedrova) who helps them. They attempt to escape the freedom , hiding into a costume baggage of a Czech ballet company but they're denounced by a ballerina(Tamara Toumanova).Tense/suspense/mystery abounds in this thriller from Hithcock who combines the elements of spy-genre with romance, drama and pursuits. Newman as a scientist pretending to be a defector, in one of his best performances , Julie Andrews as his fiancée whose tidy life is disrupted when she uncovers what Newman is a traitor. The first part is based on Julie Andrews's point of sight and after under point of Paul Newman. By time the film and acting received negative reviews , today is better considered. Colorful cinematography by John Warren, habitual cameraman from the 'Hour of Alfred Hitchock' and suspenseful musical score by John Addison. However I miss the Hitch's customary, the musician Bernard Herrmann and photographer Robert Burks. As usual ,Hitch's ordinary cameo, this time as a man in hotel lobby with baby. This good thriller by the master himself, who preys on the senses and keeps the suspense at feverish pitch.Hitchcock tells that inspiration about this movie resulted to be the disappearance of two English diplomats , Burguess and McLean, who left their country and defected to Russia. The movie is directed among ¨Marnie(64)¨and ¨Topaz(69)¨his worst movie, later Hitch directed ¨Frenzi¨ and ¨Family Plot¨ his last film. Rating  Better than average, worthwhile seeing thanks some Hitch's touches. "},{"Title":"Those 'in the know' ....","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"26 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ... have 'know' idea what they're talking about. It may not be Hitch's best movie, but 'watch at your own risk' is an utterly ridiculous appraisal of this movie. But yes, when discussing a Hitch movie, all the normal conventions of movie analysis fly straight out of the window; now it's time to take out the REALLY big magnifying glass. The nitpicking borders on the outrageous. The story is actually quite enjoyable, no more implausible than that of many of his other films, and contains the usual Hitchcockian set pieces and camera work. Whats not to love? Ya, Newman doesnt exactly carry around Jack Nicholson-like expressiveness; there may have been better actors up to the task, and the Old Woman scene feels strange and out of place not to mention over-acted, but even these cant bring the movie as a whole down. Seems like for years this film has the unlucky honor of being the scapegoat in the Hitchcock stable...unfortuanate, really. If you haven't already, see it for yourself, you wont be disappointed "}{"Title":"not too bad","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Being a huge fan of Hitchcock, Julie Andrews, and Paul Newman, I should hate this movie because none of them were particularly fond of it.  With that said, you know what's going to follow I don't hate it.  It's not my favorite movie, or the best work from any of those three great talents, but it's actually pretty good.  I love how we find out things in this movie as Sarah (Julie's character) finds them out, particularly about the real reason Michael (Paul's character and Sarah's assistant/fiance) is in East Germany.  It has all the suspense of Hitchcock's best films and even though you're pretty sure what's going to happen at the end, just knowing that Hitchcock directed it makes you question until the end.  Could have gotten by just fine without Julie's bushy hairdo, but for a chance to gaze into Paul Newman's eyes I'll take what I must.  The chemistry between the two stars isn't like hers with Christopher Plummer or his with Joanne Woodward, but it's not a total fizzle either.  They're believably in love, and if they weren't, the movie wouldn't work since Sarah would have much less of a reason to care about what happens to Michael.  That is the driving force of the movie, and it works.  Again, not the best, but not the worst way to spend a few hours either. "},{"Title":"Film with potential falls short.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film looks as if it had potential but seems to miss the mark. The story of an American scientist (Paul Newman) who is supposedly defecting to East Germany is engaging and is now dated. Newman's performance is capable. Julie Andrews who plays Newman's wife is mediocre at best - there just isnt much of a character to develop here. As far as a Hitchcock signature on the movie - the death of the policeman, Grommek is the highlight of the movie. The films turns into a harrowing escape adventure from East Germany. Finally, the things that disappointed me are the vastly cheap rear-projection that was used in making this film. And finally, the decision to scrap Bernard Herrmann's score and replace it was another composer could have made the film more exciting. "},{"Title":"Better Than What It Was Made Out to Be","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock's 50th movie, Torn Curtain, is considered by many experts to be a major disappointment, but I didn't see it that way.  It is not one of Hitch's top 10, but it is still a very good movie.  Both Paul Newman and Julie Andrews give fine performances and I loved Ludwig Donath, who was excellent.  The scene in which Professor Armstrong murders Gromek is classic Hitchcock, and the blackboard scene between Newman and Donath is great, too.  I think that this movie suffers from the fact that the 2 main stars were really mismatched for Hitch.  There is a story that Hitchcock along with his wife insisted that Newman drink wine with them.  Newman refused, wanting a beer instead and he wanted to drink it from the can!  This request mortified Hitch and his wife.  Needless to say those 2 had their differences.  As for Andrews, she was suffering from Keanu Reeves syndrome.  Keanu Reeves syndrome is when an actor or actress is hugely successful in a role and then is never taken seriously in any other role, especially something radically different, e.g. Reeves as Ted in Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure was never taken seriously in movies like Speed, Point Break, etc.  The same for Andrews who was coming off Mary Poppins and The Sound of Music.  This is unfair, but it is true.  I feel that if this movie was remade with 2 people who were more suited to the roles, then this become a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Torn Cardboard","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It may have sounded like a perfect commercial operation. Two huge box office stars, Paul Newman and Julie Andrews with Hitchcock no less, at the helm. Paul Newman and Julie Andrews have the sexual chemistry of two white slices of bread and Hitchcock didn't have Bernard Herrman at his side. In fact Hitch and Herrmann broke off their successful marriage during this production. Pity. I love Hitchcock. There is a detachment here never seen before in a Hitch flick. As if the master was tired or uninterested. Paul Newman seems in a hurry to get the hell out of there - no pun intended. Julie Andrews seems bewildered and whatever little she's ask to do it's way beneath her. Lila Kedrova comes as a welcome relief. I can't believe the ones who accused her of being over the top. Over the top? Of course she was over the top, brilliantly. I love actresses and actors who chew the scenery but are believable, moving, entertaining, hysterically funny...Bette Davis, Charles Laughton, Geraldine Page, Kim Stanley... Lila Kedrova chew the scenery but you didn't forget her and in Torn Courtain you were grateful for someone chewing something. I also enjoyed Tamara Toumanova in her funny self parody. Her spotting Newman at the theater was one of the highlights of this minor Hitchkock film. "},{"Title":"Very good, but not a Hitchcock masterpiece","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Torn Curtain is an exceptional Alfred Hitchcock film that is for the most part intriguing, suspenseful, and entertaining. But it's not a masterpiece. Paul Newman stars as an American scientist who appears to be defecting to Germany. Julie Andrews, coming off her Oscar-winning film debut in Mary Poppins and her Oscar-nominated role in The Sound of Music, plays Newman's associate and girlfriend who tags along for the ride. Along the way they run into an assorted bunch of odd but colorful supporting characters. Torn Curtain isn't as good as Psycho, The Birds and North by Northwest, but that doesn't make this a bad movie. Even though the movie moves a little slow at times, it's still an interesting and sometimes funny movie, well acted by Newman and Andrews.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not Hitch's best","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this film, but certainly not a masterpiece. The colours were toned down to give that Cold feel to the entire picture.The politics of the film are rather disappointing because it didn't mean much, I didn't care about it. The film didn't give the politics or the plot any room, it seemed a little empty.Paul Newman was good but didn't have enough character in him. Julie Andrews was wasted, she didn't have anything interesting or worthwhile to do, her character was just tagging along.There are some classic moments, especially the murder.Not Hitch's best, but always worth watching. Herrmann fell out with Hitchcock during the recording of the score, the end of a beautiful partnership. "},{"Title":"An enormous disappointment","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Would this film be quite so disappointing if it did not come from Hitchcock and after his run of masterpieces of the late fifties and early sixties? Well, perhaps not. There are at least two stunning scenes - the murder of the security agent is Hitchcock at his best; taut, exciting and disturbing, and the scene where the plot is explained to Paul Newman on a blackboard is both funny and touching. But, we demand more from a thriller - and particularly a thriller from Hitch - than two good scenes. We want action, suspense and involvement. How could anyone be involved with Julie Andrews, still in her Maria Von Trapp mode and irritatingly toothsome? Too much of the film seems lazy and tired, as if Hitch had given up on it half way through. Worth seeing for Hitchcock fans, who will enjoy one or two distinctive touches. But otherwise, an enormous disappointment. Even the ending is hopeless.  "},{"Title":"Hitchcock/cold war spy thriller melange","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A cold war thriller, although it's more 'a Hitchcock' by virtue of its technical assembly. It's also an extraordinary film for having Paul Newman and Julie Andrews, two huge stars of the time, playing against their and the director's type. Newman's understated, glowering masculinity is less suited for the director's auteuristic approach; I don't believe him as a nuclear physicist either. Andrews is too composed and sharp-witted for the co-heroine. However, both do a fine job, Newman as the action-man-on-the-run and Andrews as absorbing the chain of events into which she is thrown.The film is a must see for those interested in the construction of a thriller upon the Hitchcock template. Techniques going out of fashion in the 50s are still employed as well as some unwitting novelties - the ballerina recognition sequence is extraordinary. Could have done without the superfluous bus-chase sequence though. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated and if no gem still fascinating for Newman alone...","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain (1966)Hitchcock was on an odd path in the 1960s toward more contained and artificial films, beginning in a way with North by Northwest (a masterpiece of control, for sure) but getting overtly stylized in Birds and Marnie. Here, in a bizarre casting choice, we replace the doubtfully capable Tippi Hedron with doubtfully appropriate Julie Andrews, fresh out of The Sound of Music. And of course, there is Paul Newman, who had recently filmed Harper and before that, Hud. A weird mix, and it has its moments. In fact, the chemistry between the two leads in the first scenes is surprising and you might expect or want more of that later on--and you won't get it.Add to these actors a tense milieu from the time, Cold War defections and the atom bomb, and you have an intriguing basis for making a movie. You can see why he gave it a go. The plot, for what it's worth, is ultimately thin and not convincing (hints of Cloak and Dagger with Gary Cooper way back in 1946) but Newman, at least, pulls off his role as Dr. Armstrong, atomic scientist, with intense restraint. Andrews? She doesn't sing, and there are no children to be seen (except briefly, on Hitchcock's lap in his cameo!), and frankly, sadly, she comes off a little out of her element. But then, her character as Armstrong's assistant is also meant to be a bit out to sea. We don't see too much of her. We do see lots of various bit characters, little known and not very interesting men, mostly, with Swedish or German accents. (I say it that way because they are almost just cardboard props for types of people--you know, those cold hearted Stasi types or the cool and cunning Swedes you can't quite figure out, neither of which is especially true or helpful for the plot.)Of course, Hitchcock doesn't intend to make this a Cold War commentary. (The Spy Who Came in from the Cold with Richard Burton the previous year is the film to see for that.) Hitchcock uses the East German scene as a backdrop for the suspense of deception, and of ordinary people trying not to get caught, a perennial theme he manages so well. Besides Newman, there is a fabulous small role by the great Soviet actress Lila Kedrova that brings the last half hour to life. In the middle of the movie there is one scene that's totally brilliant and wordless, with Newman and Carolyn Conwell in a farmhouse, and it's worth the ride alone. Don't miss that for the world.This can't be Hitchcock's or Newman's or Andrews's best movie for a lot of reasons. But it's a very good movie, which is enough for most of us, and an essential for any Hitchcock fan, and a enlightening surprise for anyone who thinks they know Paul Newman and want to see yet more of his impressive range. "},{"Title":"Ordinary thriller","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Recap An American physicist decides to defect to East Germany to try to lure some secrets from his counterpart behind the Iron Curtain, Professor Lindt. Then he aims to escape back to the U.S. and finish the missile defense system he is working on. But everything becomes much more complicated when his fiancée and assistant, not knowing his plan and thinking he is defecting for real, decides to follow him to Berlin. Now he must not only fool the East German security but also save the love of his life.Comments A thriller that, despite being directed by the master Hitchcock, that doesn't quite reach any higher level of suspense. Perhaps one reason is that the two leads, Paul Newman and Julie Andrews, while being great actors and stars might not be best suited for thrillers. They're much better at comedies for example and Torn Curtain has some certain small elements where subtle humor has been injected. While it made me smile now and then it also took the edge of any suspense. I think it would have been much better off if it had focused on one genre of the two.I'm not saying it is a bad movie, because it is not. It is not just as good or full of suspense as you might expect from a Hitchcock thriller. Actually the story is a little thin. I had expected some twists and turns, that some characters would not be what they seemed at first or stated to be, but nothing of that. The story was too straight forward, simply one event following the other without any surprises and without any threat to come really close.So really this is not one of Hitchcock's best. I think it has been branded as a classic just because of his name is attached to it. There are many better thrillers to watch out there.5/10 "}{"Title":"A good plot and an interesting movie.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The movie might not be one of the best Hitchcock thrillers, but it is still a movie, with a very good plot. You feel the suspence right till the last scene. The movie is also correct in so many other ways. For example is it good to see, that the Germans speak German and the Danes speak Danish in contrast to so many other movies, where they just speak English with an accent. The downside of this movie might be, that you are able to enjoy it fully, if you do not have a certain background knowledge about the East German regime.   "},{"Title":"Not bad for a cold war thriller, but below Hitchcock's standards","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock and politics. In the two movies that followed his most productive period (1953 - 1964) of great suspense classics such as Vertigo, Psycho and the Birds, there was an attempt of telling stories of political actuality that were set more in the environment of James Bond than following Hitchcock-patterns.The first of them was Torn Curtain and in my opinion the best (though it was also a critically torn curtain!) of the last four movies directed by the master of suspense but far below the mentioned masterpiecesThe main problem though is that the global  don't exactly match with Hitch's concept of people's destruction from within. The menace lies far beyond the characters themselves, it's constructed by countries and governments and not specifically to certain persons, so the actual story of Miss Sherman's and professor Armstrong's emotional journey somehow loses weight in the context of the broad political scenario.One great step in the right direction is taken by not using suggestive music (working so effectively in movies like Psycho or Vertigo), part of which was apparently the result of the lack of Bernard Herrmann's inventive collaboration. Okay, the score by John Addison is easy-listening and background music, but what really counts is the use of on-screen source sounds like the Romeo and Juliet-ballet (which is a nice reminder of The Man Who Knew Too Much) or the sheer absence of music and sound at all which makes it more realistic.Hitch had always been best at showing things instead of talking about them. I would even say that a lot of his concept of suspense is based on mute actions and extremely long takes and scenes during which sometimes nothing seems to happen but scares the devil out of you. And that's where all this German talk fits in. We understand everything even without knowing German. There is a very realistic approach in handling the story that itself sometimes gives you the impression of being quite constructed.The whole affair looks pretty modern in its camera angles and close-ups. There are several extremely well done sequences including the one in which Paul Newman tries to get the secret out of the physicist's head.The true highlight is arguably the murder scene. I dare say it was the first major movie to show the strength and endurance it takes to commit a murder and how unpleasant this all unfolds. It is the exact counterpart of the immortal shower scene in Psycho.To come to an end it's a movie that tries to bridge the gap between the epic scope of the political situation and the interaction of its protagonists. But although it fails in many ways it still tells a thrilling story in the usual masterly craftsmanship. But whether craftsman or artist, politics was never Hitchcock's field... "},{"Title":"MISUNDERSTOOD CLASSIC HITCHCOCK","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It is bad to judge Hitchcock movies.  Look at all the masterpieces the man has on his filmography list -- from the classic Secret Agent and 39 Steps to Rebecca and Lifeboat to Strangers on a Train and Psycho to The Birds and Marnie.  The man NEVER had a BAD movie.  Torn Curtain possesses all aspects of classic Hitchcock -- interesting locations, clever storyline, suspense, humor, stellar acting, stars, music, among other features.  Perhaps this movie was criticized on pre-production.  Julie Andrews was under contract and her shooting time was very limited.  This posed a problem for Hitchcock who had to rush into production.  Hitchcock also had a problem with his newly trained actor Paul Newman, who would always have it his way or the highway.  Torn Curtain is highly supsenseful and on DVD is a gem.  Presented in widescreen it also features the trailer, a documentary, and scenes with Bernard Herrmann's unused score.  Thank god Herrmann didn't get the job to score this movie -- as much as Herrmann proved to be perfect for classics like Vertigo and Marnie (known as his best) -- he was way out of his league here.  Torn Curtain was very ahead of it's time dealing with suspense, romance, and the Cold War.  John Addison performed an excellent score fitting the movie well with the recurring theme that can either make you jump or cry.  Andrews was excellent (good to see she can also do straight movies without music), as was Newman and the ensemble.  See it on DVD.  ****/***** "},{"Title":"A real B movie to yawn on","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Alfred will not be remembered for this preposterous story, miles way from the reality of the iron curtain and its intrigues. Hitchcock may have been the master of thrillers but he shows in this movie that he knows very little about espionage and the communist world.One special mention however goes to the excentric Polish Countess who appears in east Berlin... she is larger than life. Through her you can have a glimpse of the life of so many  after the curtain fell, she does her best to maintain a good appearance and manners and she loathes rude teutonic manners and filthy coffee...   "},{"Title":"My American sponsor!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I pretty much agree with all the other comments I've read this is not one of Hitchcock's better films; the killing of Grommeck it the best scene of the film, etc.One commenter, however, described the scenes with the woman searching for a sponsor as inexplicable. This got me to thinking about why these scenes were included. Obviously, the woman slowed down their escape and drew attention at the post office. On that level, she was an annoying plot device.But she also seems to represent the past glories of the Eastern block. She is obviously formerly rich or aristocratic and has a complete disdain for her fellow East Germans. And she provides an opportunity for Hitchcock to show the desparation of some East Germans to escape, which really isn't shown anywhere else in the film.I guess I'm intrigued by this character because, for almost the whole time she is on the screen I'm wishing she wasn't, but when she lunges desparately at the police officer in order to facilitate the escape of her American sponsor, I couldn't help but be moved. "},{"Title":"an unappreciated gem -- watch it with an open mind!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  First of all, do yourself a favor and only watch the newly restored version of this film!! Frequent complaints about how dead and colorless it looks are only due to the bad video transfer of a deteriorated copy. The restored version shows full wide-screen (letterbox), and is sumptuously colorful, in the best Hitchcock tradition.I think this makes a huge difference in how the viewer enjoys the movie.**warning I've tried to be careful about plot spoilers, but there are some mentions -- only in the most general terms, though, and nothing crucial.**The pacing is masterful. Others find it boring, but if you put yourself in the master's lap and let him tell the story to you, it's amazingly well done, with numerous set-pieces that have been commented on before here--the playfully sexual opening scene, which, without showing anything but the lovers' faces, is remarkably sensuous and one of the only realistic depictions of lovers in bed in movie history -- and by the way, give Julie Andrews a chance she shines in this movie and in this scene especially, but many don't want her to move beyond their preconceptions of her.--the unhurried yet nervy chase through a museum, in which the only sound is the clacking of the men's shoes.--the tense murder scene, with its classic Hitchcocky looming camera angles, and again no music or sound at all except for the grunting of the struggling characters.--the marvelous use of dramatic concealment, in which we are as in the dark as Andrews's character is for the entire first part of the movie.--the depiction of behind-the-iron-curtain tenseness, which Hitchcock got spot-on, both in the behavior of Westerners and East Germans -- it brought back painful and amusing memories of my time there during that period.--the excruciating bus escape, which feels like it's filmed in real time.--the scene in the theater, in which Newman and Andrews become visibly claustrophobic as cops stack up all around. The scene of mayhem (in which Newman yells Fire, which in German is Feuer and sounds very similar) is genuinely troubling as we see Andrews and Newman getting propelled through the human surf.This film is a real treat, especially as most of us *haven't* seen it a thousand times, like other Hitchcock films. Get hold of a good video of it, and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Despite the Dated Theme Today, an Excellent Suspenseful Adventure","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" While traveling by ship to a convention in Copenhagen, the reluctant Professor Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) is pressed by his fiancée and assistant Sarah Sherman (Julie Andrews) to discuss a possible schedule to their marriage. Later in the Hotel D' Angleterre, Sarah sees Armstrong receiving a plane ticket and he explains that he needs to go to Stockholm; however, the snoopy Sarah discovers that he is indeed flying to East Berlin with Professor Karl Manfred (Günter Strack) that is also attending the convention and she decides to follow him. When the plane arrives, she finds that her fiancé is defecting to the other side of the iron curtain. Armstrong asks her to return but she decides to stay with him, forcing Armstrong to disclose to her that he indeed is trying to spy and steal the solution of Professor Gustav Lindt (Ludwig Donath) to an unsolved formula.Despite the dated theme today, Torn Curtain is an excellent suspenseful adventure. Paul Newman has a great performance in the role of a scientist obsessed to resolve the problem with some missiles, but unfortunately Julie Andrews is wasted in the role of a silly woman and her participation is limited to complicate the situation of her fiancé. The scene with the fight of Armstrong and the farmer's wife with Gromek is very tense and one of the best moments. The escape of Armstrong and Sherman in the bus of the Pi Organization is also exciting despite the dated technology of rear projection. This time, the cameo of Alfred Hitchcock is in the lobby of the Hotel D' Angleterre with a blonde child in his lap. Last time I saw this movie on 25 June 2000 I gave a ten, but this time my vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Cortina Rasgada (Torn Curtain) "},{"Title":"An unlikely espionage story during the Cold War.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I am glad I didn't see this movie in the theatre. Anyone would have been better off watching The Alfred Hitchcock Hour with its many gems of episodes rather than this lamely plotted screenplay.The Communist East Germans were second only to their Russian masters in espionage. But in this film you wouldn't think so. First of all it was obvious they didn't vet the character played by Newman very well. Secondly, the gig that he was actually going to spy on them should have been up when his girlfriend followed him to East Germany.The modus operandi for the escape from the east is simply silly.The photography on the escaping bus is dubious as obviously moving scenery mats were used. "},{"Title":"Good, but not vintage Hitch!","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain had the promise of being like Notorious. Spies and counter spies, no one can be trusted, defections to the East German sector, Julie Andrews in a quandary,Paul Newman burdened with secrets etc. It is all intriguing, and the death of the policeman is one of he most graphic death scenes for Hitchcock, although Psycho's offering is one in a billion.Andrews and Newman..what a couple! But they are so bland, and often act against each other. What's going on? Newman is more experienced and so he washes Julie Andrews off the screen. Yes, he might be doing that. However, her static nature, her talk, her ordering food in restaurants (and there are many sit-down scenes in this) in this film makes for more tension as we move along, and as it turns out. Hitchcock always knows what to do with not-so-hot actors..he turns it all around on you and them, in this case Miss Andrews.There are notable scenes,in the theater for example, and a lot of strange rear projection shots and whole studio-origin scenes that become more obvious, especially in this lurid color film. What's going on? Hitchcock hated locations, but this had a big budget..he wants, I think, to make a film that is somewhat false, scenic, derivative even..in plot structural terms,an overestimation of Communism and its threat to our materialistic world. Look at Julie Andrew's hair and clothes..very expensive, very much like Marnie. It has an anti McCarthyism mood about it, a comic book flavor to it that justifies many otherwise awkward technical moments. Hitchcock loved playing games, and he loved comic book inventiveness..this film could be a MARVEL piece, and I think it is one. Hitchcock triumphs again. During the making of this, he told people that he was sad about it all, did not like Newman too much or Andrews, hated the color photography etc etc..all of this gossip to throw critics and viewers as well way off the track. And the soundtrack!!! Isn't it lush for this kind of drama?See this film at 132 minutes, very long, and watch the antic disposition of a master at work. It is a very underrated film. "},{"Title":"Torn Curtain","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'm still trying to figure out exactly where I stand on this film. It wasn't as bad as some people had me ready to think. I found the backstory about how Newman and Hitchcock did or didn't get along very interesting.It also seems that Hitchcock fired his longtime collaborator possibly resulting in a not quite excellent score. I did enjoy the film, it was somewhat suspenseful. One thing that bothered me a tad was that I heard on the extras that Hitchcock was a fan of using the same tricks over and over if they worked. The theater scene in The Man Who Knew Too Much and the Torn Curtain both had climactic scenes take place in a full theater. Not that you can't do such a thing, but it does help the film to feel a tad bit done. It wasn't the same exact concept, just the same setting.All in all it wasn't a horrible film, but it definitely wasn't one of my favorite Hitch films. I suppose its worth checking out if you're a fan. "}{"Title":"An Unusual But Still Suspenseful Classic Hitchcock Thriller","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure what made this Hitchcock thriller seem so different from his other classics. Maybe it was just simply odd to see Andrews in such a film. Maybe it was just simply odd to see Newman in such a film. Maybe it was the odd combination of Andrews and Newman together. I think it was all the above, however, it was still a very good movie.Andrews did a superb job playing the completely confused, emotionally injured, and betrayed woman. Newman was good at playing the typical American man - silent and brooding when in a very concerning situation. They're characters were played in a very honest and realistic manner, especially the scene in the farmhouse, where you can see that Newman's character, being involved in a situation where a man needed to be 'silenced', was in shock and didn't quite know what to do. You could tell he was thinking it was all too surreal - and due to his incapacitation, the poor farm wife had to do most of the work. One may think 'What a pansy', but I don't believe that most men are created to be like a James Bond character, or a professional hit-man.Lila Kedrova was wonderful, as usual. She didn't need a leading role to be effective or memorable. The character of the old professor was fantastic, especially in the scene at the chalk-board, LOL!!I think this is a fine Hitchcock film that any Hitchcock lover shouldn't miss! It should have also received higher ratings! "},{"Title":"Patchily Effective","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock returns to one of his familiar themes;namely the spy thriller,though the results are disappointingly mechanical and rather lethargic,with many scenes and situations recalling earlier,more superior efforts.Hitchcock was apparently unhappy with the lead casting,and it shows in a surprisingly dull performance from Paul Newman and a miscast Julie Andrews(why didn't they use an American actress?).Having said that,there are some good scenes,notably a brutal and prolonged murder sequence involving Communist agent Gromek(Wolfgang Kieling).This was apparently German actor Kieling's first English Language role,and he shows a considerable assurance in the part both in his accent and characterisation;his is easily the best performance in the film,and comes across as the most rounded,if not most sympathetic character,which makes his killing all the more shocking;Newman himself comes across as a bit of a incompetent bumbler,hardly the sort to be a double agent! Wolfgang Kieling's fine performance ensured other English-speaking roles in several other US and UK films.His role here though is still all too brief despite his modest excellence.Later scenes are reworked from better Hitchcock films such as SABOTEUR, THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH and THE 39 STEPS which have some suspense and are quite well handled,but TORN CURTAIN arguably was the beginning of the winding down of Hitch's career;age and declining health ensured there would be only three more films after thisTOPAZ,FRENZY and FAMILY PLOT.One last point;how come there was panic in the theatre when Newman shouted FIRE!!;it was in a German-speaking venue,not an English one! Enough people must have understood. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful Hitchcock Cold War thriller","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie many years ago at the drive in (I'm dating myself) and have forgotten many of the plot details. However, I suspect it's a good one of its genre, and kept me riveted to my seat at the time. In fact, I sometimes had difficulty following the plot, as is often the case for me with such movies. Cold War spy thrillers were common during that era, including of course the more light hearted, entertaining James Bond series. I suspect this is more of a 'man's film' with its lengthy murder scene and so on, not really quite my cup of tea. A gripping plot, but short in the character portrayal and romance department.Of course the title is a reference to the Iron Curtain. The movie chronicles the story of an American rocket scientist named Michael Armstrong, who is attending a convention in Coppenhagen with his assistant and fiancée, Sarah Sherman. She becomes suspicious of his behaviour and follows him to East Germany, where he appears to be considering defection.The film is memorable to me these many years later for its two stars. Paul Newman portrays the scientist, Michael Armstrong, I'm sure competently, but I kept wanting to see some of his legendary easy going charm, quite lacking in this character! Julie Andrews, fresh from Mary Poppins and The Sound of Music, plays Sarah in a very dramatically different role. The chemistry between the two leads is adequate here but there's not much to the love story, and I confess to vastly preferring Andrews' 1974 Cold War suspense film, The Tamarind Seed, costarring Omar Sharif, as it has more in the romance department. In short, Torn Curtain is a Cold War suspense thriller and The Tamarind Seed is a romance, that happens to have a suspenseful Cold War setting. "},{"Title":"Streets of WEST ! Berlin ...","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" If you have absolutely no idea about communist East Berlin, you probably wont mind the BMW and Mercedes Taxis.East German cabs were Wolga, Moskvitch and Trabant.In other street scenes ( of West Berlin ... for goodness sake Hitch! ) Opel's and DKW's are shown !At that time in the sixties 'over there', you would've been imprisoned and probably tortured, to find out how you got that car.And your 'capitalist' car certainly confiscated.It is a miracle to our class how Hitch could make such grieve errors. Or were we sold stupid ? "},{"Title":"Good Hitchcock lumbered with a lack-luster script","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock has often made films based on scripts/novels/plays of established writers. This is what made them tick&#151;Daphne du Maurier, Leon Uris, Anthony Shaffer, Noel Coward, Ben Hecht, etc. This film ends with a lame line Oh, Michael! Compare this with some of the other last lines of Hitchcock films (&#133;your are missing your tie in Frenzy or  Shoot! You nothing left to kill in Easy Virtue). A problem, if there is one, is the unimaginative script of Brian Moore, which includes flicking a cigarette lighter in a room used to successfully kill man with cooking gas and a spy who comes late to a dance party, makes contact with the hero and leaves after a single dance, without raising suspicion of all the others.Torn Curtain is not a film in which Hitchcock is less effective than in any other work of his. The killing of Gromek is probably the finest and realistic Hitchcock. The escape of Paul Newman from the theater by yelling Fire is as good as the efforts of Cary Grant creating a diversion during an auction in North by Northwest. The bus escape sequence seems to be remarkably close to Anatole Litvak's The Journey made seven years before this film with Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr, but Hitchcock infuses elements of suspense creditably. The escape from the ship is classic Hitchcock, where the viewer is deliberately led to believe that a diversion is the real escape. The stare of recognition by the ballerina, captured by zooming in the camera to her face, was effective but crude.Beginning with the imaginative scene of a ship passenger poking his frozen glass of water with a fork to indicate the freezing temperature on the ship, Hitchcock never lets us down. The casting of Newman and Andrews was interesting and the opening scene of the couple in bed is sensuous without being vulgar. Andrews is able to present her range of capabilities beyond family dramas that came to the fore much later in Victor/Victoria. Lila Kedrova, though interesting has a narrow range of emotional expressions, most of which she displayed in her award wining performance in Zorba the Greek. The film had the stamp of good Hitchcockian cinema all over it. Most interestingly this is a rare American film that acknowledges superior science across the iron curtain. "},{"Title":"Curate's Egg","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" On a conference visit to Scandinavia in 1965, an American scientist tells his assistant/fiancé that he must make an unscheduled visit to Sweden but refuses to allow her to accompany him. After a row, she decides to return to the U.S., but then discovers he actually plans to travel to East Germany. She follows him there and is horrified to discover that he plans to defect to the East.In 'Torn Curtain' Hitchcock returns to one of his favourite areas - espionage. Yet somehow, as with 'Topaz' later, there is more fizzle than sizzle on display. It's hard to determine the problems, but certainly we know he wasn't thrilled with the studio-enforced casting of Andrews and Newman, and he admits to a few errors in judgement in his conversation with Truffaut, not least the dodgy 'backdrop' reel used during the bus chase. Curiously, whilst Hitchcock was crafting interesting, often strong-willed female characters during this period (Psycho, The Birds, Marnie, North By Northwest), with Andrews' Sarah Sherman he fashions a more passive woman, and consequently gives Andrews little to do but look either adoringly or woundedly at Newman. Newman fares better (although I never truly 'believe' Michael loves Sarah), but as usual Hitchcock fills the film with wonderful supporting characters and actors - Kedrova in particular blows the leads off the screen and her sequence is fantastic. So whilst 'Torn Curtain' is riddled with beautiful Hitchcock touches (the long shot of Michael approaching the farmer across the field; Gromek's very disturbing, prolonged murder - an electrifying performance by Conwell - the prima-ballerina's noticing of Michael in the audience), in the end it is one of his lesser works. "},{"Title":"Good, but not... (Possible spoilers)","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film is full of great suspense and intrigue, and chock full of fantastic Hitchcock moments... for the first hour and a half... The museum scene where Armstrong eludes Gromek is absolutely amazing, as are the Gromek murder scene and the bus chase scene. But from there, the movie seems to degenerate into nothing but slow, overly-talkie scenes that follow the same plots of recognition-near capture-escape. Even the climax scene in the operahouse loses its punch, because it is the basic plot of about 4 events before it. Not only that, but Julie Andrews should never have been in this movie. But this was obviously Universal's decision, and both her and Paul Newman fought with Hitchcock throughout the filming of the movie, which was unfortunate, as it obviously hurt the cohesiveness of this film.Newman, on the other hand, is good, as are the supporting cast, and this movie is worth seeing just for the museum and murder scenes, where Hitchcock's master touch is evident.7/10 "},{"Title":"A sadly overlooked Hitchcock gem!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain is without doubt one of the most unduly underrated Hitchcock films. It may be lacking some of the wit, complexity of character and shock value of some of his recognised greats but it certainly makes up for it with thrills aplenty, an exciting and unquestionably intelligent plot, stunning photography and a ceaselessly exhilarating pace.Of the two leads it is certainly Paul Newman who shines. He delivers an understated, subtle performance which positively smolders with intensity and truth. It is also refreshing to see him playing something other than the macho, all action ladies man. His portrayal as an average man, an academic, gentle, quiet struggling to adapt to life as a spy is wholly believable.Julie was a relatively new star and Hitch said that he had been talked into casting her as she was so hot at the time. It must be said that wonderful as Julie Andrew is she turns in a very average performance. Giving us nothing but Julie Andrews. She lacks any real intensity and certainly lacks believability.The only failing perhaps is the script. Although it is impeccably structured, the dialogue is lacking in many ways. Hitch was never happy with the script, as he was worried that it contained none of the humour which had characterised some of his previous successes. Newman also had many complaints about the script. He felt it lacked energy and credibility.Visually it is as stunning as Hitchcock gets. His shot composition and editing creates a visual treat. He uses colour If Torn Curtain is to be remembered for one scene alone it is the stunningly shot murder of Gromek.He builds up the prelude to the murder with quick cuts and then very suddenly initiates it with the sound of a pot crashing against the wall. Other than this the murder scene is practically silent. Composer Bernard Herrman had in fact written a score for this section of the movie. Hitchcock was dissatisfied with the music. And after firing Herrmann Hitchcock dispensed with music altogether in this scene. The lengthy struggle wonderfully shows how difficult it would be to kill a man an act which many other espionage thrillers at the time criminally over simplified. As Hitchcock one said Murder can be fun.The firing of Bernard Herrman in my view was a huge error on Hitchcock's part. Having heard the original score which Herrmann composed I can assert that as with prior collaborations such as Psycho and Vertigo, the score perfectly accents and compliments Hitchcock's visuals. And the John Addison score pales in comparison.In short, I think it is high time this movie was given the credit it deserves and that it takes it place in the pantheon of Hitchcock greats. "},{"Title":"Despite incredible moments, a disappointment from the Master of Suspense","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" American nuclear scientist Paul Newman defects in East Germany, but is he serious or just setting the Germans up as pawns? Espionage drama from director Alfred Hitchcock, with Julie Andrews a curious choice as the proverbial girlfriend (she was forced upon Hitch by the head of Universal). The production is extremely plush--too plush for the gritty on-screen happenings. Some of the set-ups have that carpeted, artificial Hollywood look that doesn't do much for the players on-screen nor the audience. The screenplay is heavy with talk, and Hitchcock can't shake out the cobwebs; the pacing is dirge-like most of the way. Newman and Andrews give just-OK lead performances, but there are the requisite pleasures in such a film, particularly one colorful murder scene involving an oven. Not a memorable film by any means, but passable for Hitchcock completists. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"better than its rated","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I like this better than other people do.  There are two disasterous moments. First, when Julie freezes in front of the classroom.  Second, when they meet that middle aged woman after the bus trip, and all the momentum drifts away.But the high points?  Many.  The farmhouse scene and the great characters in that encounter.  The scene at the blackboard with the professor.  The bus trip.  And lastly the ballet.  This film delivers some quality Hitch moments, well worth seeing, but it's not one of his grade A classics. "}{"Title":"A mixed bag...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Unintentional spoilers possible. Read at your own risk.This 1966 Paul Newman-Julie Andrews film, directed by none other than the Master, Alfred Hitchcock, is, for me, quite a mixed bag.First, I will cover the bad points before I get to the good. The major con to this movie is Julie Andrews. I normally like her a lot-in films like THE SOUND OF MUSIC, 10, and VICTOR-VICTORIA, but this film does not suit her acting style, causing her to become unbelievable, and the scenes involving Lila Kedrova as Countess Kuchinska were grotesque and pointless in this otherwise emotionally-devoid film. Also, John Addison's score does not add anything at all to the film, in fact it takes away. Bernard Herrmann's was far more suitable. Now onto the pros. My favorite scene, of course, is the murder of Gromek in the farmhouse outside Berlin. Other favorites include The pursuit through the Museum zu Berlin, the discovering of Gromek's body and motorcycle, and the party scene in Leipzig. All in all this film's pros outweigh the cons, but it just doesn't live up to Hitchcock's other works. This film is particularly gray, especially depicted in the scene when Armstrong, Sherman, Gromek, and Manfred are driving from the Airport to Berlin, the transition from evening to morning at the Hotel Berlin, the bus pursuit through the German countryside, and all the scenes in Leipzig.I recommend this film to those who want to experience other types of Hitchcock films. "},{"Title":"A string of deflated scenes... and one great murder!","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film has the best killing I´ve ever seen on film, but you have to sit through an awful lot to get to it  a clear-as-glass espionage setup; a string of deflated, suspenseless suspense scenes, and Julie Andrew´s perpetual look of I trust him completely, but, what´s going on? Ick.After the killing, (which is just terriffic!  Suspenseful, high-stakes, totally unique... I had never seen anything like it!) there´s just a bunch more of those deflated suspense scenes and some amusing European character types.  For hours.Definitely a candidate for re editing.  "},{"Title":"The master had lost his plot ...","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is definitely one of Hitch's most forgettable movies - I just watched this again after a long time and just feel the urge to make a few comments.Good things first there are a few highlights even in this one - the famous killing scene at the farm is a Hitchcock at his best, and Wolfgang Kieling as Gromek, the smiling villain, steals every scene he is in.So much for the good part - now for the annoying things The story Oh come on, Paul Newman's false defection to the East on his own, to get hold of a formula that he manages to lure out of a brilliant East German professor within minutes? OK, it's the famous McGuffin, but I have seen 50 better ones in Hitch's movies ...Tha acting There is no chemistry between Andrews and Newman ... both leave a very bored impression and I failed to really feel anything for their characters.The scenery Granted, this one is 40+ years old and Matte painting was still very common, but the whole picture has such an annoying studio look that I just couldn't take it seriously.East Germany A couple of minutes' research would probably have helped in the believability department - this is so far from East German reality as it could possibly have been - BMW taxis, West German cars on the roads, a fresh defector running around on his own, operating a fake bus to transport people who want to escape, fresh tomatoes as the offer of the day - and finally Volksarmee soldiers holding up buses and robbing the travelers ... hello? The language mix Good thing to use German actors for most of the German parts, but there are so many smaller roles with Germans being played by non-native speakers that it just sounds ridiculous.There were many other details that just didn't fit - overall, a real poor achievement of the master ... "},{"Title":"Middle-of-the-road Hitchcock movie","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Rating 7 out of 10. Directed by Alfred Hitchcock. While `Torn Curtain' has some interesting scenes, it is not a remarkable movie and to some extent a let down to Hitch fans.The rather well known scenes including the bizarre murder in the farmhouse, the captivating chase through the museum, the bus scene, and the chalkboard moment were droll and entertaining. However many other scenes left me bored, which rarely happens with Hitchcock movies. It was also hard to believe Paul Newman's character as a renowned scientist.I wouldn't recommend this movie to just anyone, only Hitchcock fans and enthusiasts of the suspense thriller genre. "},{"Title":"Acting Failures","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to blame Hitchcock entirely for this sub-par Hitchcock movie.  Perhaps more interest could have been raised were Paul Newman and Julie Andrews more believable and likeable.  We couldn't like Julie - she was too annoying, grinny, and 'prim'.  And Paul Newman has the facial expression of a depressed undertaker.  We can't identify with a man who appears like he's made of stone.  -- A note to the last writer who claimed Hitchcock begged Mrs. Andrews to be in the movie; you're wrong.  In fact Hitch was talked into hiring her because she was so popular at the time.  Hitch did get along quite well with most of his actors, and Im sure Julie was no exception... that doesn't mean she was right for the part - nor that she did a very good job, which she didn't.Hitchcock's brilliance is shown in the scenes where his camera takes over, and the acting can be put aside.  Gromek's killing is one of the best examples of Pure Cinema.  And when Gromek is chasing Newman through a meuseum and all that is heard is footsteps, that is brilliant.  Th bus scene would have been even better, probably, with a Herrmann score, and a better rear-projection screen which would make it more realistic. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's 50th film - a routine Cold War suspenser, somewhat glum for this director.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"   It tears you apart with suspense! raved the poster for this 1966 Cold War thriller from grand-master Alfred Hitchcock. While Torn Curtain has sporadic tense moments, it certainly doesn't tear you apart. And in Paul Newman and Julie Andrews, the casting people have found two of the least Hitchcockian stars ever to appear in a Hitchcockian feature. Professor Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) is in Copenhagen for a science conference, accompanied by his assistant and fiancee Sarah Sherman (Julie Andrews). Armstrong suddenly makes a decision to defect to the communist side, leaving his bride-to-be bewildered and upset. She decides to follow him to East Germany, where she learns that his defection is actually an elaborate ruse, his true aim being to get hold of a top secret communist missile formula. Too late, Sarah realises that by tailing her lover to East Germany she has jeopardised his mission, and the pair of them have to try to escape back to the west aided by the East German underground. The plot is good enough to make for a better film than the one Hitchcock has provided. Part of that is probably due to the fact that these Cold War mystifiers are not really the type of thing Hitchcock would normally go for (John Frankenheimer or Lewis Gilbert might have been better candidates to direct). Also, Brian Moore's script is riddled with cliches and unconvincing dialogue. That's not to say the film is all bad. There is a horrifying and graphic murder sequence in which Newman discovers that killing an enemy can be pretty difficult, and the fake fire sequence at the ballet show near the film's climax is nicely handled. On the whole, Torn Curtain is too routine to be worthy of its fine director and actors. It comes across as a totally competent but undistinguished spy thriller, hard to tell apart from a hundred other movies of its kind. "},{"Title":"poor effort from the Master","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Even the greats cannot sustain greatness in 100% of their output (well, maybe J.S.Bach...) and this flop from Hitchcock proves the point. Paul Newman and Julie Andrews simply are not Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint. Andrews is particularly miscast. The gruesome murder scene seems gratuitous, not integral (the cropdusting scene in 'North by Northwest' was just as gratuitous, but somehow seemed to work). The device whereby Newman tricks the scientist into revealing the secret is patently unconvincing. The decision to drop Bernard Herrmann as composer was a mistake; a better score might have helped. The  pacing is not sustained, and the ending is anticlimactic. The movies that followed this (Topaz, Frenzy, and Family Plot) are better, but not by much. Sadly, by this point, Hitch's best work was behind him.   "},{"Title":"THIS is Hitchcock?","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I realize that this was made when the Master was past his prime, but it's really sad that he could fall this far down in just the few short years between Psycho and The Birds and then this.  The movie is so boring, tiresome, and chilly, for lack of a better word to describe Paul Newman's performance and the feel of the film in general, that I could care less what was going on.  There was something in here about the Cold War... um, Newman was a scientist, I think, and he either was or wasn't defecting to East Germany for some nuclear bomb experiment or something.  His assistant/play-thing in the off-hours/fiancee, played by the teary-eyed yet very controlled Julie Andrews, insisted on following him everywhere.  Supporting characters and events were thrown in and shoved out at random.  That's right... there was the German woman on the farm who helped him murder the spy in the apparently-famous scene and then completely dissapeared without ever haven spoken in English, the doctor who dashed in and out with her efforts to help Newman and Andrews escape from Germany (?), and, of course, the Polish countess who adds nothing at all except perhaps a symbolism of the desparation so many felt to immigrate to America.  The movie did nothing to me at all; never any tense, emotional, frightening moments, never any suspense, never any comedy, never any melodrama, and zero chemistry between Newman and Andrews.  Indeed, a major letdown on all levels.  I've got to see more of Hitchcock's masterwork, or else all I'll remember of him is this.  A very unpleasent thought. "},{"Title":"Exciting Sixties Cold War Spy Thriller Of Defecting Amateur Spy","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Michael Armstrong is an American nuclear physicist attending a conference in Denmark who abruptly flies to East Berlin and announces he is defecting. The only problem is his fiancée Sarah has unwittingly followed him and doesn't know the whole story &#x85;This is a pretty solid spy thriller of the type Hitch liked to make, with the hero chasing a MacGuffin (in this case a complex formula for nuclear missile propulsion), shifty bad guys, oddball supporting characters and plenty of chases. The main difference here is that the man is a bit of a schemer and the woman is an everyday innocent, a gender switch from the usual pattern. This is perhaps its chief liability - Andrews is okay and handles the victimised first third quite well but is too wholesome for a Hitchcock movie and doesn't really have much chemistry with Newman. Once the action switches to him it picks up well though, with the eerie pursuit through the art gallery and the skin-crawling murder of the Stasi agent Gromek in the farmhouse. Equally brilliant is the device of having Armstrong appeal to Professor Lindt's intellect just enough to make him reveal the secret formula in shades of exasperation and arrogance. Despite the big sweep, Hitch reigns each scene in tightly as the net closes in on our heroes, maintaining the tension and injecting his usual flashes of humour, like the old lady with the heavy case getting on the bus or the endless wait for the connection at the post office. Whilst this may not rank in the top drawer of his spy films (my favourite is The 39 Steps), it's still an exciting and extremely well made picture, with a good story and some great sequences. "},{"Title":"Torn Curtain","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is probably the only film from the Master of Suspense director Sir Alfred Hitchcock that I didn't really understand what was going on, it was purely the leading stars I wanted to watch it for. Basically American rocket scientist Professor Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) and his assistant also fiancée Sarah Sherman (Julie Andrews) are attending a convention in Copenhagen, and he is acting very strangely wanting her to stay out the way. He watches his suspicious behaviour, and he finds out he is getting on a flight to East Germany, and worrying about what's going she follows him. That is pretty much where I lost track of what was going on, I just know that Michael accepts Sarah being with him on their journey, there is something to do with an anti-missile system going on, and there are some kind of agency and troops after them. Also starring Lila Kedrova as Countess Kuchinska, Hansjörg Felmy as Heinrich Gerhard, Tamara Toumanova as Ballerina, Ludwig Donath as Professor Gustav Lindt, Wolfgang Kieling as Hermann Gromek, Günter Strack as Professor Karl Manfred, David Opatoshu as Mr. Jacobi and Gisela Fischer as Dr. Koska. Newman and Andrews I agree don't have much chemistry on screen, there are some good scenes in amongst the confusing story, including the five minute silent death scene involving strangulation and gas, and the bit where their trying to get away on a bus, but overall, it was a bit of a disappointing spy thriller. Okay! "}{"Title":"A Couple of Wonderful Hitchcock Moments But Script Fails","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Apparently everybody knew that the script needed more work, but Julie Andrews had a window in her schedule, so Hitchcock made the mistake of going ahead so he could get the hottest actress in the world. Andrews was just coming off of two blockbusters - Mary Poppins and Sound of Music Andrews is fine, but her character isn't really given much to do and in the second half she just becomes Paul Newman's shadow.Newman noted that all his fights with Hitchcock were over the script. In this case Newman seems to hit the nail on the head. He makes a valiant effort to bring it off, but no actor can make a totally absurd plot believable.The farmhouse scene and the scene in Professor Lint's classroom are excellent, but many scenes are just too unbelievable to create much suspense. For example, the fake bus scene is just absurd. Why not just put a wig and glasses on Newman and Andrews and put them on a real bus? Likewise the polish princess subplot doesn't fit in with the rest of the story and just slows the movie down for the sake of a bit of not really funny humor. The theater scene could have been chopped out too without any loss at all.The lesson here is don't rush to do a movie just to fit a star's schedule. Wait until you have a finished and polished script. "},{"Title":"Sub-standard Hitchcock due to poor script","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I was quite disappointed in this movie. I am a big Hitchcock fan and usually like most all his works. But this one is quite lacking in the high standards that I usually have come to expect from a Hitch movie.Suspense is usually top of the list on what Hitchcock does best, but this one left me lukewarm if not cold. There are a few scenes that raise your interest level, like the bus scene where are they are trying to escape ahead of the real bus that is following behind. Also, the close call at the movie theater where you just know Newman and Andrews are sitting ducks - but they manage to escape again. While others found the murder scene most intriguing, I found it rather comical and hard to believe.Also, usually Hitchcock movies are quite beautiful in their cinematography, but this one seemed cheap and poorly done. The fake back drops and bad process shots are very poor by usual Hitchcock standards.If I had to lay blame to one area, it would be that script failed to deliver much to work with. The suspense elements are just not strong enough, a lot is predictable and the pace rather slow. I'm not sure Newman was the best choice for this role either. He just didn't come across as the nuclear scientist type. "},{"Title":"It keep my hole attention.","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is not the best Hitchcock film, but it's not the worst. I just get a Hitchcock's box set and I just saw this one. Tt keep my hole attention all the minutes, it's fully suspense. The way that you are find out new things, and the way that you know more than some other characters make you hope the other character tell them, or find it out... Heh, its really interesting. This movie also has the Hichcock sign everywhere. There's a scene where someone stick a knife on someone, it's just brilliant, all those individual shot, close ups.I like it, but it's not one of those movies that I would see again. I love Vertigo, for me that's the best Hitchcock move all time. He has a lot of really good ones thought. "},{"Title":"A classy and polished Hitchcock spy story","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" 'Torn Curtain (1966)' tends to be regarded as one of the black sheep of Hitchcock's late-career output. After a first viewing, I can't say I understand why it has received such a poor reputation. Certainly, the film seems somewhat mediocre when compared to such timeless classics as 'Psycho (1960)' and 'Vertigo (1958),' but, then again, so does just about every other film that any director has produced in the last 100 years. 'Torn Curtain' is another of Hitchcock's capable attempts at a spy picture, a sort of traditionally-styled rendering of a James Bond film Terence Young's 'Dr. No' had been released in 1962 to enormous success, initiating a multi-billion dollar saga that was already reaping huge rewards by 1966. Even though the chemistry between the two stars, Paul Newman and Julie Andrews, doesn't always work, Hitchcock focuses much of the film on the diverse range of foreign characters, a selection of unusual and contrasting eccentrics who make the film a definite joy to watch.Michael Armstrong (Newman) is a respected American scientist who has seemingly defected over to East Germany to aid their nuclear weapons research the Cold War being very much alive-and-well at the time. Sarah Louise Sherman (Andrews) is suspicious of her fiancé's actions, and trails him to East Berlin, her love for Michael forcing her to embrace the Communists' plans in order to remain with him. The first act of the film mostly takes place from Sarah's point of view, and, as we watch Michael suspiciously formulating his treasonous campaign, we begin to suspect that he is the movie's primary villain. However, this is where the Master of Suspense pulls his first twist, and Michael's behaviour is revealed to be merely a ruse, with the objective of acquiring vital nuclear weapons data from an oddball Commie scientist, Professor Gustav Lindt (Ludwig Donath). From here, Newman becomes a traditional cinematic hero, and, after uncovering the information that he required, he and Sarah, with the help of numerous fellow conspirators, must reach friendly territory without being captured.Famously, the production of 'Torn Curtain' didn't run as smoothly as could have been hoped. The director was hesitant about using Newman and Andrews, and both were thrust upon him by the studios, despite Hitchcock's differing preferences. Newman, for one, proved very problematic for the master director, repeatedly questioning the script and his character in a manner Hitchcock later described as disrespectful. Newman has stated that I think Hitch and I could have really hit it off, but the script kept getting in the way. Also notably, 'Torn Curtain' marked a devastating falling-out between Alfred Hitchcock and the legendary Bernard Herrmann, who composed a complete score for the film that was never used instead, the director opted for British composer John Addison.Say what you want about the film as a whole, but nobody can deny that it contains several completely unforgettable set-pieces. The murder of the charismatic henchman, Hermann Gromek (Wolfgang Kieling), is truly a horrifyingly gruelling sequence, which Hitchcock created specifically to show the audience how difficult it actually is to kill a man. The entire sequence plays out in almost complete silence, with the struggling Gromek even surviving a bloody knife wound that would have instantly killed a character in any other film. Another moment of Hitchcock genius takes place as Michael and Sarah attempt to flee East Germany, as, during a bus journey, they hope that the Communist troops don't realise that they are not riding in a legitimate vehicle. Add to this the suspenseful escape at a crowded theatre, the amusing moments featuring a disgruntled ballerina (Tamara Toumanova) and John F. Warren's polished cinematography, and you've got a spy thriller that is very much worth watching. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's lesser films","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The idea is interesting, but the screenplay dooms it almost from the start. To portray the East Germans as such Don Adams types is the first big mistake. Then to hope the audience would forget quality of plot line for a convoluted spy and escape yarn is the second. The holes are too frequent, too early, and too obvious. A Director more interested in tight plotting would have had the screenplay thrown out and rewritten, but Hitchcock seems more interested in tweaking the nose of Communism. Newman and Andrews have nothing to work with here, and simply go through the motions as Hitch instructs. It reminds me of Topaz, with it's focus on the banal evil of communism, and it's much too dragged out ending! ****************SPOILER*************************** It is inconceivable that a man defecting would be able to slip away from his handlers. It is inconceivable he would attempt anything so stupid so soon into the defection, as it would send of alarm bells. This scene should have come near the end not the beginning! "},{"Title":"Crummy Hitch is still good cinema","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Yes, this film has weaknesses, likely because of mistakes in direction by Hitchcock who, after being let down by critics following the release of Vertigo may have wrongheadedly begun blaming, in turns, himself and his collaborative artists instead of the critics. By the time he made Torn Curtain both his career and the movie business were in very different places. Andrews and Newmann were well-qualified and in this writer's opinion, fit the roles for which they were cast, as did the rest of the ensemble. Hermann's ejection from the project is widely regarded as the big mistake it was. There are still moments of brilliance, including the ballerina moment, the farmhouse scene, the bit in the coffee house, the facial expression of the East German cop as he fires his machine gun and much more but perhaps Hithcock's direction of his leading actors was lacking in confidence and rapport. Meanwhile the sets are mostly quite accurate and convincing (if they seem sparse and cheap to some 2000s era viewers it's only because that's how post-war East Berlin truly looked in the mid-1960s) and even the back projections, an AH trademark, have a successful cinematic function. What's missing, thereby setting all akilter, is the human chemistry of artfully directed and inspired leading actors, never mind the lack of a competent musical score (what he settled on is truly inept, thin and without artistic sensitivity to either the script or the film). Both of these weaknesses might be laid, sadly, on Hitchcock's own mishandling of the circumstances. Ironically, the best performances are seen in the bit parts including one seldom mentioned, the young East German woman in the farmhouse. Even crummy Hitch is still good cinema "},{"Title":"Forgettable except for one chilling scene...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" TORN CURTAIN has to be on the lowest rung of the ladder when judging Hitchcock films. How it manages to be such a dull espionage tale with stars like PAUL NEWMAN and JULIE ANDREWS in the leads, is practically incomprehensible.But I suppose most of the trouble has to be blamed on the script. Hitchcock himself gave an interview shortly before the film was released stating that it was awfully hard these days to find a really good scriptwriter. He must have had his latest upcoming film in mind.Newman is a scientist on a spy mission in East Germany and has to pretend to be a defector in order to find out any information. Julie is along for company and soon gets just as involved in the situation as he is. When they're about to be discovered, they have to flee and therein lies the rest of the plot. If the proceedings had been done with any sort of wit or originality, this might have been a fun film to watch. Neither star shows a bit of chemistry in their relationship.As it is, there's only one chilling scene set in a farmhouse where Newman and a farm woman have to kill a German scientist who knows too much about them and their mission. How they struggle to kill the man, who fights for his life with a great deal of resilience (he's harder to kill than Rasputin), makes for the most Hitchcock-like suspense in the whole film.Not worthwhile unless you're an avid fan who must see anything Newman or Andrews does. Only LILA KEDROVA, in an amusing minor role that has little to do with the main plot, manages to stir any interest briefly. "},{"Title":"It doesn't shine like other Alfred Hitchcock films","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Like Topaz, I found myself not liking Torn Curtain too well. I liked it better than Topaz, but still that's not saying too much, especially since I've been enjoying almost every Hitchcock film. The movie starts out strong and had something, but it didn't keep me going like a typical Hitchcock movie would.Don't get me wrong, I love Julie Andrews, she is one of the most charming women on the silver screen. But I just couldn't see her doing an Alfred Hitchcock film, nore did it look like she was into the movie. Her character didn't develop as strong as she could have been. Paul Newman was the same story, his character didn't get the justice and depth he deserved as well.It's a good story, it just didn't seem to well done, and not thoughtfully thorough as it could have been. I know there is a good movie in here somewhere, I just hope my next movie The Trouble with Harry will prove that Al didn't loose his touch.6/10 "},{"Title":"Different. . .but good","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I do not believe that this was Julie Andrews' best work. My aunt watched part of the movie with me, and she said that there was not too much need for Julie's character (Sarah Sherman). I agree, unfortunately, that there was not too much need for her, other than to give the film more variety, and also to add different points of perspective. At the beginning, you see many things, including Paul Newman's character, from her point of view, and as the movie progresses, you see things from his point of view. Sarah Sherman seems to disappear completely, until near the very end, She doesn't do much but walk around in the middle of the film, it seems.Overall, I've only seen it once, and therefore do not have a very good understanding of characters, theme, or plot. (Usually I have to see a movie many times to really GET it. . .At least for those 2 hours or longer ones.) I still really did like it, and believe that Paul Newman was one great-looking guy. Quite dishy. Julie was the same as usual Lovely. The entire thing was interesting and a little different than what I usually watch. If you want a taste of something different, I would recommend Torn Curtain. "},{"Title":"Decent Hitchcock film, but rather disappointing","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I didn't hate Torn Curtain, but I didn't love it either. I think it is a decent film, but I admit I was disappointed. Torn Curtain is a good cold-war espionage thriller, however it doesn't rank in my favourite Hitchcock movies list(like North By Northwest, Psycho, Rebecca, Vertigo and Rear Window). I did prefer The Birds, Stage Fright and Spellbound over this.My main problem with Torn Curtain was the pace. It was a good length, but the pace was disappointingly sluggish. Another problem was the script. I will agree that there are flashes of interest and suspense, but on the whole the script came across as rather underdeveloped and turgid. There are some nice sets, but there are also some phony-looking ones, especially the hill on which the characters go up to to chat.Many have complained about John Addison's score. I can understand this, I found it nice but forgettable sadly. Bernard Hermann (whose score for Vertigo especially was full of suspense and induces goosebumps though my favourite score for any Hitchcock movie is Miklos Rosza's for Spellbound) would have been a much better choice as composer, the score in the film just wasn't suspenseful enough. I don't really blame Hitchcock for any of these problems. If anything I blame the studio. They should have let Hitchcock do what he wanted rather than forcing him to get the score changed and change his casting choices.I always found Hitchcock to be a great director. While reported to be uninterested and dissatisfied with the film, the direction wasn't too bad at all. There are some elements of Hitchcockian suspense. The plot was intriguing enough, a little confusing in places, but a very nice idea that starts off very promisingly. One of the recurring themes of Hitchcock's movies is the plight of the common man caught up in uncommon circumstances. It is this theme here, with the plot telling of a woman believing that her fiancé intends to defect to East Berlin in order to get funding for his pet project.The acting was a mixed bag. I had no problem with Paul Newman, seeing as he gave a very brooding and intense performance. I have loved Julie Andrews in films like Mary Poppins and Sound of Music, but I for one found her an odd casting choice. She wasn't bad, she was merely okay, but what did disappoint was the lack of chemistry between the two leads and the fact that Sarah Sherman isn't exactly the fully fleshed out character Hitchcock would have liked. Wolfgang Kieling is great as Gromek, the sinister villain of the piece though.It may look as though I hated Torn Curtain. I didn't, far from it. The cinematography was very nice, with dark colours and pretty looking scenes. It is one of the most beautiful looking late-Hitchcocks. The costumes are pretty to look at too. And while there are pacing problems throughout, there are some truly effective scenes. One that springs to mind is the film's highlight, the murder scene. It was shockingly graphic, and one of the most realistic and graphic murder scenes in any thriller. I was impressed with the ballet scene too. The choreography was impressive, and the music featured was Tchaikovsky's Francessca Da Rimini. Brilliant music, shame really you don't hear it in its entirety it is really something. There are some entertaining bits as well, notably Armstrong's conversation with Lindt.All in all, deeply flawed Hitchcock film, but it is at least watchable and it could have been much worse than it was. I was disappointed I admit that, but I would watch Torn Curtain again if given the choice. I think perhaps it is underrated, because while far from the master's best it is a decent film. 7/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The Cold War was so sad that it makes us laugh today","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was not brilliantly inspired with this film, even and maybe especially in 1966. It is true it was a very deep period in the Cold War, but because the trap of a war the US were already largely engaged in and involved in, the Vietnam War, was literally starting to shake the whole world with horror and to menace that world on its very basis after the sigh of relief we all let out after the Cuban missile crisis. So Hitchcock had to do a cold war film, so what, and he chose the easiest target he could find, East Germany, though that was rather easy, but even if it was easy it did not take him away from the good old European or Western tradition he would have lost if he had gone further East, and then he would have been lost in translation. And at the same time we feel there is at least one tongue in one cheek, and I would say on both sides of the mouth. What makes it a whole farce in a way? It is the whole vanity of the spying-counter-spying mission of that poor Professor Armstrong. To get out of an East German scientist the key scientific element of a discovery that could save the world from any nuclear war. First it was absurd to imagine the East doing some research to guarantee peace since western propaganda was repeating day after and night after night and week after week that their standard identity was that of a war-mongering empire. But the best of it all is that they send a scientist to get that element out of this East German, and that that amateur spy is getting the secret by tricking the East German into revealing him that secret out of vanity. And of course the East German professor understands he has been tricked by an ignoramus, but slightly too late. And every detail is going that way. Every situation is absurdly upside down. And these impossible elements become some kind of black, very black, blacker than black humor. Blacker than I you die, as the saying could have it. You'll have to watch the film to get a good laugh. In the entirely collectivized agriculture of East Germany you have one farm worker on his tractor doing nothing in the middle of a field, alone, and running around on his tractor waiting for the arrival of our Armstrong to tell him who knows what about who knows what. That is probably the most incredible element in that film, that absolutely solitary person in a regime that was based on the total absence of solitude. And what about the girl in the totally isolated farm alone again and her carelessness of not erasing the symbolic PI from the dirt in the farmyard. And once again what was that solitary farm doing in a collectivized agriculture? And the escape is more than a laugh. It is sad today to be so naively funny. Escape upon escape with so thin threads to hold it all up that we wonder if it is not some kind of joke. But the best is the female ballet dancer who recognizes Armstrong and his girlfriend in the middle of the opera from the stage with all limelight and overhead lights and all other lights on and blaring their dazzling light. Anyone who has any knowledge about that kind of situation will say it is impossible. Stage lights are like an unbreakable cocoon of light for the artists on the stage. Really that kind of humor is like everyone wants to go to heaven, but no one wants to go now. The final stages of the escape I can't tell because they are too sad in their fun, especially the episode of highwaymen on East German roads. If there was something typical of East Germany, it was their extraordinary honesty. Stealing was not even a crime that had to be banned or forbidden because stealing was just foreign to their minds. That was probably the best achievement of these communist societies they ignored crime, not because it was not advertised, but just because it did not exist, or was so marginal that it was anachronistic to mention it. At the same time Hitchcock captured some of the traits of that East German society so well that it is better than Goodbye Lenin, even if the mention of good coffee is so nostalgically true. I am afraid a modern audience might find it boring because it is, since every single detail has to be remembered out of oblivion.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"By No Means Hitchcock's Best, but Nonetheless, a Great Film","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain is an edge of your seat thrill ride that scarcely gives you a moment to breathe. Sure, it's no Rear Window or The Birds, but I think it still deserves a spot among the classics. Hopefully you'll like it as much as I have.The film has a great cast including two of the biggest stars at the time, Julie Andrews and Paul Newman. All the performances are great. The story and action are both top notch and it will definitely keep you guessing as to what exactly is going on. Not to mention the extremely intense climax.Long time Hitchcock fans such as myself will definitely get a kick out of this one. It's truly a gem that needs to be seen. "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Vastly underrated...TORN CURTAIN may not be vintage Hitchcock, but it's a superior spy thriller, clearly grounded more in reality than the slew of Bond ripoffs Hollywood (and Europe!) had been grinding out in the 60s. Paul Newman is smartly cast as an American spy who may or may not be defecting TO THE EAST, much to the distress of his fiancé (Julie Andrews). Hitchcock keeps thing tightly wound and gets the most out of his actors...Newman & Andrews have real chemistry (note the very sexy opening scene). Newman is particularly good and makes a great anti-hero hero! The silent fight scene in the farmhouse has become a classic...and justifiably so. The great supporting cast includes Lila Kedrova in a pretty wacky cameo. "},{"Title":"Torn Curtain-Paul Newman Gets Through the Iron Curtain! ***1/2","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" 1966 drama featuring Paul Newman in counter-espionage. He is a scientist who defects to Communist East Germany so that he can get his hands on a certain formula. The trick is for him and his wife, Julie Andrews, as lovely as ever but in a non-singing role, to get back to the west.The film is tongue and cheeks where Newman is pursued by the Communists once they realize what he is really up to. An amazing scene is how he tricks a colleague, an East German scientist, into giving him the formula.Lila Kedrova, a previous Oscar winner 2 years before, in Zorba the Greek appears briefly in a pivotal role as an older woman who helps Newman and Andrews flee. Unfortunately, she is unable to get out but her line that she is not Communistical is memorable.Shouting fire in a theater allows the Newman-Andrews team to flee. Of course, this ruined the ballerina Tamara Toumanova's performance and at the end she nearly succeeds in tipping off the Communists to the whereabouts of Newman and Andrews.A wonderful, exciting film. "},{"Title":"Rather good","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"    Considering the fact that this is a Hitchcock (and after having a bad experience watching his flop-and debut of Shirley MacLaine- The Trouble with Harry, I'm surprised I bothered with this one. But this is a great movie. It kept you wondering what was going to happen next. There was some sad elements mixed in it; When the sad and oh so hopeful Freulein is left behind. And there are some funny aspects as well. Julie Andrews is pretty good and very beautiful in this movie. Paul Newman seems cranky but protective. You can tell that their chemistry was 1 in a million. And the plot was terrific. Hitch, I think you did good this time. Now The Trouble with Harry needed some work. "},{"Title":"Torn Reviewers","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" If you haven't seen this movie on DVD, do yourself a favor and rent or buy a copy of it. The colors are absolutely exquisite and the restoration of the movie truly enhances your viewing. I've only seen drab copies in the past but the DVD version shows just what we've been missing with bad copies on tape. Another bonus that I found interesting was musical scores composed by Herrmann that were never used once he was dismissed. They team his score against the scene in which it was intended. It was adequate but I tend to agree that it wasn't up to his usual standards. John Addison did a good job.I found Paul Newman to be quite believable in his role and he's not one of my favorite actors. It was also surprising how many scenes show him without any clothes or with very little on. Compare that to Julie Andrews who's wrapped from head to toe in unflattering clothes. I tend to agree that she really was miscast in this movie. She does an admirable job but she just doesn't have much to do except follow Paul's lead.For suspense, I think the bus scene is quite nail biting. That and of course the scene in the farm house kitchen. This movie is filled with many interesting scenes and characters. It may not add up to a masterpiece but it's not the total disaster that this movie is perceived to be "},{"Title":"Asleep at the Hitch","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  ***semi-spoilers included / nothing too serious***This movie is awful.  It's not Alfred Hitchcock; it's not even somebody trying to be Alfred Hitchcock.  For a director known for his tight plots, attention to detail, brilliant and innovative camera angles, unending suspense and getting the most from his actors, TORN CURTAIN fails on all fronts.  The pace is so sluggish and uneven that it makes Stanley Kubrick look exciting.  The plot is simply ludicrous, with far too many untenable points and downright errors and gaps to list here Flick a lighter in a house full of natural gas?  I doubt it.  Leave the party after only one dance and not attract suspicion?  Unlikely!.  Hitch and/or his screenwriter(s) simply did not know how to -- or didn't make the effort to try to -- construct a plausible scenario of international intrigue. The cinematography is average at best, bad at worst.  The short shot of Prof. Armstrong (Newman) falling down the stairs is almost cartoonish. The fight scene is thoroughly contrived and so bad it is almost unwatchable. As for suspense, there is some, but it, like the plot, is uneven to the point where it loses its impact.  Most of the suspensful points -- such as Armstrong's and, later, Sherman's (Andrews') motives -- are resolved quickly, and early in the film.  TORN CURTAIN lacks the ongoing intensity and emotional absorption of nearly all of Hitch's other films.Finally, the acting, which is downright dreadful.  In addition to Hitch's name above the title, I looked forward to seeing Paul Newman and Julie Andrews perform together during their early years.  They try, but even these two great actors cannot redeem this picture.  Their performances are uninspiring to the point where they show little interest or emotional attachment to the events around them.  Paul Newman doesn't seem convinced that he himself is a brilliant scientist, so how could he convince the East Germans?  Julie Andrews fares a little better, but is still annoying in this role that, some say, she didn't really want.  The supporting cast, unfortunately, is far worse, made up of wooden characters who are entirely stereotyped and performed by either very bad actors or, at best, actors who Hitch made no effort to inspire.  The only brief glimpses of humanity are in Dr. Koska's daughter and the farmer / PI agent neither of whom, unfortunately, appear on screen long enough to redeem this amateurish production.Was Hitch lazy, inept, or distracted in his later years?  Did he need more help?  He was 66 at the time.  Was it a bad time for him to start new collaborations?  TORN CURTAIN raises some questions.  In fairness, I have not seen his final three films, but having just seen the film which preceeded them, I am not exactly in a mad rush to check them off my list.  "},{"Title":"Fairly absorbing but overlong.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This fairly absorbing Hitchcock thriller just doesn't have the zest it needs to be really exciting. I think that's the major problem with it, and not the casting (remember those actors in Frenzy?). Some sequences (like the way Newman gets the formula or the escape from the theatre) are ingenious, others (the one with the woman who needs sponsors) are inexplicable. "},{"Title":"Dull and Wooden","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I had heard that Torn Curtain was mostly considered an inferior Hitchcock film, and I find it hard to disagree. It is leagues below the simply genius of Psycho or the complexity of Vertigo.Here we have Paul Newman and Julie Andrews as man and wife. It turns out that Newmans character is working for the German defence or something to that effect. My plot line is blunt as to be honest the plot is pretty hazy and not very well conceived. The script simply doesn't give ample explanations as to what is going on so viewers, like myself, may be left scratching their heads from time to time.Paul Newman is shockingly wooden and certainly wasn't fit to play this type of role. It isn't hard to see why even Hitch didn't really want Newman or Andrews in this film. Though saying that Julie Andrews performance is better but still pretty weak.I have to say that the main reason I bought this film was because of the murder sequence I had heard so much about. This scene is excellent. Surprisingly brutal and sustained. Certainly the highlight of the film. Its just a shame that the other hour and fifty minutes are dull and lifeless in comparison.To conclude I'm going to advise you to miss this one. Go grab a copy of a Hitchcock masterpiece like Vertigo or Rear Window and enjoy the master of suspense at his supreme best. Nothing like this tepid bore. "},{"Title":"hard to believe hitchcock and newman didn't work out.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  this film had no tension or suspense at all.  what a drag.  and i couldn't buy newman as a nuclear physicist.  in fact, all these brilliant scientists were much too stupid to be believed.  it was a rather unfortunate script that was shoved down the viewers throat.  i was prepared to walk out of the film at the murder by gas stove sequence - which was bizarre.  what was up with that?  actually that sequence was the most amusing in the whole film - overall the film was a bore, not even funny bad.   "}{"Title":"They captured the feeling of East Germany...","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It has to be said again - Paul Newman and Julie Andrews are badly miscast as the leads in Torn Curtain. All along this movie I just saw them as Paul Newman and Julie Andrews, not as the characters they play. She was especially out of place being so prim and healthy while wearing that hairdon't. Newman was the sex object in this one, seen in various states of undress while Andrews just shows off drab Edith Head creations. They did have one good scene between them in her hotel room after the first night in east Berlin.The idea seemed good at the time  the two stars + Hitchcock + political spy thriller = excitement... I understand what brought them all together but to quote an earlier poster, the film bored me to tears, even though there are plenty of Hitchcock moments. The film was badly in need of trimming, some scenes going on forever! "},{"Title":"Torn Everything","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A movie that manages to shred the reputations of all involved couldn't do better than having the word 'torn' in its title. As here. Abysmal drivel from beginning to end, it's hard to know whether to laugh or cry -- the latter, perhaps, yet then again, cinema-goers are here confronted with at least some of the truth about Mr Hitchcock.Though 'Frenzy' was to expose Hitchcock's odious pathology in all its nauseating glory several years later -- in an extended murder scene that says nothing about the plot but everything about the director -- here in 'Torn Curtain' exists its progenitor as risibly inept an extended murder scene as has ever been committed to celluloid.That it doesn't work at any level is self-apparent. That Hitchcock failed utterly to realise that, ditto. But as an insight into the Hitchcock psyche, it's well-nigh priceless the slavering camera work, the stupendously unrealistic acting, the inability of both direction and editing to appreciate the difference between butchery and burlesque; all testify to a directorial presence and a directorial personality to which application of the description 'seedy' would be a polite under-statement.Currently, in the UK at least, there's an issue about 'seniors' working on. Hitchcock's oeuvre proves, conversely, that age is not to be desired, for as a film-maker he was already in a decline made all the more embarrassing for the way his output reflected his inner demons.To be fair, there's also a sadness about 'Torn Curtain' too, in particular the desperately pathetic harking back to the chillingly ominous vistas of 'North By North West', reprised here -- though without any success at all -- in Newman's visit to a quite ludicrous tractor-driving US spy on a farm outside East Berlin.Elsewhere though, it's mere floundering, an irredeemable mess of a movie where the pace drags as if through treacle and nothing, not even the music -- Addison's contribution very probably tolled the knell for this kind of English score writing, a brick being more subtle by comparison -- can rescue it from its vanities and, in the director's case, morbid voyeurism.'Frenzy' was cheap, nasty, and a sign of a great talent finally expunged. 'Torn Curtain' is in every sense the sad, bad curtain-raiser to it. "},{"Title":"Ripped Drapes.","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain, in spite of what some may believe, was not a flop. Critically mauled, it did however not fail at the box office. This can most likely be attributed to the fact that it's directed by Alfred Hitchcock and stars Paul Newman and Julie Andrews, three of the biggest names in cinema history.It's a film that isn't as awful as you may have been led to believe, in fact it's a passable Cold War suspenser, but it's just that it's a muted picture on auto pilot, an overlong spy caper encompassing a thematic beat about fidelity and trust. Plot involves defection, double agents, undercover missions and a whole host of shaky spy like shenanigans. However, these things are never developed into a thrilling movie. It exists, and cheekily for a while it holds the interest.Atmosphere is set at bleak, which is in keeping with the atmosphere behind the scenes of the production - casting decisions, fall outs et al - so really it's not a must see movie. There's some merit here, with ironic smarts and genuinely good ideas, it's just that come the 90 minute mark you will be looking at your watch and thinking the big names involved should be producing something a whole lot greater. 5/10 "},{"Title":"At least you can multi task while this film plays in the background","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I respect the director Alfred Hitchcock and the two main stars Paul Newman and Julie Andrews. Who wouldn't? Between the three of them they have 18 Oscar nominations but only two wins. I was really looking forward to watching this thriller that takes us behind the Iron Curtain and which has Paul Newman playing an American scientist who appears to have defected but is actually a double agent and fully engaged in espionage.Early on in the film we observe that while American Professor Michael Armstrong (played by Paul Newman) is boringly involved in bedding down Sarah Sherman (played by Julie Andrews) Professor Armstrong is also engaged in an exchange of hidden notes and messages through telegrams that he opens and reads in different parts of the ship that he is travelling on. You would think that with the addition of a musical score that Hitchcock could build up the suspense but in actuality I was easily distracted and lost interest in the storyline as well as in the lack of chemistry between the two lead actors Newman and Christie.It just goes to show you that even with a great director, and two super star actors unless you can maintain a flow to the film and without a good musical score to match the storyline the audience just cannot buy in. I won't ask for my money back but I would say that Torn Curtain did allow me to organize my paperwork and make a few phone calls as it played in the background because I was not missing anything that was (not) playing on the screen.Sadly I have to rate Torn Curtain a low 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"flat unimpressive Hitchcock effort","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) is a physicist and Sarah Sherman (Julie Andrews) is his assistant/fiancée. The government had rejected his work on an anti-missile defense. They're in Norway for a conference. He tells her that he's going to Stockholm but she finds out that he's actually going to East Berlin. She follows him there. To her shock, he declares that he is defecting to the east once they arrived.Alfred Hitchcock had already achieved greatness when this movie opened. The problem with this movie is that it fails to reach the same heights. This is a rather bland unoriginal espionage movie. It feels like a script from the maybe pile. The dialogue has no sting. There is no shock value. I never bought Armstrong's defection. The long kill of the East German Stasi agent is pretty good but it still lacks realism. It's a run-of-the-mill thriller from somebody who should have done better. "},{"Title":"Butch Cassidy meets Mary Poppins in a different life of pi","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The common understanding of Alfred Hitchcock's career is that 1964's Marnie was the end of an era his final movie to feature an icy blonde, and his final movie scored by Bernard Herrmann. Using this logic, one would conclude that Torn Curtain was the beginning of the end of Hitch's career. But that doesn't do the movie justice. The Sultan of Suspense didn't create any mind-blowing scenes for this movie like he did in Psycho or The Birds, but there's a scene towards the end that has no shortage of suspense.Paul Newman plays an American scientist whose fiancée (Julie Andrews) discovers that he's headed for East Germany...but there's more than meets the eye. Newman is in top form naturally, but I'd say that the movie belongs to Andrews. She gets to play a role very unlike those with which she's associated. Far from the happy-go-lucky performances as Mary Poppins and Maria von Trapp, her character here is a tense, scientific-minded person who understands geopolitics (although unlike a lot of Hitchcock's female characters, hers is not a guilty woman).In the end I would say that even though Hitch had passed his prime, he hadn't lost his touch. I recommend the movie. He went on to complete three more movies after this one, and was planning another one when he died.So, the next time that you hear Julie Andrews sing about a teaspoon of sugar or a name to call myself, just remember that she also starred in a Cold War thriller.Watch for a young Wilhelm von Homburg (Vigo in Ghostbusters 2) towards the end. "},{"Title":"Topical but often less than entertaining Cold War thriller","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I knew this moment would come, and that I'd eventually find a Hitchcock film that I didn't care for too much. TORN CURTAIN, while certainly topical in its examination of Cold War politics, nuclear secrets and double agents, largely fails to do what every other Hitchcock picture I've seen so far has done, i.e., be entertaining. Granted, there are a few sequences that recall classic Hitch, but they are barely enough to distract from how dull this was to get through at times. In what would be his last usage of marquee talent, Paul Newman and Julie Andrews star as a couple of scientists who publicly defect to East Germany at the height of the Cold War in order to gain access to an important formula or nuclear secret. Honestly, as the film's MacGuffin, this piece of information doesn't really matter (to the audience, at least). And that's fine. However, matters aren't helped by having such weak characters despite being capably played such talented actors and Newman and Andrews. Even the chemistry between them was barely better than Connery and Hedren in MARNIE. There was also no memorable villain. Still, at the risk of beating down too much on the film, there were a few sequences that I will probably remember for while. The best of these happens close to halfway in, and involves a tense brawl between Newman and an East German agent who has gotten onto his secret plans. It plays out sans score, and was incredibly tense. Towards the end, there was also a bus-riding sequence and a scene in a theater that recalled the climax to THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH. It wasn't as good as the former, but still stood out. If there's one thing that's sorely missed, it's Bernard Herrmann as composer, here replaced by John Addison. I did like a number of the cues, but I can only imagine that Herrmann's score would have been much better. Even so, I liked the jazz-inflected touch that Addison brought to the material. Ultimately, though, TORN CURTAIN suffers by having terrible pacing and taking too long to really kick into gear. The last 40-45 minutes, minus a pointless semi-comic detour, is able to salvage some of what came before, but the film is still overall kind of boring. "},{"Title":"Some very good moments but overall solid rather than great","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In the 1960's the tensions of the Cold War ensured that the spy genre was at the height of its popularity both in films and on TV. After the financial failure of Marnie (1964), Alfred Hitchcock chose to play it safer and moved away from the complex psychological aspects of that film and into the more populist, less ambiguous spy thriller territory with his next two films Torn Curtain and Topaz (1969). Unfortunately, the decision did not pay off, as both of those were equally as unsuccessful at the box office as the darker, less straightforward Marnie. For me, Marnie is easily the best of Hitchcock's three 60's box office bombs but of the two spy thrillers, Torn Curtain is superior to Topaz. It's less flabby and more concise, yet both films share a similar characteristic where they begin very well but lose their way somewhat in their final third. With Torn Curtain, the initial set-up is somewhat intriguing and paced very well; it also includes a classic Hitchcock scene where a man and a woman kill a communist security agent in a farmhouse in a particularly protracted an messy fashion, going against cinematic norms and illustrating the sheer difficulty of killing someone. But psychological edginess is eventually disregarded and the plot essentially mutates into a chase movie which is a bit of a let-down considering the potential that has been put in place in the set-up.Its story has an American nuclear physicist defect to East Germany but finds his situation complicated when his fiancé follows him. This one is also typified by featuring two actual mega-stars of its day in Paul Newman and Julie Andrews. It has to be said though that neither of them seem to be at their best here and their performances almost feel a bit forced. Seemingly Hitchcock did not work well with method actor Newman and this clash of styles could be at least partially responsible for the uneasy feeling on-screen. Torn Curtain is hardly a disaster though as it does contain some great moments and benefits from a very polished look. And in fairness, even though it is somewhat routine, it's no less so that a few of Hitchcock's earlier more lauded thrillers. I do feel though that this director is at his best when he is working with material with more psychological edginess, as opposed to the more straightforward suspense embodied in Torn Curtain. It's a solid but unspectacular affair. "},{"Title":"a good history illuminating movie, but just a little bit of suspense","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Torn Curtain just was a good movie. The superior Psycho, Vertigo or Rear Window this work has to be compared to cannot be reached by far. Nevertheless, there's entertainment throughout the two hours completely. You can't point out special weak points. The special or even unique is missing in one of the last movies of The Master of Suspense. You just won't find scenes of simpleness evoking such incredible suspense. Paul Newman isn't able to shown his talent of acting. In later (e.g. The Color of Money) and in previous roles (e.g. Hustler) Newman shows much more of his acting skills. Newman and Hitchcock seem to be not that perfect team to arouse suspicion. In contrast, now a few positive points The entire cast blends very well. The acting always feels natural and of one piece. No jumping from one scene to another without smooth plot transition.In conclusion, you can say that Torn Curtain is a quite watchable film. Nor a must-see, but without using too excessive exaggeration or rating Alfred Hitchcock made some other kind of movie. Just a little bit of suspense combined with some history if you watch it today, almost half a century after its release.-> 6/10 with a slight upward trend, but no chance to get a seven... "},{"Title":"Another thrilling Cold War spy film by the Master of Suspense","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In the year 1960 Hitchcock achieved the highest point of his career when he directed the film, Psycho (1960). A low budget thriller, which shocked the world and cinema forever. His successful career continued when he brought us a modern horror movie, The Birds (1963), which still is seen by many as the most intelligent horror film of all time. One year after Hitchcock continued his problematic cooperation with Tippi Hedren when he made Marnie (1964). Marnie was a critical and a box office flop, but today is seen as a classic. After Marnie Hitchcock started to film a new Cold War spy-film, Torn Curtain. He had made a movie with a similar subject earlier in 1959, North By Northwest. Hitchcock has said that he didn't like the cast he had to work with. He just had to take Julie Andrews and Paul Newman because they were hot and popular at the time. Alfred Hitchcock has other problems too with his crew, he wasn't satisfied with his composer, Bernard Herrman (Psycho) and replaced him by John Addison.As many good movies so is Torn Curtain, divided into three acts. Alfred Hitchcock added the change of perspective in each of the acts. In the first act we're in the shadows, we see everything from Sarah's point of view and are unaware of Michale's secret. When the agent, who is keeping an eye on Michael starts to have suspicions we move to act two, which is told us from Michael's point of view. This act includes the famous murder of Gromek (The agent). When Michael decides to tell the truth to Sarah we move to the third act, which is told to us from the perspective of Michael and Sarah.Even that Torn Curtain is very well forgotten, it has several well remembered scenes. For instance the murder of Gromek and the Balet scene. The interesting thing in the murder scene, is the fact how it resembles the shower scene of Psycho. In 1960 when Hitchcock was directing Psycho, Bernard Herrmann suggested a score for the shower scene, but Hitchcock denied. He said that it had to be a silent scene, absolutely. The audience should only hear screams and the stabs of the knife. But when Herrman kept on trying to get his music to the scene, Hitchcock agreed to try it. After the first listen he said This scene must have a score. Well in Torn Curtain, Alfred Hitchcock once again wanted to make the murder scene quiet, but Bernard Herrman composed a score for it. After their disagreements Hitchcock fired him and replaced with another composer. Surprisingly, John Addison also composed a score for the murder scene, but Hitchcock didn't use it and made the scene silent. Which in my opinion was a perfect choice. The silence leads us to the despair of the characters and to the fear of the fear that is in ourselves. The most horrifying fear is when we start to resemble our enemies.The famous scene, near the end, happens in the Balet hall. As in Hitchcock's earlier film, The Man Who Knew Too Much (1956) the drama of the play is reflected to the drama happening in the actual story. In The Man Who Knew Too Much a bullet is shot at the same time the cymbals crash. But in Torn Curtain Paul Newman's character sees the fake fire on stage, and gets the idea of shouting Fire! in order to escape the hall.Alfred Hitchcock always combined romance, excitement and humor. Sometimes he managed to put all of these elements in one scene. For instance in the scene with the bus. He was also known from his funny and sympathetic side characters. In Torn Curtain the best are agent Gromek, Professor Gustav Lindt and the Polish lady. Gromek is a very sympathetic character, which is very good, because many tend to shows communists and other bad guys as monsters. But Hitchcock showed that he was a human just like you and I. The same that Chaplin did with The Great Dictator, the Nazis weren't monsters, the ideology they were following was. There is a funny detail about Lindt, you see his name came from Hitchcock's favorite chocolate, Lindt. He is also a very sympathetic character. Then last but not least, the Polish lady, who is portrayed from too angles. First she seems sad, sympathetic, weak and a helpful lady, but then Hitchcock showed her darker side, a demanding person who can blackmail.Torn Curtain is a very well made spy film in many ways. It's very carefully designed, the cinematography is brilliant and the world of colors in costumes and set ups, designed by Hitchcock worked perfectly. His masterful visual narrative gets in its rights in many scenes. In the opening he manages to tell us many things, only using his camera, it's cold, there are scientists, two of them are missing and the main characters are in love. The film entails some thrilling, intelligent scenes, just as the films by Hitchcock always do. The critics called the film old-fashioned, but I thought it was very good. The subject was current, and adds historical interest to the film. It might not be his best film or No North By Northwest as the critics said, but it is a very well designed thrilling Cold War spy film. And by far superior than Hitchcock's other Cold War spy film, Topaz (1969), which is not a bad film either. Torn Curtain is an exciting film, with no dull moment, and it entails some intellectual themes, typical for the films from The Cold War. "}{"Title":"Look mister, why can't you leave this intelligence work to us professionals?","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Every once in a while I like to go into a movie cold, without knowing what it's about or reading the DVD or video sleeve for a quick synopsis. That's the way I approached Torn Curtain, along with a preconceived notion that that it might have some similarity to Psycho, with the image of a slashing knife going through a shower curtain or some similar parallel. The surprise of course is the play on words in the title that does service to the era's preoccupation with the Iron Curtain, a concept that's already fading to the consciousness of those too young to remember the historic events of late 1989 when the Berlin Wall actually came down. The other surprise had to do with the picture's lead actors, I didn't know that Paul Newman and Julie Andrews had ever worked for Alfred Hitchcock.The early going was somewhat disorienting for me, I just didn't want to believe that Newman was cast as a traitor to his country. That set up was cleverly handled, particularly with Professor Armstrong's (Newman) double agent status kept a secret from his fiancée Sarah Sherman (Andrews). As the story unfolds however, it becomes increasingly difficult to believe that Armstrong's mission had any chance of success. Especially after Gromek's disappearance and the recovery of the motorbike at the farm. Speaking of which, I got a kick out of that scene where Armstrong and the farm wife dispatched the German bodyguard. While being strangled, Gromek rather calmly advised Armstrong that he ought to stop because he (Gromek) was a trained professional. Like that was going to have an impact on Armstrong's decision to try and stay alive, hmm.Hey, how about the line Gromek used earlier to Armstrong while in the museum - Strictly for the birds, huh? I wonder if Hitchcock was paying tribute to his 1963 suspense film.Overall, I rather liked this film despite it's disapproval with the critics. Curiously, it seems that I wind up on the opposite side of most viewers for Hitchcock's pictures, as I don't particularly think Strangers On A Train and Shadow Of A Doubt deserve the reputation they have for reasons expressed in my reviews of those films in this forum. I guess that's one of the benefits of going into a picture cold as it were, there aren't any prejudices as to whether one should like the picture or not. "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock Tears it Up","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Paul Newman (as Michael Armstrong) and Julie Andrews (as Sarah Sherman) are celebrating an early honeymoon, under their bed covers; it's a good way to stay warm while the Cold War rages, and heating systems fail. Ms. Andrews doesn't know it, but Mr. Newman is preparing to defect to the Soviet Bloc. Further explanation would spoil the plot, which takes both expected and unexpected turns.Alfred Hitchcock's Tom Curtain is masterfully directed; and, the otherwise more sunnily disposed Newman and Andrews are surprisingly effective. Their lesser known supporting players are appropriately chilling - especially the electrifying Wolfgang Kieling (as Hermann Gromek); his ghastly expiration scene is a classic. Mr. Hitchcock received some bad rap for his Torn Curtain; as, understandably, reviewers held his films to increasingly difficult to attain expectations. Still, Hitchcock and crew create an extraordinary frosty, paranoiac Cold War spy chiller.The film might have been perfected with some additional characterization given for Newman and Andrews to work with; either or both of their characters might have had an intriguing past relationship with, perhaps, the Ballerina (Tamara Toumanova) or the Countess (Lila Kedrova). As it stands, Mr. Kieling and others have more interesting backgrounds than either of the leads. ******* Torn Curtain (7/14/66) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Paul Newman, Julie Andrews, Wolfgang Kieling, Lila Kedrova "},{"Title":"Great, But Far From Hitchcock's Best","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" An American physicist named Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) defects to East Germany to work on an anti-missile system. His fiancée Miss Sherman (Julie Andrews) is unaware of his intentions, but follows him and soon finds out.I have too much beard, says Professor Lindt. Lindt, for me, was the gem of this movie, taking it from average to just above average for the entertainment value he provided with his mannerisms and fractured English.In general, the film is very good, very fast-moving, but still strikes me as below the caliber of Newman or Hitchcock. My primary problem is the complete lack of surprise. The so-called twists and turns are predictable a mile away. This is, of course, probably more a script issue, but even so... for such an intriguing premise, Hitchcock has made a film that is not very deep.Overall, I like it. High marks for entertainment, average marks for technical ability or originality. "},{"Title":"Mathematical logic with romantic inconsistency","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" With a few exceptions during World War Two, all of Alfred Hitchcock's espionage thrillers up to this point were deliberately vague about politics and did not explicitly state which nation constituted the enemy. Things change with Torn Curtain, which is overt Cold War propaganda, and as such there is naturally a little more delving into specifics and real world intrigues. However we are thankfully spared any political sermonising or gung ho flag-waving. In fact the setting allows for some good spins on the tired old 39 Steps formula, as we get the added tension of our hero being behind enemy lines.And this one contains some decent Hitchcockian suspense sequences. The well-known murder scene is one of the few moments in the director's 60s output that has the intensity of his earlier classics, exciting yet disturbing in its content. The fact that the two collaborators in this murder do not speak each other's language makes for a nice touch, as they appear more brutal in their wordless co-operation. The escape sequence with the bus journey towards the end is also a great bit of old-fashioned Hitchcockian race-against-time constructions. Hitch shows his adeptness in building a certain kind of structure, for example the prominence he gives to that spiky ballet dancer on the plane, making us recognise her when she becomes important later on. Notice how this picture (like The Birds and Marnie) is in the 133 aspect ratio, even though it was all but obsolete by this point. Many of the older directors preferred the old academy ratio (as it was known), but Hitchcock was one of the few who carried enough weight to get his way. And he really makes good use of it, taking advantage of its height in relation to width for example in the lecture theatre scene where Professor Lindt first appears at the top of the screen. He's also able to compose those extreme close-ups of the two leads kissing whereby their heads take up the entire frame &#x96; you couldn't do that in widescreen unless you zoomed right in on their lips.Speaking of the leads however, Paul Newman and Julie Andrews are unusual choices, clearly dropped into their parts purely for their box office appeal as opposed to their actual suitability. They are both good enough in themselves, despite being in roles that demand little from them, Newman in particular managing a very real look of desperation in the aforementioned murder scene. However there is clearly no chemistry between the two of them, and they don't even look right together as a screen couple. With that odd hairdo they give her for this movie Andrews looks older than she is, and Newman still looks very much more the hip young dude than the learned professor. It appears fun was had with the casting of the bad guys, with lots of European expatriates making up a rogues gallery of sinister commies. Lazy stereotyping? Of course - but it suits the comic book pacing and action. Wolfgang Kieling makes a great impact as Gromek, like a cold-hearted Peter Lorre. Ludwig Donath is excellent too as the grouchy Professor Lindt, although he is far too comically likable to be taken for a real baddie.Overall Torn Curtain is a little mediocre, but it has many highpoints. It's a far cry from The Master of Suspense&#x99;'s espionage thriller heyday in the late 1930s (and I'm not saying by the way that this was when he made all his best movies, just that from 1940 to 1960 his best works were his domestic thrillers like Shadow of a Doubt and Rear Window), but it contains a few little touches of what once made his espionage thrillers great. Above all, it is Hitch's ability to make the images compelling and the tension bubbling that allow Torn Curtain to transcend its corny propaganda roots. "},{"Title":"|SPOILERS| Paul Newman carries this Interesting,yet slow misfire from the master of suspense.","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtian is definitely interesting there is no question about it,but it just didn't thrill me like most of his work did. It's deliberately slow paced and while in some cases it works,here it kinda backfires. At approximately 128 minutes some scenes could've been cut out easily,it just seemed to drag on endlessly at some points,while being thrilling and engaging at others,and that's what plagued this film the most an unusual amount of inconsistency from Alfred. In most cases Alfred's playful tone in his movies it ends up working out,but it just seemed completely out of place in this film. The subject intrigued me very much,I was actually quite excited to watch this film,especially due to the cast. Apparently Paul and Alfred would often clash on the set due to Alfred's constant demands and agonizing working style,if that was the case Paul did a great job of pulling it out and was the main reason this film was watchable in the 1st place. One scene that stood out in particular to me was Gromek's death scene. It was extremely suspenseful and very well done,I was on the edge of my seat,it was done with terrific Flair and wonderfully executed,but unfortunately after that,things seemed to fall apart. I did like this film to some extent,but it just seemed like a quickie studio project for Alfred Hitchock and his full effort didn't seem to be there.Performances. Paul Newman is excellent as per usual. He carries this film on the weight of his shoulders on a number of occasions with his great delivery,he's charismatic,witty and absolutely engaging to watch while on screen. His chemistry with Julie Andrews while somewhat Corny,was quite decent. Julie Andrews is a bit fluffy,and looked a little lost in some scenes but she managed to be a likable gal and did well with what she had to do. Ludwig Donath is a hoot as Lundt,very unpredictable and often quite lively whenever on screen. Rest of the cast do fine with what they have to do.Bottom Line- Torn Curtain is a curious misfire from Alfed Hitchcock. Maybe Alfred was right,maybe Anthony Perkins was a better fit for this role,but I still don't see how his anger to Newman was justified he carried this film. Torn Curtain is better then it has any right to be,and fellow Hitchcockian devotees will most likely find something worthwhile in this film. I didn't mind it,but I thought it could've been a lot better as well. Worth the watch.7/10 "},{"Title":"It's like yelling fire in a crowded theater","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" (Some Spoilers) When your told that the highlight of a movie is a long drawn out scene of a person getting brutally murdered, which is exactly what it was, to show how difficult it is to kill someone who doesn't want to be killed you know that you, as a member of the audience, and the movie , Torn Curtain, are in for a long and tedious ride.The ride actually comes later in the film with its two top stars rocket scientist and esteemed physics professor Michael Armstrong, played by the late Paul Newman, and his pretty but what seems like bored fiancée Sarah Sherman, Julie Andrews, on he run from the East German Secret Police-the STASI for short-for the entire second half of the film.The plot is nothing really to write home about in that its been done dozens of times, and far better, before Torn Cutain itself was released in the summer of 1966. The fact that Alfred Hitchcock directed it in itself is worth spending a few hours, two hours and eight minutes to be exact, watching it and trying to figure out just what the movie is all about?American physics professor Michael Armstrong is a bit turned off on his country,the USA,in not financing with millions of tax payer dollars his pet project-Gamma V-that would in effect make nuclear war obsolete. Giving his fiancée Sarah a song and dance act in him traveling to Stockholm Sweden for official business Michael in fact plans to defect to Communist East Germany and sell his services to them, the war mongering Communists, in the name of World Peace.Sarah who's suspicious of her handsome and cute, in a manly way, future husband of cheating on her finds out that he's in fact traveling to East Germany not Sweden! Getting on the same plane that Michael is on Sarah is discovered by him just as he's about to depart on the East Berlin Airport's tarmac. In what has to be by far Newman's, as Professor Armstrong, best acting in the movie he adamantly demands Sarah to take the next plane back to West Berlin! It's soon becomes obvious, if it weren't already, that Michael is really a spy, without the authority of the US State Department, for the US! Michaels so-called defection to the Communist East Berlin Government is just a sham in order for him to get in contact with Karl Marx University's top physic professor Gustav Lindt, Ludwig Bonath. Michael plans to pick Prof. Lindt's brains, in a mental sparring session, in order for him to find out what he knows about Gamma V that can in the end help both Michael and the USA perfect it!Having no choice but to have Sarah, who thinks that Michael is a Communist spy, tag along with him, as his assistant in rocket research, Michael's plans in finding out the secrets of Gamma V fall apart almost as soon as they began. It's only that the East German STASI-Secret Police-are so ineffective that Michael gets to see Prof. Lindt and, in a long and boring BS session with him, finds out how it-Gamma V-works! This happens just before the very bright Prof. Lindt suddenly realizes that Michael, who's just bull sh*ting his way through the entire conversation with him, who's supposed to be a genius in the complicated matters of modern rocket propulsion,as well as advanced nuclear physics, is totally ignorant of the subject!With the help of a number of key characters, a bus driver Polish Countess Postal clerk and stage hand with a very obvious and ill fitting red wig, popping up at the right time and in the right place both Michael and Sarah end up making it to safety out of East Germany by sailing, in an East German freighter, to the port of Stockholm Sweden by the time the movie finally ends. The very place that Michael was supposed to travel to before all this mindless intrigue and unintentional comedy happened!You can see right away that pretty and adorable Julie Andrews was totally miscast in the film in her not being able, as hard as she tried, to be believable in her role of Michael's fiancée Sarah Sherman. Julie looked lost in most of the scenes that she was in just staring into space and looking as if she was either hypnotized or suffering from a sever case of sleep deprivation.Paul Newman was not at all himself in looking both tired and disgusted in being forced, by his bosses at Universal Studios, to play the part of the genius physics professor-and top rocket scientist- Michael Armstrong. In most of the action sequences in the film where Newman and his fiancée Julie Andrews were running for their lives he looked as if he wanted to get caught, and executed, just to have a reason to get out of the movie! "},{"Title":"Today in my country the U.S. there are people in high places who do not want to see atomic war abolished ...","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Says the protagonist defector at the center of this cold war adventure. I agree w/ IMDb reviewer blue_orpheus who writes By 1966, Hitchcock was pretty much considered a has-been. But while Torn Curtain didn't help change that perception (in fact, it only confirmed it), it's not nearly as bad as some critics will have you believe.Not all Hitchcock films can be successes like Psycho or Strangers on a Train. Eastwood or Spielberg don't always bat homers. This film requires slower pacing much like Preminger's Rosebud. Newman's character's defection revolves around a pre-SDI nuclear-bomb shield amazingly twenty years before Reagan promoted the idea in the 80's.For anyone who has traveled to a Communist country, that initial sense of overwhelming societal displacement is common (when freedom is not a given right). Andrews' character communicates that in her performance (especially given she is clueless about why her lover has defected). The scene where the secret formula is extracted and how it is revealed is priceless. Especially when the older sly-fox Prof Lind realizes he's been out-foxed! He lamely proclaims to Newman I forbid you to leave this room! Yeah, like that's going to work! I didn't find the musical score that horrible and it would have distracted if used in the farmhouse murder scene.BTW Is that Liv Ullman's secret twin as the farmer's wife/co-murderer? How come Ms. Kedrova gets 3rd billing for a cameo? She's very moving and effectively portrays her character's urgent desire to secure U.S. sponsors but she has only five minutes screen time. "},{"Title":"mildly interesting but that's about all","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a rather ordinary film from Alfred Hitchcock than looks very little like his previous films. And this is a problem, as many in the audience will no-doubt expect more suspense and a psychological thriller--which this is not. Paul Newman plays a scientist that defects from the West to the Soviet Bloc. His wife, Julie Andrews, impulsively follows--this all takes her by surprise but she must find out why Newman would do such a thing. And, as the movie unfolds, you too discover why he did this. Unfortunately, the real reason really doesn't come as that big a surprise and the film, though original in some ways, just isn't all that interesting. All-in-all, a bit of a letdown. "},{"Title":"Better than most of present day cinema...","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Paul Newman plays an scientific and an USA double agent that enters East Germany to steal some anti-atomic invention. Julie Andrews is his beautiful personal assistant and his fiancé. They both will have a hard time trying to escape from the east side of the Iron Curtain.OK, Torn curtain is not one of the best works of film-making master Hitchcock, because the fact is that the story is pretty simple. Anyone else would have made a second rate movie with that material, but Mr. Alfred takes it to its best conclusion and entertain us during 2 hours with nice doses of suspense. It's not as good as Psycho or as Vertigo (that's impossible), nevertheless it is much better than most of present day cinema.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good-but not one of Alfred's best!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitch did an excellent job directing the film.  Julie did not act badly at all!! I do not think that any of the main cast acted badly at all, some of the co-stars were not as sharp, but the main cast did great. And the plot was not so incredibly dry that Hitch didn't have a chance to make a proper thriller.  There are many types of thrillers for all kinds of different people, if you're like me you will have an appreciation for this film along with many different kinds that have been produced over the years.Torn Curtain had great thrills, but I think that I speak for many when I say that this film was no psycho, vertigo, birds, rear window, or Rope. The screen play was not as sharp as most of hitches films, but for a movie thriller of the 1960's, it worked out-it really did.  I'd say that for the year this film was made, it was a good production-much better than average, but for a Hitchcock film, we all know that the word good is considered to be average and in some cases it is lower than average. "}{"Title":"Cold and suggish","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  One of Hitchcock's worst films. The main characters are and remain complete strangers to us, we couldn't care less. Julie Andrews' character is weak and naive. The supporting characters are slightly more interesting than the main cast, they come and go.I was most interested in the Gromek character, and after the sole bright spot of the film, Gromek's death, the film goes downhill. The anti-communist propaganda of this film is rather childish. John Addison's love theme is irritating, especially when compared to the unused Herrmann score, which doesn't try to bring some unwanted, clumsy romantic feeling to a cold spy film, unlike Addison, who otherwise was a very capable composer.It is obvious that this was Hitchcock's most rushed-in and compromised picture, and other people than Hitch's fans should keep their distance from it. "},{"Title":"My least favorite Hitch","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I am shocked that after a long string of great movies, that after Marnie, Hitchcock directed this film.  It is not a bad film, but overall, it is not involving or very suspenseful except for the one scene in the farmhouse.  None of the actors were bad; you just don't care what happens to them.  At the beginning, I wanted Julie Andrews to stop Paul Newman from going to East Berlin.  Of course, she didn't and there was still an hour and a half left for me to sit through.One thing I didn't like was the way the colors looked.  Everything seemed gray and drab.  In the 50's, Hitchcock's color films literally shined with bright colors.  Perhaps the images in Marnie were dull too, but it fit the tone of the movie.  Torn Curtain doesn't have that type of personality, so the picture quality doesn't enhance it at all.Torn Curtain broke no new ground although it continued the trend of using what was considered graphic violence at the time - this is confined to one scene.  Hitchcock fans will want to see it because it is directed by the master, but it's nothing monumental.There are some distinct Hitchcock touches I enjoyed, like his cameo, and his trademark the protagonist hiding in a bathroom, as well as the farmhouse scene I mentioned before.  But it wasn't enough to consider it a classic like so many of his other films.  I suppose this movie is Hitchcock's response to the spymania - most notably the James Bond films, but it should've been more suspenseful and intriguing.  At least the theatre scene had some suspense - but what was up with Tamara Toumanova?  She seemed so weird.  At least Hitchcock recovered to make his next film a better spy thriller - Topaz, and a few years later, his shocking Frenzy. "},{"Title":"How could they?","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" First you wonder how could a couple as attractive as Newman and Andrews consider betraying the West? Not to worry, we find out they are as red-blooded-patriotic as they look like they should by all rights be, and then the silliness accelerates. But wait, anyone in their right mind would have discerned from the beginning this was a setup, so the second thing you wonder is how East German authorities could be such dopes when this guy is giving signals all the way he is not sincere. No adequate explanation.Later you get to wonder how a state with as many secret police as East Germany could miss the fact that the good scientist who has just defected finds his way to a farm in the middle of the country, or that there are bus loads of disaffected citizens riding around between Leipzig and Berlin in fake buses. Finally, how could a director as talented as Hitchcock and actors as good as Newman and Andrews end up carryout out such a travesty of cold-war thrillers?It appears Hitchcock assumed the passion of anti-communist sentiment would overcome dramatic and logical inconsistencies. Wrong. You have to conclude it was just not his métier and they were seduced by the chance to work with an otherwise brilliant director. In short, could have been so much better with a better story, better script ... and better score. "},{"Title":"What's Wrong with Torn Curtain.","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" 1. The music. I was hoping that it wouldn't start up again all the while that I was watching after the opening credits. It was just irritating and the last thing any movie needs is irritating music. Geez &#x97; just use Beethoven's symphonies; they'd work just fine. 2. The bus. Take out the whole bus adventure. Really silly from start to finish. It would make the movie 10 shorter and that would be a good thing, too. 3. The spark.What Cary Grant and Eva St. Marie had Paul Newman and Julie Andrews didn't have. They were like Hud and Mary Poppins. Opening up with them IN bed was a bad idea. "},{"Title":"Long and Middling","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" An American scientist goes undercover as a defector to East Germany in an attempt to extract a mathematical formula from a Russian professor. A product of Hitchcock's declining years, it's an improvement over the preceding film, the awful Marnie, but a far cry from the string of masterpieces that ended with Psycho. Newman and Andrews, fresh off the phenomenal success of Ths Sound of Music, provide the star power, but are letdown by a script that fails to sustain the tension and goes on too long. The interlude with the old woman at the post office could easily have been eliminated. The highlight is a scene at the farmhouse, where Newman and the farmer's wife must overcome a heavy. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although Torn Curtain is a somewhat enjoyable film, it is nothing more than light drama and fantasy.I spent time in East Germany and East Berlin prior to the collapse of the Iron Curtain. Yes, there were a few nice show places there that were accessible by a few foreigners and/or the upper apparatchik. However, most of East Germany and East Berlin were in quite pitiful conditions compared to the West. Furthermore, in East Germany and, particularly, in East Berlin, there were soldiers everywhere, state security agents (domestic spies) everywhere &#150; ears and eyes everywhere. Yet, when you watch Torn Curtain you see shinny black taxis, brightly-colored buses, impeccably dressed citizens, and very modern, Western-style offices, dinning areas, etc. You also see a famous American scientist, who spoke only English and who had just defected to the East, and whose photo had been in all the newspapers and on TV, dodge security and visit a farm during his first day in town. Next you see the scientist and his British girlfriend dodge several security agents, police and soldiers in a building in Leipzig and escape back to East Berlin. And next you are supposed to believe that they soon thereafter somehow slipped back into the West healthy and happy. The whole thing is so absurd that, as you watch the film, you feel your I.Q. heading south by a point a minute.I tremendously respect the talent of Alfred Hitchcock and I love most of his films. However, Torn Curtain leads you to believe that Hitchcock either didn't understand the grayness and severity of totalitarianism that permeated all facets of life in the police state that was East Germany, and/or he didn't spend the time to find the right locations for filming, and/or he didn't respect his viewers enough to think they'd know the difference. "},{"Title":"STOP DISSING JULIE ANDREWS!!!!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  All right everyone. Here me now. To bearbryant or whoever he is Ok. I have read the Julie Andrews' biography numerous times. Hitchcock DID beg Ms. Andrews to do 'Torn Curtain' and she didn't want to. But her agent convinced that working with Hitch and Newman would be a good move. And she didn't do a 'terrible' job. Sarah Sherman is a hard character to play. I mean, her fiancee might be defecting, she's scientist, she's got try and understand German, she has to choose whether being with her fiancee is worth coming over to the other side, that's hard!! And she did better than anyone could have. Do you have any suggestions? Hmm? Well julie andrews was great desptie what any may say! "},{"Title":"Not one of the better Hitchcock films","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The plot is fairly substandard (the twists can be seen from a mile away, and it soon devolves into a chase film) and that acting is only so-so. Some of the secondary characters give just awful, over-the-top performances which contrast unpleasantly with the rather conservative performances by the leads. Every scene which focuses on Julie Andrews looks like it was shot through a layer of gauze (for no good reason, in my opinion). It lacks all of Hitchcock's normal mastery of suspense, horror, and cynicism. It is a tedious bore and none of the characters are developed well enough for you to care very much what happens to them. It barely deserves to be called a Hitchcock film.If you want to see a much better film in the same vein and from the same era, try The Spy Who Came In From the Cold (1965). Torn Curtain feels like a bad Le Carré knock-off as it is, you might as well get the real thing. "},{"Title":"Not Great But Worth Watching","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain (1966) ** 1/2 (out of 4) American professor Michael Armstrong (Paul Newman) goes on a vacation where he plans on dumping his fiancé Sarah Sherman (Julie Andrews) so that he can attend to business. The fiancé ends up following him and she's shocked and horrified to see them end up in Germany behind the Iron Curtain. Soon the woman begins to fear that her fiancé has sold out America and plans on helping Germany.Alfred Hitchcock apparently hated making this film and hated being forced to use Newman and Andrews. The film isn't nearly as bad as the legendary director made it out to be, although there's no doubt that it's not a classic by any stretch of the imagination. As for Hitchcock's hatred, I'm going to guess he spoke even worse about the film simply because the studio didn't give him the cast he wanted.As far as the film goes, it's pretty entertaining and I think Hitchcock was wrong when he criticized the two lead performers. Yes, I think both Newman and Andrews are quite good here and they're certainly believable as the couple behind the Iron Curtain trying to find a way out. I thought Newman was very believable in the role of the scientist and I think Andrews does good during her more emotional scenes. Lila Kedrova, Hansjorg Felmy and Wolfgang Kieling are also very good in their supporting roles.The film also benefits from some nice cinematography and a good music score. As for the flaws, there's no question that the story itself really isn't anything fresh or original. In fact, the spy genre was at full force during this era due to the James Bond movies so TORN CURTAIN does feel a tad bit old fashioned and its story just seems like something that would have been better twenty years earlier. Also the 128 minute running time is a bit too long. With that said, the cast is good and there are some nice suspense scenes so TORN CURTAIN is still worth watching. "},{"Title":"Not anywhere near Hitchcock's best","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Not anywhere near Alfred Hitchcock's best. Mildly interesting cold war espionage drama. Starts reasonably well. Set up is good, and intriguing. Plot development is decent, and movie seems set up for a tense game of cat- and-mouse. Plot is not perfect, however some inconsistencies and implausibilities.However, from here things unravel to an extent. The final few scenes, while tense, just seem contrived. It feels like one long car chase.Ends more with a whimper than a bang.Good performances by Paul Newman and Julie Andrews in the lead roles. Andrew would have to be one of the rare non-blonde leading ladies in a Hitchcock film.Mostly worth seeing for the sake of watching all Hitchcock movies, as I intend to do. "}{"Title":"Not the usual phenomenon","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Agreeing with former comments, Torn Curtain was slightly disappointing coming from Alfred Hitchcock, containing an altogether too busy storyline and sadly forgettable characters. The acting from Newman and Andrews was acceptable, but there was very little depth to their characters. And, of course, the falling out with Bernard Hermann is very obvious in this film. The score (which at times, simply makes a Hitchcock a Hitchcock) was conspicuously lacking, particularly in the murder scene. However, despite the lack in musical dramatics, the raw scene was extremely well articulated - a complete Hitchcock signature.As always, a film worth seeing, but not as amazing as one generally expects from Hitch. "},{"Title":"Half Great","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Kind of a let down. The first hour of this film is brilliant. You're really sucked into the plot. And tricked as well. When Paul Newman is dodging the KGB guy (I forget his name, but he's important since his prolonged death scene is historic), I was on the edge of my seat. But then, after Paul Newman and his wife are both aware of the same situation - since in the first half of the movie they're not - the situation being they are both in trouble and must leave Russia - and originally that Newman wasn't what he pretended to be - the movie falls apart, quick. It turns from a cool spy flick into a Disney-like chase film, which is, for the most part, still kind of fun and entertaining. But if the entire movie held up as well as the first half, this would be classic Hitchcock. Same thing goes for the movie he made right after this, another long espionage film that I forget the name of, but that was, for the first half, really good, and then falls apart. Sidenote It's great that Hitchcock would later make a comeback with FRENZY, which is his second to last film but should still be regarded as his swan song project. Back at hand I do recommend this film, TORN CURTAIN. The shots are terrific, even though you can tell most of the outdoor locations are sets. The acting is good, and it won't be a waste of your time or money. "},{"Title":"Heinrich und Hermann?","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In this film, the screenwriters and Hitchcock draw a not-to-subtle analogy between the Nazi's of the then-recent-past and the overlords running East Germany in the 1960's. The two most-menacing characters working for the E German dictatorship are Heinrich (Himmler?) Gerhardt and Hermann (Goering?) Gromek, two opposite personalities both working toward a common goal retaining absolute control of the populace and all those who may visit. Gromek is portrayed chillingly as a policeman- bully who is always on the knife-edge of committing some sort of violence, very similar to the personality of a Gestapo agent with unlimited powers to torture and spy, assigned to make friends with a suspect. The scene where Newman is forced to kill Gromek still gives viewers nausea, even though we're glad that the jerk is dead. And, how does Gromek die? By lethal gas, no less! No one misses the point here - victims of the Nazi's would have loved to dispatch their tormentors this way - give 'em a shot of their own medicine so to speak! Gerhardt is smooth, educated & sophisticated but no less trouble for the phony-defector Professor Armstrong as he tries to escape this lovely place East Germany.Hitch made this film because he and others of his generation recognized the oh-so-obvious parallels between fascism and communism as practiced by all those jolly men east of the iron curtain. Having lived through WWII and witnessed the energetic rise of comrade stalin who aped so many of herr Hitler's obsessions and methods, Hitchcock paints a vivid portrait of the grimness of life under erich honnecker and his band of commo-nazi's. Only East Germans for a few days, Professor Armstrong and his fiancé feel keenly the dread of government and the absence of freedom that always formed a backdrop to the lives of humans forced to live there.A classic characterization not to be missed is Professor Lindt, Chairman of Nuclear Physics at Karl Marx University. He is portrayed as part folksy grandfather anxious to take the younger Armstrong under his wing, part veteran womanizer, part gracious host and part brilliant scientist with an insatiable curiosity on par with an Einstein. So great is Lindt's anxiety to see how western research is progressing toward making nuclear war a thing of the past that he lets his guard down and circumvents the typical restrictions of E German official life, only to find his own research stolen by the engaging and nimble Dr. Armstrong.I thoroughly enjoyed Paul Newman's Dr. Armstrong, who is petulant, cold-blooded and a reasonably good deceiver for an amateur. All on his own, Armstrong defects to E Germany, gushing the all-too-typical commie propaganda of the day - the west is full of warmongering hard- right-wing savages, NATO forces scientists to do only research for aggressive warfare, the U.S. only exists to accommodate a capitalist world-empire, etc. etc. We are a trifle stunned at hearing this, as is Armstrong's fiancé, who has followed him incognito for most of his airplane ride. Later we learn that Armstrong is a self-made spy whose Univ of Chicago research team hit a dead end building a pre-SDI nuclear-bomb shield and he's determined to see if scientists behind the Iron Curtain have more-advanced research on the subject. Once Armstrong wins his prize, he's already been discovered as an enemy of the Reich, sorry, an enemy of the Peoples Democratic Republic of Germany, and is already being chased by zhee authorities.The chase lasts for the last 1/3 of the film and is a little tedious in places. Still, danger of capture lurks close-by during much of the chase sequences and puts the audience appropriately on edge. "},{"Title":"Mission Interminable","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When you see Torn Curtain is an Alfred Hitchcock film starring Paul Newman and featuring a storyline ripped from the headlines, you can't help but feel a little excited about the treat you are in for. The problem isn't that it's a bad movie, just a weak one.Newman stars as Professor Michael Armstrong, an American scientist of some repute who had been working on an anti-missile system. Given the film is set at the height of the Cold War, his work is naturally looked upon with interest by the Eastern Bloc, so when he suddenly flies to East Berlin and announces he is defecting to pursue his project for the glory of socialist democracy, he is greeted with open arms. His girlfriend and assistant, Sarah Sherman (Julie Andrews), is upset by his betrayal but opts to stand by her man.From the nondescript fuzzy-blue titles sequence to the dopey musical score to the true reasons for Armstrong's defection, Torn Curtain is a film of dull compromises and obvious disengagement by the central players. No screen actor ever combined intensity and charisma as well as Newman, yet here you get neither. His Armstrong is a cold fish who stares at the ground a lot and stoicly ignores his girlfriend's unlimited devotion.Hitchcock is even more of a surprise; he seems brought down by the grayness of the locale in which his film is set. There are remarkable moments in this film, and remarkably prosaic ones, too. Take the opening, aboard a cruise ship where Armstrong is preparing to give a conference. Usually Hitchcock films whisk us right into something unusual or exciting. Here you get tedious exposition, lame jokes, and a force-fed tryst between Newman and Andrews as frosted and artificial as Andrews' bouffant hairdo.They do say their lines well enough, and Andrews, an actress of limited range, struggles gamely with the lame material she is given. So docile is she that when the East German authorities taking Armstrong away confront her with the question What are we going to do with you? her reply is What do you suggest? Lorena Bobbitt she is not.Wolfgang Kieling is the only performer who sticks out here; playing a security man named Gromek who watches over Armstrong with attempted joviality. He's equal parts bully and puppy dog, a bit sad for the way he holds onto stray bits of outdated American slang and tries them out on the professor, having no idea of how lame he comes off. Gromek's not one to underestimate, though, as Armstrong discovers in a confrontation that is the film's best moment. At one point, facing down Armstrong and a knife-wielding woman, Gromek tells Armstrong Tell the cookie to put that down. She's going to cut your fingers off. We lose Gromek shortly after, and the film never finds anything as interesting to occupy us thereafter.Most of the other performances are flat, not that I blame them; if Newman can't shine, why should Hansjorg Felmy? The worst is turned in by Lila Kedrova, one of two 1965 Oscar winners in the cast (Andrews being the other). She overplays the role of a hard-luck countess as if she was being paid by the grimace. She's laughing! Now she's crying! Now she's squealing with joy! Eartha Kitt chewed less scenery playing Catwoman. I blame Hitchcock, who could have told Kedrova to tone it down, especially opposite Zombie Paul. Instead he just lets her spin, another sign he didn't care.Yes, there are good scenes, when you get past the long stretches of nothing between them, scenes that stick out in your memory. Hitchcock was always great at scenes. Problem is, he was usually great at movies, too, but Torn Curtain is one time he couldn't seem to give a rip. It's hard for a viewer to feel much different. "},{"Title":"One of Hitch's worst .....","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" TORN CURTAIN is one of the worst movies HITCHCOCK ever made. The film comes across as blatant pro-American propaganda. PAUL NEWMAN looks like a fish out of water in a Hitch film. And JULIE ANDREWS is more asexual than DORIS DAY in A MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH.The film is completely uninspired even though some of the German baddies are hilarious. Hitch rejected HERMANN's score for this film but the one he actually used is pretty unremarkable.i guess this film was like the big budget movie of the 60s with many exotic locales and cheap thrills. Most of the the thrills are uninspired. Though the threesome fight scene in the village barn had some trademark Hitchcock touches. But overall this film is tepid and overlong. After a point you simply wish it would end.(5/10) "},{"Title":"The fields are alive, with the sound of . . .","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" . . . murder! Yes, the actress who embodied the singing nun Marie Von Trapp--Julie Andrews herself--plays the mistress of a lethal physics professor in Alfred Hitchcock's TORN CURTAIN. Andrews' casting is no more implausible than the plot itself, which involves Paul Newman, as Julie's lover Michael Armstrong, pretending to defect to East Germany in order to trick vital information out of the German bomb builders and bring it back to America. After the kitchen utensil\gas stove\strangulation offing and farm field burial (motor bike and all!) of the most inept secret cop in history, Paul and Julie need to traipse all over East Germany (a one-time country known primarily for giving Lance Armstrong drugs to female Olympic swimmers) in an attempt to avoid death (or grass soup in a gulag). Their comical escapades involve phantom buses full of fake peasants, shouting fire in crowded German theaters where everyone understands English, and silly border guards machine-gunning clothes baskets. This is NOT in the same league with NOTORIOUS, PSYCHO, or even VERTIGO! "},{"Title":"Really very good!","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Some of the user comments for this film are unduly harsh. I just re-watched it last night, and I thought it was really very good! The decoy bus scene was very suspenseful, and the murder scene had me squirming in my seat! And any time we get to see Paul Newman laying on his back with his shirt open is great in my book!  "},{"Title":"Frustration","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A study in infidelity and trust wrapped up as a competent spy thriller from the mid-60s that doesn't match up to the director's usual standard, but still stands above most of the output of the time. It's main problems are lack of credibility in an otherwise taut story, an underwritten part for Andrews, and a sub-Herrman score by John Addison. Despite this, Hitchcock assembled an authentic cast of Europeans and still manages a couple of great set-pieces and cranks up the tension to the full; the silent farmhouse murder is excruciatingly frustrating, and the trip across the border in the decoy bus is deftly handled to just the right level of squirming anticipation.  Unfortunately the unnecessarily easy escape from the ballet (possibly the writer's fault, rather than the director's) just lets the whole film down.  "},{"Title":"Bad story makes a cinematic failure","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Any Hitchcock film plays fast and loose with plausibility and makes use of a story that you would never have heard of otherwise. This one goes off the edge. The former East Germany (DDR), even if far from the most brutal communist state, was at least harshly efficient in its counterespionage and its repression of dissent. Brigands along the highway? Maybe in the early months of DDR, but surely the Stasis had disposed of them long before the 1960s. Both Paul Newman and Julie Andrews were badly miscast -- not that even Cary Grant or Jimmy Stewart could have pulled off the role of Armstrong or anyone Sarah Sherman.The story is questionable, and I suspect that Hitchcock's judgment of stories as film material was in steep decline. It's only for those people who wish to see everything that Hitch did. Hitch made enough masterpieces that you can avoid this one and have missed nothing.4 out of 10 -- watch only at your own risk. "},{"Title":"intolerably tedious","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" As a longtime Hitchcock fan, I wondered why I had never heard anyone talk about this film, and somehow I had never seen it when it arrived in my recently purchased masterpiece collection--instead of, notably, NOTORIOUS, REBECCA, and/or NORTH BY NORTHWEST...What a disaster! Of the uncountably many ways in which this movie is pathetic, nothing can really compete with the very fact that I was forced to divide it into two parts, on two separate days, to get through the whole tedious, tiresome, retarded thing. But even then, I found the last fifty minutes nearly unbearable.Replete with clichés, stereotypes, anti-communist propaganda; devoid of any suspense or humor; and marred by myriad illogicalities, TORN CURTAIN is a waste of time and an embarrassment to the memory of Alfred Hitchcock.Perhaps the worst scene of all was the Buono and Bianchi-like murder of Gromek, early on in the film. Gratuitously awful and devoid of any dramatic purpose whatsoever beyond--I guess--demonstrating that patriotism may sometimes require that one adopt the modus operandi and mindset of Henry Lee Lucas?! But the nonsense unfortunately did not stop there. Instead, for over two hours the viewer is treated with a childish plot and the diaphanous and entirely predictable antics of moronic--but highly patriotic!--protagonists. Newman is too stupid to solve his own math equation, but more clever than the man who can--because he's a communist?! Okay... The totally over the top crazy woman in Berlin who offers to help the Newman and Andrews characters if and only if they'll sponsor her visa application? Please, I implore you, if you have any appreciation for the chefs-d'oeuvre of Hitchcock in his prime, do not desecrate his memory by watching this piece of junk. Turn this one away Just say No! "}{"Title":"Dull, uninteresting spy thriller from the 'Master Of Suspense'","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Torn Curtain is a great disappointment from Hitchcock,especially coming straight after his run of masterpieces which began with The Wrong Man and ended with Marnie. It's a routine cold war thriller, barely distinguishable from countless others made around the time of it's making. It's competent, and might even seem pretty good if it was not a Hitchcock film, but because it is, one expects so much more than what is on offer here.The Master of Suspense just seems uninterested in the film and is just going through the motions. Some have said that about Marnie, his previous film, but like it or not that film had style to spare. Torn Curtain seemingly has no style. The story plods along in a way just enough to keep one vaguely interested, but there is little suspense or emotion. We care little about the main characters, and Paul Newman and Julie Andrews have absolutely no chemistry.Many dialogue scenes in the first half could have been cut completely with no harm to the film. Of course the famous scene when Newman and a woman try to kill a man and find it much harder than expected, is still memorable, and the final third has two well handled scenes- a bus pursuit and an escape during a ballet performance.Tron Curtain is visually dull, and is hampered by a score that sometimes becomes jaunty during supposedly suspenseful scenes as is well known, Bernard Herrmann's score was rejected but it available on CD and would have helped the film a bit. No ,it's by no means a bad film. However, it's definitely bad Hitchcock.  "},{"Title":"This is Hitchcock's best- because of Julie Andrews","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  All you people who say that Julie Andrews was horribly miscast are blind! So blind that you cant see past your on nose and you have no right writing an review! Julie Andrews was perfect, so perfect that it makes you just want to hug Hitchcock! Truthfully, when Alfred Hitchcock asked Dame Andrews to do 'Torn Curtain' she didn't want to. But then he begged (something he hasn't before nor since done) her to accept and she did. Although when she filmed it, she was extremely exhausted, for she had just concluded filming an epic movie called Hawaii (coincedentally filmed in Hawaii). And she had even had a rent house in Hawaii because they were there so long. And she also brought her 2 and a half-year-old daughter with her.  Anyhow, Julie did a fantastic job considering the circumstances. And it was said by all the crew and cast of 'Torn Curtain' that Hitchcock was never nice or considerate to any of his actors, but he was very friendly to Julie and he cherished her, treated her like the Queen she was. (That was said by Paul Newman). Take that, all you people who critisized Dame Andrews! ***Now about the movie. It was great. it starts out with you seeing a ship cruising through what looks like freezing waters in Scandinavia. And shortly after you see Paul & Julie in a really romantic, cute scene in bed. (MAJOR chemistry1!!!!!!!!!!!) And then the action starts. We've got lies, love, the Iron Curtain, planes, Germans, kissing, yelling, fighting, eluding, jumping off ships and hiding under a blanket from reporters (and ofcourse, kissing under it). AWESOME movie! Deserves TONs of praise! This movie is at its best because of Julie Andrews and maybe Paul Newman, who was very good as well.! 10 stars!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Godawful cold-war propaganda film","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Maybe it was the trend of the times to make pro-American propaganda films, but it still stings to see Alfred Hitchcock make a film like this. If you take this film seriously, it is so blatantly political, in such incredibly naive way, that it is not worth watching. The film totally fails in any way to seriously approach the matter of the horrendous humanitarian disaster which eastern Europe was during the cold war.The American spy makes it back home with his sweetheart - happy ending and we can all feel good about the state of the world. When Newman and Andrews get pulled into safety at the Swedish harbor towards the end of the film, one of the captains greeting them actually says, we always keep warm blankets for refugees. Oh for crying out loud...This film could work well as a spoof on wartime propaganda films, maybe that's what Hitchcock intended? "},{"Title":"one of the LAMEST movies ever","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock was SO overrated. Come on! This movie was so lame. The agent Koska doctor lady TRIPPING Paul Newman on the stairs just so she could have a clandestine meeting with him????? ridiculous! How did she not know if he would be killed or seriously injured? You can't trip someone on a stairwell and not expect someone to get hurt. And, as in all Hitchcock films he uses backscreen projections. How stupid. Just film the scene outside or inside where you are. The scene on the tractor with Paul Newman riding in the seat with the secret agent was just so ridiculous. Not even counting them talking and explaining the lame plot to us. So, do yourself a favor and never rent this DVD. ) Rogerhttp//www.rogerblakely.com/apps/photos/photo?photoid=50133015 "},{"Title":"A Terrible Movie - Worse Than a Waste of TIme","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This movie is not merely bad, it is colossally bad. A previous comment that Hitchcock did not want to make the movie is intriguing. I'd like to know more about the circumstances that resulted in a great director making a movie this awful. The less said about Paul Newman's and Julie Andrew's performances, the better - were they forced into it too?. Unbelievable plot, inane dialog - every scene drips with ridiculousness. The fake scenery is the icing on the cake. Don't waste your time - it will leave such a bad taste in your mouth it will infect your enjoyment of Hitchcock's other, great films. I do agree though that Lila Kedrova and the German actor do give good performances that stand out like sore thumbs in this mess. "},{"Title":"The Hermann Revenge?","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Did Hitchcock choose to name the bad guy 'Hermann' as a pun towards Bernard Hermann whom he sacked during the shooting? Hermann Gromek is one of the most memorable Hitchcock crooks that I spontaneously can think of, a sleazy, shrewd and intimidating type of a guy.Otherwise the movie is some kind of a travel brochure with all its locations and swift changes of means of transport.Newman's acting wasn't bad but I find it hard to accept that he didn't bother to learn German before 'defecting', being an academic and so on. Being an academic myself, I expect - out of experience - other academics to know at least three languages with reasonable command.Andrews. Terrible woman. I have true difficulties in watching anything where she's cast as she is completely in lack of sex appeal and annoying British accent. (I find Grace Kelly's accent annoying too, but that girl had IT, so to speak.) I don't believe that Hermann's score would have done anything to improve this! The sequences where Newman and the East German scholar doodle formulas on a blackboard, are those formulas authentic or random inventions?Besides Gromek, the ballerina was great. "},{"Title":"A mystery","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Compared to spy films such as THE QUILLER MEMORANDUM and FUNERAL IN BERLIN, released the same year (1966), TORN CURTAIN, given that it is directed by Alfred Hitchcock, is a disappointment. There's an uncertainty of tone, as if the great man didn't quite know the kind of movie he wanted to make. Bernard Herrmann knew listen to what exists of his score and suddenly TORN CURTAIN seems to be about something, to matter. But Hitch fired Benny. As a result, all the cracks show.The biggest crack of all is not the script, which usually gets the blame. It's the sheer impossibility of Julie Andrews and Paul Newman as a couple. Pressed upon Hitchcock by the studio, these two stars, so remarkable in their own ways, are stylistically incompatible. Newman specialises in hidden depths; Andrews' strength is her highly-polished surface. Whatever they're given to do together, they're in two different movies. Having said all that, this is nonetheless a work of a master, and there are inevitably moments to admire (an overhead shot as Newman walks among cleaning ladies that cranes to reveal - no, I won't give it away!), ideas to marvel at (the pursuit of Newman through a museum which seems to have been borrowed and improved upon by Wes Anderson in THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL), and set pieces to applaud (the famous scene in which we are shown how difficult it is to commit a murder). There is also joy to be had from the supporting players, with memorable turns from Ludwig Donath, David Opatashu, Wolfgang Kieling and Lila Kedrova. But the balance is not on the side of the good stuff. Hitch's fondness for process shots instead of locations date TORN CURTAIN in an unhelpful way, especially when a contemporary film such as THE QUILLER MEMORANDUM gains so much (and feels so much fresher) from having made good use of its Berlin setting. Apparently TORN CURTAIN did OK at the box office. Why is a mystery, especially to a Hitchcock fan like me. "},{"Title":"Newman & Andrews.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed this cold war espionage thriller that stars Paul Newman as Professor Michael Armstrong, who is in Stockholm for a physics conference with his assistant & fiancée Sarah Sherman(played by Julie Andrews). She is shocked when, after refusing to go back home, he announces that he is defecting to the East in protest over a canceled research project. In reality, he is a double-agent, who intends to get a formula from a brilliant East German scientist. Once he does, they find out that defecting back to the West wont be so easy... Despite the star chemistry on display, this film is curiously ineffectual and flat, with only a few suspenseful scenes, it's all pretty forgettable. "},{"Title":"Worst Hitchcock in decades","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'd come late to this movie after years of being a major fan. I've even purchased old, old Hitchcock collections from his first days as a British director. I'm afraid I could not even finish watching this monstrosity, just making it past the 75% mark to satisfy my curiosity that my hope that something better surely must be coming down the pike was futile.The plot is weak and unrealistic. Scientists don't act like scientists; lovers don't act like lovers; and spies don't act like spies. There is very little tension and the Master's unique photographic angles and oddities are in short supply. Others have commented that the music score without Bernard Hermann also suffers.Watch only for those who want to see all of his films for historic or educational enlightenment--not for the enjoyment of the movie itself. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock hits a new low","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Wikipedia says that this film is a 1966 American political thriller. That may be true, but it is awfully slow getting started. Yes, we're a little surprised to see Paul Newman apparently defecting to East Germany, but the first thrill of this thriller is a full 48 minutes into the film when Newman and a farm woman (?) decide to slowly kill a KGB-type agent by having him inhale gas from a stove...rather than smashing him in the head and getting it over with...although it does make a good movie scene, despite its total lack of logic. And then the film sort of lurches from one not-well-thought-out escapade after another. Oh, it has its moments...but they are only moments of suspense. And then, in a much criticized segment, there's the segment with the countess. There is no point to it and it drags on interminably. And then how does Hitchock get our dynamic duo out of a crowded theater? By having Newman yell Fire. Geez, how cliché can you get? In terms of the cast, the only 2 actors you're likely to recognize here are Paul Newman and Julie Andrews. Newman seems sort of bored here in at least a couple of scenes. Andrews often has little to do other than tag along with Newman. Admittedly, Newman has never been one of my favorites, although I concede he was talented. And I've pretty much always enjoyed Andrews. But here the script is weak and creaky. It is interesting to note that Peter Lorre's son is an uncredited taxi driver about 45 minutes into the film. Hitchcock's appearance in the film is very early on, but more obvious than usual...listen for the classic Hitchcock music, and you'll then see him. You also may recognize the actor playing Professor Lindt; he was Al Jolson's father in both of the Larry Parks Jolson biopics.I've pretty much seen all the American Hitchcock films, and I'd call myself somewhat of a fan. But this one doesn't even feel like Hitchcock. It's beneath him. "}{"Title":"Just watch it...","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" (Not a native English language speaker so please excuse any grammar mistake) Actually all the bad reviews helped me to enjoy the movie even more since I expected the worse; fortunately this was totally the opposite. This is totally underrated! Users who find this movie boring may be young people who are used to watch movies in a music video pace. This is truly a lost gem with tons of suspense and memorable scenes. I would not give 10/10 since I don't think P Newman and J Andrews were the best choices for the leading roles. Don't let other people influence on you (like i did) just give it a chance and watch it. "},{"Title":"A disappointing attempt to ride the Bond train","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I have liked most Hitchcock movies I have seen. However, he is best when not making deliberate cash collecting thrillers (although I did still enjoy West by Northwest), but odd and different movies like Psycho or Vertigo.Torn Curtain really doesn't start too bad. Although I must agree with many others that Julie Andrews is miscast and possibly not well directed (why couldn't she be convincing in love here when it worked in Sound of music?), most other aspects of the first half of the film works well. Getting into East Germany turns out to be a lot more exciting than getting out. First we don't really know whether prof Armstrong is defecting or making a double act. Then we don't really, really know if the slimy bodyguard Gromek (Wolfgang Kieling) is there to stop them from escaping or, having formerly lived USA, is there to help them. He is also a strong character both in tension and humor. His comments about American culture and food are very entertaining. You can't really decide whether to hate or like him.But after Gromek leaves the story six feet below (after the best action scene in the movie), the only person who keeps things rolling is professor Lindt (Ludwig Donath). The final scene with him, writing formulas on the blackboard, is vital but still makes me a bit uneasy. They should really discuss principles and ideas, not just write formulas like on some kind of math lecture. It is a key scene of the movie and I feel that it, at least partially, resorts to the stupid idea that science is all about finding the magic formula.From that point, I feel that I have seen it all before. Was this movie truly early with the the theme of smuggling people out from behind the iron curtain? Maybe I feel that after watching Secret Army a lot later, but if so, we shouldn't blame this movie, but surely there were others before this? Speaking of smuggling, a disturbing omission on that point is, in my opinion, that we get to know nothing of the destiny of those who helped them who are revealed and arrested (like the person who was hurt leaving the bus and other people who must have been easily identified). Don't we care?The countess (Lila Kedrova) is thrown in as some extra spice, but she is just annoying, over-acting and not at all the charming colorful easter Europe character she is planned to be.All that really happens is that the heroes are happily delivered to the Swedish coast, happy ending. Oh yes, the cameo by Jan Malmsjö (famous Swedish actor and singer) as photographer is a plus that lifts the ending a little bit.All in all, not an awful movie by any means, quite good up to a point, but very far from Hitchcock's best or any first rate thriller. "},{"Title":"It's not James Bond. For That Matter, It's Not Good.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  According to a few biographies about Alfred Hitchcock, `Torn Curtain' was supposed to be Hitchcock's version of a &#145;real-life' James Bond film.  Oh, if only it had lived up to that promise. Torn Curtain is a Cold War spy thriller about Michael Armstrong (played by Paul Newman), an American scientist who travels to Norway with his assistant/fiancee Dr. Sarah Sherman (Julie Andrews) for a nuclear conference -- of course, Dr. Armstrong knows all sorts of nuclear weapons secrets, and the Soviets are trying to subtly pry info from him.  Armstrong goes suddenly to East Germany, apparently as a defector, but the plot thickens -- did he really defect, or is he passing along false data to Moscow?Torn Curtain, which at first glance seems to have the makings of a terrific thriller, is in reality just an inexplicable mess.  A few scenes are terrific and tense, but most are just plain dumb.  There's no internal logic for this flick &#150; characters constantly contradict what they've said in past scenes, making the story hard to follow.  (And no, it's not like these characters are lying, or trying to pass along disinformation to each other).  Great concept, rotten script.  (Although, as usual, the cinematography is amazing -- I think visually it's one of Hitchcock's best).Julie Andrews is AWFUL.  Underline that word seventy times.  I watched this film trying to keep an open mind about her, mainly because many of original 1960s reviews panned her as Mary Poppins in a spy film. Well, she wasn't Mary Poppins, she was Julie Andrews, bad actress.  She comes across as clueless, dumb, and annoying . . . and she's supposed to be this smart, sophisticated scientist.  I winced during every single scene with her.  Put it this way -- if you wanted an accurate remake of this film in the year 2001, it would probably star George Clooney and Tori Spelling.Newman's great -- when he's the main character in the scene.  There's a scene with him explaining stuff on a chalkboard that's absolutely priceless.  When he's not the main character in a scene, though, he looks bored, almost like he's waiting for the caterer to show up. Newman does a pretty good job, but it was the first time I ever noticed him just mailing in a performance, at least part of the time.It's a bad film with a few great highlights.  For Hitchcock fans only.  C- "},{"Title":"Not what you'd expect","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Be honest - Paul Newman and Julie Andrews paired together in a film - what do you expect?Exactly, a pile of unwatchable nonsense.Actually, this surprised me as Julie Andrews in particular was ... er ... good.  Scary!World famous scientist Michael Armstrong shows up in Copenahgen and defects to East Germany hence the title of the film, and his fiancee follows him in what becomes an intriguing tale of mystery including a particularly shocking murder.I actually saw coming exactly what did, and so will you when you see it. "},{"Title":"Mourn Curtain","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  One of the products of Hitch's declining years. He directs this overlong thriller from memory. The movie's other weaknesses are uninspiring performances from the lead pair of Newman & Andrews, a script too full of German language, rapidly disappearing cast-members, & fatally, too many boring stretches. The few interesting moments in between which sustain the movie are the justly famous killing scene, the blackboard sequence (the mcguffin explained?), the few chases in the end & the opening credits.Better movies exist on the cold war. So don't waste u'r time unless you are a Hitch historian(-) "},{"Title":"Slow Deflation.","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The photography and the casting of subordinate roles is generally fine. That aside, and not to demean these accomplishments, the rest of the film is a bit of a mess.Paul Newman is an American math professor who is sent, with his assistant Julie Andrews, to East Germany as a faux defector to the Soviet bloc. His mission Pick the brain of Ludwig Donath, as Professor Lindt, the biggest physics brain in East Berlin. Then he and Andrews must escape by complicated means and get back to safety.There are a handful of outstanding scenes that demonstrate Hitchcock's range as he aged. He was about sixty-five when this was shot, but he was beginning to feel depressed and was putting away a lot of booze, all of which combined to impair his judgment. Here are some, in no particular order.The East German security agents who follow Newman around after his defection aren't bad guys. They're serious about their work, genuinely courteous, they're not ugly, they're neatly groomed, and some have a sense of humor. They're the kind of security agents we would wish to have. Newman and a farmer's wife are forced by circumstances to murder one of them in an isolated house. The poor guy, wisecracking all along, is strangled, stabbed in the neck, beaned with a shovel, banged on the shins, and finally gassed to death with his head in an oven. Hitchcock made it deliberately unpleasant because, as he said, he wanted to show how difficult it was to kill someone. In this he succeeded.In another scene, Newman cons Donath into revealing the secrets he knows about some physics notion behind missile development. The concept, it's called. Donath, by the way, is another regular guy. He enjoys music, wine, and young women. The scene resembles that in which Klaatu instructs Professor Barnard in celestial mechanics, if you know what I mean. Some of the same dialog seems to be reproduced. Of course this is only the MacGuffin, but it's one MacGuffin I'd have liked to know more about.Towards the end, a fake bus is trailed by the real one that is being imitated. It's pretty suspenseful, and the score helps.Newman and Andrews are in the audience at the ballet when they realize they've been identified as spies and the police are closing in. A man in a public place with no means of escape. The director has been here before -- The Thirty-Nine Steps, North by Northwest, et al. Even Newman has been here, independent of Hitchcock, in The Prize. So how does Newman get out? He stands up and shouts FIRE! And immediately -- immediately meaning like in two seconds -- the entire audience is screaming and struggling towards the exits, even in the absence of any sign of smoke, let alone fire. Deus ex plastic flames. It falls entirely flat.A good deal of screen time is given over to Lila Kedrova as an exiled Polish countess stuck in East Berlin. She gets multiple close ups. Why, I don't know. Her antics are supposed to be amusing and pathetic at the same time. They're just pitiful. She comes across as a neural shambles.I don't want to get into the plot further, except to say that there are no humorous moments in it and no scenes in which food plays an important part. The supporting players are, for the most part, better than we have a right to expect, but the principals don't bring much to the party. Julie Andrews is saucy and pert and isn't asked to do much. However, this is one of Paul Newman's infrequent failures. He and Hitchcock didn't get along -- at all. Hitchcock by this time, although always polite, expected obedience from his actors. Newman was a graduate of the Actor's Studio and expected to work out the role in concert with his director. Hitchcock swore never to work with name actors again, and he never did. The director also had a very unpleasant conflict with his usual composer -- Bernard Hermann, who was as temperamental as Hitchcock was dictatorial. Hitchcock fired Hermann and they never worked together again, a sad and practically wordless parting.It's a sad film in many ways. "},{"Title":"I bet De Palma watched this several times","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film is terrible and completely worthless.What's interesting is the lingering shots of the approaching knife during the murder scene. By Hitchcock's standards, it's a completely laughable and badly shot bit of action. But the sustained and slow approach of the knife obviously inspired Brian De Palma's similarly subjective approach of the drill and approach of the saw scenes in Body Double and Scarface.By the time Hitchcock got to this stage in his career, times had changed. Audiences no longer bought his quaint little thrillers. Hitchcock gives us a knife stabbing flesh in glorious color and expects us to be jolted....but these things are no longer shocking or thrilling. They're just silly, audience desensitization exposing Hitchcock's technique for the kind of crass string pulling it always was.No wonder De Palma had to come along and juice things up. You want an approaching knife in slow, subjective, motion? Screw that. De Palma gives you a powerdrill and blazing chainsaw, slowly edging toward you at 2 frames per second!Torn Curtain also features a chase through an ornate museum, but it's one of the worst chases in Hithcock's career. Here we see how dry his photography is when he doesn't have Bernard Herrmann to highlight the action or provide exclamation points to guide his editing.The chase plays like this Newman enters one room, hears footsteps, looks behind him and then enters another room. He then hears footsteps again, looks behind him and then enters another room. This goes on and on for about 12 rooms. Add the fact that each room is shot with a tripod mounted stagnant camera and you honestly have the worst chase in cinema history.But anyway, my point is that this scene, and the more fluid museum scene in Vertigo, provided the framework for Brian De Palma's use of architecture throughout his entire filmography. The Classical Beaux-Arts architecture style, with it's large open spaces, expansive hallways, symmetry and pillars, is perfect for De Palma's elegant camera moves and spatial fetishes.But aside from these 2 points, Torn Curtain represents the Master at his worst. The leads have no chemistry, the villains are cartoonish, the acting is stilted and the film has no tension, pace or thrills. The music is also quite terrible. But I guess you can learn all this by reading other reviews.2/10 - The Big Man must have been asleep. This film is completely worthless. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman is acting funny on a train...","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Well, a man and woman are on a train, and the man starts acting strange, almost schizophrenic. It could have gone a number of ways... Where it went was a bit disappointing.There was probably a brilliant film here on cold war paranoia, but since the war was ongoing at time of writing, the film is positioned a little too heavily behind one side, and feels false as a result. Suspense levels are pretty low, actual scenes of violence and action are very few, which is probably why this one doesn't have a great reputation. Performances are good, however. Its no Vertigo. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Parts > whole. But that murder scene - what a part!","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain is a good little Cold War story involving unlikely spies and lots of traveling through European countries. And of course the thing you'll hear about is that one major set-piece, in the middle of the film, where a Character (with a Capital C) comes over to where Newman and Andrews are trying to lay low, and the first thing is the tension. It's what isn't said here that cuts like a knife, how Newman tries to keep up the cover and the other guy can just sense, taste, what this man is lying about. Finally the struggle happens, and the man is hit on the head. But that's not all. It's the Master of Suspense stretching what he could do in 1966 (the 'Code' was finally loosening, just a little), and it's graphic, rough, and a mini-masterpiece.The rest of the film is... alright. It's not completely forgettable as far as spy thrillers with espionage in the 60's goes, nor a crime against humanity. But, Julie Andrews was miscast here for sure. Paul Newman does okay actually, better than I expected as a professor-turned-Cold-War flip-flopper - though he's not, I think, who cares really - but their on-screen chemistry isn't very strong, which is the film's biggest flaw, especially for the material this filmmaker is working with here. If Newman had a stronger woman to work off of, a different sex appeal or a more realistic counterpart (maybe one of the stars of one of the European waves could have helped), but here...Hitchcock, I think, got this as well, so he got more pleasure out of side/supporting characters, like Ludwig Donath as Prof. Gustav Lindt or the German woman with the colorful scarf who needs a sponsor. It's not a bad movie by any stretch, and it has a nice wonderfully obvious Hitchcock twist (actually a couple) in the last reel. But Torn Curtain could've been more. It's a soup that needed more attention, or another lead actress. "},{"Title":"Possibly one of Hitchock's most boring films","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Take two outstanding stars; add a handful of top notch character actors; a celebrated director, and you should have a first rate film. Instead, you have wooden performances by Newman and Andrews. Add to it backgrounds that are so unrealistic looking that they are obviously Hollywood stages with artificial lighting and uncreative photography.Worst of all is the plot. The so-called excitement or tension predominantly arises from an unbelievably stupid slip-up by Newman. He draws the mathematical symbol for Pi in the sand of a farmhouse to indicate to a non-English speaking German woman the purpose of his visit. She then introduces him to his contact, but he doesn't erase the symbol with his foot, which any idiot would do, no less a supposedly brilliant scientist.As a result, the East German surveillance bad guy sees the symbol, so he has to be bumped off, and all the subsequent chases derive from this single piece of Newman's stupidity. I would have thought that a film late in Hitchcock's career would have had more substance, and from all standpoints, been creatively better. I skimmed through parts of it, since the dialogue was pretty uninspired and there wasn't much to miss. "}{"Title":"Lila Kedrova's Film","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Paul Newman and Julie Andrews star in this espionage tale directed by Alfred Hitchcock, the master of suspense. I wouldn't review this, when it has so many reviews already, but I just wanted to add my two cents. I did read other reviews, one praising this and another bashing it and I'm on the side of criticizing it. I'd like to give Hitchcock the benefit of the doubt, but this film pretty much lies there. Except for a few action scenes and some chasing, there's practically no real suspense. It does somehow keep the viewer's interest in the beginning, but after the cancelled meeting at the hour mark of the film, it does downhill fast. The worst thing about it is we simply don't care about the lead characters, because they're just cardboard characters and so two-dimensional. Sure they're shown all lovey-dovey and romantic, but they don't come across as real people, just pawns in this mysterious case of Paul, who's a scientist, defecting to find out formulas to make the atomic bomb obsolete. The real kicker is the introduction of Countess Kuchinska, played by Lila Kedrova, in the last half hour of the film. If she wasn't in the movie, I could simply ignore this picture completely. Her seven minutes on the screen is the best thing about this film, bar none. If the rest of the film hadn't been such a snoozefest, she might would gotten more attention from the Oscars. But one never knows. She needs a sponsor to get out of the country and Lila's performance simply breaks your heart. When you see her on the steps, distraught, you ache for her and want them to go back for her. But they had their own problems. If you want to see Torn Curtain, you have to watch all of it for an Oscar-worthy performance by Lila Kedrova. Otherwise, see North by Northwest first. "},{"Title":"Yes, we get it, Communism sucks","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'm not trying to downplay the suffering of those who have or currently do live under totalitarian regimes... but it irks me to no end when it is dumbed down like this and none of the good intentions behind Marx' original theory are included. An American nuclear scientist defects to East Berlin, offering his experience on an anti-missile technology, prompting Andrews(this may be the only thing I've seen her in... is she always this irritating?), his secretary, to whine on and on about patriotism(why is it that we are expected to be on the side of whatever country we happened to be born in, regardless of what our conscience tells us? I thought we were in the age of individuality). Ah, no worries, it's a cover story. He's still working for the US; he's there to find out what a rival of his there has determined about, well, the same theory, basically. One can tell that this is done by Hitchcock... however, it was also the worst experience he had filming, neither lead(they're decent together, and Newman isn't bad) were his choice, and this is among the most simplistic of his. It's too based on action. No complexity, no interesting themes, and only a few memorable scenes(the infamous oven sequence). The tension and suspense are great at times. Still, this is boring and repetitive at times. Denmark is seen, which is cool(and no, I can't explain why we have a hotel here, the name of which, in French, means England). The score is grand. German is spoken, not subtitled, and far from everyone sound like they come from where they're supposed to. Some of the dialog is good. There is disturbing content and bloody violence in this. The DVD comes with a making of featurette and one about Bernard Hermann, in spite of this being the falling out between him and Alfred(I will review both of these on their own pages here on the site), production photos and a trailer. I recommend this to the biggest fans of the master, or those who want a Cold War thriller with chases. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The usual mediocrity of Hitchcock","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock's first movies were cheap, and they only kept getting cheaper. Not because later movies were actually worse than earlier ones, but rather because the same cheap work feels even cheaper when the director becomes a high-profile one.The film is fun to watch, but porn is fun to watch too. You just can't call either art or have much respect for the creators. In order for you to enjoy it, you have to completely shut your brain down and accept that they will leave directions for the American spy at the post office written in German(!!), that the best escape plan would involve sending him and his fiancée -both can't speak German- to a crowded theatre in a city suspicious of foreigners, that even though his face was all over the news only one eccentric woman would recognise him, that his claim to be visiting a relative in a farm would not be laughed at immediately, or that they would bring his obnoxious scientific foe to the theatre during the slow and unrealistic arrest attempt. And these are just few highlights of the stupidity we are asked to believe.The film is full of last minute escapes, amazing coincidences, and that ballerina seems to be everywhere knowing everything!These are all signs of total lack of talent and creativity. Imagine what if the 11 juries in 12 Angry Men just decided to follow Henry Fonda's not-guilty verdict immediately with no explanation and that was the film! This is why artistic liberty should stay within the boundaries of logic, or else it's nothing but a cheap mess made only to make a quick dollar at the box office. This is exactly what this film is.The atmosphere is enjoyable, and the sets have that vintage feel to them even though film making had moved past these when thew film was made. The shot of the exterior of the museum in Berlin is such a good example of a 1940's effect that made its way into a mid 60s movie. Acting too was quite vintage, and the chemistry between the two leads was weak but not completely lacking.Overall a good way to kill a little under 2 hours. Watch it and have a laugh at Hitchcok's fan-boys who would undoubtedly call it a classic. "},{"Title":"One of the worst...","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Wow! Where to start? An incredible vision of how NOT to make a movie! Terribly uninteresting from the start, this film takes about an hour to get to a point where you say, Ok now it'll pick up and get going! Well, guess what- IT DOESN'T! A ridiculous knock down, drag-out fight/murder scene looks like it came straight out of a Herschell Gordon Lewis or Al Adamson film. The worst is still yet to come... Hitchcock then fills the latter parts of the movie with such bad attempts of suspense (the bus scene, the blackboard bickering, the theater full of guards) they all come off as frustrating and maddening. This film fails to compare even to lesser Hitchcock efforts- it is truly in a field of its own.  "},{"Title":"Tin Curtain","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Torn Curtain is a highly appropriate title for a film riddled with holes. I lost count of the improbabilities around the third reel. It's clear from the get-go that Paul Newman is no more a genuine defector to the East than John Wayne BUT the time is the height of the Cold War, Newman and his fiancée, Julie Andrews are in Copenhagen for a scientific conference when he tells her he is leaving for Stockholm. So far so bizarre but vaguely plausible; she discovers that he's really flying to East Berlin; cut to the plane in flight, Newman looks around the cabin and sees Andrews sitting behind him. WHAT! She was able to buy a plane ticket to a destination behind the Iron Curtain like buying a ticket on the Staten Island Ferry. Gimme a break. Next, Newman shakes his minder and lights out to a remote farm where we learn officially that he is not a defector but a double agent. Back in East Berlin when questioned about his visit to a remote farm he says he was visiting relatives. AND NOBODY SAVYS WHAT RELATIVES? They accept it as gospel. Gimme TWO breaks. I could go on but what's the diff, Hitchcock can do no wrong. If only he could make half decent films. "},{"Title":"Sometimes People just gets too old","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Stumbled over 'Torn Curtain' at the local Library. Hitchcock, Newman, Frau Andrews, Copenhagen, Berlin and 1966 (year of my berth), this one I just had to see.... Wish I had not!I like Hitchcock, Newman and even sometimes Frau Andrews (and She really tries in this one).. and i'm crazy 'bout Cold War movies (stupid... I know..), but this one had nothing....Never seen Newman perform this badly... Never seen Berlin and the former East-Germany portrayed that clumsy.. and the cinematography that made wonders 30 years before, is just Pure Pain in this one.Watch this movie if You want to see Paul Newman in His worst performance and to realize that not even Alfred (H. that is) could keep the magic.  "}]