[{"Title":"Hell on the Border","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"68 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang 'Em High is a fictionalized account of Hangin' Judge Parker's court at Fort Smith, Arkansas. Judge Parker had jurisdiction over a large chunk of Indian Territory (Oklahoma today). The house of ill repute in the film is a fictionalized version of Miss Laura's Social Club which still stands in Fort Smith and has the dubious distinction of being the only whore house on the National Register of Historic Places. In the movie, Fort Smith becomes Fort Grant but a few of the place names used are actual names of towns nearby, such as Alma, Arkansas, and Poteau, Oklahoma. The river in Hang 'Em High is too small (even before the locks and dams) to be the Arkansas River but could stand in for the Poteau River; the confluence of the two rivers occurs at Belle Point in Fort Smith. Most of the movie was shot in California and New Mexico (certainly not eastern Oklahoma) but the scenes of the gallows and the judge's court and office look very much like Judge Parker's Court in Fort Smith that is also on the National Register of Historic Places. If not actually filmed there, then the producer and director did an excellent job recreating it as a set. Even the dungeon jail is correct.This was Clint Eastwood's first American western following his triumph in Sergio Leone's spaghetti western trilogy. Eastwood wanted Leone to direct this one but he was already committed to another project. From what I read neither Eastwood nor director Ted Post worked well with the producer/writer Leonard Freeman.Hang 'Em High starts out with a bang, a lynching that backfires. To show the audience that Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is a good guy, Cooper rescues a calf from drowning. This ploy was later used in Tombstone when Wyatt Earp (Kurt Russell), on his first appearance on screen, aids a horse that is being mistreated. Wyatt gives the perpetrator a taste of his own medicine reprimanding him, Hurts, don't it? Veteran actor Ben Johnson, who was from Oklahoma, happens on the scene while Cooper is still dangling, cuts him free, then throws him into the tumbleweed wagon full of thieves and cut throats bound for Fort Grant and justice. After lingering in the dungeon jail awhile, the judge clears Cooper and makes him a federal Marshall, warning him to bring the nine men in who attempted to hang him, but bring them in alive. The rest of the film deals with Cooper rounding up the nine plus a few other killers along the way. There is also emphasis on the different interpretation of justice by Cooper, a former lawman, and the judge. This leads to several dramatic confrontations. There is a parallel story of a search for justice by Rachel Warren (Inger Stevens)who falls for Cooper and visa versa. They have a thirst for vengeance in common.Much of the movie is fiction, but parts are based on history. The circus atmosphere that accompanied the public hangings in Fort Smith during Judge Parker's rule is shown basically as it has been reported. There were vendors present, hawking all types of goods and goodies. Children wandered around with or without their parents. The fathers would sometimes place their children on their shoulders so the tads could get a better view of the executions. And there were multiple hangings recorded, similar to the one in the film. The viewer may enjoy seeing a lot of familiar faces in the cast. Veteran actor Bob Steele plays Old Man Jenkins, a member of the lynching party. Bruce Dern is as ornery as they come. He is not only a member of the lynching party but a cold-blooded killer as well. Alan Hale, Jr. (The Skipper to his Little Buddy), one of the lynching party, is a blacksmith who seems apathetic to the incident. Dennis Hopper has what could be labeled a billed cameo role. The viewer barely sees his face at all. L.Q. Jones is a member of the lynching party turning in his usual fine performance. Charles McGraw plays the sheriff of Red Creek (possibly Garrison Creek, which today is Roland, Oklahoma) who has a back problem--or is it a spine problem? James MacArthur makes a solemn preacher extracting final confessions from the condemned. Pat Hingle portrays the hanging judge in fairly realistic terms. The real hanging judge never watched the condemned swing. Judge Adam Fenton not only watches but nods to the hangmen when to pull the lever. The masterful Ed Begley is the vicious leader of the lynching party who is determined to make amends for his botched hanging of Cooper by hanging him even higher next time. The lovely and sexy Inger Stevens turns in a winning performance as a supplement to Cooper's vengeance. And Clint Eastwood, well, he's Clint Eastwood. Need I say more? "},{"Title":"Perhaps Under-appreciated?","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"58 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I found this to be a pretty solid western, not one you hear a lot about but a fast- moving film which means it entertains. It doesn't dawdle on any one particular scene.There is a good cast in this Clint Eastwood-starred movie. Pat Hingle did an outstanding job as the too gung-ho judge but isn't all bad and has an interesting explanation of the situation he was in near the end of the film.Overall, this a gritty story with Eastwood in his customary revenge-minded role, although he mellows somewhat by the end of the film. I also appreciated all the good facial closeups in here. As with most westerns, the movie is nicely photographed. This movie had a odd combination of being really raw in parts but yet thoughtful. I think it's a very underrated, under-appreciated western. "},{"Title":"Excellent Eastwood Western. By far the most underrated of his films.","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"62 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood's most underrated film, Hang 'Em High is a throughly enjoyable movie. It has the feel of a John Wayne western, as opposed to the spaghetti western formula in which Eastwood with Sergio Leone combined so magnificently with each other in the Dollars trilogy.Eastwood gives a very worthy performance as Marshall Jed Cooper. The central dilemma of having to operate within the law in conflict with his own personal view of justice is executed very well by Eastwood. On the whole, Eastwood's performance is certainly a strong point of the film and a great performance in its own right.The storyline itself is relatively well structured with interesting elements relating to the law and the justice system. However, a rather pointless, rushed and half baked romantic subplot by Inger Stevens (who is sadly woefully out of her acting league alongside Eastwood) adds nothing to the story and becomes rather annoying on repeat viewings.However, special mention must go to both Pat Hingle and Ed Begley who both give some excellent performances, perhaps even superior to Eastwood himself.Hang 'Em High is a great Eastwood western, provided you don't expect something magical like The Good, The Bad And The Ugly or Unforgiven. Entertaining and more complex than you would expect but sadly, greatly underestimated. Every Eastwood fan should at least give it a chance.Overall I give it a solid and well deserved 8/10. Be sure to get a copy of this hidden gem. "},{"Title":"When you hang a man, you better look at him","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I realize Hang 'em high isn't the most well-known of Clint Eastwood's westerns but it sure as hell is a one wonderful and successful movie. The first scene is a classic and the hanging scene in the somewhat middle of the film is very powerful and memorable. Dialogue is splendid and the acting is truly excellent. No need to mention Pat Hingle shines as Judge Fenton.Almost all of Eastwood's other American-made westerns did have that certain spaghetti-oriented feeling in them. Hang 'em high is perhaps perhaps the one that looks most like so-called traditional American western. However the role of Jed Cooper is like a tailor made for good-old Clint, or in this case young Clint. He's tough, charming and downright marvellous and once again he shows why John Wayne can kiss his boots.Hang 'em high is an exquisite experience, clever, deep, impressive and entertaining. Actually this is even better than Don Siegel's Two mules for Sister Sara and I loved it too. This is a movie that gets better every time you see it. If you didn't fully appreciate or understand it the first time you should watch it again and again and again and notice that every single time it offers something new to you. To all of you dear Eastwood-fans across the world, watch this fantastic film! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood Now a Man with a  Name!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"44 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The film begins brilliantly and brutally with a lynch mob leaving Eastwood for dead at the end of a rope... He is rescued, eventually cleared of suspicion, and appointed deputy with 'a license to hunt' by a famous hanging-Judge Parker (Pat Hingle) with a clear warning All the criminals are to be taken alive for trial...Eastwood proceeds to clean up the worst crimes in the state, but doubting his own motives, he always avoids capturing the gang of nine vigilantes who were responsible for his near-death...Inexorably, the confrontation comes nearer. The leader of the gang, Captain Wilson (played by Ed Begley), returns to town and wounds Eastwood. This provides an encounter with another victim of the vigilantes, Rachel (Inger Stevens) who nurses Eastwood and reveals that the same gang raped her after murdering her husband...Eastwood's character is unlike Gregory Peck's character as the blind seeker of justice in The Bravados (1958), and much different for the 'Stranger.' He has now more dialog, he has a romance of sorts, and although he is equally proficient with the gun he always waited for the court's justice rather than dispensing his own, as he readily did in the Italian Westerns. He also exhibits less of the dry humor that had characterized the Stranger, and most sacrilegious of all, he has a name, Jed Cooper. Hang 'em High remains a study of differences between public and private forms of justice, but the motivations behind both are left confused and unsatisfying... The gripping mass execution on a big platform, is brilliantly directed by Ted Post, but the film has neither the magic or the mystique of a Leone film... "},{"Title":"Deserves got nothin' to do with it...","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This was Clint Eastwood's American Western debut that I had never really seen all the way through until now.  At first I thought it would be another ride 'em high, cowboys n' indians flick that was popular in America those days... before Sergio Leone shook the genre down to its raw and merciless possibilities.The film was pretty good, and the moral undercurrent of justice by a dirty rope on the plain, or a judge in a robe standing before the American flag is rather striking. The Federal judge is by far one of the most interesting characters I have seen yet in a Western.Indeed, the grittiest and most barbaric scene is not the lynching of an innocent man, but the public hanging on the eve of statehood... to prove that Oklahoma Territory executed the sort of justice required of a civilized state of the Union.  It is made a public spectacle with beautiful hymns and cold beer.  And just the way each of the condemned faces his execution is tongue in cheek.Then there was the campfire scene where Captain Wilson confers with his employees regarding their options irony, fear and desperation. They put a human face on their culpability, similiarly echoed decades later by Little Bill's I don't deserve this, I was building house. And the few who chose not to run chose a desperate and violent option.A dillemic no one wins justice spiralling into graphic violence... and ultimately an undiginified and graceless death.  What was perfected into poignant brevity by Unforgiven was born in Hang Em High's exploration of two men's differing approaches to an unforgiving justice... a justice that led either to the end of a noose, or the end of a gun.Not bad at all... "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Big Clint's first film outside of Serigo Leone's sensational Dollars trilogy is none other than...a Western. Hang 'Em High is a rather overlooked entry in Clint's long and impressive film wagon, even though it is a serious, no-nonsense and modest look at crime and punishment and a subtle dig at the injustice system, which was somewhat forgotten by his critics who emphasized that he was a symbol of violence, especially in the Dollars trilogy and the Dirty Harry series.Clint plays an ex-lawman who picks up a new badge after he is almost killed by a group of men who hang him and leave him for dead. He then embarks on a mission to hunt them down one-by-one and hand them over to the law.Ted Post's watchable Western drama is definitely a refreshing break from most other 'revenge' movies. Instead of cold-blooded vengeance, the script decides to display Clint's character, though still as the cold, silent anti-hero, as a more peaceful person who would truly like to see men behind bars rather than shooting them down. The film also keeps it grip, rarely letting a boring moment crawl in even though this is more talk than action.Its not a perfect, polished or particularly great film - the characterization always stays pretty low and the romance between Clint and the charming Inger Stevens isn't fully developed, for instance. However, it has its highlights - a memorable opening sequence and an effective musical score - along with its notable touch for seeing justice rather than violence and killing. A good effort that's worth watching and not ignoring. "},{"Title":"Interesting Commentary on the Criminal Justice System","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Eastwood, as Jed Cooper, sits on both sides of the fence in American criminal jurisprudence.  First, he is hung (although they didn't get the job done) in a deputized mob lynching.  After he recuperates (the first time), he returns to his career as lawman to help a hangin' judge grease the wheels of justice.  Of course all that Cooper really wants is to see justice done to the mob that lynched him.  He soon finds out that his transgressors were men of the community or leading town folk.The irony is plentiful in this film.  For example, the two young men who go peacefully in an impossible 3 day ride, submit completely to the new Marshall.  How are they rewarded?  Well, they are hung of course!  This really sets the tone of the film.  The audience quickly recognizes that the hangin' judge just might me a bit too effective in his role of statemaker.While the movie does get a bit tedious, the story is razor sharp, the soundtrack is good although a bit epic, and the acting is very well done.One is left with a sympathy for the men Cooper is hunting.  Of course, this is a deliberate result of the filmmakers who meant this to be a commentary on capital punishment.  Well, I enjoyed the film despite the deeply woven propaganda.   "},{"Title":"A wonderful and underrated Eastwood western","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Although Clint Eastwood is incredibly famous for his spaghetti westerns, this film was made domestically just after his spaghetti phase and I think it's as good any of these movies (even The Good, The Bad and The Ugly). His acting is about the same, maybe a little better, but it's nice to see his supporting cast is much more competent than what we'd been used to seeing. Pat Hingle, Charles McGraw, Bruce Dern and Eg Begley, Sr. all provide able support, as do lesser-known characters such as the good man about to be executed or the two young boys who assisted Dern in his cattle rustling.So apart from an able cast, why did I like it? Well, the story was the key. Clint Eastwood was wrongfully hung by a lynch mob at the beginning of the movie. He miraculously survives and becomes a lawman bent on apprehending the men who almost killed him. Despite this, Eastwood's character has depth and the movie really has something to say about frontier justice. Unlike some westerns, the bad guys are not ALWAYS killed by the Marshall but are brought to justice--which almost always means a hanging. Over time, Eastwood's lust for vengeance diminishes, as it's tough and not always a fair way to exact justice. You see and ultimately believe Eastwood's internal struggle. "},{"Title":"Solid western with interesting theme of law and revenge","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Ex-lawman turned cattle rancher Jed Cooper is taken newly purchased cattle back home when he is caught by a posse who accuse him of murder and lynch him.  They ride off to leave him to die, however he is cut down by a group of marshals who add him to their prisoners and take him to the judge.  Having had his story cleared Cooper is offered a job as a marshal and agrees to do it.  However when his first task is to arrest the men who hung him can he take the stand away from revenge and on the side of the law.I watched this cause I do like a good western every now and again.  The actual plot is quite simple on the surface &#150; man out for revenge, but it uses it quite well.  It makes some interesting parallels between the hanging of men by the lynch parties and the hanging of men by a judge.  It doesn't fully make it's point but it is good to have something to think about in a western.  Outside of this the film has some good drama even if the end feels more like the conclusion of an episode in a TV series rather than the finale of a film.Of course the reason for this may be Post's involvement as director.  He used to direct Rawhide with Eastwood and was picked for this film to support Eastwood.  This was his first American film after doing all those spaghetti westerns and I assume he wanted a familiar hand on the tiller.  He does well here as he always did with his western characters, I read that he also directed some of it.  The rest of the cast are made up of a few famous names (Bruce Dern, LQ Jones for example) but regardless everyone does well in their roles.It's not a classic western but it rises above the average by having a good lead in the shape of Eastwood and some plot strands that go beyond the revenge storyline and encourage you to think of deeper issues. "}{"Title":"Seeking Vengeance by the law","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A rather unusual western movie for its period, with interesting ideas on the practice of justice and death punishment, not consistent with the myth of the frontier as always portraited in such kind of cinema. Even though Eastwood only appears as an actor, a good preview of what was about to happen in his career as a director, with The outlaw Josey Wales and, above all, The unforgiven. Rated 7.  "},{"Title":"Hang 'Em Better Next Time","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It was in the mid-90s when I first saw Hang 'Em High. I was new to Eastwood's westerns, having just seen the Leone films for the first time. All I knew of this one was a scene that I had seen in television commercials, where Clint says the movie's most famous line When you hang a man you better look at him. So needless to say I was excited. The movie starts off well enough as innocent Eastwood is lynched by a group of men for cattle rustling, only he survives. From here you have a plot that Anthony Mann or Sergio Leone would have made into a masterpiece.Instead, what you get is a slow meandering film that fixates on and preaches about law & order, the dangers of vigilantism, etc. These kinds of plots were commonplace in virtually every western TV show from the 1950s and 60s. Hang 'Em High offers nothing new to a discussion that was already old by the time the film came out. Although I came into the movie predisposed to root for Clint, after awhile his character's lack of motivation at wanting revenge made me wish the lynch mob had done a better job and spared us an unfulfilling two hours.Like I said I first saw it in the 90s and was disappointed. I just recently rewatched it for the first time since then, hoping to see it with fresh eyes and enjoy it more. But I found myself feeling the same sense of disappointment and boredom I did all those years ago. As a western drama it's watchable and competently put together. As a western action revenge movie it's weak and should be avoided. "},{"Title":"Skip this, go for Leone","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" 'Hang 'Em High' gets off to a great start, but after a set of fantastic opening titles, the movie quickly becomes 'Leone Lite.' Literal in its approach but rambling in structure, 'Hang 'Em High' begins with the premise that Clint Eastwood will go out and seek revenge on the men who nearly killed him. And, well, for the next hour and forty-five minutes or so, that's pretty exactly what you see him do. In between rounds of 'justice,' the film gets bogged down with preachy passages condemning the rigidity of capital punishment and a half-baked subplot/love interest that doesn't begin until the film is nearly over and then doesn't amount to much. It was cheaply made with obvious painted backdrops outside open doorways and noticeably redressed sets. Also, it was sloppily assembled &#150; look for the film equipment under the hangman's scaffold.To compound things, the men Eastwood is out to get really aren't that bad. By and large, the posse that strung him up at the beginning did so only because they believed he was the man responsible for the killing of a well-respected rancher and his wife and a personal friend to most of the posse's members. With a few exceptions, the men were guilty of little more than overreacting and punishing the wrong person but doing so with honorable intentions. They should have been paid for this, but, frankly, I just never felt they deserved what they got. "},{"Title":"Adequate filler western, but it ain't the Ox-Bow Incident","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The last time I'd seen Hang 'Em High was probably during a cable channel (TBS, most likely) holiday western marathon. I don't remember much of it then, and after having just picked it up on DVD, I can see why it's so forgettable.Visually, it looks like a western, and the opening scenes showcase some attractive western panoramas. Clint Eastwood does a decent job squinting and staring, but his persona is somewhat ruined by having a weak character by the middle of the movie. His motivations become unclear as the movie progresses, as the film tries to make a statement, but it isn't even sure what that statement is. A lot of viewers take something from it that it's anti-death penalty, but it's too muddied to even make that point well.The film starts off good, with good pacing, and with actors who melt into their new roles well. Alan Hale is instantly recognizable, but he fits into his role well, and was cast quite well. Several of the opening scenes are quite good. Many of the other character actors we see towards the beginning are familiar, including Bruce Dern, who also plays his role well.Rather quickly the film shoehorns Eastwood's character into a role he doesn't seem to belong in, and by the time Hingle's character is introduced, the office scenes were reminding me a lot of Hedley Lamarr in Blazing Saddles. Some of that resemblance is due to the film having a standard western look, some of it was due to boredom.The romance in the film seems entirely forced, and there are scenes where you wonder if the movie has just wandered off and forgotten the audience is watching. Or maybe they expect the audience to wander off, too.Something that is quite noticeable is the lack of any quotable lines. Outlaw Josey Wales, Fistful of Dollars, For a Few Dollars More, The Good The Bad & The Ugly, High Plains Drifter, Unforgiven, etc., all have quotable lines, ones that stick with you. Hang 'Em High doesn't. The few really good scenes in Hang 'Em High are blurred by the rest of the film's blandness.The music is quite good, but the lack of motivation for the characters really undercuts what otherwise would be powerful music. The music should augment and pump up the emotion felt by the audience about a character's motivation, but since the characters are often so lacking, the music seems to be playing to a different film - one you wish you were watching.For a good western about the questions of frontier justice, go see the Ox-Bow Incident. For good Eastwood westerns, go back to the Sergio Leone films or any of the others listed above. If you need filler to make a 24-hour Eastwood western marathon, use this one for early morning hours when no one's really watching. "},{"Title":"A little dull, a lot disappointing","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang 'Em High what a great premise for a movie! It's 1889 in the Indian Territory. An ex- lawman is wrongly lynched by a group of strangers for cattle rustling and murder. He survives the hanging and takes up his badge once more to get his revenge. In the meantime he encounters a bloodthirsty judge who sees it as his duty to bring law and order to a lawless territory by way of the rope, and a beautiful, mysterious woman seeking vengeance of her own.Unfortunately, the film falls short. The pacing is tortuously slow in all the wrong places, none of the shootouts are impressive or exciting, and there's not a single character worth caring about. What should have been a legendary classic was instead a two-hour bore. Even the love story between Rachel and Cooper is tepid at best.It should go without saying that Cooper gets his revenge, but the final scenes are completely anticlimactic and unsatisfying. His confrontation with the three surviving men who tried unsuccessfully to kill him not once, but twice, is a cakewalk and very short. There is no suspense and no real drama aside from a baffling conversation with one of his foes, whom he saves from suicide and then forgives for reasons that are never made clear.Hang 'Em High should have been great. It's certainly better than a typical spaghetti Western, but overall this is a dully plodding film that never really pulls us in. If you're a die-hard Clint Eastwood fan or a Westerns aficionado, it's worth seeing once. Otherwise, you're better off with any of the dozens of superior films in the genre. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is one of the most lifeless westerns I've ever seen. There is not one character that I cared about in any way. The villains are not so bad or tough and Clints character does very little of anything in this movie. If you loved the Dollars trilogy like I did I suspect you'll be let down big time by this one......rent it or skip it. "},{"Title":"Starts out with promise.","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  When Clint is wrongly accused, judged, and lynched, only to survive and set out to even the score, this film seems to be one of the best westerns ever made. It quickly bogs down with a terrible romantic subplot and the main storyline takes too many detours that lead nowhere. Some big name talent (Ben Johnson, James MacArthur, Dennis Hopper) gets top billing and are on and off screen so fast that their brief appearances leave you wondering why they even made the movie. The film drags on for two hours and in the end nothing is resolved. The romantic subplot then seems forced, and the way the film actually ends may leave you wondering why you just spent two hours watching it. It wouldn't have been so disappointing had the first half of the film not been so well executed as though it was leading up to something instead of nothing. 5 of 10 "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept, Ends Up Being A Bit Boring","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a movie that has a cool concept, has some good scenes, but overall isn't the movie it should have been. I wanted a good revenge film, but it was muddled down with things that do nothing but slow it down.The movie gets into the action right off the bat. We meet Eastwoods character and he is immediately accused of being a cattle rustler and hung. But he survives, and he wants revenge. Sadly, a lot of the revenge is sidetracked by scenes that just make the film boring. First off, we have a lot of scenes in the beginning involving this wagon of prisoners that just seems too long. Then we have a bunch of scenes involving a trial of two cattle rustlers that were accused of murder. We also have a romance thrown in later in the third act. None of these things feel necessary. I thought maybe the movie was going somewhere with the whole corrupt law kind of idea, but it brings it up and doesn't give us much more. The movie could have cut these scenes and it wouldn't have suffered.Clint Eastwoods performance is very... Clint Eastwood-ish. Lot's of staring and furrowed brows. It's really nothing special here. It works, but it doesn't give us anything too memorable. The other actors get the job done, but also don't really give us a lot to remember or love.Some people might enjoy this movie, and thats okay, but I personally wouldn't say it's an amazing western. Obviously fans of the genre would want to check it out, but other than that, it just doesn't leave you with a lasting impression aside from a few interesting scenes. "},{"Title":"Very Good, Tough And Atmospheric Eastwood Western","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Ted Post's Hang 'Em High Of 1968 is a tough and atmospheric Western, and Clint Eastwood's first Western after Sergio Leone's ingenious Dollar-trilogy, which had made him famous, and although Hang 'Em High can in no way reach the brilliance of the Dollar-trilogy, it must be said that it is a great film which no Clint Eastwood fan should miss.I personally am a big fan of Clint Eastwood, especially for the Dollar-trilogy, The Good, The Bad And The Ugly being my favorite movie of all-time. I'm a Western fan in general, and I usually prefer Spaghetti Westerns to the American ones. Quite a bunch the American Westerns of the late 60s and early 70s took their influence from the success of the Italian Western, and Hang 'Em High certainly has some Spaghetti Western elements too. It is still obvious, that this is an American Western, however, Clint Eastwood's character of Marshall Jed Cooper is not an antihero with a sense of black humor such as The Man With No Name from the Dollar-trilogy was, but a tough man driven by the desire for justice.Jed Cooper (Eastwood) is lynched by a group of nine men for a murder he did not commit. Left hanging on a tree for dead, he is discovered by a Marshall, who cuts the noose and saves his life. The Marshall brings him to the town of Fort Grant, where the strict but idealistic Judge Adam Fenton (Pat Hingle) is to dispense justice for a huge area. After his innocence is proved, the former lawman Cooper is employed as a Marshall by judge Fenton, and he is now out to bring his own lynchers to justice. Lynchers who (as the tagline says) made two mistakes They hung the wrong man and they didn't finish the job...Clint Eastwood is great as always and he fits perfectly into his role of Marshall Jed Cooper. Pat Hingle delivers a great performance as Judge Adam Fenton (a role that is based on real life 'hanging-judge' Isaac Parker, as anyone who has read a bit about the American Old West will soon realize). Beautiful Inger Stevens is also very good, and lovable in the female lead. Ed Begley is great as the head lyncher. The cast furthermore contains Bruce Dern, Alan Hale Jr., LQ Jones and Dennis Hopper in a tiny, but good role. I also thought that Bert Freed did a great job as the hangman. Hwe probably didn't say a lot, but the way he looked and moved was just what his role demanded.The movie's score is pretty good, and fits into the movie perfectly, although it is obvious from the beginning to the end that they just wanted it to resemble Ennio Moricone's ingenious Dollar-trilogy scores. One of the main themes was actually just taken out of For A Few Dollars More and The Good, The Bad And The Ugly, and modified a little bit. I guess it's okay to try and copy the best, however, and the score certainly compliments the movie. Hang 'Em High is also very well photographed and atmospheric from the beginning to the end. There was a big resemblance to Sergio Corbucci's Spaghetti Western Masterpiece Il Grande Silenzio aka. The Great Silence from the same year in one scene, which I won't give away, watch both movies and you'll know what I mean.All said, Hang 'Em High is a great Western, which Clint Eastwood fans can't afford to miss. Highly recommended. 8/10 "},{"Title":"When you hang a man, you better look at him.","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood excels as Marshal Jed Cooper in Hang 'Em High, the justice and revenge tale from writers Leonard Freeman and Mel Goldberg and directed by Ted Post. He's surrounded by a stellar cast, though most of them are in the hanging party that almost does him in during the film's opening scene. Particularly seamy looking is Bruce Dern; it's a mark of a good actor when his performance makes you want to see him get what's coming to him.For those who've seen it, the story is well known, so I won't concern myself with the basic plot. What I found rather fascinating was the subtext provided by Pat Hingle's character, territorial Federal Judge Fenton. Deputizing Cooper, we see a solid moral individual who fairly demands that Cooper bring back his attackers alive to face a judge and jury. But this hanging judge has his own agenda, and in his vision of statehood for the Oklahoma Territory, he's not above creating a bit of a spectacle in the name of civilized justice. When Cooper gets sidetracked from his original mission to bring in the killer of a cattle rancher, his path crosses with Dern's character Miller, along with two young boys along for the ride. Though admitting to rustling, Cooper knows the boys are innocent of murder, especially when they don't help Miller take down Cooper while being brought in to Fort Grant. On the witness stand, Cooper is continually shut down by the judge as he tries to defend the boys. Legally they're guilty of rustling, punishable by death and they'll hang.Credit writers Freeman and Goldberg for an unusual and surreal scene in which six condemned men are about to hang. The camera glances on shadows of dangling feet that portend the actual hanging, as a crowd forms on a bright Sunday morning to witness death. They wear their Sunday best, as a vendor hawks cold beer as if it were a sporting event. As the judge nods his assent and the gallows claim their toll, three members of the Cooper hanging party attempt to gun him down before they themselves fall victim to the hunt - incredible timing and imagery as Eastwood's character falls in a hail of bullets.Inger Stevens appears as a nominal love interest for Marshal Cooper, in a romance virtually doomed from the start, as each are battling their own personal demons. Though there's a hint of their settling down together near the end of the movie, it's pretty much left up to the imagination of the viewer if that would ever actually happen.The actual ending is also an innovative piece of work. When Cooper was strung up and left for dead at the beginning of the movie, there were nine members of the hanging party. By story's end, seven had been accounted for, with six of them dead. Two members of the group, by name of Maddow and Charlie Blackfoot, decided to head out of town to avoid capture and trial. With his mission incomplete, Cooper picks up the badge once more and heads out on the trail to bring them in. Odds are he'll get his men, but we don't get to see it. "}{"Title":"Not as great as the Leone westerns but Eastwood's performance is good. Pat Hingle is even better and just about steals the movie.","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  'Hang 'Em High' was Clint Eastwood's first American Western after working on Sergio Leone's groundbreaking Dollars trilogy. Some people describe it as an American attempt at a spaghetti western, but I really don't see it. Yes, it features a revenge theme, common to many spaghetti westerns, and it has a few moments of brutality and moral ambiguity, but really it's firmly in the tradition of the Hollywood Western. Leone was supposedly asked to direct but chose to make his masterpiece 'Once Upon A Time In The West' instead. Ted Post who directed 'Rawhide', the TV series which made Eastwood a star of the small screen, directed instead (Post and Eastwood would later be reunited with 'Magnum Force'). 'Hang 'Em High' is nowhere near as good as Leone's movies but it's still better than many would lead you to believe. Eastwood gives a good performance and the movie is jam packed with character actors and familiar faces. It starts off brilliantly with Eastwood being accused of stealing cattle by a posse (led by veteran Ed Begley, and including Bruce Dern and Peckinpah regular L.Q. Jones), and then hanged! Luckily Eastwood is saved by a wandering Marshall (Ben Johnson) and taken to prison. The local judge (Pat Hingle) frees Eastwood and offers him a job as a lawman, which he takes, using it as an opportunity to track down the hanging party who nearly killed him. Eastwood is good, but Pat Hingle is even better, giving a terrific performance of quite a complex character. Dern plays one of his patented scumbag roles, and Inger Stevens plays a local woman with a past who becomes Eastwood's love interest. I already mentioned legendary Western actors L.Q. Jones and Ben Johnson. Unfortunately Johnson doesn't get much screen time, but he does have a memorable scene with Dennis Hopper, who play a crazed character known as The Prophet. If you'd like to see more of these two actors together check out the rarely seen counter-culture Western 'Kid Blue' made in the early 1970s. I could go on and on about the supporting cast but I won't. Suffice it to say that film buffs will get lots of kicks watching this movie. 'Hang 'Em High' may not be close to Eastwood's best work, but it's still worth watching, for Pat Hingle if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Worth watching and not to be ignored","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Big Clint's first film outside of Serigo Leone's sensational Dollars trilogy is none other than...a Western.  Hang 'Em High is a rather overlooked entry in Clint's long and impressive film wagon, even though it is a serious, no-nonsense and modest look at crime and punishment and a subtle dig at the injustice system, which was somewhat forgotten by his critics who emphasised that he was a symbol of violence, especially in the Dollars trilogy and the Dirty Harry series.Clint plays an ex-lawman who picks up a new badge after he is almost killed by a group of men who hang him and leave him for dead.  He then embarks on a mission to hunt them down one-by-one and hand them over to the law.Ted Post's watchable Western drama is definetly a refreshing break from most other 'revenge' movies.  Instead of cold-blooded vengence, the script decides to display Clint's character, though still as the cold, silent anti-hero, as a more peaceful person who would truly like to see men behind bars rather than shooting them down.  The film also keeps it grip, rarely letting a boring moment crawl in even though this is more talk than action.Its not a perfect, polished or particularly great film - the characterisation always stays pretty low and the romance between Clint and the charming Inger Stevens isn't fully developed, for instance.  However, it has its highlights - a memorable opening sequence and an effective musical score - along with its notable touch for seeing justice rather than violence and killing.  A good effort that's worth watching and not ignoring. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful western","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This movie stands apart from most westerns as it examines a serious subject. The Oklahoma Territory judge feels he must hang criminals frequently and ostentatiously in order to keep the peace (as much as that's possible) and hasten the advent of statehood, which will only come when crime is under control.The marshall that the judge hires was wrongfully (and unsuccessfully) hung by a lynch mob and is after revenge. However, the marshall objects to the judge's eagerness to seemingly hang as many men as possible.The marshall, of course, is played by Clint Eastwood, in about the same way we've seen Eastwood play a dozen other roles.But Hingle has the prize role in this movie as the judge who has to find a way to live with himself as he sentences so many men to hang. And Hinkle is more than a match for Eastwood in their scenes together.However, the movie suffers from the addition of a prostitute with whom the marshall inexplicably feels compelled to screw during a simultaneous hanging of six men, and from the presence of a doctor's widow who is searching for the killers of her husband and falls for the marshall in the process.Not that I object to beautiful women in the movies, but these two roles seemed to be more commercial calculation than necessary tools of the plot.The most interesting part of the picture is the conflict between the judge and the marshall. Everything else is just filler. "},{"Title":"Do we really care if Marshall Cooper does things by the Law book? Do we care how many angels stand on the head of a pin...?","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Let's make no mistake this is a mediocre Eastwood's flick, one that even at times straddles turkey territory. And I blame for that his stubbornness at staying with the old, the proved, but also the discarded. After all, it's part of movie History that by the early 1960s the traditional Western was as good as dead and that it was Leone who single handedly brought it back to life. So, it is a perplexing irony that the man charged of creating the most iconic character of the genre, the one who after him was crucial in creating a new Western, may have been also the only one not noticing the breathtaking change. After all, other U.S. filmmakers were at the time breaking new ground, experiencing with such daring movies as Butch Cassidy & Sundance Kid, Wild Bunch, etc. But I don't think that in Eastwood's case it was lack of awareness, but that he was simply trying to redeem himself in front of his conservative U.S. TV audience, after his Italian escapade--during which his Manco had broken every Hollywood convention; to show them that nothing had changed after all. But as Mrs. Sheen, Duvall, realized after their own AN escapade, doing movies for forgiveness doesn't really work, the resulting product being usually some contrived clunker. HTH follows the same protocol and it pays dearly for that, because it ends up being overdone, unoriginal, lame. Judging by what we see here, it would seem that by 1968 Eastwood wanted nothing to do with the film revolution he had been instrumental in unleashing and with the lasting icon he had created, El Manco.Basically HTH is just a throwback to older times when audiences were holding their breaths agonizing about the legality of what some generic sheriff was doing with his posse or about some cattle being properly branded; or wondering if the guys rotting in jail were really guilty...yawn. That's about this plot also. Cattle owner and former Marshall Cooper is mistakenly accused of murder & cattle rusting and hanged by a rogue posse. Miraculously, a traveling Marshall saves him. Then, as the truth comes out he's re--hired as a lawman and he'll spent the rest of the movie--when not chasing outlaws--arguing with people, from the judge above him to some other Marshall, to commoners, about the right way of enforcing the law. In that settings it's not surprising that, more than anything else, this movie feels like a pamphlet on good citizenry or at least as a simple remake of Ox Box Incident or some other classic--and not a very good one at that--rather than like an action & tension filled Western.But the worse thing about it is that it's preachy and manipulative, specially during that onion juice sprinkled picnic scene and during the collective hanging bit. Both episodes fail to convey any deep feeling, to communicate the desired emotions, because they feel to much the contrived--my Suspension of Disbelief Meter stayed stubbornly stuck at 0--so they both fall flat, as most of the flick. What makes things even worse is CE's clear intent of making us forget his Manco roles, which leads him to exaggerate the cleanliness and poise of his character. Always well dressed when about town, wearing just washed & ironed shirts, impeccable pants, immaculate hats...can you believe I spent more time watching in awe that wondrous hairdo than following the plot, the action, paying attention to the acting? That says more about this movie than anything else, I guess.Now, when a flick drags on the romance may come to save the day, but here even that doesn't work because that love story is simply BORING. I don't know about Stevens-maybe she was considered hot in the 60s--but here they both provide for what must be the lamest romantic couple in History, dethroning Cabaret's Minelli/York and Eternal Sunshine's Winslet/Carrey. And age got nothing to do with it in a similar role in Open Range, Annette Benning sets the screen on fire but here we see nothing of the kind. Her character is overloaded with pathos yet she plays it casually; nowhere her eyes, attitude, match what should be the cold resolve of her persevering endeavor which makes her look like just searching for some lost relative or like a preacher searching for lost souls--as Joan Collins in that Star Trek episode--which I thought is was the case! Furthermore her subplot gets no denouement, which makes it rather superfluous. The true mystery is why Eastwood's Cooper falls for her after all--maybe it's just that she brings out his inner lame-o. In any case, his final decision about keeping after the bad guys rather than staying with her, instead of looking and feeling as heartbreak, makes all the sense in the world.BTW, the only reason I saw and reviewed this one is because I found it in a 4-DVD set, with Leone's trilogy, under the description 4 Eastwood Classics. Uh, I don't think so. Just make that 3 Classics and a Lame-o. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Less to this than meets the eye","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Starts well, and after Eastwood's success in the spaghetti westerns, you think your're in for a treat. But it tails off, somehow. Dialogue is sparse and for its time the film was novel. But seeing it again, the flaws are plain to see. No 'plot' to speak off, and what there is doesn't really add up. Tries to be profound ('slice of American history', 'how the country was built' etc.), but that is just veneer. At times it seems like a tale of revenge, then it doesn't, then it does again, and finally you don't care. Made more of an impact at the time because it was grittier than contemporary westerns (no rousing score), but has time has been less kind than it might have been. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  One wonders why some people shoot films. In this case, I think that Ted Post getting bored to death, thought why only me? Everybody has the right to get bored. And what better than shoot a boring film for the masses to do so. Well he succeeded.From a weak script, with more or less strong actors, the film loses its plot after the first half.  Everybody is just walking around with no aim. There are some characters that appear without helping the story move forward, even slowing it down. (Possibility of spoilers) Some scenes are very long (the hanging of the six) where two third of it should be cut (you also will notice the handheld camera work among the bystanders much like in documentaries, in a Western!); some scenes are too short (like the killing at the end, the most important revenge scene in the film) where one wonders why the director had to botch the way he tells his story. The only reason for this movie to exist is Clint Eastwood.Maybe this is not the worst western ever, but this is one of the boring ones. When the director doesn't care, why should the rest of the cast and crew? "},{"Title":"Promises a lot, but delivers very little","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is walking along minding his own business when he is stopped by a group of men who accuse him of cattle-rustling. Despite Cooper's protests of innocence, the men decide that he is guilty and sentence him to death by hanging (albeit a private and unsanctioned hanging). However, Cooper survives this hanging and once his innocence has been proved, Judge Fenton (Pat Hingle) makes Cooper a lawmen and tasks him with the job of bringing all the men back to him alive so that they can be brought to justice.Hang 'Em High is another in a long line of Eastwood westerns and to date this is probably the weakest offering that I've seen. The problem I found with this film is that is that the story just wasn't all that engaging. At close to 2 hours it's far too long and I just found that so many elements of the film seemed to be drawn out for no real reason (the scene involving a group of men being hung about halfway through the film is a case in point). It also wasn't particularly exciting or entertaining and Eastwood is saddled here with a character that has no real character - no one-liners or humorous moments. This all just made the film rather dull. Director Ted Post also showed a lot of close-ups of several cast members which may have been the 'in thing' and I suppose it was intended to create suspense and tension, but looking at it today it looks ridiculous and rather cheesy.Where this film does deserve some praise is in the way that the writers expose some of the flaws in the justice system. Cooper is also a man that finds that his heart is telling him to get revenge on the men that left him for dead, but finds his head and conscience is telling him that they should be brought to justice and let the justice system decide their fate. This is an interesting aspect to the story which sadly for me didn't quite get enough focus.What makes this film slightly more disappointing is the final showdown which lacked any sort of intensity and was very anti-climactic.Taking everything into account, Hang 'Em High is an underwhelming and slightly disappointing film that just isn't as compelling or entertaining as many of Eastwood's other westerns. "},{"Title":"Standard old west fluff with Clint","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" (45%) With a plot thinner than good old Clint himself, its fairly standard direction, and characters we've all seen many times before in many different movies, this is some largely overrated wild west set fluff. It is a well made production, and the performances are fine, but the movie boils down to Clint arresting (yes arresting) a bunch of men that tired to kill him, he does, they get hung or shot, the end. The BBFC awarded this film an 18 certificate, I cannot see why myself, besides some men being hung nothing else is even worthy of a PG. Fans of Clint should give this a go, but I doubt I'll ever want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"When you hang a man, you better make sure you finish the job.","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Justice or revenge? Peace or tyranny? If you were falsely accused of something you didn't do, stood up for yourself, but hadn't the power to resist the forces bent on exacting their version of justice upon your person, how would you react? How would you feel? What would it do to your character? Would it scar you for life, or would you be able to move on?Those of us who've been through that scenario time and again know the answer. At times you can. At other times you want to chew nails and spit them out at the world for all the wrong doing you've suffered. But you endure. One scar may heal, another not as much. In the end they both fade, but just make sure you don't create new scars wen trying to heal the old. So it is that Eastwood's character gets caught up in a crime that he did not commit, and winds up vindicating himself by bringing others to book for it. We have a man on a mission with scars that will probably never heal. Scars that will, in an ironic sense, keep him going for the rest of his life. We witness a portion of that life as he engages in the healing process by taking up the tin star one more time and administering local town law on a Federal level.This is a comment on the human spirit, and also a comment on so called street justice, those who engage in street justice, and the ultimate outcome where the law is concerned.Those of us who in years past were fingered for wrong doing know the consequences of people jumping to conclusions. The cinematic mind conjures odd scenarios, and brings forth outcomes that seem likely, but are in truth fantasy. Yet the crowd is caught up in the trend. Others believe in their conviction that the focus of their attention is a wrong doer, or they don't want to stand out in the crowd for fear of being wrong. Those of us who've stood up to such persecution have weighed our options and suffered for it, but have thought of the more rational cause for the group psychological mayhem.But it doesn't do a man good when surrounded by a posse with the intent to be judge, jury and executioner. Fortunately it's Clint, and Clint will survive to see that justice is done (to borrow from the phrasing of the time). Well acted, well costumed, superb sets and locations, this film is a top notch western like most westerns of the time. I used to watch it regularly from Sacramento the Bay Area, along with a huge number of other westerns.On an odd and perhaps tangential note, and I'm sure some reviewer somewhere here on this website or elsewhere, has pointed out the similarities between this character and the infamous man with no name who rode into town in Pale Rider, as well as a couple of other westerns Clint has done. In my book this seals the deal of who that man is and was. Ergo, the mystery is solved in terms of Clint Eastwood's character lore.The film itself does get sidetracked for a bit with the woman who comes in to help him mend. But, I suppose all good westerns have to have that.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Look at the Law in the Old West","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang 'Em High deals with a subject not very often touched upon by Westerns. It addresses the nature of trials and their execution in the old West. A lynch mob hangs an innocent man, Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood), suspecting him of cattle rusting and murder and leave him for dead. He is rescued, becomes a lawman and owes to hunt the members of the mob down. He is convinced by Judge Fenton (Pat Hingle) that the men should get a trial and it is for the law to punish them. After witnessing a few trials and public hangings, he realizes that the law is not all fair either.Judging by today's standards this justice system may look like a Kangaroo's court. But, is it really as barbaric as it seems to be. In the crime-riddled Old West, some tough decisions had to be made. These include making an example of crime-doers to deter others from repeating the same. Judge Fenton even explains to Cooper that he does not enjoy handing out harsh punishments but it is the only way for a better future. The greater good, you may call it. This is not a Spaghetti Western, as maybe expected since it stars Eastwood. It is a like the classic westerns in that it raises ethical questions. Eastwood does a great job as a man undergoing an internal conflict while maintaining a no-nonsense demeanor. The supporting cast is good and it is interesting to see that we get to know each one of the lynch mob before they die. An under-rated gem. "}{"Title":"Unfairly forgotten western with Eastwood","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a serious western drama that goes against typical &#x84;revenge movie plot. There is more talk than action . Eastwood is rather an anti-hero than simple hero . During the story his view of the law and justice will change . It gives us a lot of reflection what is wrong and what is right . It's definitely more mature view at crime and punishment than most westerns. The internal struggle is interesting to watch at least. There is no black-white morality , only grey here.Veteran actor Pat Hingle (Batman) shines as Judge Fenton and quite possibly gives the best performance of his career. Clint Eastwood is Clint Eastwood &#x96; enough said. He's tough and charming. Other actors aren't bad too.The opening sequence is memorable and powerful. The hanging scene in the middle is actually sad and thought provoking. The music is really effective.The love story doesn't seem really developed and movie could be a little faster.Hang'em high is a deep and clever western . It holds even better on repeated viewings . I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"The Moral Core of Violence","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" An intensely morally conscious Western, Hang 'Em High offered interpretations of violence. When is violence right or wrong? Should there be a point where violence has to be stopped? What are the consequences of violence? These ambiguous interpretations emphasised Hang 'Em High's harrowing and confrontational portrayal of a violent frontier.Mistaken for a wanted murderer Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is left hanging from a tree by a posse bent on delivering 'justice'. Understandably affected by his near-death experience, Jed becomes Deputy Marshall at the behest of Judge Fenton (Pat Hingle) to make the posse accept their consequences even if it means death. However along the way Jed becomes at odds with Judge Fenton regarding violence's complex nature. A Western setting is appropriate to play out Hang 'Em High's themes of violence. A harsh terrain unforgiving of the devoid characters occupying its space which Jed was against perfectly back-dropped the violence. Undertaking three prisoners to face trial, Jed comes up against Miller (Bruce Dern) the most experienced of these prisoners. When Miller tries killing Jed it leads to a fantastic fight sequence, intensified by their opposing personalities. Once Miller realises he's lost the fight, he tells Jed to kill him. Instead Jed ties Miller on a horse intent on Miller facing the law. What makes this scene powerful is the variations of violence at play. Miller knows the consequences of his violence will lead to his execution whereas Jed will not commit violence upon Miller as an easy way out from execution. Hang 'Em High offers violence's portray to audiences with the same complexity as the characters dealing with it through Hang 'Em High's narrative. Whilst we can cheer Jed's revenge, we also have time to reflect upon other forms of violence in Hang 'Em High such as public executions. Clearly presented to be morally questionable with shots of children on a family outing to see condemned men being put to death, the bizarre fulfilment gained from witnessing their executions. Hang 'Em High has to be commended for offering this space of thought to audiences. On a side note a love interest develops between Jed and Rachel (Inger Stevens), a woman with her own checkered past. But this happens with little convincibility and takes place too late in the narrative to be heartfelt. Overall Hang 'Em High should be thought of as tackling variations of violence. "},{"Title":"Eastwood western that's excellent for a Saturday matine","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The first American starring vehicle for Clint Eastwood was, shock of shocks, a Western, programmed directly for Clint to get his Clint on he plays an ex lawman who gets drawn back in to be a Marshall after he is nearly killed by hanging from nine kill-crazy cowboys looking to string up the man who stole a bunch of cattle. Luckily, there is some depth and interest under the surface; while some of it is pretty standard in terms of the romantic relationship that unfolds between Inger Stevens (a good, not great, counterpart for Eastwood), or her own back-story with one of the main villains of the piece played by Ed Begley, there is a sense of dread raised by what it means to be the law or have some righteous claim of justice in this unclaimed territory of Oklahoma.In fact, nearly every scene between Eastwood and Pat Hingle rests on a rift that grows more and more over who has more right to exact justice we side with Eastwood on one side, and on Hingle with another- that is until we see the enormity of the people who arrive to see six people being hanged after Eastwood brings in three of the perps (two of which, according to the conflicted Marshall, doesn't think deserve to be hanged). At heart Hang em High still endorses Clint going after the bad dudes with his squint and hardened face that says I mean business, but it also shows him playing a character who has principles, and some that conflict with what should be the just law of the land and instead (somewhat) secretly relishes hammering down perps to the ground with his gavel. This is the great moral strength of the picture.As for it being a Western? It's solid, nothing spectacular, the direction from Ted Post giving a couple of memorable scenes for us craving for something classic (I personally loved Dennis Hopper's scene as Prophet, plus the climactic showdown at the hideout is played well), though it also feels padded a few times. "},{"Title":"Not exactly what it appears to be","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film was written by one of my favorite all time screen writers, Leonard Freeman (1920 - 1974). Freeman was the screen writer for Hawaii Five O. Not surprisingly Dan-O (James MacArthur) played a preacher in this movie. I personally believe that this movie must have been filmed right before starting on Hawaii Five-O. Freeman probably brought MacArthur (adopted son of Helen Hayes)along to be the side kick to Jack Lord.In any case, this movie appears to be a right-wing, pro-hanging movie. I think this is mistaken. Freeman was a great moralist. He wasn't so much politically driven, as trying to get at the heart of human issues. This is very apparent in this film. At the beginning of the film, Eastwood's character is hung by a group of individuals for being a rustler. The mob is not completely off-base, because Eastwood's character did unknowingly buy cattle from someone who pretended to be someone whom he had just murdered (and stolen his cattle).Eastwood's character is named Cooper. He is a former lawman. While being slowly and agonizingly hung, a marshall (played by the late great Ben Johnson) comes to his rescue. Cooper vows revenge on the nine men who hung him. First however, Cooper is brought to trial. When entering the town, the marshall is told by the bully pulpit justice for the Oklahoma territory (Played by Pat Hingle) to go get a dangerous criminal out of the barn. The ruffian is played by Dennis Hopper. Hopper's character tries to run and is shot by the marshall. At first the prisoners are egging the marshall (Johnson) to shoot the prisoner (Hopper). When Johnson does, all the prisoners realize that the marshall was actually being a coward, and are shocked by the killing.The justice (Hingle) finally verifies that Cooper is innocent, and saves him from hanging. The justice hangs people for even minor crimes. He is the law of the territory, and the justice believes that this is the only way to rule the Oklahoma territory (a viper's nest of law and disorder). Eastwood is enlisted by the justice to become a marshall. However, the justice is shrewd enough to know why, and warns Eastwood to bring all nine of the men who tried to hang him unharmed.One of the nine guys is played by Bruce Dern. Dern plays an immoral, sneaky, devious man, who will kill a person if given even a second of freedom. Somehow, Cooper manages to capture him. However, two other men he captures aren't really men. They are teens. Cooper believes their story that they were tricked and lured into joining the gang of rustler.Near the end of the movie, Dern's character and the youths are hanged. It is a tense and contradictory moment, as religious hymns are song by the townspeople and the preacher (MacArthur) reads his sermons. Of course, in the end Cooper gets all nine of the culprits.However, the plot is not the real story. It is the moral complexity of the plot that is the real story. No event is as simple as it seems. The posse that attempts to hang Cooper is a complex lot. Some are good family men. They find themselves on the defensive just because Cooper is after them. It is not an absolute clear cut case of Cooper the good guy and they the bad guys. It is more grey than that.The question of justice is extremely complex. Cooper and the justice (Hingle) argue endlessly over the fate of the two teenagers. Cooper believes their lives should be spared. The justice thinks until Oklahoma becomes a state, punishment is the only way. So, in conclusion, rather than being a right wing law in order movie, this movie is more of a philosophical debate over law and order. "},{"Title":"You've come to kill the prophet! OOOOH NOOOO!!!","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This movie is a classic, but I never hear about it on TV or anything.Why? It's really good I think. It deserves much more respect and a much higher score than 6.8 (as of 7/9/08).The story was simple enough a gang of vigilantes led by Captain Wilson (Ed Begley) hangs an innocent man, Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) for committing murder. However, he is cut down by Marshal Dave Bliss (Ben Johnson) and brought to trial and found innocent. he is soon hired by Judge Adam Fenton (Pat Hingle) as a new marshal, and he sets out to get those who hung him.The acting was all great. And there were a lot of interesting scenes that carried the movie along nicely.I don't see how such a movie could get such a weak praise.Western fans hopefully have seen this, if not, check it out! 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Western with a different ( but good) touch...","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The story of Jed Cooper, an innocent man who is hanged by lynchers. Clint Eastwood is great (as usual) as Mr. Cooper and Pat Hingle is awesome as the Judge in this film. Both characters play right off of each other beautifully, this western definitely wanted to make a statement about the growing need for justice in the west and how it would be implemented. This film explores the theme of Hangings and how important they were not only in the name of justice, but weirdly enough, how much of a spectacle they were in 1889 Oklahoma. Eastwoods portrayal of Jed Cooper is the usual calm, swift, and bold character that is reminiscent of Sergio Leone's 'Man With No Name' character from his own Dollars trilogy. Regardless, this is a great movie and Eastwood plus Hingle's performances keep it from bombing completely. A great soundtrack and watch for a few amusing lines throughout the movie, its almost like the precursor to Dirty Harry but in rawhide. 8/10 stars no problem. "},{"Title":"Never Hang The Wrong Man...Without Finishing The Job","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" HANG 'EM HIGH marked Clint Eastwood's first all-American Western after his stint working for Sergio Leone on that director's wacky and violent Italian spaghetti western series known as the Dollars trilogy. And when it was released in the late summer of 1968, with not even a year yet past the release of the final film of the Leone period (THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY), more than one critic claimed that HANG 'EM HIGH was really nothing more than a cash-in on those spaghetti westerns. But anyone who really sees this movie all the way through will only notice peripheral references to Eastwood's past.Eastwood portrays an ex-lawman driving cattle across the Oklahoma territory who is set upon by a group of vicious rustlers (led by Ed Begley), who have pegged him as the murderer of the family from whom he got those cattle. This being a largely lawless territory, they decide to hang him. But they make two mistakes. One, they hang the wrong man; and two, they don't even bother to finish the job. A local marshal (the always-reliable Ben Johnson) cuts him loose from the noose, and takes him to Judge Fenton (Pat Hingle), who, after checking out his story and confirming its factuality, makes him a marshal and assigns him the task of bringing in the rustlers who tried to kill him, but bringing them in alive. This is so Hingle can try them, and then hang 'em--and hang 'em high!While this may seem like an Americanized version of a spaghetti western just because Eastwood is in it, HANG 'EM HIGH has a bit more in common with the 1948 film THE OX-BOW INCIDENT, and is nowhere near as violent as the Leone films were. There's no doubt that it's a revenge story, but Eastwood's thirst for vengeance is directed only specifically at Begley and his henchmen (including Alan Hale Jr., Bruce Dern, and L.Q. Jones, formidable opponents all); and he shows mercy to the old man (Bob Steele) of the lynching party because he warned Begley that they were hanging the wrong man. The real focus of HANG 'EM HIGH, made rather clear but not in an overtly explicit way, is how the line between good and evil, right and wrong, is a very fine line that often gets crossed for misguided reasons. Hingle's hanging judge seems to take pleasure out of seeing all lawbreakers hang in the Fort Grant town square; but as he sees it, until Oklahoma is made into a state and a court of appeals is put in place, he alone is the law. Eastwood, however, knows the limits of the law and justice.Ted Post, who had directed Eastwood in a couple of episodes of the actor's TV series Rawhide and who made his big-screen directing debut here, occasionally overuses the zoom lens and shock cuts during the hanging sequences, possibly in imitation of Leone. But this is a minor flaw, given the complex nature of the Mel Goldberg/Leonard Freeman screenplay, and Eastwood's solid characterization. Eastwood, so often pegged as being every bit the political right-winger that John Wayne was, was even then a much more complex figure than Wayne ever was on the Duke's best day. With a cast that includes Inger Stevens, Charles McGraw, Arlene Golonka, and Michael O'Sullivan, a fine score by Dominic Frontiere, and total on-location shooting in southern New Mexico, HANG 'EM HIGH shows itself to be much more than an American rehash of Leone. In its own underrated fashion, it points to the kind of actor AND director Eastwood would become in the decades that followed. "},{"Title":"Decent but flawed","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Admittled, I watched this for the first time after my first complete viewing of The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, so it's bound to pale by comparison. It starts out promising. The opening lynching is disturbingly realistic. But (spoiler alert--am I really worrying about spoiling a 40 year old movie?) once he brings back the rustlers things go downhill a little. Inger Stevens role seems completely unnecessary and my wife and I both laughed with dismay that after telling the story of being violated next to her dead husband she is cured of her ills via sex with a man she just met. I've noticed in a few of Clint Eastwood's movies that inappropriate sex with Clint Eastwood seems to solve a lot of problems (see Blood Work...or rather, don't). And the climactic fight with the remaining lynch mob was practically a joke I won't even go into, and then the movie just...ends. Still worth watching despite its flaws, but definitely not the best thing on anybody's resume. "},{"Title":"interesting western mythology","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Hang em High is a strange blend of excellence and mediocrity. Director Ted Post was clearly out of his league, saddled with both an actor and a script he couldn't handle. Eastwood is great, and the script had the potential to diagram a great film. Unfortunately, Post was out of his depth. Despite great performances from both Eastwood and Bruce Dern as a delightfully slimey desperado, the film wobbles at times. The script contains an astonishing array of characters the hangin judge, as a slightly out-of-control sovereign for the lawless Oklahoma Territory; Clint as the warrior; nine vigilantes who mistakenly lynch Eastwood; and two ladies representing the productive estate the respectful prostitute, Arlene Golonka, and Inger Stevens playing the raped fertility goddess. Perhaps most unusual of all are a Dioskouric pair who must be sacrificed in the name of justice - great stuff. There are moments of magic, but also times when the movie loses its bearings. Well worth watching, despite the flaws. 9/10 "},{"Title":"When you hang a man, make sure he is dead or why the writers disapprove of the death penalty.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A complete let down after watching the dollar trilogy. It's not a spaghetti western, but more like a John Wayne movie. So everybody dresses nicely and the images are rich with color. Besides the setting and visuals the story is equally disappointing. The revenge story in itself could have been great idea, but the writer(s) decided to put in some other stuff as well.POSSIBLE SPOILERThere's some sort of love story in here without a point and the anti death penalty stuff could have been left out as well. In his quest for revenge Jed side tracks to arrest some cattle rustlers, which does nothing for the story. It seems to be in there for the sole purpose of showing viewers why the death penalty is a bad thing. It also has nothing whatsoever to do with the plot of the movie.  And then at the end of the movie the writers figured they still had to tie up the loose ends of the revenge plot. And it clearly shows. It is over quicker than you can say Hang 'em High. Some of the original posse decide not to fight Jed and they take of never to be seen for whatever time remains in the movie. The remaining three are killed in a few minutes. It just looks cheap. Clint is just not as tough as in other westerns. Maybe they should have made two movies. One real western about the revenge thing and one more dramatic film about the love story and the death penalty stuff. END POSSIBLE SPOILERSIf you are a fan of the dollar films or spaghetti westerns in general (or any other newer western) stay clear. If you are more into the classic American western (John Wayne) you might like this movie.I can only give it a 5 out 10. "}{"Title":"We hung  an Innocent Man,  . . . and we didn't finish the job ","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Amid all the westerns collected, there are some which stand out as being the caliber which makes them immortal. High Noon, Magnificent Seven, Wild Bunch and perhaps a few more make that list. Among them and perhaps heading the list is a favorite of mine. Hang Them High has so many superb qualities which makes it a classic, it's difficult to point them out. The story is drawn directly out of a bygone era. A man and woman are gun down in their ranch-home, by a killer who remains on the premises and then allows a Lawman, turned cattle buyer to take some cows from the ranch. Unaware of the crime, Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) drives the cattle away, only to be confronted by a group of men who are out to avenge the dead couple. The avengers consists of film-land's favorites, beginning with Ed Begley, as Captain Wilson, Alan Hale Jr., L.Q. Jones, Joseph Sirola and Bob Steele. Also included in the star-studded story is Ben Johnson, Charles McGraw, Bruce Dern, James MacArther, Dennis Hopper, and of course, Pat Hingle as Hanging Judge Adam Fenton. The lynch mob, acted in unison with the unwritten code of the west which is, if circumstantial evidence warrants it, Hang Him! The deed begins with the hanged man, becoming a nightmare as he not only didn't die, but returns and wear a badge too. A great film with a dramatic and haunting musical score and a sober message. If you're going to do something wrong, . . . . do it right! "},{"Title":"One time watch for Eastwoods fans. Nowhere close to d dollars trilogy.","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang Em High is a great Eastwood film. This was Clint Eastwoods American Western debut. Clints first film outside of Sergio Leones sensational Dollars trilogy is none other than...a Western. Hang Em High is a rather overlooked entry in Clints long and impressive film wagon. Hang em High was the first production of the Malpaso Company, Eastwoods production company. Viewers may enjoy seeing a lot of familiar faces. Bob Steele (The Big Sleep). Ben Johnson (The wild bunch, the getaway). Bruce Dern ( Black Sunday, Django Unchained, Nebraska, The Hateful Eight). Alan Hale, Jr. ( The Big Trees, Terror Night). L.Q. Jones ( Hell Is for Heroes, The Wild Bunch). Charles McGraw ( Spartacus, A Boy and His Dog). Ed Begley ( Sweet Bird of Youth, 12 Angry Men). Pat Hingle ( Batman, Splendor in the Grass, Batman Returns, Batman Forever, Batman & Robin, Shaft, On the waterfront). N Dennis Hopper in a tiny role. A slow movie but enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Misses the mark","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang 'Em High proves to be one Western too many for Clint Eastwood. After the success of the Dollars trilogy he jumps back into the genre with a movie which thoroughly disappoints. This is a slow, dull, quite tedious film. Not much interesting happens. Honestly not much of anything happens. Drama and excitement are in desperately short supply. The big action sequences you expect from such a film never arrive. The characters are not compelling, the story is paper-thin and the supposed climax is totally anticlimactic. Very hard to find anything good to say about this one.In this film Eastwood's character actually has a name. He's Jed Cooper and soon after we meet him Jed finds himself swinging from a tree with a rope around his neck. A posse, thinking him to be a cattle rustler and a murderer, hangs him. They do a rather lousy job of it. A federal Marshal shows up, cuts down the still very much alive Cooper and brings him before a judge. This judge likes to hang pretty much anyone brought before him but he realizes Cooper's innocence and actually makes Cooper a Marshal. And from there things go about as you would expect, Cooper hunting down the men who lynched him, seeking vengeance. Sounds like it could be interesting but it doesn't turn out that way. The fact the bad guys are such bumbling, bungling idiots doesn't help. Given another chance to kill Cooper they fail even more miserably than the first time. They really are quite pathetic. If you can't take the bad guys seriously it's near impossible for this type of movie to succeed. And that's the case here. The film's central conflict is a letdown. And there's nothing else to prop the film up. A tepid love story falls completely flat. The hanging scenes (and with this judge in town there are plenty of opportunities for hanging scenes) are interminable. Eastwood is reasonably decent in his role but no other performer really makes a mark. Some, most notably Ed Begley as the lead bad guy, miss the mark entirely. Getting through this film is really a chore. There's no suspense, the drama drains away all too quickly. This is not a good film. In fact it's quite bad. You might even call it ugly. "},{"Title":"When you hang a man, you better look at him.","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" My mother was from Fort Smith (Fort Grant in this movie) and I grew up there for three years. I've visited Judge Issac Parker's court The Hanging Judge. The Fort Smith Independent was the first newspaper to report the on the new Judge. Its extra of September 3, 1875 was a 12 inch by 12 inch broadside with the large column headings reading Execution Day!! In smaller type the paper explained Large Crowd -- 6 Murderers Hanged -- Details of the Execution -- Brief Sketches of the Convicts and the Crimes for Which They Suffered. From these first 6 in 1875 through 73 more up until 1896, Judge Issac Parker became famous for his stern brand of justice in a wild and untamed land. That's the history behind a good Clint Eastwood western, made after he did Sergio Leone's spaghetti flicks. Director Ted Post knew westerns, having directed many episodes of Gunsmoke and Rawhide, which included Eastwood. He also directed Eastwood later in Magnum Force. The carnival atmosphere that accompanied the hangings was displayed accurately as folks would come from miles around, as many as 5,000, to watch the show. Post kept the action flowing and made an enjoyable revenge movie with some psychological overtones in Inger Stevens (The Farmer's Daughter), and the tortured angst of the Judge. "},{"Title":"Justice Served","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A former lawman from St. Louis named Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) buys some cattle from a rancher in Oklahoma Territory and receives a bill-of-sale in return. While heading his herd out in the country he is challenged by 9 men who happen to come upon him. After disarming him they demand to see his bill-of-sale, which he produces. But the bill-of-sale is bogus and so they hang him not realizing that the man who gave it to him had just murdered the real owner of the cattle and was more than willing to get the cattle off of his hands for cash. The lynch mob rides off and immediately afterward Marshal Dave Bliss (Ben Johnson) sees Jed Cooper hanging from a tree and manages to resuscitate him. After hauling him into Fort Grant to determine his guilt or innocence for any crimes committed, Jed Cooper is set free. But more than that, because of his background as a lawman he becomes a marshal as well. And he is intent upon finding the 9 men who hung him. At any rate, rather than revealing any more of the plot and spoiling the movie for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this is the first non-Spaghetti western that Clint Eastwood starred in and it definitely has a more American flavor. Clint Eastwood puts on an excellent performance as a man determined to see justice served. Pat Hingle (as Judge Fenton) performs quite well too. Along with that both Inger Stevens (as Rachel Warren) and Arlene Golonka (as the prostitute named Jennifer) add some nice scenery as well. Definitely worth a watch for those who enjoy films in the western genre. "},{"Title":"A cleancut Eastwood","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang Em High was Eastwood's first American western following his appearance as The Man With No Name in a trilogy of spaghetti westerns that made him a star. This Ted Post western is just OK, with Eastwood portraying a lawman hunting down some scalawags who hanged him after mistaking him for a rustler. For a Ted Post flick, it's awfully tame. It's as if MGM was trying to be cautious about the inevitable bloodletting, which doesn't hold a candle to the violence in Eastwood's spaghetti westerns. He also is clean shaven and neatly attired here, a marked departure from his rough and ready character in the Italian films. Last but not least, the film ends in midstride, with Eastwood still pursuing some of the baddies. It's as if a sequel were planned. At times, the movie feels like a TV job. Fortunately, Eastwood went on to star in some of the most memorable 20th and 21st century westerns, war, action, crime and comedy films -- and he hasn't stopped to this day. Watch for Dennis Hopper and Bruce Dern in small roles. "},{"Title":"Solid Western - Clint On Top Of His Game!","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a great western to watch on a cold winter's night....a fast moving story about the attempted lynching of an innocent man with a great well known cast including Clint Eastwood, Pat Hingle, Bruce Dern, Dennis Hopper and even the Skipper from Gillian's Island. Clint is on top of his game here and this was his first American Western after working on Italian Westerns with Sergio Leone. The film is nicely filmed in sharp color and has good character development...believe me there are plenty of characters from the old west in this classy flick. Definitely worth watching.All The Best to IMDb Filmwatchers Tom Wilson, New Jersey, USA (HardToFindMovies) "},{"Title":"Tough Eastwood western with a great soundtrack","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Obviously styled on the Sergio Leone DOLLARS trilogy and with a similar approach to dramatic music and sun-bleached locales, HANG 'EM HIGH is one of Eastwood's toughest films. It has a plot that almost writes itself Eastwood starts the film by being mistaken for a cattle rustler, at which point he's lynched without trial. He somehow survives, and ends up becoming a marshall, vowing to track down the gang responsible.That storyline is standard revenge fare for the genre, but two things lift this film above the norm the style and the musings on capital punishment. As well as the various lynchings, one of the main characters (the great Pat Hingle) is a hanging judge and a (legal) execution sequence is the film's most powerful and harrowing shot. As for the style, for much of the film the action carries along to a loud, crashing score which I loved and which suited the events perfectly.Eastwood plays one of his sternest characters yet, a man always cheating death and driven by vengeance; there's little of his laidback, laconic charm from the Leone trilogy. The supporting cast is excellent tragic actress Inger Stevens makes her mark as a woman whose life is driven by her own dreams of revenge, there are tons of western actors present (Ed Begley, Ben Johnson, Bruce Dern, L. Q. Jones) and even an outrageous cameo from Dennis Hopper. The film grips your attention throughout until the final violent, inevitable conclusion. "},{"Title":"A good western with Eastwood and Ted Post.","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is going to be lynched accused of traitor. In the last moment, is saved by a commissioner to the orders of judge Fentom. Cooper is advised by the judge to forget the past and offers you a post as commissioner of the territory, seized of the missions more complicated and arresting the defendants to be tried by the judge. The life of Cooper, however, is marked by the scar that left him the rope in the neck. This film is a tale of revenge A year after ride to the orders of Sergio Leone in Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo, Clint Eastwood returned to climb on the backs of a horse to interpret a former attorney who now makes the times of livestock.When Clint Eastwood travelled to Italy in 1964 to film Per a strive di dollari was a popular television actor in the U.S.. When he returned in 1967, was a star of western Europe. Its new financial status and cinematic allowed him to create its own production company, Malpaso Company.And this was the first film produced by Malpaso,. Ted Post, director of 24 episodes of the series Rawhide (also starring Eastwood) was the chosen for this first draft, replacing Sergio Leone, which was unable to make the work of address by found by turning the possibly has been its best western C'was a volta il west. Eastwood continues with its role of hard, although it is not that individual amoral films of Leone, Eastwood begins to feel respect for the law that would be a feature in the saga of Dirty Harry. And in addition Eastwood begins to show elegance in its forms, both on horseback and at the time to get be the centre of attention every time that appears on screen.Although the film has its signs of violence, it is not as explicit as in the movies of Sergio Leone. With an aesthetic dirty the purest of spaghetti-western, Ted Post complete a good film that contains almost all topics and conventions of gender, wrapped in a good plot in which the actor, is the rope.The film has a great soundtrack that mixes the classics of western Americano and the new flow opened by Morricone. "},{"Title":"hang em' clint","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood has always been a favorite of mine throughout the years, this movie, is pretty awesome with lots to cheer for, i don't think it's as good as says High Plains Drifter, but hey everytown you ride into can't be painted red for Hell. In this one Clint is mistaken for someone, and he was in the wrong place at the wrong time and innocently hung by 9 men. Well once Clint is cut down and offered the Marshall job, he goes after those men one by one, in his traditional Eastwood style,, Bruce Dern did a good job in this one,, Inger Stevens also was very good, but my favorite character actor Pat Hingle was superior as the hanging judge. now there are a few classic moments in the film,, and watching Clint get all shot up , and then come back for more later was a plus,, the only drawback though i thought was that the love story between Clint and Inger Stevens,, didn't need to be in there. other than that it was a pretty good western movie. "}{"Title":"When you hang a man, you better look at him.","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" My mother was from Fort Smith (Fort Grant in this movie) and I grew up there for three years. I've visited Judge Issac Parker's court The Hanging Judge. The Fort Smith Independent was the first newspaper to report the on the new Judge. Its extra of September 3, 1875 was a 12 inch by 12 inch broadside with the large column headings reading Execution Day!! In smaller type the paper explained Large Crowd -- 6 Murderers Hanged -- Details of the Execution -- Brief Sketches of the Convicts and the Crimes for Which They Suffered. From these first 6 in 1875 through 73 more up until 1896, Judge Issac Parker became famous for his stern brand of justice in a wild and untamed land.That's the history behind a good Clint Eastwood western, made after he did Sergio Leone's spaghetti flicks. Director Ted Post knew westerns, having directed many episodes of Gunsmoke and Rawhide, which included Eastwood. He also directed Eastwood later in Magnum Force.The carnival atmosphere that accompanied the hangings was displayed accurately as folks would come from miles around, as many as 5,000, to watch the show. Post kept the action flowing and made an enjoyable revenge movie with some psychological overtones in Inger Stevens (The Farmer's Daughter), and the tortured angst of the Judge. "},{"Title":"When you hang a man, you better look at him. Great morality tale","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is one of my three favorite Clint Eastwood movies from the period between the Man with no Name trilogy and his directorial debut. The other two are Where Eagles Dare and Kelly's Heroes. This one is a strong morality tale exploring the dangers of the two extremes of justice, vigilante justice and a court of no appeal, with no checks and balances. There's also romance, great scenery, conflict, and a fairly well written screenplay. I've seen a lot of criticism over the years of Clint Eastwood's acting ability, mainly centering on his supposed lack of facial expression. I just think that's a load of B.S., expressed by people who don't know how to read emotions in another person's eyes, or can't be bothered to look. I'd much rather watch an actor like Clint, John Wayne, or Bruce Willis, who make me pay attention to such subtleties, than watch one who mugs for the camera, and exaggerates every expression. Or one like Gary Cooper, who knew how to express himself with his face without overdoing it. Anyway, this is vintage Clint Eastwood and belongs in every true fan's collection. Or the collection of fans of Westerns, or anyone who just believes in true justice. "},{"Title":"More like a TV Western than a Spaghetti Western proper but very stylish in its own way...","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  'HANG 'EM HIGH' is  a pleasant compromise between the typical Randolph/Wayne Western and the updated Sergio Leone style. The typical Western Score permeated with intermittent Morricone motifs, the photography viscerally lush with a number of close ups, ruthless violence etc.Eastwood plays Jed Cooper a deputy marshal who sets off to bring to justice the nine men responsible for his attempted lynching at the opening of the film. In the cliched morality play, Cooper is in danger of becoming as inflexible as his accusers were. Everybody is thirsty for blood in this movie with lawful hangings becoming such an attractive spectacle that local saloon-keepers sell cold beer to the crowds turning out.The romantic, idyllic bits with Inger Stevens are clumsily and drolly written (was she trying to poison Cooper or was it merely a relapse from his violent beatings?) but for the most part this is quite enjoyable though perhaps uneven.Look out for Dennis Hopper's early appearance as a psychotic outlaw who meets with a gruesome end. "},{"Title":"Payback a la Eastwood","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  HANG 'EM HIGH (1968) **1/2  Clint Eastwood, Inger Stevens, Ed Begley, Pat Hingle, Bruce Dern, Dennis Hopper, Alan Hale, Jr.  Not bad at all Western revenge flick with Clint as a wrongly hung man out for vengeance after a group of men botch his hanging.  Flinty Clint at his early best. "},{"Title":"A slightly less dirty Harry.","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint plays Jed Cooper, a cowpoke who is escorting his new herd across a river when he is ambushed by a posse who accuse him of being a murdering rustler. Satisfied with hanging him on the spot, they take off, leaving him there. But Cooper ain't quite dead yet, and after being acquitted by a hardcore Judge (Pat Hingle) he's recruited as a lawman to go after the men who saw fit to hang him without fair trial.I suppose it's a western Death Wish, but it has a strong anti-capital punishment theme. Cooper may be out for revenge, but he still believes in a fair trial and stands up for those who deserve leniency. It's also the first time I've really seen Clint in a vulnerable role, and Dirty Harry director Ted Post manages the lengthy, and well-written dialogue scenes well. I just wish he shot the film in a scope aspect ratio as the flat-shot photography often makes it look like an old TV movie.Not a classic, but it does have some powerful scenes that will stay with you and really make you think about taking a life for taking a life. "},{"Title":"Effective Western about a no-nonsense, wondering character clashing with the hard noses ruling with a reign of terror; the spin being they're of a law abiding nature.","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The world of the Western in which Ted Post's Hang 'em High unfolds is traditionally one of great fear and danger; one of hostility, death and threat across the barren, sandy lands of late nineteenth century Oklahoma. It is not, however, a place whose reputation and immense grip of fear is put upon its inhabitants by gunslingers or bandits &#x96; rather, the actual state itself and the law enforcers whom sentence those to death not with a six-shooter but with a gavel; they do not thieve and pillage people's lives of earnings or possessions, rather their lives in a literal sense in that their gleeful carrying out of death sentences and public hangings linger over the people of this vast land as an ultimate form of threat for no good-doers. The film is an interesting mediation on absolute power seemingly corrupting a man, absolutely; somebody in ultimate control of a territory all too keen to reek havoc on an array of people whom live there in his charging them of crimes they may have, or may not have, committed. Post, working from a screenplay penned by Leonard Freeman and Mel Goldberg, paints an as disenchronian-a world of the Wild West as possible, but one that is such by way of the law and those that judge the people whom break it rather than those willing to go out of their way to make others' lives a misery.Where Hang 'em High has the bulk of its fun is in a central character whom opposes this status-quo, whom is wronged but sticks to a liberal mindset and thus challenges the state's own firm position. That lead is Clint Eastwood's Jed Cooper, the film beginning with the man erroneously stumbling across some trouble as he herds cattle; trouble that does not arrive in the form of thieves or bandits in the traditional sense but marshals whom accuse him of rustling, murder and consequently hang him there and then. Cooper's wading through the river he's crossing when we first observe him will come to resemble the long, slow trek through the misadventure born out of his ill-informed hanging; whereas on another early occasion we form opinions on him of being of a kind and perhaps well mannered sort when he watch him aid a young calf additionally having trouble crossing through the water. He helps young and defenceless animals in times of peril, how can this man possibly be a murderer and a thief? After being saved by another lawman prior to choking to death, a man whom gleefully arrives with a waggon full of law-breakers, the film takes us to the iron-fisted; authoritarian; no-nonsense headquarters of judge Adam Fenton (Hingle) operating out of a nearby fort a man that towers over all in his courtroom dishing out death sentences to all of those that stand before him. The place of law practise is a seedy, dystopian little locale posing as something far more righteous; the practising of the hanging of the prisoners played out just outside the holding cell as large sacks are used instead of human bodies those locked away able to hear the sickly noise of what their fate will sound like when the time comes. Within this world, and despite its strict law abiding characteristics, the interiors are lavish and relatively rich in appearance; the people living there eat well and the woman are fairly glamorous in their appearance suggesting a functioning world underneath this grip of terror and power.The mistake is acknowledged, Cooper is set free and there's an odd sense that degrees of either anger or frustration on Fenton's behalf in that one has slipped through the proverbial net is apparent; nicely put across via the acting of Pat Hingle. The warning of the pratfalls of vigilantism is verbally dished out to Cooper, the notion of Cooper being back in front of him in the courtroom to instead face certain death being the threat if he decides to get even with those whom wronged him; Cooper is instead made a marshal. The location of those Cooper is after, not to kill but to bring to some kind of justice; the antithesis to what they brought unto him in the form of what they thought was the justifiable thing, is highlighted on the huge map of the region which dominates Fenton's wall as much his figure does in the courtroom. The magnitude of the job in finding them in and around this area put across as rather immense and made to look thoroughly difficult.The film comes to resemble one man's quest for justice, the item of vigilantism or vigilantes themselves effectively rendered the enemy of the whole thing; the first meeting with one of the nine shamed lawmen ending in conflict and death, but only through self defence on Cooper's behalf further adding a sense of the man treading on a very fine line given what is at stake if found in the wrong in this teetering roost ruled in a totalitarian manner. It is a quest which sees the film drag Cooper off on a separate tangent in order to find the murderers of an individual's brother and father, given his role as a marshal, and allows the film to provide us with Cooper's own, more methodical, approach to bringing the perpetrators of crime to justice in a more measured and more liberal manner - something that clashes with the majority of the others Fenton employs. Whilst on the separate strand, Cooper comes to form a bond with a young woman named Rachel (Stevens) &#x96; the ease of their friendship enhanced by the fact both of them share a past of being wronged in different ways by a rather large group of people, whom then got away, before they themselves being left for dead. Hang 'em High is a taut piece of drama, nicely blending in an array of characters and their stories with an interesting mediation on power and control. "},{"Title":"A Good Argument Film for Anti-Death Penalty Advocates","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When talking about legendary western figures, one always manages to get forgotten, This was Judge Isaac Parker. A Federal Judge, Parker was (for at least a decade or so) the only real law in several Western territories - particularly what is today Oklahoma. Parker rarely appears in Westerns. He showed up in TRUE GRIT as himself, and here played by Pat Hinkle, but as Judge Fenton.We take the admission of states into the U.S.for granted but there were always problems. Vermont had to literally fight off New York from swallowing it up before becoming the 14th State in 1791. Massachusetts had to disgorge Maine in 1820 to balance the admission of Missouri into the Union that year. A western state called Franklin in the 1780s was replaced by Kentucky (1792) and Tennessee (1796). Virginia seceded from the Union in 1861 with most of the South. It's western counties seceding from it and rejoining the Union as West Virginia in 1863. And all these secessions were in the states east of the Mississippi!Texas entered in 1845 in a last battle of John Tyler's administration. California required the Compromise of 1850 to enter. Then pro-abolition states came in to the anger of the South (Oregon - 1858; Kansas in 1861, Nevada in 1864). Following the Civil War Nebraska (1867) and Colorado (1876), entered, but they had loyally supported the Union. Nebraska even named it's capital after Lincoln.The other territories languished. There were population problems, Indian problems (which were twisted to suit the settlers and Eastern interests), and law and order problems. Also one religious problem Utah had the population for decades but was suspect because of Mormonism (and had been tepid in supporting the North in the war). It would not be until 1889 - 1890 that the statehood issue finally got pushed by President Benjamin Harrison. He had served as Chairman of the Westen Territory Committee of the U.S. Senate. Harrison would steer the admission of six states (the Dakotas, Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, and Washington) through the Congress between 1889 and 1890. This was the biggest admission of any set of states in a Presidential term in our history. Only the still unloved Utah languished - and would do so until polygamy was formally abolished. In 1896 President Cleveland got the state in. Oklahoma was seen as an Indian enclave. The territory was actually called the Indian Territory. Because of that it was hard to get much going in the way of local government from non-Indian settlers. The territory was a good haven for criminals, the most notable being Butch and Sundance and their gang. But this was going to end with Harrison, who early in his Presidency organized the famous Oklahoma Land Rush (1889). This gave an acceptable settler basis for the territory, and in 1907 Theodore Roosevelt got Oklahoma into the Union. New Mexico and Arizona entered in 1912, under William Howard Taft.Due to the wild nature of the Oklahoma Territory Justice Parker was given the job of enforcing law and order. He was just the right man for it - he was known as Hanging Judge Parker. It wasn't that Isaac Parker liked to hang people, but he was sternly enforcing the law on many desperadoes. His headquarters, by the way, was in Arkansas - which should show how dangerous the territory was.The plot of HANG 'EM HIGH is as follows Clint Eastwood is Cooper, who is captured on the road by a lynch mob like in THE OX-BOW INCIDENT. This mob, led by Ed Begley Sr. (as Captain Wilson) has no Harry Davenport, Henry Fonda, or Harry Morgan to try to restrain it's bloodthirsty attitude. On weak circumstantial evidence they string up Eastwood but the rope breaks. Begley and his mob leave Eastwood to strangle to death. Instead he is rescued by a U.S. Marshall (Ben Johnson). Taken to see Hinkle, Eastwood is proved to be innocent. He takes a job as a deputy to go and bring in the lynch members as well as others. He does so, but while he is efficient in capturing these men he slowly gets to hate the job. He is also softened by meeting another criminal violence victim, Inger Stevens (whose husband was murdered), whom he falls in love with. Eastwood slowly questions the good of the executions, and Hinkle keeps defending them. I am amazed this western is not grabbed by the anti-capital punishment people as good propaganda about the value of executions. It is harder and harder to watch the film progress while we get to know the various members of the lynch mob (most of whom are not bad people), as well as other desperadoes who get executed. Probably the reason is Hinkle's really good performance (probably his best - his one in THE STRANGE ONE is almost as good) as Judge Fenton. Fenton knows that there are bad elements that have to be put down if this territory is ever to be admitted into the U.S., and it can't be allowed perpetual independence because it would be a magnet for all foes of organized government. I do agree, but even so the sight of the legally doomed is upsetting. One realizes lesser penalties were called for in many cases. Also, Begley is unrepentant to nearly the end - he won't admit he went too far in stringing up Eastwood (basically his view is the same as Hinkle's, except his posse wasn't a legal one). The ten minute segment that ends with Begley's end is stark and ironic.By the way, in this film one of the doomed defendants is played (with gallows humor) by James Westerfield, whose face and features popped up in many a western (or movie for that matter) until his death in 1972. In 1969 he appeared in TRUE GRIT - as Judge Parker! "},{"Title":"If This Territory Is To Become a State....................","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang 'Em High marks Clint Eastwood's return to the American cinema, taking his character from those Sergio Leone films back to the good old USA. And even giving the man with no name, a name.In this case he's Jed Cooper who has bought some cattle from some rustlers unknowingly and is accused of rustling and murder by a self constituted posse headed by vengeful Ed Begley. The dozen in the posse hang him.Up to now this sounds like The Oxbow Incident. But unlike what happened to Dana Andrews, Anthony Quinn, and Francis Ford a very old and fraying rope was used. Eastwood's neck doesn't snap and the group don't wait until he chokes to death. He survives and becomes a man with a mission.The nicest part for Eastwood is he gets to do his mission with the imprimatur of the law. The best performance in the film comes from Pat Hingle who's a no-nonsense hanging federal judge in the territory. He intends to see that laws are enforced and justice is swift. Besides Hingle and Bailey, director Ted Post gives Eastwood a good cast of film and TV regulars in support. The tragic Inger Stevens is his leading lady here, a woman who's got a vengeance quest of her own going and who really does understand what makes Clint tick. This was one of her last films, she was a troubled and tragic woman in life. A very sad loss.Clint's legion of fans will love this one. "},{"Title":"My favorite Clint Western","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" My, friends and i are in a contest to see who can buy the most clint movies, and I'm not in the lead, but am close. And have now seen almost all of them. And i have to say this one is my favorite western, i can't put my finger on why, i think its because it focuses in on all characters and not just clint. I love unforgiven, pale rider, and outlaw josey whales. The only problem i had with them was that they would forgo some great characters to get more of clint on screen. He is a master of cinema, no doubt, but a one man show he is not. I don't want a fight to start with all those Man with no name people, but come on as great as they are they are very VERY flaud. This movie captures it all I believe, and next to Heartbreak Ridge, this is my favorite to date. "},{"Title":"Underrated? You mean overrated don't you?","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood is an excellent actor. But that doesn't mean he doesn't get a hideously mangled script sometimes. At the first start of the movie you would think this was just a typical revenge movie( I wish it was just that). But the writers couldn't even do that. They had to take a perfectly good plot, mangle it beyond recognition, and throw it out at us. I don't know what the writers were smokin' but it sure wasn't cigarettes. Please believe me when I say the only and I mean the only redeeming value in this movie is Clint Eastwood. Everything else is just a mess thats boring or rather irritating to watch. There were so many opportunities to be had to fix the story but I guess the writers neglected common sense. "}{"Title":"They Committed Three Mistakes...","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" While crossing a river with his cattle, the former marshal Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is surrounded by nine men and accused of killing the rancher that owned the cattle. They leave Cooper hanging on a tree, but he is rescued by Marshal Dave Bliss (Ben Johnson) and brought to Fort Smith to the court of Judge Adam Fenton (Pat Hingle). His innocence is proved and Judge Fenton invites Copper to the position of deputy marshal to help him to implement the law in the large area. Cooper accepts the position and chases the vigilantes with the warrants of Judge Fenton. Meanwhile the leader of the lynchers, Captain Wilson (Ed Begley), realizes that they have committed three mistakes they returned the money Jed Cooper had paid for the cattle expecting to get rid off him; they hung an innocent man; and they did not complete their task.Hang' Em High is a different western disclosing a period when law and justice were in the beginning of implementation in the Wild West. The characters performed by Clint Eastwood and Pat Hingle have an interesting duel, with Marshal Jed Cooper following the traditional procedure of justice by his own hands, while Judge Fenton is concerned in introducing law and order to a wild place. The result is a good Western, but inferior to Sergio Leone's trilogy. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Marca da Forca (The Mark of the Hanging) "},{"Title":"A good sequel.","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a sequel to For a fist full of dollars. The second part to the series is For a few dollars more. The third part to the series is The good the bad and the ugly. This is the fourth part to the series. It not as good as For a fist few of dollar. Also it is not has good as For a few dollars more. It not as good as The good the bad and the ugly which the best of this series. This one is very good movie. But it is not the best of the series. But it is still very good. A bounty hunter gets framed for a crime. He ends up working for a back word judge. He is sent to stop gang of evil outlaws. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has a lot of action. It is a great movie. It is a must see. "},{"Title":"From Beeves to Spaghetti to Lawman!","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Anyone familiar with Clint Eastwood's early career will remember his role as Rowdy Yates on TV's Rawhide where he played second lead for eight seasons (1959-65). During this time he worked with many a seasoned guest star while learning his craft. In 1964 while still working on the TV series he starred in a trio of Spaghetti Westerns for Italian director Sergio Leone. In those pictures he played a no nonsense fast on the draw drifter. The films were not released in the US until after Rawhide had finished.For his first American film following the Leone trilogy, Eastwood chose Hang 'em High. In it he played a character that he would play with variations for most of the rest of his career (see Dirty Harry).The opening sequence has cattleman Jed Cooper (Eastwood) being lynched for cattle rustling by a vigilante group headed by Captain Wilson (Ed Begley). Leaving him for dead the group rides off. Cooper is rescued by Marshal Dave Bliss (Ben Johnson) and is taken in a prison wagon to Judge Fenton's (Pat Hingle) jail. The judge verifies Cooper's innocence and sees in him a potentially great lawman. The judge you see, has jurisdiction over a large area and needs able bodied lawmen to enforce the law.Cooper of course wants to seek out those who had lynched him but the judge cautions him over using the law to gain his revenge. But as we would come to know, no one escapes Clint Eastwood's justice.Hang 'em high was directed in a Leone style by Ted Post who had directed Eastwood in several episodes of Rawhide An able cast of Hollywood veterans was assembled to play the various supporting roles. Inger Stevens plays a bitter widow who checks out the prison wagons in search of her husband's killer. Charles McGraw plays spineless Sheriff Ray Calhoun who refuses to aid Cooper in his quest and Bruce Dern plays the slimy outlaw Miller who leads two naive young men to their doom.Others in the impressive cast include veteran Bob Steele in one of his best latter day roles, Alan Hale Jr. as the town blacksmith, Dennis Hopper in a brief bit as a mad prophet, James MacArthur as a preacher and James Westerfield, L.Q. Jones and Bert Freed in other roles.Eastwood would never look back after this one. "},{"Title":"Understated, underrated masterpiece","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" An understated, under-rated Clint Eastwood masterpiece. Probably overlooked among Eastwood's westerns because his character is so un- Eastwood-like. Rather than a vigilante, he is the anti-vigilante, out for a fairer form of justice. While Eastwood is still cool, aloof, tough, hard-bitten and unflappable, he also shows a sensitivity which was rare in his earlier movies (but which he shows a lot of in his 90s and 00s directing roles).Solid, fluid directing by Ted Post. The movie doesn't lose focus or drift for a second.As mentioned, Eastwood shows a sensitive side which was probably new to his fans. A great performance. Solid support from Pat Hingle and Inger Stevens.Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Solid Clint Eastwood western","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This western opens with a man being lynched for cattle rustling&#x85; the lynch mob made two mistakes; the man was innocent and he did not die. The man in ex-lawman Jed Cooper; he is determined that his would be killers pay for their crime so accepts Judge Fenton's offer to become a marshal. Fenton wants the men brought back alive but inevitably they aren't keen to be brought to justice which would mean ending up at a public hanging. As a law man he can't only worry about his own personal justice; he must bring in other criminals; some he thinks shouldn't hang&#x85; but hang they do. Inevitable once the members of the lynch mob realise the mistake they made they know that if they are to avoid hanging they must either run or kill Marshal Cooper.While 'Hang 'Em High' isn't one of Clint Eastwood's best known westerns it is still well worth watching; especially if you are a fan of Eastwood or westerns in general. Revenge is a common theme in westerns but here it is portrayed in a slightly different way as Eastwood tries to bring his attackers to court. We also see just how unpleasant judicial executions were as the townsfolk all turn out to watch the convicts die. Another surprise is the ending; the story finish before all the loose ends are tied up; most notably that involving a woman who insists on seeing every prisoner in the hope of finding the men who killed her husband and raped her. The acting is solid; Eastwood is as good as always as Marshal Cooper, Pat Hingle is good as Judge Fenton and Inger Stevens is charming as love interest and wronged woman Rachel Warren. Also of interest is a brief appearance by Dennis Hopper as a typically raving character early in the film. "},{"Title":"Western to Spaghetti Western to Western reborn","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It took a young Western star to move to Italy and make the best spaghetti westerns ever made and then to return to Hollywood and start his own studio and make this movie. This is what it took to bring Westerns back from the dead by reinventing them. His studio went on to make many excellent movies--westerns included.In Hang 'Em High you can still recognize some Italian style directing and scene changes, and there are a few errors of the sort that amateurs make, but they're forgiven. It's not that easy to start your own studio. Over the years, the Italian directing and editing styles evolved into the Hollywood-Italian-Eastwood style that we all love.The first time I watched this film a dark realization came over me. Hey, sometime this wonderful movie is going to end, and I'll have to leave it. "},{"Title":"Power start, not so simple revenge plot","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The movie starts with Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) being hung by neck after a group of vigilantes found him guilty of cattle rustling and murder. He barely survives. Then he returns to his former profession as a law man to bring the vigilantes to justice. It is probably one of the most exciting start to a movie to put the lead in danger almost immediately.The system is a one-man judge and jury system over a vast area. The judge clears Jed of all crimes, and wants the vigilantes captured. Marshall Jed Cooper is much more a law and order man than his usual anti-hero characters. It's definitely a deeper western based on some real situations. "},{"Title":"Not great - but pretty good","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood is back in the USA and Hollywood after his journey in Italy and Spain where he made his famous trilogy with director Sergio Leone. It made him a superstar and I guess the Americans are happy with that. But when director Ted Post tries to make a similar American version of the spaghetti western of the likes of Leone, he totally failed. Post did not have the skills and fantasy of the Italian master, and this lack of quality from Post is obvious.It's possible Post bet all his money on Eastwood alone in this production, but so much went wrong; the backdrop, the actors behind Eastwood, and the tedious use of camera. So to compare this film with the work of Sergio Leone is impossible. The impact of the supporting actors is rather thin, although actor Pat Hingle is solid as the hard judge. None of the female cast managed to impress me. This is an okay western, but far from top notch from my personal point of view. "},{"Title":"A more peaceful western when it comes to a man unleashing justice on those that he feels wronged him","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" For a western that isn't as well known compared to Clint's other great western movies this one is passable. This is a western that is a bit dry and the direction is just very narrow and dry as well. But it isn't a bad western and it's worth a watch for those that are into western flicks. This western is about a man that felt that he been wronged and want justice and puts it into his own hands to do it. In another words Clint's character who is a ex-lawman survive a hanging after being wrongly accused. But this isn't a gritty and very violent western movie but it's a revenge western that goes in a more peaceful direction. Although the character that feels he was wronged uses force when he thinks he has to in order to bring about his justice. It's not a western that has that western heart or very well developed feel to it and sort of seem cardboard at times. But it's not a entirely boring western and has it's moments although it does feel a bit drawn out after the first hour. Overall it's still one of Clint's western that is very watchable but just isn't as great as his other westerns.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Vigilante man","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Westerns aren't my favourite genre and Clint Eastwood isn't my favourite actor but I've been avoiding his movies for long enough and decided to give this, his first post Spaghetti Western, feature a go. For my troubles, I got a solid if not stolid pulp western, a tale of vengeance, with Eastwood as the avenging angel. The main revenge angle gets sidetracked with Eastwood's Marshal Cooper mission to bring in three rustlers and to a lesser degree, Inger Stevens' character shared wish to find the men who killed her husband and raped her years before. It's all stitched together in a patchwork kind of way by veteran TV director Ted Shaw and it probably shows, as aside from adopting a few Leone-type close-ups, much of the direction is of TV movie standard. There's some absolutely terrible soundtrack music, far too loud and far too frequently employed for my taste. As far as the acting is concerned, Clint plays Eastwood very well indeed, Stevens, tragically dead within two years of this, is winsome as the brooding widow. Pat Hingle and Ed Begley at least demonstrate some range in their work and of course Bruce Dern yet again gets to play another baddie before he comes to a sticky end. I wasn't convinced by the ending either, as if the film ran out of budget before the end. On the whole then a conventional two-dimensional made interesting to be watched by veteran actors Ed Bedgley and Pat Hingle. "}{"Title":"The law is on your side.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" If I remember correctly, I'm sure this western was my first taste of the iconic Clint Eastwood. Maybe not the perfect first choice (and I would probably rate it a lesser western in his filmography), but 'Hang 'Em High' saw Eastwood return to Hollywood after spending some time in the Italian wilderness (and a successful stint bringing us the 'Dollar' Trilogy' with director Sergio Leone). You could see it as kick-start for Eastwood in the American market.'Hang 'Em High' would be directed by Ted Post (who would go on to helm the first 'Dirty Harry' sequel 'Magnum Force' five years later) and had a very interesting cast too boot. Eastwood's steely glare and no-bull attitude fit snugly. Pat Hingle's heavy screen presence commands your attention with his speeches about justice and his mind-set of actually being the tool of the law, while on the other side of the coin Ed Begley provides a burly performance as the Captain of the hanging party who don't see job through and become the targets of a vengeful Eastwood. Ben Johnson doesn't get a whole lot of screen time, but gets an effective sequence which involves a cameo from Dennis Hopper. Bruce Dern also pops up (what's an American western without him) as a weaseling cattle hustler/murderer. L.Q. Jones and Alan Hale Jr. are good in their roles as part of the hanging party members. Rounding off the cast is the stunningly talented Inger Stevens as a hardy woman seeking her own personal justice.Eastwood, Stevens and Hingle's multifaceted characters had a perfect balance of exploring morality themes of vengeance, justice and pride. None of these characters were perfect in their ideals of what was right&#x85; hiding behind a badge, the law or seeking comfort, only separated them from a lynching mob (which the opening set-up to the film is fantastically staged). The conflicting views between Eastwood and Hingle were always gripping, and would hold its dramatic narration together. What was kind of disturbing was how the justice system made it a public spectacle&#x85; the crowd wanted justice and a hanging is what they were given. It's about power, never stepping down and showing a weakness. Despite the material penned by Leonard Freeman and Mel Goldberg throws around all of these heavy-handed ideas, never does it truly pick a side. It's a simple story (even with a few different sub-plots that sidetrack the personal vengeance, due to the commit of holding the law), but they do tie-up together with their issues. It has a little more going for it. However my favourite scene in the film (other than the strong opening and the final hanging show with an emphasis on the dangling legs) was when the camera focuses on Eastwood's face when he questions for the first time (and their first real exchange) Stevens' interest in the newly added prisoners. The tones, the expressions and the camera placement felt perfect in a sedate, but powerful moment.Post's mechanically leaden direction is done in a rough 'n tumble style getting amongst the dirt and grit, letting the everything go in a steady pace and relishing in the harsh violence. But I thought he kind of lost his way when Stevens' character came into the story. The interactions between Eastwood and Stevens' characters come like an afterthought in the final third where it becomes uneven, distracting and the pacing really does halt. Even when it comes to the ending, it's still pretty much unresolved.Dominic Frontiere's piercingly dynamite and illustrative score punishes the senses from all sides with a real starch spaghetti flavour.A solid offering.When you hang a man, you better look at him. "},{"Title":"Interesting But Flawed Morality Tale","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays Jed Cooper a former US Marshall who in the opening sequence finds himself accused of murder and cattle theft and is lynched .HANG 'EM HIGH is an interesting morality tale . It is a flawed movie , possibly because of its unrepentant liberal opposition to the death penalty or possibly because of its own euphemisms . By this I mean we're shown in the pre title credit sequence that the posse are convinced as to Jed's guilt . He has in his possession cattle that previously belonged to someone freshly murdered and has the documents to prove it . Only thing is that the documents were forged by the real murderer , so in their own eyes the posse are hanging a man who did in fact commit the crime That's the problem - The film is making the point that the posse jumped to the wrong conclusion , but as later events show via a couple of brothers who were in the wrong place at the wrong time that we're supposed to take on board that hanging people is wrong whether it's carried out by a vengeance filled mob or after a ( Not very ) fair trial . Now I can well understand that lynching a suspected murderer is wrong because we can all find ourselves swinging from a street corner just because was too quick to point a finger , hell Stalin's Russia and Mao's China were built upon this ridiculous principle . However are we supposed to feel sorry for a couple of characters who decided to rustle cattle with someone who committed a murder ? It should also be pointed out that because the posse seen at the start of the movie are shown as being the villains in the story they start to make trouble for themselves towards Cooper and soon lose credibility as believable characters That's not to say HANG 'EM HIGH is a poor movie , it's often compelling no matter what side of the debate on capital punishment you belong to . The cast - Like the director - while not showy give workman like performances and the line  Ben . Goodbye Ben  is very poignant simply down to its simplicity . The movie's major flaw is that it has difficulty in trying to differentiate if it's against rough justice or if it's only against capital punishmentPerhaps the movie is also the perfect antidote to watching the Michael Jackson trial that is unfolding as we speak "},{"Title":"Solid western","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is a very good Eastwood western.  Its not as good as the Sergio Leone ones or HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER but its still solid.  For me this one had the feeling of a John Wayne western more than a spaghetti western, though most people think its purely a spaghetti western.  The performances were good, and I enjoyed the shootouts, and in all its enjoyable. 4/5POSSIBLE SPOILERWatch for Dennis Hopper in a brief role at the beginning. "},{"Title":"Familiar But Good Western.","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood stars as cattleman Jed Cooper, who is wrongly lynched by a band of hot-headed vigilantes who mistakenly believe he stole his cattle, and murdered the farmer. Though hanged, he somehow survives, and after recovering from his injuries, seeks revenge against the gang responsible.Plot sounds familiar, and is to a point, but story has interesting developments(Cooper is recruited by a judge(played by Pat Hingle) to work with the law, rather than in defiance of it, by making him a Marshal.) He then uses his official standing to pursue his attackers one by one, who are terrified of him, since they are reluctant to face their responsibility in the matter. Plot resolves in a satisfying and interesting way, with good direction by Ted Post, and the beautiful Inger Stevens also stars as a love interest. "},{"Title":"Interesting script undermined by workmanlike direction","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" After being wrongly accused of murder and theft and sentenced to death by a lynch mob, Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) survives the attack and is on the path for vengeance. However, when he is offered a position as a Marshal by the judge who deals with capital punishment in the territory (Pat Hingle), Jed instead finds himself caught up between his own lust for revenge, his hankering to see people get a fair trail and the brutal, haphazard way the judge seems to hand out justice.Eastwood is on good form as always but the role is not one of his best. Jed Cooper is not a name that will be remembered as fondly as Will Munny, Josey Wales or 'The Man With No Name' when people discuss his Westerns. This is Pat Hingle's show all the way, his portrayal of a man constantly justifying to himself why he must do the things he does in order to try and maintain a semblance of peace is the cornerstone of the picture. Bruce Dern shows up in a small but memorable role as a villain and Dennis Hopper gives a typically unrestrained performance in his only scene.The script offering up the pros and cons of capital punishment for discussion is the highlight of an otherwise averagely executed Western actioner. Ted Post, who in later years would direct the second (and second best) entries in both the Dirty Harry and Planet of the Apes series', was a director who spent most of his time making TV shows. Clint bought him on to the project having worked with him on Rawhide and while their familiarity and bond may have help run a smooth set it did nothing for the artistry or excitement of the film. The studio's first pick, Sergio Leone, was unavailable at the time due to making on Once Upon A Time In The West and my opinion is that he would have done far better with the material.A light recommendation to Western and Eastwood fans only. "},{"Title":"Hang 'Em a Little Higher Next Time","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Too many people look for a performance or a story line or a tight script..but here you get a chance to see actors whose performances in other movies or TV shows were brilliant..adding their performances here as a way to cap off long and distinguished acting careers. Based upon the real hanging judge in Indian and Oklahoma Territory in 1889..thousands of square miles to police with a handful of deputy US Marshals..this is a story that many of those marshals faced every day..without the love interest thrown in..Jed Cooper is a man who is unjustly hung for rustling steers..and cut down from the mob's noose by a deputy on his way back with a wagon-load of prisoners..either to be found innocent of the rustling charge or found guilty and sentenced to hang a second time..Pat Hingle..Judge Parker..learns that Cooper used to be a peace officer in St. Louis and offers him a badge..his first assignment..bring in your lynch mob conspirators alive to face court room justice..Inger Stevens plays a young woman who has been raped and with each wagon load of prisoners..is searching for her rapists..the music is dead on punctuating the moments needed to be punched up..drama..tenseness..the trail..the hangings..the decisions..punctuated by a brilliant score that one reviewer described as epic..excellent performance from Clint Eastwood before he started turning in copy-cat performances..this is a sensitive portrayal of a lawman conflicted by the judicial system in Oklahoma Territory..there isn't a subpar performance from anyone..standouts are Ed Begley..Bruce Dern as evil as The Cowboys..Pat Hingle in a marvelous turn as the federal judge..star turns everywhere ..but Eastwood simply shines and delivers the goods..deserves to be seen and not downplayed..a 9 or better.. "},{"Title":"Ronzoni Western","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Although Hang 'Em High, released in August 1968, was Clint Eastwood's first American film in a decade, the actor had not been exactly idle during the previous 10 years. Following the 1958 Western Ambush at Cimarron Pass, Eastwood appeared on the CBS TV show Rawhide from '59 to '65, playing the part of cowhand Rowdy Yates, and then, of course, went to Europe to portray The Man With No Name in Sergio Leone's Dollars trilogy. Teaming up with his old pal Ted Post (who had directed him in 27 Rawhide episodes), Eastwood returned with a film that was very much in the spaghetti Western vein, although done with a lot less flamboyant style. I suppose one might call it an American spaghetti Western; a Ronzoni Western?In the film, Clint stars as ex-lawman Jedediah Cooper, who, in the Oklahoma Territory of 1889, makes the mistake of his life when he purchases a herd of cattle from a man who has just killed the legitimate seller. Quickly apprehended by a lynch mob of nine angry men, Cooper is summarily strung up and left hanging. Fortunately, one of only 19 marshals in the Territory happens by and manages to cut Cooper down, right before the expiration point. The marshal (played by real-life ex-cowboy and rodeo champ Ben Johnson) plops Cooper into his tumbleweed wagon, along with a gaggle of other prisoners, for ultimate trial before the district's hanging judge, Adam Fenton (superbly played, as usual, by Pat Hingle, who has been a favorite of mine ever since I saw his stunning work in 1961's Splendor in the Grass). Cooper is quickly exonerated and offered a job as deputy marshal, giving him the power, thus, to hunt down the nonet of lynchers with relative impunity....Though the film is an uncertain melding of spaghetti and traditional American Western styles and tropes, it yet remains a highly entertaining and successful one. The picture looks great, for one thing, with spectacular New Mexico backdrops, and the film's producer, Leonard Freeman, has also cowritten a very winning and intelligent screenplay. This is perhaps the first Eastwood film in which his lead character has trouble toeing the line in regard to his superior's wishes, a problem best exemplified in the Dirty Harry films of the following decades. Though essentially a revenge Western, the film yet has not-so-subtle messages that it would like to impart relating to mob violence and civil justice. It is well paced and consistently exciting, populated by an assortment of well-drawn characters and featuring a truly stellar cast.As regards to that stellar cast, besides the three great actors already mentioned, Hang 'Em High showcases performances by the Swedish actress Inger Stevens (two years before her tragic sleeping-pill suicide, at age 36) as Clint's love interest; Ed Begley (two years before HIS death from a heart attack) as the wrongheaded leader of the lynching party; film noir mainstay Charles McGraw as the Red Creek sheriff; Bruce Dern as one of the more demented lynchers (Dern also appeared in another wonderful Western in 1968, Will Penny, as did Ben Johnson); Bob Steele (B Western star of the 1920s and '30s, and here playing one of Cooper's fellow prisoners); Alan Hale, Jr., as still another member of the lynching party (Hale had ended his run as the Skipper on Gilligan's Island immediately before this film started shooting in June '67); and, last but never least, Dennis Hopper (as a plumb loco preacher; I didn't even recognize Hopper, under his heavy beard, the first time I watched this film). In smaller roles, Mark Lenard (known to most Star Trek fans as Spock's father, Sarek), character actor L.Q. Jones and Arlene Golonka are all given their moments to shine. And I would be remiss if I did not mention the fine contribution here from Dominic Frontiere, the composer who is perhaps best known for his work on television's Outer Limits; from his dramatic and booming music during the film's opening credits, to the ersatz spaghetti theme that accompanies Cooper's initial appearance as the deputy marshal, to the lovely melody that accompanies Clint and Inger's love scene, his work here is highly impressive, as always. The bottom line is that Hang 'Em High is a terrific modern Western; no wonder it performed so well at the box office and filled so many theater seats back when (the film was the 20th highest grosser of that year). Although, as some wags would tell you today, the Eastwood of 44 years later might have a hard time telling an empty seat from an occupied one! "},{"Title":"A solid Eastwood Western.","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Acting & filmmaking legend Clint Eastwood does fine here in a good, solid American made Western, after the Sergio Leone-directed Spaghetti Westerns had made him a star. It's an intriguing, compelling piece of work making good use of the classic theme of revenge. Eastwood is peaceable Jed Cooper, a man wrongly hanged for cattle theft by a presumptuous lynch mob who believed him a thief. Fortunately, his life is saved by a kindly marshal (Ben Johnson) and a powerful judge (Pat Hingle) soon recruits *him* as a marshal, assigning him to bring in the men who hanged him - alive. Of course, whether they're brought back dead or alive doesn't make much difference to Cooper, although he comes to realize that they're not all bad, and his acquaintance of young Rachel (beautiful Inger Stevens) also helps to soften him somewhat. Eastwood selected capable journeyman director Ted Post to take the reigns, Post having worked with Eastwood and some of this movies' actors on various episodes of 'Rawhide'. They make this fine entertainment, with a deliberate pace and impeccable recreation of the period. It's amazing to see the manner in which executions actually were carried out back then, with vendors hawking drinks and children in attendance, and that's just one of the details of the story, which fortunately never wanders considering this does run close to two hours long. Dominic Frontieres' music is quite thunderous, and the gorgeous cinematography is credited to two men, Richard H. Kline and Leonard J. South. The characters are refreshingly multi-dimensional; with the exception of a few creeps (like the evil twerp played by Bruce Dern), the antagonists are not purely villainous, but doing what they thought was right. The cast is simply superb, with Ed Begley thoroughly impressive as the leader of the lynch mob. There are lots of familiar faces in the supporting cast; in addition to Dern, there's Dennis Hopper (too briefly seen, and not too recognizable), Alan The Skipper Hale, Jr., Charles McGraw, James Westerfield, L.Q. Jones, Joseph Sirola, James MacArthur, Bob Steele, Bert Freed, Joel Fluellen, and Jack Ging. Everybody involved makes this a very acceptable diversion, albeit one with some serious themes such as the manner in which the law is carried out, and how sometimes good (or at least not too bad) people can be victimized by it. Western fans should find this well worth watching. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hang Em High","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I like that film because it's so great! It's so I can't tell how I feel about it but I got some feelings that I have only got for one film and that is X-men. Except that so is this film one of my favorites. I like Clint Eastwood because he was sweet. But I don't think that know but only a little. Some times he can be sweet. I have never meet a Famous man but I would love to do that. Special Hugh Jackman and Clint Eastwood but I don't know how I would com to them or how they would come to me. So I am a little sad, but when I have finished school so will I and one friend go to Californien London and Australia-New Saouth Wales.Love Karin Rs from Sweden 13 years "},{"Title":"a little less solid than some of Eastwood's other Westerns","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang 'Em High is one of those Westerns where you look at it and right off from the beginning, you begin to think that maybe it's an Italian Spaghetti Western made in America. Perhaps done by somebody like Sergio Leone. Well, it's very obvious that Hang 'Em High was inspired by those kind of movies and its understandable, since Eastwood had only finished making his famous Italian trilogy only two years ago and they were just now getting released in the United States. However, the film is entirely American-made.The actual movie itself, it's not perfect, it's not even what I would call a solid Clint Eastwood Western like High Plains Drifter or The Outlaw Josey Wales. It's flawed on a few regards, such as the love story of the film, and weak at some points especially in the climax, which I was really disappointed with. But overall, it's a good film and is definitely watchable. You'll find yourself watching it a few times without ever having anything bad to say about it. Performances by Clint Eastwood, Ed Begley, Pat Hingle, Ben Johnson, and the rest of the cast was average for the 60s. And that's most certainly not a bad thing at all. One thing I also like about Hang 'Em High is the fact that the bad guys aren't really bad guys in some regards. They're more of what I would classify as anti-heroes who take a few wrong, villainous turns.Hang 'Em High is a fairly decent 1960s Western film. It's not Eastwood's best film, but it's maybe one that is a bit underrated and maybe too unique for some people. For me, I just had a few problems with plot points and the climax. "}{"Title":"When You Hang A Man, You'd Better Look At Him","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" From the Gospel according to Eastwood. Clint establishes himself as a great American actor with an American audience in this movie. He plays as a former lawman who is hanged by a bunch of lazy vigilantes who don't want to do their homework and find out if he is indeed innocent or not. They made one bad mistake. They left him for dead when he was saved by the local sheriff. Now, he is acquitted by a hanging judge who sends him out to find the men who hanged him and bring them to him for trial. (Seems kind of silly that he didn't want Jed to kill them when you know damned well that by the time this judge gets through with them, they're going to be swinging from the end of a rope.) Very insightful look into the hanging culture. People back in those days went to a hanging like they were going to a picnic, bringing snacks, singing hymns, selling goods, etc. While I'm all for people being punished for heinous crimes, I don't think it's very appropriate that it's turned into the circus it was back then. In spite of this movie's incessant preaching against capital punishment, it was still a good story, and everyone in this film got their just desserts.The ending puzzles me a bit, though. Jed and the judge make speeches about their viewpoints on hanging, Jed walks off, and the end credits roll. Was there some footage cut out of this ending? Seems to have ended too abruptly. Otherwise, good. Great music by Dominic OUTER LIMITS Frontiere. 7 out of 10 due to the abrupt ending and the incessant preaching. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's best and one of few good movies","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is undoubtedly the best movie Eastwood ever appeared in, which isn't saying much of course. The fact that Eastwood is not an actor doesn't take away from a brilliant script, which is what makes a great movie. Eastwood does his usual one emotion which makes him look like he's on drugs, but the story is flawless. The movie begins, of course, with Eastwood being mistakenly lynched by nine men, whose faces he tries to remember. When he is rescued, his history as a law enforcer puts him in good standing with a hanging judge to dispense law to a vast area, which includes bringing the lynch mob to justice. Along the way, Eastwood's character finds the brutal truth in extreme justice, and the savagery of Western justice is not far from the lynching he received. This is all done with a brilliant script, and good directing. Eastwood's character doesn't need to act, as the camera focuses more on the better actors and lets the audience be the good guy watching. A cast of all stars that even includes the Skipper from Gilligan's Island, Bruce Dern, Ed Begley, Ben Johnson, and Pat Hingle in a memorable performance as the character based on real life hanging Judge Parker. Eastwood's best movie, even better than Tarantula (which he wasn't in long enough to ruin). "},{"Title":"Early Clint Eastwood","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" As a lover of Western film, this rates as one of the better ones to watch.The main person has been tried, convicted and hanged by a group of thugs,he finally gets rescued and proceeds to become a lawman. This film has some familiar plot themes, good vs. evil, etc. It asks some complex questions, and the script is well written. Mr. Eastwood is perfect as the avenger. He never over acts, and yet, you feel for him as he does his job. This is not a Leone film as many people seem to think. Lots of great actors, Dennis Hopper, Bruce Dern, Ben Johnson and many others. This film has to be part of any Western film lovers library. I recommend that you see it again. Watch the other people in their roles. Great film! "},{"Title":"Spaghetti Over Easy","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Clint Eastwood's first U.S. star vehicle, following fast on the heels of his triple-hit Dollars trilogy with Sergio Leone, shows that if Hollywood wasn't the most original place in the world, they could learn and adapt from outside success.There's many echoes of the Dollars films, with the music suggesting Ennio Morricone's classic work on The Good, The Bad, And The Ugly and a hard-bitten script which puts Eastwood's Jed Cooper on both sides of the law in a world that is far from black-and-white. Plenty of people get shot, and the brutality is extended by watching others get hung, including, in the opening sequence, Cooper. Pretty nasty stuff, in tune with what the Italians were doing with Westerns at the time.But there's a counterbalancing Hollywoodization in force here. Eastwood is not as casually brutal as he was in the Dollars films, he takes a lover, and he seems more amiable to folks, not just spitting tobacco grains at their feet. In the beginning, we even see him rescue a calf with a paternal grin.All this would suggest a watered-down, compromised product, except the film works on its own, somewhat lighter but by no means fey terms. Director Ted Post is no Leone. He lacks the sense of composition, the odd askew shot held forever and ever, the natural way of building unnatural suspense. But he does offer viewers something unique, a very strong sense of character, not just Eastwood but Pat Hingle's Judge Fenton, as complicated a character as you ever saw in a Western, not unmerciful or inhuman but somewhat blind and stubbornly so, as he believes justice must be, in pursuit of a greater good.Hingle's easily the best thing in the movie, but there's a huge swath of interesting minor characters, too, like Ben Johnson as a marshal who saves Eastwood but then a little while later guns down a wounded harmless insane man pretty much in cold blood. Michael O'Sullivan, in one of only two film roles he ever did, masterfully plays a prisoner who orates about the perils of alcohol, alternately hilarious and heartbreaking, before being strung up. Even the gang of villains who do in Eastwood early on, and have to sweat out his prospective vengeance thereafter, are given personalities and motivations which make them seem very human, even sympathetic.All this feeds the underlying question of the movie, an unusually complex one for its genre, which is When is one justified to kill a man, or not, whether one is an individual wronged or a government trying to establish order? The question is brought to a head during the film's centerpiece, a mass hanging sequence where O'Sullivan makes his big speech. In addition to displaying a colorful range of characters, both before the noose and looking on, we get a moment of real sadness when two boys, clearly undeserving of their fate, quiver through the preliminaries, the older one not even able to look at the other because, I think, he doesn't want to see his brother going through what he is going through.It's the major dividing line between the judge, who makes a rational if cold-blooded case for killing the boys, and Jed Cooper, who felt the two boys should have been spared. In time, Cooper will find the ability to forgive one of his initial attackers, in a short but effective sequence that feels more like a victory than any shooting. Of course, he deals with most of his attackers much differently, which makes the movie fun.Hang 'Em High does move slowly in parts; one senses more than a little lopping went on, at the cost of some continuity, to bring this in at two hours; and the romance with the character Inger Stevens plays feels tacked on, though she does provide some perspective for Cooper and the audience on just how distending the quest for vengeance can be. Maybe any system that prizes vengeance as a vehicle for justice is inherently flawed. Or maybe the Oklahoma territory just needed a better appeals system for convicted criminals than a plug of tobacco at hanging time.Whatever side of the divide you come down on, Hang 'Em High does a good job of presenting the question, and puts it in the background of a pretty decent gunslinger flick. Eastwood made better films in Hollywood, but he was off to a fine start. "},{"Title":"First two-thirds 9/10, last third 5/10","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Starts out as an excellent movie about an innocent man who survives a lynching, becomes a lawman, and is forced by a judge to take his revenge in a legal manner.Unfortunately, there isn't enough material here to fill up a two-hour running time, so they tack on a useless subplot with Inger Stevens, some stuff about a brothel which has nothing to do with anything, and some superficial nonsense about the comparison between lynching and capital punishment (an interesting issue which goes to the heart of the Western genre, but they do nothing with it here), which causes the last third of the film to drag terribly.By the time the main plot is resolved, it's hard to care anymore. Still, the earlier part of the film is good enough to earn it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"      Justice for all?","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I find this film to have some deep ideas.The film shows men at their worst.Men are lynched for no reason but a thought of guilt.Clint is wonderful as a innocent man lynched for no reason.He shows poise as he hunts down those who are guilty.Clint is always great as the man from nowhere.Dennis Hopper is great.I find the ending to be  truly powerful in scope.The music,landscape,sets are great to watch. "},{"Title":"Whitewashed, Pressed and Starched","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Dull and detrimentally deliberate this was dated upon release. After some great and gritty Fifties Westerns (Mann & Boettcher) and Leone's No Name trilogy this is and was nothing more than another John Wayne style Movie with some scars.Heavy on hanging em first and ask questions later the Philosophical contemplations about Law and Order in a Lawless Territory is talked to death here and worst of all the Action is depressingly without style.It is a pressed and starched landscape of familiar Character Actors paraded through a completely uninteresting display of Hollywood slickness, with sickening and stodgy plainness. A safe product with one of the most anti-climactic endings that betrays the finality needed in good Films but most assuredly in Westerns of note. This one is one note, and a sour one at that. "},{"Title":"Hang 'Em Loose","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A milestone in the career of Clint Eastwood, this marks his return to Hollywood as a bona-fide movie star. It's also the film in which Eastwood the businessman took the reins of his career and did it his way, a strategy which served him well over the years.As far as the movie goes, it's colorful and well made, with an all-star cast of great character actors, including 1930's cowboy actor Bob Steele in his next-to-last role and a weird cameo from Dennis Hopper. However, it's all too loosely wound and at almost two hours, a bit longer than it could have been.In my opinion, the scenes depicting the moral conflict between Eastwood and hanging judge Pat Hingle were excellent and often times better than the action sequences. "},{"Title":"Hang 'Em High","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The title sounded appealing, the leading actor I obviously like, and some supporting actors in it led me to give this film a go. Basically Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is mistakenly accused by nine vigilantes of killing one of their neighbours and stealing his castle, and failing to convince them of his innocence, he is hanged. Fortunately a U.S. Marshal rescues him from near death, and not long after returning to his village, Judge Adam Fenton (Pat Hingle) warns him about taking the law into his own hands (getting revenge), before appointing him a Marshal. As he searches for these nine men, he kills one, one gives himself up, and this one provides the names of the others. In the end, after trying to buy Cooper off, the remaining men realise the only way they can get away from punishment is finish what they tried to do to him in the beginning, kill him. Also starring Inger Stevens as Rachel Warren, Ed Begley as Captain Wilson, Cooper Hanging Party, Arlene Golonka as Jennifer (the Prostitute), James MacArthur as The Preacher, Ruth White as Madame 'Peaches' Sophie, Bruce Dern (Laura's Dad) as Miller (One of the 3 rustlers, and murderer), Alan Hale Jr. as Matt Stone, Cooper Hanging Party, James Westerfield as Prisoner, Ben Johnson as Marshal Dave Bliss, and look out for young Dennis Hopper as The Prophet, who made the Easy Rider not long after, the same year. Eastwood as always is good being hard, the small bits of violence add interest, just a good old fashioned western. Good! "},{"Title":"Great, But Somewhat...Spaghetti-ized?","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is another one of Clint Eastwood's westerns, for which he is best known by the Baby Boomers. This one feels and plays like an American version of a spaghetti western. As weird as that sounds, that's how weird it is to watch, although this is one great western. I think this is possibly one of the most underrated of Eastwood's neo-classic westerns on the video shelves, actually. He has done better, and he has done worse, but this is genuinely good, and lacks proper appreciation from most.1968. Clint Eastwood, Inger Stevens, Ed Begley (NOT Jr.). A rescued rancher is deputized to hunt for the men who tried to lynch him for no reason.This is all about new world justice, American style.If you're a fan of westerns, this makes for a great Saturday afternoon. It's not what most of us would find for fine watching on a Friday night, though, as it IS rather dated, but still looks good.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"A decent early Clint Eastwood action western","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Another one of Clint Eastwood's early Spaghetti Westerns, with music by Dominic Frontiere. Probably one of the better action soundtracks, with the familiar tune echoing throughout the movie. I especially liked the ending, where Jed Cooper (Eastwood) gets his revenge on the 9 men who hanged him and left him for dead in the beginning of the movie. "},{"Title":"Cool Eastwood picture.","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Hang'em High is a good western and has a good performance from the man who never has to talk, Clint Eastwood. The only drawback ths film has that I can see is that the film is too long. But for Eastwood fans, they'll enjoy it anyhow. Look for Dennis Hopper in a small role. "},{"Title":"Clint's Least Appealing Western","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Director Ted Post's Hang'em High qualifies as Clint Eastwood's least appealing western. This United Artists release served as the first Eastwood epic after Sergio Leone's The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. Composer Dominic Frontiere's powerful orchestral score ranks as the best asset and enhances the predictable Leonard Freeman & Mel Goldberg screenplay about western justice. Frontiere composed the scores for The Invaders and The Rat Patrol. His score to the Lee Van Cleef western Barquero sounds like variations on his Hang'em High theme. Mind you, Eastwood looks cool as a glacier in his dark blue outfit and flat-brimmed hat, and he kills bad guys. Nevertheless, Hang'em High resembles a tautly made television drama. The surroundings, even the sandy desert scenes, lack the majestic sprawl of his Italian westerns and his later sagebrushers such as The Outlaw Josey Wales, The Pale Rider, and Unforgiven. Clearly, since he hadn't made a strong enough impression on Hollywood, Eastwood had to play it safe with a low-budget and actors more accustomed to appearing in TV westerns.No, Hang'em High was NOT a Spaghetti western. Lensed in Southern California, this thoroughly routine oater springs its one and only surprise when our hero gets his neck stretched in the first scene. The film resembles Hitchcock's Psycho in this respect. Jed Cooper is a former-lawman-turned-cattleman wrongly hanged for rustling who survives the ordeal. Hang'em High focuses primarily on the theme of revenge that figured prominently in most Italian westerns. The lynch mob found our hero after he had bought cattle from a murdered rancher. No matter what Jed says, Captain Wilson and his nine conspirators refuse to believe him. It later turns out that the man who killed the rancher gave Jed (Clint Eastwood) a forged bill of sale. This is what prompts the villains to see Jed swing. Cooper finds himself briefly imprisoned after a tough-as-nails lawman, Marshal David Bliss (Ben Johnson of Chism) cuts him down and takes him back stand trial at Fort Grant before the stern Judge Adam Fenton.Judge Fenton (Pat Hingle of The Gauntlet)is a quasi-Judge Roy Bean. He has the last word on justice, and Hingle delivers a commanding performance. The villains led by Captain Wilson (an elderly Ed Begley of Boots Malone) are an ineffectual lot. They botch hanging Jed Cooper, and he comes after them with warrants issued by Fenton. As much as Fenton warns Cooper that he better bring the hanging party in, Cooper winds up killing several of them. The town where all the action occurs has another character, Rachel Warren (Inger Stevens of Five Card Stud), who has Fenton's permission to look at all new prisoners. She is searching for the fiends that wronged her. The romance between Jed and Rachel is as contrived as most of this weak western. Meanwhile, Jed realizes that Fenton may be a bigger bastard than he is with his iron-fisted rules about legality. In his spaghetti westerns, Clint Eastwood bowed to nobody, but his lawman character here takes orders, something that clashes against the Eastwood characters in Two Mules for Sister Sara and Joe Kidd. One of the casting decisions defies logic, specifically Alan Hale Jr. as one of Wilson's riders who hangs Cooper. The portly Hale had played the beloved Skipper from Gilligan's Island, but he had played less lovable roles before Hang'em High. Nonetheless, it is jarring to see Hale in such a role One of the best casting decisions was veteran B-movie cowboy star Bob Steele. Meanwhile, Bruce Dern makes an excellent villain. Hawaii 5-0 actor James MacArthur has a memorable cameo as the gallows Preacher. Dennis Hooper and a line-up of familiar faces, including L.Q. Jones of Battle Cry and Ned Romero of Dan August flesh out Hang'em High. Not surprisingly, Hooper plays crazy prisoner called 'The Prophet.' There are no spectacular looking shoot-outs because Ted Post shoots everything likeone of his Gunsmoke or Rawhide episodes. The scene where Jed is riddled with bullets and Rachel has to take care of him adds a tearjerker text to the story. Happily, Eastwood would go on to make Two Mules for Sister Sara and redeem himself for this lackluster effort. The neatest touch occurs when they hang a number of men and one of them loses a boot as they plunge through the trap doors. Happily, Post's next outing with Eastwood would come with the highly superior Dirty Harry sequel Magnum Force. If you're looking for a better lynch law western, watch The Ox-Bow Incident with Henry Fonda. "},{"Title":"slickly made western that lacks credibility","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The enduringly popular Clint Eastwood is beautifully cast in the lead role of the wrongly accused and hanged cattle rustler who survives the vigilante posse stringing him up.Eastwood, now a lawman, seeks vengeance.At this stage of his career, Eastwood was to some extent trying to rid himself of his Rawhide persona- a feat he was able to achieve with his next film Coogan's Bluff.Swedish actress Inger Stevens is surprisingly disappointing as the love interest whilst veteran Ed Begley plays against type in a dark performance as the head of the vigilantes.Television director Ted Post came from a gig directing the soap opera Peyton Place to effect a pleasing result with this film (he had previously directed Eastwood in three episodes of Rawhide).They are all strangled however by a trite and sometimes empty headed script by television hacks Leonard Freeman (Route 66) and Mel Goldberg (The High Chaparral). "},{"Title":"Hang 'Em High introduces Eastwood into American westerns","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  As Clint Eastwood's first American western, it was no surprise that Hang 'Em High would be a thrilling western. This proves that Eastwood is capable of acting in great westerns without the help of legendary Italian director, Sergio Leone, and Hang 'Em High was not a bad try for a beginner in American westerns, if you understand what I mean. I give this film an 8/10 and I recommend this western to any Eastwood fan. Eastwood becomes Marshal Cooper as he hunts down outlaws that tried to hang Cooper. I congratulate Eastwood on his first try on an American western and that this was the start of a dawn of future westerns that would sure become classics. Good job, Clint. "},{"Title":"Almost Conscientious","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A Western well worth the watching, HANG 'EM HIGH presents an interesting -- if understated -- commentary on the instantiation of justice in a single individual.  While Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is definitely the focus of the film and deservedly so -- it is Cooper's story, after all -- perhaps the most intriguing character is the Judge.  Burdened with the responsibility of governing the entire territory alone, without checks and balances, without recourse to a higher authority, the Judge rules with the gallows.  While he admits his own fallibility, he also denies any other options than swift and frequent executions of criminals.  Cooper, while clearly not opposed to capital punishment in any strict sense, is unwilling to accept that the Judge's system, killing to legitimate his own authority so as to maintain order in the territory, is just.  However interesting, the political content of the film remains obscured by the more traditional affectations of the genre, including gunfights and scenes from the obligatory wild West brothel. "},{"Title":"Not one of Clint's best.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I love westerns and Clint is cool but this movie was not the best of either. I love westerns enough to where I will watch it whenever I catch it on T.V..  Not the best plot for a western.  Not that they need good plots as long as Clint prevails at the end. "},{"Title":"Clint is the man but this movie is not","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" i have to admit, i haven't watched a lot of clint eastwood films. In fact i've only seen 3 (Pale rider, High plains drifter and the good, the bad the ugly). This film is really not that good. Thats why i scored it below average, the film seems to go no where. I kept thinking it's going to be a revenge story like a typical leone type. Man eastwood did not look that tough in this one, he seemed to follow the rules which was pretty crappy because people actually like his rogue type characters than his law abiding citizen type. The main story doesn't finish until the end, which seems really rushed. There wasn't even a good draw in this one! thats what hes known for. This film also didn't tie up any lose ends involving the main story. Overall a pretty horrible western. I guess thats what you get for putting it somewhere in the east (Oaklahoma) instead of the harshness of the west. "},{"Title":"major editing goof","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" why couldn't they seem to decide on how long Bruce Dern's beard was supposed to be? During the scene where he tries to overpower Jed on the ride back to town, alternating shots make his beard look like Grizzly Adams' in one shot to be followed by Don Johnson's stubble in another.that being said, this is an awesome flick; perhaps better than at least two out of the three Sergio Leone spaghetti westerns that starred Eastwood. Rachel was certainly hot; too bad the actress playing her OD'ed not long afterward. One other random thought how many actors (such as Pat Hingle) seem to owe their entire livelihoods to Clint Eastwood's loyalty to them? There seem to be multiple actors who appear almost exclusively in Eastwood films. "},{"Title":"When you hang a man you better remember his face!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Hang 'em High is a amateur western starring Clint Eastwood. Why Clint Eastwood accepted the role is a mystery to me. If you want to see a good western then see any other Eastwood western.*out of****stars "}{"Title":"A waste of Eastwood's talent","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  In Hang 'em High Eastwood manages to bring his usual quiet intensity to a character, but he doesn't have much to work with. It starts off as a decent concept, a lynched man trying to bring his lynchers to justice, but then it gets tied up in the story about a hanging judge that in my opinion cripples the concept rather than reinforcing it. There's every indication that the writer was merely padding the script to make it feature-length.The movie also suffers from poor music direction. There are loud climax dubs over events that don't have the slightest importance to the story. If that weren't bad enough, one of the recurring themes is a barely recognizable variation on the Gilligan's Island theme. What were they thinking? Was it an in-joke referring to Alan Hale's part in the film? It added an extra level of silliness to an already boring film (even though Hale acted well enough that I didn't recognize him).Between these two weaknesses, Hang 'em High comes off as Mystery Science Theater material. Eastwood fans can steer clear.  "},{"Title":"does not age well","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This film is from the 60's and you can tell this, by the evolution of acting and directing.  The movie has a choppy feel to it, and looks dated. However, Bruce Durn has a great cammio playing a crazy cattle rustler. Eastwood has another strong performance, and the story underplays a 1960's anti death penalty message.  Like the hanging judge form this film I have a verdict.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Spaghetti western, heavy sauce","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is one of the better-acted of the Clint Eastwood spaghetti western series. Eastwoods own talents had grown and there are some real actors in this film. The story is that of an innocent man (Eastwood) hanged by a vigilante group. He is rescued and found to be innocent. He then goes to work for the territorial Sheriff and Judge. He is supposed to bring his suspects in alive, but somehow, not too many of them manage to survive their encounter with him. Along the way, he manages to win the love of beautiful Inger Stevens. Eventually, he goes after the men who hanged him. The film is quite predictable, yet entertaining anyway. "},{"Title":"Compares poorly to Leone's Westerns","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" As a big fan of Clint's roles in the Leone trilogy, I was looking for a good movie in this, but I ended up disappointed.The movie begins very well, and the first half cooks along. But about halfway through, things begin to wander. The romantic subplot feels token-ish and unreal, as if it was only there to fit some requirement from the studio.More disappointing was Jed's role. Compared to the Leone films, Clint is way too soft and malleable, yet without any real charm either. By the end of the film, it is hard to figure out his motives at all, and the movie concludes feeling rather unfinished.The final confrontation scene in the film was not very suspenseful, and did not provide the kind of catharsis that is required in a good vengeance film.There are some good scenes, and the judge character is interesting, but other than that, this just doesn't have a lot to recommend. "},{"Title":"American spaghetti is not spicy","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In the early 60's classical American western was dead. Then Sergio Leone with his protagonist Clint Eastwood completely renewed the genre. The success of the three Dollar westerns demanded an answer from American directors. Hang 'em high is the first attempt - and not a convincing one. The cause is, that director Ted Post modifies most typical Leone elements. For instance Hang 'em high is sometimes raw, but not nearly as raw as the spaghetti westerns and certainly misses its cynical jokes. Still Hang 'em high contains some interesting elements. The opening scene is very memorable and the events after it follow logically from it. But slowly the movie loses track, introduces too many new elements and as a result jumps in all directions without getting anywhere. As a result no single theme of the three is fully developed. There is the revenge vs justice theme. When Jed Cooper finally has caught one member of the lynch gang, he does not show the least desire to torture him a bit. That is not trustworthy. The love vs revenge theme is only hinted at. I have seen the movie twice, but still don't remember the content of the female roles. That is a very bad sign; the female roles probably are very uninteresting. Finally there is the pardon vs justice theme. The two boys, who have saved Jed Cooper's life, are still hanged. Jed Cooper's protest is short and rather lame. As a result Jed Coopers character looks rather compliant; he rather easily adapts his moral code. At the end of the movie, when he rides to hunt the last member(s) of the lynch gang, Jed Cooper has transformed to the typical pillar of the primitive judicial system at the American frontier. Hang 'em high is one of Ted posts first movies. Previously he had done several episodes of the Rawhide series. I strongly suspect, that Ted Post was not able to keep control of flicks longer than an hour. Hang 'em high shows it; though entertaining it misses too many chances. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I am a big fan of clint eastwood and saw this film fairly recently. I had heard it was good, but i was left hugely unsatisfied. The film is unbelievably slow moving; in fact, occasionally it is like watching paint dry, and the script is incredibly weak and at times meaningless. If you want a decent clint western, try just about anything else, as this is the only western film of his i haven't enjoyed.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing anti death penalty themed Western.","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Hang Em' High starts as ex-lawman turned cowhand Jed Cooper (Clint Eastwood) is captured, beaten & accused of murder & theft by Captain Wilson (Ed Begley) & a posse of eight other men. Unimpressed by Cooper's explanations he is found guilty & hung from the nearest tree & left to choke to death, miraculously Marshall Dave Bliss (Ben Johnson) just happened to be riding past & manages to save Cooper before he hangs. Taken back to the nearest town to stand trial proper Cooper is quickly found innocent, cleared of all charges & let go. Bitter & seeking revenge Cooper decides to become a Marshall & use the full weight of the law to track down those nine men responsible for his hanging & see them brought to justice...Directed by Ted Post this was one of Clint Eastwood's very first leading roles in an American film which was co-produced by his own Malpaso company & one has to say that I was very disappointed by this preachy unfocused Western that felt more like a drama at times rather than a tough gritty Western Eastwood would become synonymous with. To be fair to it Hang 'Em High starts off promisingly with Eastwood's character being brutally hanged for a crime he didn't commit & I was sat there thinking that Eastwood would now saddle up, don his stetson, load up his six shooters & dish out some justice of his own but against both expectation & hope Hang 'Em High quickly turns into some sort of anti death penalty drama as it takes great pains to point out that whether it's a lynch mob in the desert or an officially sanctioned hangman the death penalty is wrong & it even goes as far as to have Eastwood find redemption & forgiveness in his heart & actually bargains his own life to let one of his hangers go free! What? I was really hoping to see some sort of revenge Western that the opening pre-credits scene sets up so well but the constant drama & subplots that drift in various directions just didn't do anything for me & the film even tries to show a few of the lynch mob & villains in a sympathetic light which just felt wrong. At nearly two hours the film felt longer, the pace is slow & the lack of action or any real interest kills the film dead as far as I am concerned & there's no climatic shoot-out or showdown between Eastwood & the lynch mob which also felt like a let down.After such a great opening the film didn't really go in the brutal revenge action adventure direction that I wanted, of course this is just my opinion as I am sure there will be many out there who will enjoy the pacifist & moralistic tone of Hang 'Em High but I'm not sure we need an anti death penalty Western. I mean the law is all we have to separate us from the animals right? It's not perfect but I think most people would agree in certain cases the death penalty is justified, I'm not being funny here but todays cattle rustlers are tomorrows hardened criminals so the death penalty as a deterrent can't be ignored either, can it? The film has nice circa 1890's period production design as one would expect although the lack of any real action or any real Western edge doesn't do it any favours. I just thought after the terrific opening it was all downhill.Shot on location in New Mexico the film looks nice enough for sure, the shots are long & steady & very colourful which is nice to see & I much prefer the 'as is' look to the shaky hand-held camcorder with all the colour bleached out of the image cinematography of many recent films. The cast is fine, Eastwood is great as a cowboy although he doesn't really get to do much while veteran actors Pat Hingle, Bruce Dern & Dennis Hooper all appear.Hang 'Em High wasn't what I expected & maybe that was part of the reason I didn't like it, or then again maybe I didn't like it because of the lack of action & a preachy drama driven plot that seems to want to take a stance against the death penalty & not much else. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The only reason I'm giving this any stars is because it takes work to make even a bad movie and it deserves a little respect for that. But 2 stars out of 10 is about all the respect it deserves. The only character that is that memorable is Clint Eastwood, and even he has no personality. I hated the story. Some guys hang a man without any proof that he actually did anything wrong, and then they don't even do it properly? What the heck is that? The cinematic elements of it are anything but desirable. The worst part of the film was the music, which was unbearable. Do not see this movie. It's a waste of time. Go see films that are really worth it, like the Pixar films. At least they're fun, unlike Hang 'Em High. "}]