[{"Title":"The Cast Sparkles In This Neil Simon Comedy","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm no great fan of Neil Simon, but this neat adaption of his popular stage success BAREFOOT IN THE PARK brings a smile to my face--and it probably will yours too. The story is quite simple newlyweds Robert Redford and Jane Fonda have moved into a New York apartment building peopled by eccentrics... and their own tiny apartment has hole in the skylight, no heat, and you have walk up five flights to get there. Redford, a rather stodgy conservative, takes a dim view of the whole thing; Fonda, who has an excessively happy-go-lucky disposition, thinks everything is great fun. Needless to say, they're soon going at it hammer and tongs.This is a very contrived, sitcom-ish plot, but the cast carries it well. Although Redford has remained a great star for forty years, his films have been very hit or miss; here he is well cast, and he plays expertly. During this period of her career, Fonda was very much the perky girl-next-door with a slight sex-kitten spin, and she too is fun to watch. But the real winners here are Charles Boyer, as their eccentric neighbor, and particularly Mildred Natwick, as Fonda's mother. Natwick excelled at playing disconcerted matrons, and this is perhaps the best of the many fine, memorable variations of the type she offered during her long and very enjoyable career. BAREFOOT IN THE PARK won't go down in history as a great film, nor will change your point of view. But it is tremendously good fun, a film I've enjoyed every time time I've seen it--and that is a good many. Recommended; you'll enjoy it.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"I adore this movie","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is just one of those movies that can make you feel better if you've had a bad day. Honestly, it's charming, funny, light and I don't know, just the right amount of comedy and romance. Redford and Fonda are perfect together. This is a truly great comedic performance by Jane Fonda, she's amazing in this movie. Then again I am a stickler for her lighter, funnier work from the 60s. But this one stands out as being genuinely funny and well made. I love all the funny little details, like the tuna fish cans, Robert Redford's comment about a big cat with a can opener, Jane Fonda's mother, Jane Fonda doing a Cambodian fertility dance, etc. It is all just too classic for words. Buy this movie if you love 60s cinema and/or its two stars, it's too good.  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite the electricity of The Odd Couple the emotional force of Lost in Yonkers and the Depression-era angst of Brighton Beach Memoirs, this remains the best movie made of a Neil Simon play. Like The Odd Couple it owes most of its enduring success to the chemistry between Jane Fonda and Robert Redford (reprising his role in the Broadway show) as the hapless newlyweds trying desperately to make it work. This is the movie that is responsible for most of the mismatched romantic comedies we've ever seen, including Along Came Polly and TV's Dharma and Greg. It proves that flowery romantic prose isn't what makes a great love story, bold heroes and damsels in distress don't make a good love story. No, what makes a good love story are two people who, from start to finish, makes the audience go Oh, God in heaven, please let them work it out!The brilliant dialogue of Mr. Simon, the charm of Mr. Boyer and the majestic backdrop of New York City make this a must-see for anyone who loves 1, comedy, 2, love stories or 3, Robert Redford because after this, he never really made another movie that was at all comparable. Oh, I just remembered Laughter on the 23rd Floor. I guess it's a tie for best Neil Simon movie.  "},{"Title":"Standard Simon","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I happen to prefer 'The Odd Couple' and 'The Out-of-Towners' but 'Barefoot in the Park' is good too. Surprisingly, I didn't find it as dated as 'The Goodbye Girl' which I saw recently.As in all Neil Simon scripts, you'll get the weird situations, the quirky characters and the good lines. (My favourite Who lives in 4D? A big cat with a can opener.)True, the movie appears staged, and the 1960s sets are, well, 1960s sets. But who cares. Robert Redford and Jane Fonda were young and attractive. And Charles Boyer steals the show, if that's possible with a Neil Simon script. "},{"Title":"remarkable piece of work for anyone looking for simplicity in today's complicated world.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I would recommend this movie to anyone for its simplicity. Though simple and quiet, this movie is stunning. The situation of a young married couple played out almost entirely in their one bedroom apartment adds to this movies basic plot. The nonchalant attitude of a newly married man and his very emotionally free wife is quite exciting. I would normally ask for a lot more from a movie, but in Barefoot in the Park it is not needed. The superb acting of both Robert Redford and Jane Fonda leave you stoked for the thrilling dialogs that take place between the couple. There is an abundance of humor. The movie simply leaves you feeling casual in a very glamorous world. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies of our time.","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are at their best in this fast-paced,  movie version of Neil Simon's BAREFOOT IN THE PARK. They show you what happens when the honeymoon's over and real life begins. The interaction between Redford and Fonda is superb and flows smoothly, the acting is brilliant and shines brightly throughout the movie. It's like witnessing perfection. Even the supporting cast is marvelous with their humorous dialog and perfect timing. What I like best is the characters will have you laughing without even half trying. Everything is put together so splendidly. This is one of those movies where everything comes together the actors, the writing, the scenery, the situation, and of course the performances.In my opinion BAREFOOT IN THE PARK is a rare gem that should be seen by all. "},{"Title":"Another One Of Neil Simon's Funniest Films","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Noted playwright Neil Simon has successfully adapted many of his plays onto film and this 1967 Paramount release ranks as one of his best film adaptations of all. Robert Redford reprises his stage role as a newly married man who along with his new bride (Jane Fonda) gets involved in many hilarious situations as Fonda attempts to help him be more free-spirited. A 1960's comedy classic.  "},{"Title":"The Original 'Dharma & Greg'","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As my girlfriend noted before I watched for the first time, this is like the original 'Dharma & Greg.' She's the free spirit, he's the button-down lawyer struggling to adjust to the new world into which he's just married. After six days of a honeymoon at the Plaza, where eyebrows are raised amongst the staff because the young lovers never leave the room, conflicts come to a boil at home when she realizes that her new husband isn't such an adventurous fella. Amongst the number of reasons she compiles to determine that they just can't make it after all he declines an invitation to take off his shoes, in February, to walk barefoot in the park.Of course, with your knowledge of romantic comedies about marital discord, you know generally how it all ends. How the conflict is resolved, beginning with some advice from Mother, may seem realistic and true to some. Others raised on self-empowered heroines may think it's a trite sell-out.There's no question that young Redford fits the bill as Handsome & Charming, but it's a little hard to believe in him as a character who's supposed to be a stick in the mud. Fonda at this point had carved out a niche for herself in Wild, Untamed Belle roles, and she's fine again in that role here. But I must admit it was hard to watch without thinking about Holly Golightly, and imagining a sophisticated presence like Audrey Hepburn in the part, instead. The script also calls for the Mother to comment that she's never seen another couple who looked so much in love, but I really didn't see it. The couple seems at complete odds from their first evening at home. I can't think of a scene that illustrates why the two fell in love in the first place, except that they're both so young & sexy.It's worth watching for the snappy dialogue, the work by Charles Boyer & Mildred Natwick as Mr. Velasco & the Mother, the chance to admire Redford & Fonda in their youth, and as a nice Neil Simon period piece. But it would be no crime for someone to attempt a better, updated remake. It could be done, and you probably can already picture it. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy as lightweight as they come.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film version of one of Neil Simon's early Broadway hits coasts on the likability of its cast and a lot of classic Simon banter. The gossamer-thin plot, about newlyweds who find out they don't know each other as well as they thought, is only a framework to hang a bunch of running gags about drafty New York flats, endless stairs, oddball neighbors and the like.Laughs are plentiful, although as in the rest of Simon's work, one is acutely aware that nobody is so quick with the one-liners in real life.Boy, were they young back then! Robert Redford underplays charmingly as Paul Bratter, up-and-coming lawyer and all-round stick-in-the-mud; Jane Fonda is his new bride Corie, sexy, fun-loving and relentlessly cute to the borderline of annoyance. When you find her schtick getting a little hard to take, concentrate instead on veteran character actors Charles Boyer and Mildred Natwick, who lend spirit and class to their comedic roles.Perhaps the direction by Gene Saks is a tad stagebound (he directed the Broadway version), and the cinematography a bit muddy, but Neal Hefti contributes another sprightly score that does a lot to compensate. Overall, an undemanding, undeniable pleasure. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest romantic comedies I've had the pleasure of watching.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are both outstanding actors and compensate each other very nicely in this romantic comedy.  This movie has all the quality ingredients needed to make it a classic comedy.  Redford, as usual, displays great talent enhanced by the school-girl charisma of Jane Fonda. I love it. "}{"Title":"Mildrid Natwick steals the film","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a superb comedy with a perfect dream of a script and the comedy is genuinely funny. It's one of those rare movies where you can get a real belly laugh. The plot has been very well described by others. Fonda is great and its a pity she did not do more farce because she is perfect and she gives it all shes got. Redford never looked sexier and its impossible not to fall head over heals in love with him. Charles Boyer is superb and the scene when he takes the young lovers and the mother to that incredible restaurant is hilarious. The real scene stealer is Mildred Natwick who is unforgettable. She will have you in stitches. Her under play is brilliant and its a performance I have never forgotten. Why she never got an Oscar for this is beyond me because its the most perfect performance. Natwick was one of America's finest actors and she is deeply missed. Whatever she did she did with distinction. Proof there are no small parts.What a classy lady! You will love this movie but you will never forget Natwick. "},{"Title":"Another Neil Simon Classic!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must have seen it five times. What a delightful movie, so gentle, so understanding of human nature, so devoid of vulgarity or hard edges. Neil Simon is a jewel. He has single-handedly rescued American cinema from total mediocrity since the mid-sixties. Yes, he has had some weak scripts, but when he's bad, he is never terribly bad. I am glad that as good a writer is so successful. The cream does rise to the top, - once in a million years. Seeing this movie should be mandatory for any couple considering divorce. It shows how silly fights are. Too bad it didn't save Simon's own marriage.Boyer is priceless as an eccentric bohemian. Everyone is inspired by the script and delivers his or his best performance. Simon makes happiness seem possible, because he knows where it's hiding.  "},{"Title":"Comically entertaining&#x85;","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I got so excited that Robert Redford did a romantic comedy film with Jane Fonda. Barefoot in the Park was indeed very funny and very entertaining. The story was simple. All the matters with the characters slowly rise. We can see that Corie Bratter (Jane Fonda), from being lovely and cheerful goes arguing and hating his conservative, spoilsport husband Paul Bratter. It was really funny. Robert Redford amuses me the most. He had that accentuated aura that reminded me of The Sting and his role in Butch Cassidy and Sudance Kid. Jane Fonda was particularly witty too in her character. The latest humorous movie I watched about her was Monster in Law. It took me a little time recognize her character in Barefoot in the Park, because honestly I haven't watch too much yet of her old movies. I must admit however that the first part of the film wasn't too much captivating. It got me bored a little. But when I saw finally Corie arguing with Paul because of their differences and incompatible attitudes, it got me the extreme laughs ever. Truly this is one cute, comically entertaining film of the old times I've ever seen. Highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Wedded bliss---Neil Simon style","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Master of Broadway comedy Neil Simon adapted his hit play about a conservative young lawyer and his off-the-wall bride for this warm 1960's film classic.  Robert Redford is Paul Bratter, the Mister Straight lawyer.  Jane Fonda is his new wife Corie, who dedicates her life to the pursuit of fun.  As the ecstasy of the honeymoon at the Plaza gives way to setting up  housekeeping and a home in a modest five-flight walk-up, the harmony of marriage turns into comical discord.  The mother-in-law (Mildred Natwick) complains meekly.  The middle-aged Lothario upstairs (Charles Boyer) flirts shamelessly.  Joy turns to anguish...and the results are pure Neil Simon comedy at its best.  This is a great example of 1960's comic genius.  Neil Simon would follow this one with 1968's The Odd Couple starring Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon.My rating 2 and a half stars "},{"Title":"Just married--tin cans not attached.","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A frantic 1960's romantic comedy that is still a vibrant look at a New York City that has all but vanished; however, the movie HAS shown signs of wear and tear of late. I like Redford but I don't get Fonda. She's all over the place; her nervousness bothers me. She handles the dramatic parts in the script fine, but displays a shrill, manic nature in performing the comedic elements. She's, ultimately, too over-the-top for my tastes. I wish the director would've simply yelled CUT! once or twice. Charles Boyer, on the other hand, is a godsend from above. Literally. He lives in the building's attic, one flight above the newlyweds. Boyer is fit--looking much younger than his stated age at the time--and his acting chops are sharpened to a razor-thin cut. The small, quirky (the radiator is skyward) N.Y.C. apartment set serves an important purpose It's the unofficial arena for our trio of thespians to do battle. Joined (later) by Fonda's understanding mother and an agitated telephone repairman, Neil Simon's sly narrative is finally completed. Numerous public conveyances are used to provide color in this movie. The old cars, Checker Cabs, N.Y.C. buses and even the Staten Island Ferry, make classic appearances before the film's final fade out. The ferry takes the two couples--minus the phone guy--to sleepy Staten Island, so they can experience an authentic Albanian restaurant, complete with belly dancing and homemade brew. It's the highlight of the film. "},{"Title":"Great acting and hilarity","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Barefoot in the Park is one funny movie from director Neil Simon and highlights the comedic talents of two people on the verge of stardom, Jane Fonda and Robert Redford as Corie and Paul Bratter. They are ably supported by Charles Boyer as Victor Velasko, the neighbor, and Mildred Natwick, as Corie's mother Ethel. Herb Edelman is a repairman, whose forays to the apartment bring some hilarious lines delivered with his fine brand of Jewish humor. The story is dated but the acting more than makes up for it and the repartee between the two major characters is exceptional. Taking place in New York City, a newly-married couple take up residence in a leaky, drafty, walk-up apartment (five storeys up). There is a running gag every time visitors climb the stairway, since they collapse from exhaustion on arrival. Much in love, Corie and Paul must deal with the fact that they are two totally different personalities. She is a bubbly extrovert and talking machine and he is a rather staid, young lawyer, who must suffer the butt of her jokes. Charles Boyer, a free spirit like Corie, gives Ethel a new lease on life. Following a side-splitting double date with Victor and Ethel,Corie and Paul face a shakeup in their relationship that reaches a finale when Paul becomes drunk and goes barefoot in the park. In this scene, Robert Redford shows his talent, trading roles with Jane Fonda, as he staggers and hops around Washington Square.It is great to see Fonda and Redford in action just before they made the leap to stardom, not to mention the superb supporting cast. Great fun...recommend. "},{"Title":"Agreeable entertainment","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You won't roll on the floor laughing but you won't be sorry you spent 90 minutes with the characters on-screen.  Very light and easy to take, brought to a nice level of fun by some very talented actors.  Mildred Natwick earned her Oscar nomination; I wonder why Charles Boyer didn't get one, too.  Fonda & Redford are both so young its hard to remember they were ever that age. I lived in a walk-up apartment in Manhattan (fifth floor!)and had to quit smoking so I wouldn't have to have an oxygen tank installed on each floor in order to just make it home every night.  I enjoyed reading the 'trivia' section about this movie and find it very interesting that the French version had to change the running joke to the 9th floor; since they are also infamous for smoking, one wonders why elevators were not more popular.  "},{"Title":"Good mix of comedy from Neil for Robert and Jane","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" BAREFOOT IN THE PARK takes Neil Simon's regular plot of his main characters learning to live in an apartment together - but here uses a normal situation. Instead of two people of the same sex (as in THE ODD COUPLE) it is a young married couple. Reputedly Simon was basing the situation of Paul and Corrie Bratter (Robert Redford and Jane Fonda) setting up their first married home in a fifth floor apartment with little space, a hole on the roof skylight, and other inconveniences on his own experiences as a young married in his first apartment. It is truly a terrible apartment, but the price seems remarkable for a Manhattan address today - only $135.00 a month. But in 1967 $135.00 was really a heady amount of rent (although Paul is working in a law firm as a newly hired lawyer).People used to Redford and Fonda in meatier fare will find BAREFOOT odd. But in 1967 Fonda was not noted as a major acting talent (though this was changing slowly). She was known more as a sex kitten in films like the European film BARBARELLA. Redford was not yet the serious actor of BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID or THE WAY WE WERE, but demonstrating growing talent too. So we are seeing them in their early careers, and they mesh nicely together. They were aware of this - in later years they'd appear in THE ELECTRIC HORSEMAN, a meatier film comedy about business ethics and rugged individualism. Still it is odd to see the horny Jane saying to Robert, If we find that the marriage won't work, let's kill each other.After a week's honeymoon at the Plaza Hotel, Paul and Corrie move to their new apartment, only to find nothing going right that first night - the furniture will be delivered late the next day, and they have to make due with a mattress on temporary loan. There is only a shower stall in the bathroom. The glass skylight has a crack in it (and it is February, of course). The building is full of weirdos, one of whom is much married and divorced Victor Velasco (Charles Boyer), who frequently has to go through the Bratters' apartment to reach his own apartment. Victor is charming, and Corrie decides she should set him up as a date with her mother Ethel (Mildred Dunnoch). Paul is not so sure of the wisdom of this move - and when the dinner occurs the viewers are more certain that the conservative Paul is on the right track, as Victor serves an exotic appetizer to them in his apartment, and then takes them to a wonderful restaurant in Staten Island (it's roughly six or seven miles away - on a separate island from Manhattan, and across New York Harbor).The apparent disaster of the dinner party splits the newlyweds. Will the marriage survive? Will some change be required between conservative Paul and free spirited Corrie? It's Neil Simon, so you can figure that one out. I will only add that the title refers to throwing off inhibitions in New York City. The cast does well with their parts and the situations, aided by Redford, Dunnoch, and Herb Edelman (as a telephone repairman) knowing their roles in the Broadway production. But neither Fonda nor Boyer are slouches, especially as Boyer towards the conclusion begins to realize he is aging a little. All in all, the film is pretty good comedy served well by dramatist and by it's cast and production. "},{"Title":"Makes you so Nervous You could SCREAM","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm reading Jane Fonda's autobiography right now, so of course I had to get this. It's all at white hot intensity, which is not how I like my comedy. I prefer a little subtlety, but Jane is giving a perpetual nervous breakdown of the MANIC type. Her complete obliviousness to anyone else but her own narcissistic self drives you mad, but of such is the fabric of a Neil Simon comedy.Robert Redford is adorable and plays well against Jane's hyperactivity. Her mother is also excellent, working well against Charles Boyer's flamboyant loveur. The fact that he lives in the attic of a 6 floor apartment building, which can only be reached by climbing on the roof is somewhat spooky and certainly adds tension. I couldn't help but think of 'Klute' while this part was going on. The feeling up that Boyer does to Jane wouldn't be tolerated in movies of today, but it's a little comforting to know that we were once so naive. He seems delighted that he makes her a little nervous, since he's too old to cut the mustard.Simon of course is a comic genius but his misogynism really shows forth in this movie. There's no trace of reality here, which is more the difference between then and now than the sets or the great vistas of New York City. Somewhat unlike Woody allen's New York City, the backdrop is kept just that but it's still gorgeous.I'll finish seeing it, because I bought the damn thing and I do appreciate the good lines. But this kind of marry/divorce 'comedy' isn't very funny in concept to me. After 3 divorces, you somehow don't have a taste for such. "},{"Title":"It's a filmed play, but it's FUNNY","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes, it's a filmed play, but it's a funny play and therefor worthwhile. Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are exceptional as newlyweds who move into a fifth floor walk-up and try to make a go of it. Neil Simon's script is very witty with A LOT of funny one-liners going to Redford. Mildred Natwick is priceless as Fonda's (mostly) understanding mother who gets involved with wily beatnik Charles Boyer(!). They have great chemistry. Fonda is very appealing (this is probably her most effervescent work) and the art direction is very clever. Herb Edelman's appearance is priceless. Director Gene Saks wisely refrains from opening up the play and keeps the focus on Simon's script. "}{"Title":"As fresh as a 40 year old fruitcake","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An example of a period piece that did not age well. She's open-minded! And free spirited! And he's a lawyer, which we all are supposed to understand means a fuddy-duddy. Very sitcom-ish, only without as many good laughs as a good half-hour sitcomTheir apartment is small, cold and requires a five flight walk up stairs, which Neil Simon considered quirky and cute. It's hard to believe that Simon was really from NYC since trust me, an affordable apartment in NYC with a skylight is a great find, even today, even five flights up... There is even a mention in the script of a gay couple in the building, but in the kind of tone that says, isn't this wacky!. Oh really? Like we're supposed to believe there were so few gay people in the city at that time that a young couple would be shocked to find they were living in the same apartment building?Worth noting are the fine performances by the supporting characters played by Mildrid Natwick and Charles Boyer - but they did not make up for the mechanical nature of much of the script.Save your time and watch any episode from the first season of Dharma and Greg. Much better pacing, and a lot less dated. Or, if you're really interested in a good comedy with Fonda from that era, check out Cat Ballou. "},{"Title":"Mildred Natwick Steals the Show","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bright and funny film version of the Neil Simon smash hit play. Robert Redford, Mildred Natwick, and Herb Edelman (the phone man) repeat their Broadway roles. Jane Fonda takes the part of Corie, originated by Elizabeth Ashley, and Charles Boyer plays Velasco (Kurt Kaznar on stage). The 4 stars are all good, but only Natwick won an Oscar nomination! She lost to Estelle Parsons for Bonnie and Clyde. The story holds up well, newlyweds adjusting to life together and their new apartment. The New York City of 1967 seems to be a charming and exotic city. He takes a bus to work (he's a lawyer), and she seems to spend her days decorating and chatting with people. But the Simon wit and the star actors make this almost timeless. Fonda is surprisingly good as the zany bride, and Redford is solid as the stuffy lawyer. Boyer is charming, and Natwick is superb as Corie's timid mother who discovers a whole new live. Look quick for Doris Roberts as the maid and Billie Bird as the drunken neighbor. Mabel Albertson is Harriet. Although Mike Nichols won a Tony for directing this stage hit, Gene Saks made his debut as a film director. Also---take a look at the UGLY cars! "},{"Title":"I don't watch too many movies made before the 70s","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  And I didn't think I would enjoy this one too much.  But there were some parts that were just too funny, that I did find myself laughing aloud.  I would recommend this one for some family entertainment.  Jane Fonda as a total airhead is a riot. "},{"Title":"Light but spirited.","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Featherweight, thin comedy is nonetheless enjoyable and extremely watchable. Predictable, to be sure, with often juvenile jokes and some simplistic dramatic moments, but the stars are very appealing and the general feel-good spirit of the film may actually cheer you up. Excellent underplaying by Redford.  (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Failed to deliver","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was surprised to read all the positive reviews above because... I thought this movie really failed to deliver. This film might have made more sense in the 60's when the idea of an independent, free-spirited woman was seen as more 'madcap' (not to mention 'new'), but to a 21st century audience, Jane Fonda's character will appear whiny, clingy, and co-dependent. (When a neighbour asks her what she does for a living, she replies 'I'm a wife'). There are one or two good lines, and of all the performances I thought Charles Boyer's was the best, but it seemed truly surprising that Jane Fonda was nominated for awards for this; at times, her delivery of Neil Simon's lines felt stiff and awkward. Again, this movie may have made a lot more sense in context; 'couple' sit-coms were new. Now, we've seen so many of them, that the bickering between Fonda and Redford seems not funny but tiresome. There are many better films from this period. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic you can only enjoy","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are some movies, some classics, that you cannot but enjoy, and Barefoot in the park belongs to this evergreen category. An adaptation of Neil Simon's comedy, the movie develops through sparkling dialogues and amusing situations. Jane Fonda plays with a very expressive interpretation the role of the enthusiastic wife, full of vital energy, as opposed to her more controlled and wise husband, superbly interpreted by a charming Rober Redford. I do not know if the elegant and enjoyable touch of comedies like this, really reflected the real atmosphere of the times when they are set, or simply the art of representing them was more effective. Still there's always something pleasant, and feel-good, as if those movies were naturally able to produce that magic suspension of disbelief and could lead the viewer to an out-of-time joyful stage. "},{"Title":"No One but Simon","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No one but Neil Simon could have pulled this off. Great witty dialogue and terrific performances by all make this an amazing ensemble piece. I watch this every time it is on TV and it makes me laugh without fail. My daughter loves it as much as I and that shows that it has not dated as far as the comedy goes. I even like Redford in this and I don't really like his movies. The chemistry between him and Fonda is just right but it is Mildred Natwick that steals this film. If there is a weak link in this then it is Charles Boyer as the eccentric guy upstairs,Victor Velasco. He is not really believable as a character. You would have to be a REALLY lousy actor to mess up great lines like Simon gives to his actors and everyone delivers them with immaculate timing. It is a play on film so don't expect action but it is wicked witty and sharp in every other respect. Herbert Edelman is a wonderful comic actor also to be seen in Simon's masterpiece The Odd Couple as Murray the cop. He has a small role in this but he is brilliant in it too. "},{"Title":"A very good comedy - I love this movie !","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What an enjoyable movie ! Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are just marvellous, a well matched couple. Robert Redford as the groom is a young buttoned-up attorney and Jane Fonda is the free spirit and the vivacious young bride. They're really fun to watch. Very good performances from both actors as well as from the supporting cast (M.Natwick and Charles Boyer). It's a good film, pleasant to watch with a perfect timing, a very good dialog and funny situations. The acting ability of Jane Fonda and Robert Redford, young actors at that time is impressive in particular in the quarrel scene in which Corie tells her husband Paul that he's extremely proper and dignified and ends up by saying to him that he's a stuffed shirt etc. A MUST SEE movie "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Comedy","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed the great acting by the entire cast in this very enjoyable comedy about two newly weds who are living in New York City and the film starts with this couple riding in a horse and carriage through Central Park where they are staying at the Plaza Hotel. Paul Pratter, (Robert Redford) plays the husband who is a lawyer and his bride is Corie Pratter, (Jane Fonda) who stay six days at the hotel and then they both go to their apartment which is on the fifth floor and there is no elevator in this rather old brownstone building. Charles Boyer,(Victor Velasco) gives a great supporting role as an older man who has been married four times and becomes friends with Corie Pratter. Mildred Natwick, (Ethel Banks)who plays the role as the mother to Cori and she gets involved with Victor Velasco in a romantic relationship. Neil Simon produced a great film and I could watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"Great Broadway to Film transfer.","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wonderful writing and a perfect cast combine to form the best film version of any Neil Simon comedy. Redford and Fonda both shine here but the films brightest light is Mildred Natwick. One of Hollywood's best character actresses she gives what might be the finest supporting comedy performance in the history of film. This movie is a fine vision of life in 1960's New York.Redford and Fonda bring a sweetness and vulnerability to the characters of Cory and Paul.It's a shame Redford didn't do more comedy in his career. Barefoot in the Park is a true gem of 60's cinema. Simon got everything right in this one. It almost makes up for the film versions of his other plays. Get it on DVD you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Dancing Barefoot","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jane Fonda (she's Corie) and Robert Redford (he's Paul) are a deliriously happy newlywed couple who begin their wedded days in a modest five-flight high New York City walk-up apartment. Her mother, Mildred Natwick, is their most frequent visitor; she becomes involved with neighbor in the attic Charles Boyer.This film is a BIG improvement over Ms. Fonda's previous New York City situation comedies Sunday in New York (1963) and Any Wednesday (1966). The situation isn't sexual (it's mainly the apartment), and the material is much better. Fonda and Mr. Redford are fine, and supporters Ms. Natwick and Mr. Boyer are a delight to watch. You can't help but wonder how are all these people exhausted by five flights, with the possible exception of Boyer? I also worried, more than laughed, about Natwick falling. Still, Barefoot in the Park is a well-done comedy with a satisfying ending.If you are familiar with the 1966-1971 TV program Dark Shadows, watch Redford's performance closely. He reminded me of Joel Crothers' role of Joe Haskell. Both Redford and Crothers played Neil Simon's Paul on Broadway, and I would say Mr. Crothers brought some of that character to his role on Dark Shadows. ******** Barefoot in the Park (5/25/67) Gene Saks ~ Jane Fonda, Robert Redford, Mildred Natwick, Charles Boyer "},{"Title":"Remind you of Dharma and Greg?","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Does this movie (which is a classic!) remind anyone else of the sitcom Dharma and Greg? There are so many similarities! They were married on their first date. She is eccentric and outgoing, he is straight-laced and introverted. Also, he's a lawyer like Greg. Have any other fans of Dharma and Greg and Barefoot in the Park noticed similarities? Also, I think Jane Fonda is so cute in this movie! She really seems like a new bride...excited about gifts being sent, trying to make the best of her cramped, inaccessible apartment and the tenant upstairs, wanting a divorce 10 days after being married, etc! If you haven't seen this movie, you need to. A very good adaptation...rare in the film world! "},{"Title":"Great movie for a rainy day","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Neil Simon at his best. Robert Redford is great as the new husband trying to start a career and a marriage simultaneously. Jane Fonda is superb as the young wife whose lust for life is contagious and a bit overwhelming. But my favorite is Mildred Natwick as the mother who endures a wild night with the newlyweds and their eccentric neighbor. The movie is fraught with excellent dialog and great comedic timing, and the characters are developed extremely well. While watching it you don't feel like you are watching a film but rather enjoying a fine play in the comfort of your own home. This movie is great for newlywed couples who are just starting out and don't have much but love each other dearly, and still incessantly smooch and cuddle. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Some appropriately highly spirited supporting performances, in particular from Charles Boyer, are the highlight of this pleasant but otherwise quite run-of-the-mill comedy. Jane Fonda tends to go a bit over-the-top, the jokes and puns are often rather obvious and too repetitive to be entertaining, and to top it all off, the end few minutes are awfully silly without being at all amusing. It certainly is not a bad film, though. Some witty dialogue, a few notable performances and some great music bring the film some salvation for what problems it arguably has. Still, it is nothing really special or highly recommended. Nice, not great. "},{"Title":"Stagey film tries to have fun watching disappointment.","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Happy newlyweds move in on the sixth floor. Apparently, that's too far for the average American to walk. This joke is what happens in Barefoot in the Park. Sometimes its funny I feel like we've died... and gone to heaven... only, we had to climb up. Sometimes you get over it. After an overlong dinner-party scene, they ask us to enjoy watching the dreams of some excited newlyweds deteriorate - I, for one, don't find disappointment enjoyable.Like with every other filmed stage play, you have to adjust to the fact that people will always talk when they might usually choose not to, or express something with body language, or in a regular movie an event might happen instead of just talking about it. And you also have to adjust to the fact that no-one ever leaves the place where the main action is set for instance, in Dial M for Murder (where it unnatural, compared to in Rear Window where it makes sense), in Streetcar Named Desire,Plus, Fonda has nice chest and beautiful legs, but she's not much of an actress - at least not here.1/5 "},{"Title":"Am I the only one to see this version SECOND?","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I did not see the original stage play.  What I saw, a few years before I managed to catch up with this movie, was telecast on HBO Barefoot In The Park, starring Richard Thomas and Bess Armstrong.  That version was a riot! This one, while having a few outdoor scenes, lost its luster.  Both Fonda & Redford seem flat...  certainly not up to the energy of Thomas & Armstrong. I haven't found the HBO version in the IMDb, but hopefully somebody with the particulars of the film will be kind enough to add it.  I rated this Fonda-Redford version a 7. "},{"Title":"This film is long past its 15 minutes of fame.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I watch (in 1999) Barefoot in the Park I am immediately reminded of what watching the Tonight Show in the 70s must have been. Johnny Carson was really funny, and many considered him to be on the cusp of fashion, a different stylish wardrobe every night, the Johnny Carson Collection.Should you get a chance to watch reruns of some of those old 'Tonight Shows you'll see how ludicrous is Johnny's attire plaid jackets, triple-windsor knots, lots of polyester. I love Johnny, but his dress is laughable.So is Barefoot in the Park, 1967, Redford and Fonda are hot hot hot, the dialogue risqué. But today I can't erase the picture of Jane Fonda, falling asleep at the Braves game, old and tired. Robert Redford has to pay a woman a million bucks to sleep with him these days, and the Neil Simon risqué humor of 1967 is clumsy and heavy handed.Some old films are truly classics, for their style, their innovation, their guts. Barefoot in the Park is not. Trendiness is its own punition.It's just another blue hounds-tooth, polyester sports jacket, with navy polyester slacks with a Godzilla-sized knot in the tie. "},{"Title":"The movie's tag-line was Fall over laughing!--but nobody does, nor will you...","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Neil Simon-written comedy, as staid and as sterile as they come. Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are extremely attractive as newlyweds who move into a cumbersome New York walk-up, but this inexplicably-popular material is suffocatingly twee. Mildred Natwick has some funny moments as Fonda's seemingly uptight mother, but the coy central relationship and all the preconceived arguments won't send many romantic-comedy lovers over the moon. It took Redford and Fonda another decade-plus to find a vehicle (The Electric Horseman) where they could actually create some sexual sparks and comic sensuality. This one is a big, plush headache. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Sorry but just so clunky and well past its best-by ... date","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is no longer funny and would really have had limited appeal in its day. The lines are some of Neil Simon's weakest, the acting may have worked on a stage, but do not transfer. That it relies on repeated jokes makes it pretty tedious, in fact. That it has leading actors and in the direction, and other support does not lend it anything either. If you liked that kind of Broadway show, farce that has little wit and limited visual humour I suppose it might, possibly, work. I usually do but not here. The sets are about as minimal in interest and thought as could have been from a stage version. Better quietly forgotten by all by the aficionados. "},{"Title":"love is blind","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" one thing about Neil Simon comedies i've never cared for is going for the big laugh.this film is no exception.although the script does have some funny situations,some are overdone(the numerous flights of stairs for example).the humor is more dated than the sets or locations,almost like something out of vaudeville.but the thing that makes this movie worth watching is the appeal of the cast. Redford and Fonda have an electric attraction and it shows on screen.Mildred Natwick and Charles Boyer bring a lot to supporting parts,(my favorite is the phone repairman)and almost steal the show from the youngsters.one important lesson to take from Barefoot-the honeymoon won't last forever! "}{"Title":"Redford and Fonda in Their Fresh-Faced Glory in Neil Simon's Lightweight Newlywed Farce","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies don't come much lighter than this early Neil Simon confection based on the early days of his first marriage. With Broadway in such a desperate state to open a revival of the original play this past week (and to rather abominable reviews), it's worth revisiting the 1967 screen adaptation starring the youthful, fresh-faced pair of Robert Redford and Jane Fonda. They convincingly play Paul and Corie Bratter, hot-to-trot newlyweds who after spending seven passion-filled nights at the Plaza, find the everyday trials and tribulations of marriage rather rough going. Corie has secured them a sixth-floor walk-up studio in Greenwich Village surrounded by eccentric neighbors, chief among them an aging lothario, Victor Velasco. Her widowed mother comes for dinner, which Corie transforms into a blind date with the wily Velasco. In the meantime, the personality clash between the button-down Paul and the free-spirited Corie comes to a head with Paul walking out drunk and sick with a head cold. The ending for all four characters is inevitable, but the journey there generates some nice giggles. It's all pretty generic and filmed rather flatly by Gene Saks as a movie barely opened up for the movie screen.The young leads show why they are still around nearly forty years later. This was the second of three screen pairings for Redford and Fonda, albeit they barely had any screen time together in 1966's The Chase, a legendary bomb documented in dishy detail in James Robert Parish's just-released Fiasco A History of Hollywood's Iconic Flops. Luckily, they are more in their element here as Redford repeats his hit Broadway performance with rueful, self-effacing wit. He makes his staid lawyer character likable in spite of his initial rigidity and seems to regale in the liberation Paul experiences when he walks out. In what was her last Hollywood ingénue role before Barbarella and political activism beckoned, Fonda is a ball of energy as Corie, effortlessly sexy and flirtatious but surprisingly pure of intent in becoming a housewife. Charles Boyer is ideally cast as Velasco, using his well-worn boulevardier style to great effect, and Mildred Natwick plays Corie's jittery, pink-pill-popping mother with genuine warmth and crack timing. It's worth another look if only to see two stars well before they became icons. Within a couple of years of the film's release, Redford would explode in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, and Fonda would turn in startling work in They Shoot Horses, Don't They?. The DVD has no extras except for the trailer. "},{"Title":"not very good","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a pretty poor attempt at comedy and this is from the same guy who also directed The Odd Couple, which was also pretty overrated. This is a virtually plot less film in which basically nothing happens. It starts out with Robert Redford and Jane Fonda as newlyweds about to go on their honeymoon. They get a really small apartment that is 5 floors up with no elevator and everybody is really tired by the time they get to the apartment. Hardly anything works in the apartment like the heater and there is a hole in the window in which the janitor won't fix. Charles Boyer plays a weird neighbor who winds up dating Fonda's mom. This is a pretty poor comedy and is quite overrated. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  It is full of hilarious sarcasm and one-liners.  Robert Redford is great as the practical Paul, contrasting to Jane Fonda's carefree Corrie.  Their relationship and interactions are so entertaining.  Charles Boyer is great as the crazy Mr. Velasco upstairs.  However, the award for best one-liners is Mildred Natwick as Corrie's mother.  Her comments and reactions are absolutely priceless.  She pulls every line off with such humor.  My parents and I watch this movie and just laugh nonstop for nearly 2 hours.  It has the best sarcastic humor in any movie I've seen.  I highly recommend it to anyone who wants a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit, I didn't expect a great deal from this movie, but I was very suprised.  This is an adaption of the Neil Simon play about two newlyweds moving into their first place and the trials and tribulations that occur.  During the film they found out character traits about each other and learn that in a marriage both parties need to adapt.The film does have some very funny moments, with the scene in the Albanian restaurant being superb.  The Victor Velasco steals every scene he is in and is worth watching the film for alone.  An incredibly young Robert Redford & Jane Fonda are excellent, both showing some impressive comedic timing. Fonda has always been a favourite of mine, ever since I first saw Barbarella, and she does look fantastic in this.There are a couple of problems however, the characterisation does go completely haywire in the middle, and you do question why the two leads are going so over the top.  If there was no conflict though, how could you resolve it later I suppose.Anyway, a nice little film, something you can watch with your parents without getting too bored.  Just don't let the opening music put you off. - 6/10 "},{"Title":"A mixed blessing!","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A wonderful film &#x96; gay, warm, witty, amusing, lively, delightfully original &#x96; right up to the halfway mark. Then the scenario starts to fall apart. Writer, Neil Simon, runs out of ideas, so he stages an unconvincing quarrel. As a result, Jane Fonda &#x96; and the audience &#x96; lose interest in the proceedings and the whole movie simply goes to pot. There are over a hundred good jokes in the first seventy-five minutes, but there hardy any at all in the last forty-five! Director Gene Saks is of no help. He is obviously one of those directors who believe that direction should be inconspicuous &#x96; which it sure is! Fortunately, Joseph La Shelle's Technicolor photography is always pleasing. Much of the film &#x96; including the scene at the Plaza Hotel &#x96; was obviously shot on location, and that at least is a plus! "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm 54 years old. I first saw this movie as a boy and found it amusing. I recently just saw it again. Ugh.Jane Fonda's character is over the top, insatiable, whiny, out-of- control, illogical, and emotional.Meanwhile, Redford's character is just trying to go work and get a good nights sleep which is impossible.And after a mere six days of marriage, she wants a divorce. Please.It was an absolute pain to watch this movie. Had I bought popcorn, I would have asked for my money back.This ridiculous story while light-hearted in it's original release has proved on film over time to be an embarrassment to intelligent women everywhere and forever.You couldn't pay me to watch this ever again. Well actually you could.But it would have to be a lot. "},{"Title":"If you do that, you'll have a happy and wonderful marriage &#x96; like two out of every ten couples","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've never seen a young couple so in love, Mildren Natwick fondly croons near the climax of Gene Saks' adaptation of Neil Simon's smash Broadway hit, but by that point in the film we're wary enough to know better. Of course, it's second nature that a drama about a couple happily in love sustaining a functional relationship would never make for thrilling viewing (more's the pity&#x85;), but Simon is canny enough to dig a notch deeper than the average relationship yarn, and interrogate why we invest so heavily in the wish fulfillment of successful resolutions to seemingly irreconcilable relationship drama. As such, Barefoot in the Park proves a lighthearted but provocatively probing two-hander, a less urbane Breakfast at Tiffany's or a less acerbic Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? if you will &#x96; less iconic than both, but sharp and sprightly enough to not be unworthy of the comparison. Saks manages to keep his finger on the uniquely liminal state of late 1960s cinema, counterbalancing the more youth-driven, The Graduate-era risqué with a lighter, more Blake Edwards playfulness (I did a double-take at the Mickey Mouse-ing soundtrack on the recurring 'six flights of stairs' gag to ensure I wasn't watching The Party). It helps that Simon's airtight script keeps things ticking along at a jaunty pace, and the mischievous sitcom-esq scenarios which unfold are arguably more endearing and amusing than those of The Odd Couple. Interestingly, although Barefoot in the Park is billed as a comedy, in spite of in spite of Simon's plentiful zingers and the sparkling performances of Jane Fonda and Robert Redford, the proceedings become increasingly bittersweet, as hindsight lends the perspective of how incompatible their relationship is (it's poignant that Simon wrote the play retroactively based on the dissolution of his first marriage). As such, the closing inevitable romantic reconciliation and 'marriage means compromise' theme don't sit as well as the average happy ending, as it feels like we've been privy enough to the misfiring mechanics of the couple's relationship to let them get off that easy. If anything, this potentially unsatisfactory resolution, which likely played better on the page, may be testament to the leading actors being almost too good at their parts. The character of Paul, meant to play as dull and repressed, is made almost too likable through the luminescent charisma of Redford, perfectly deadpan snappy delivery and hysterical comedy drunk stylings and all, to not feel like the invariable 'good guy' in the scenario, which threatens to skew the relationship balance and defeat Simon's point. Likewise, Fonda embodies the fun-loving, carefree Corrie with such phenomenal gusto that it's difficult to not find her character quirks play as somewhat overwhelming rather than endearing, or for her second act hysterical drunken meltdown to not play as distressingly, wantonly self-absorbed. It's poignant that we, the audience, are given access to Corrie privately, at her most grounded, where her fears and neuroses are teased out in more sympathetic depth, whereas Redford's Paul only sees her at her most manic and performative &#x96; an essentially nuanced, clever ploy of characterization. Ultimately, in the end, Simon's objective is not celebrating Corrie and Paul's inevitable reunion (although Fonda and Redford play the heartwarming, troubled heart out of it) as much as understanding how such problematically imbalanced relationships can be and frequently are pushed to persist, sometimes at the detriment of those involved. Paul's even when I didn't like you I loved you quip is poignantly on the nose, and helps redirect audience expectations of fairy tale-style romantic closure to appreciating the moments of joy that come along the way, even if sadly foreshadowing future problems or an invariable eclipse. Will they make it in the end? It's hard to see, even hard to endorse. But, deep down, do we want them to? Yes, gosh darn it, we do, just as they do, warts and all. And maybe &#x96; hopefully &#x96; that's enough. If anything, the film's most pleasant twist is its treatment of Mildred Natwick, Corrie's mother. Introduced as if the set up for a one-note nattery, conservative old crone of a character, Natwick defies stereotypical expectations, surprisingly as a dryly 'with it' woman with a world-weary sense of humour and adventure alike. Similarly, Charles Boyer, as Paul and Corrie's eccentric, mischievous, and ambiguously lusty squatting attic neighbour, wins many laughs, but equally surprises with a deceptively complex and human character amidst his wild antics. If anything, Saks' film is more sympathetic towards romance in the winter years, suggesting the surest way of guaranteeing a functioning relationship is to approach one with the hindsight of a lifetime of pain and mistakes. It's hard not to take to the madcap silliness yet odd dignity of their impromptu pairing, and Natwick and Boyer are both hilarious and lovable in embodying it. Barefoot in the Park isn't perfect, and definitely loses some of its oompf with age, and the onset of other, equally or more nuanced romantic comedies and dramas alike. Nonetheless, Simon's classic remains a pleasantly twinkling, smartly scripted, and on-point dissection of a passionate yet fundamentally flawed relationship, and Fonda and Reford, amidst the stair gags, snowflakes through the skylight, and drunken, Albanian restaurant hijinx, are exceptionally human as its leading duo. Nearly 50 years on, it's still worth throwing caution to the winds and romping barefoot through the freezing grass with them &#x96; even if you've got court in the morning. -8/10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps better translated on stage","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Since the first time I saw a Jane Fonda film which (believe it or not) wasn't until Monster-in-Law (which I loved and she was amazing in...I don't care what anyone says) I've been a fan. Now with the amazing Netflix series Grace and Frankie, I'm hooked! I've also been a huge fan of Robert Redford's since I was a boy so the two of them together appealed to me! They both have incredible charisma on screen so how could this go wrong? Well it doesn't. The two of them are great and the film is cute and funny sometimes but I feel like this particular Neil Simon play doesn't translate quite as well from stage to screen as some of his other works. The running gags (living so high up, all the stairs, the guy in the attic, the tiny cramped quarters) just don't seem to be as funny as they think it is. The characters do grow on you by the end but in the beginning Jane Fonda's character is scary obsessive and irritating. I don't know if that's the point and its another running gag but she was a little scary. Then she starts to build a slightly more normal personality and Redford and her click a little better but even still the story stumbled around and just seems like it belongs on stage.Jane Fonda is and was full of energy and this is a good role for her. She's happy and hyper and full of pep and once the scary obsessive role is quashed, she is better. Robert Redford is good as her straight laced new husband but I feel like this role is simply too bland for him. If it was anyone but Redford, they would get lost in such a bland role but his charisma wins out. He doesn't get enough truly slapstick moments outside of his drunken scene near the end. Mildred Natwick is good as Fonda's mother who lets loose when she meets the man in the attic. Natwick actually gets some of the best scenes and is probably the most fun in the entire cast. Charles Boyer and Harry Pepper are both decent in small supporting roles and definitely add a hint of fun to the cast.I can absolutely see this being a good play but just in general I don't feel like this is Neil Simon's best work by far. The characters just don't have a lot of depth and the story feels almost rushed. Gene Saks started a small directorial career with this film and followed it with the classic Odd Couple (which I'm not sure I've ever seen believe it or not) but I'm just not sure he had what was necessary to make this memorable. The set is so simple (often the case when translating a play to screen) that it requires a strong, fast paced, funny plot but this one is just okay. It literally holds its own thanks to Fonda and Redford being the stars that they are. Otherwise it is a forgettable experience. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A substandard Neil Simon flick with a miscast Jane Fonda","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Another film adaptation of Neil Simon's play with the same name, directed by his frequent collaborator, the stage and film directer Gene Saks, who has recently passed away at the age of 93. It pairs Fonda and Redford as a couple of newlyweds Corie and Paul, whose marriage is hanging on a thread when they find out their personalities are poles apart. Like the outworn running gag of climbing a five-storey building (New Yorkers are really that easy to be defeated by this not-so-challenging altitude?), the film doesn't weather too well through the time, its story is quite common-or-garden, the adventurous spirit Vs. the prudent comportment, which is also reflected by pairing up their idiosyncratic neighbor Victor (Boyer) and Corie's widow mother Ethel (Natwick). Nothing is wrong about all that, but the viewing experience is chiefly blighted by Fonda's hammy endeavour to be funny, her character is irritating to say the least, and her high-pitched voice doesn't help either, surely her hyperactive restlessness is by design, but the effect is cringe-worthy, what is the virtue of this woman (apart from her gymnastic physique)? Maybe it is the gaping generation gap which sours the supposed comedic moment for Generation Y. Also knowing that Simon based the story on his first marriage, it could be a deliberate manoeuvre of aggrandisement with an intent of personal mockery. Redford, on the other hand, is in a safer place of being likable, by the way, he is reprising his role in the original play, he has that kind of awkward charm of pretty boy entrapped in a nicely-fitting suit, and when it comes to his barefoot in the park inebriated caper, he is competent enough to act in a comedy without overdoing what the script offers. But the amorous frisson between him and Fonda has never hit the boiling point, in spite of the fact they kiss a lot in the movie, mostly instigated by the free-spirited Corie, whose aggressive longing and volatility is the killjoy of any romance at all. Veteran theatrical dab hand Mildred Natwick is honoured with an Oscar nomination for rehashing her role in the film version, she both dignifiedly and comically personifies Ethel as possibly the kindest mother-in-law ever on the silver screen; also Charles Boyer exhibits a droll poise with his exotic panache, oddly enough, their flirtation seems to be more appealing than our two young protagonists. Anyhow, it is sad to find out there is a Jane Fonda's performance I am wholeheartedly unable to stomach, this is something I could never have expected before watching this substandard Neil Simon flick. "},{"Title":"Likable but thoroughly dull 60's sitcom with Redford and Hanoi Jane","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Barefoot in the Park (1967) is a romcom starring Robert Redford and Jane Fonda as newlyweds in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. The former is conservative while the latter is free-spirited and their differences come to the fore after a few days of marital bliss. Mildred Natwick plays the mother of Fonda's character and Charles Boyer plays an eccentric neighbor, Victor Velasco, who lives in the attic of their apartment building.This movie is good as a mid-60's period piece where you get to view a 20-something couple who are just a bit too old for the counter-culture, albeit somewhat hip. It's an amiable and innocent sitcom with a few amusing moments, but it was a chore for me to get through. The story and characters just never engaged me. The film only perked up when the eccentric neighbor was around, Velasco. Another problem is too much of the movie takes place in the apartment -- like 90% -- which means the setting is one-dimensional. Of course, this wouldn't be a problem if the story and characters were interesting. Also, Natwick, as the mother, is too old for the part because the character's supposed to be like 53 years-old while Natwick was 61 during filming and looked like 63-65.While Barefoot is a must for serious fans of Redford and Fonda, 1979's The Electric Horseman is the far superior choice if you want to see the two starring together.The film runs 106 minutes and was shot in Greenwich Village, Manhattan.GRADE C- "}{"Title":"**1/2","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Inane farce where conventional attorney weds a quirky young lady, certainly a free spirit if ever there were. Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are perfect in their respective leads, but the writing becomes foolish, and the film goes downhill rapidly with the appearance of tenant Charles Boyer, who Fonda tries to set up with her mother, Ethel Banks, played by Oscar nominee Mildred Natwick. Natwick is suited for the part, but Mabel Albertson, who plays her sister, is reduced to one scene and I feel that Albertson should have had Natwick's part instead.We see elements of the problems of urban living, as well as an interesting performance by a young Herb Edelman as a telephone repair person. We also see role reversals when Redford, as Paul, becomes intoxicated and Fonda assumes conventionalism in order to rescue him. "},{"Title":"Not Simons Best Stuff","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Neil Simons best is the Odd Couple, which i getting a remake made now. I always felt someone was out of place when I watched this one. The person I did not like in this particular role is Jane Fonda. I did not know why but she does not seem to have the right chemistry here. Jane came into this project as a last minute second choice. Her role was originally to be for Natalie Wood. Now that I have seen Redfords previous movie with Wood, I wish she had stayed in this role.Wood had a chemistry with Wood that works. Fonda tryst hard here but does not come across. think Fonda did not get enough time to really fit into this.Redford at this stage of his career is kind of wooden like Tom Cruise which does not help, This one has been remade already. Hollywood loved Simon then even though his comedy here has not aged well. Redford would get better and so would Fonda after this movie. Neither of them are at the top of their games here. "},{"Title":"How I Miss THIS Redford!","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I could hardly believe this was a Neil Simon screenplay, after watching just the Out of Towners, a total screamer, I found BITP absolutely charming! Although Redford's character is supposedly a stuffed shirt, he was so comical and spontaneous I could not fathom when he lost this ability in later productions.Fonda's portrayal of a light hearted lover was a perfect foil to her family, neighbors, and friends. It was an interesting aspect that she always lit up when referencing their five day love nest Honeymoon at the Plaza. I think I could crank it up to 14 if I had the scratch.The only annoying part was the constant singing of that Sharma song, how is that funny or moving the plot along after a few bars? I had to turn the sound off it was that offensive.High recommend for light comedy, young Redford and Fonda, 60's Village New York and that initial glow of romance. "},{"Title":"great laughs from Neil Simon","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Corie (Jane Fonda) is a flighty and flustered newly married wife to button-down lawyer Paul Bratter (Robert Redford). The newlyweds are deeply in love. They move into their tiny 5th floor walk up NYC flat. Corie's mother Ethel Banks (Mildred Natwick) surprises them with a visit while the place is still empty. Their upstairs neighbor is the quirky Victor Velasco (Charles Boyer). Corie invites him over secretly setting him up with her mother on a blind date a couple days later. It's a wild night of unfamiliar foods and too much drink. Corie loves it but Paul and Ethel can't stand it.I love the first hour. It is hilarious and filled with gut-busting laughs. The Neil Simon script is fun frivolity. It lost me a little when Corie starts screaming divorce. It's a really sharp turn and it threw me off. It's opportunity for a hilarious fight. The D word is a step too far. I actually love the silent fight while the telephone guy is fixing the phone. The other thing is that the characters indicate more white bread actors. Corie seems to be a princess while Paul really does need to be a stuff shirt. Neither is a description of Fonda or Redford. However it's still early enough in their careers that they could play these supposed bland characters. Both Natwick and Boyer are delightful. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've ever seen","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a cleverly written, wonderfully acted comedy that stands among the funniest I've ever seen. Ever. Though it mostly sticks to convention, partially as a product of its time, Neil Simon's screenplay is a perfect example of how to do comedy well, based on characters and dialogue and not the toilet humor that too often passes for comedy nowadays. Robert Redford (reprising his stage role) and Jane Fonda are brilliant as the two lead characters, a newlywed couple who are adjusting to their new life together. The chemistry between them was palpable and very real. Charles Boyer and Mildred Natwick also give fine supporting performances as an interesting neighbor and the bride's mother, respectively. One thing I loved, besides how funny this film was, was the way in which it treated even the smallest of characters. Sure, there could have been more exploration of the many residents in the apartment, but what was in the movie worked well. And, I also liked the economic (and organic) use of physical comedy to complement the nearly nonstop verbal acrobatics. Truly a masterpiece of comedy for the ages, and a heartwarming look at young love. "},{"Title":"Dated but good, or good but dated","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film was a riot for me when I first saw it many years ago (well, not that many, darling). Seriously, I was very young then and now it looks dated, theatrical and (should I say it?) a bit forced. Many silly situations in the film would have been so easily avoided or explained, and most characters behave the same childish and exaggerated way, always complaining about something and with oh so much humor...And now for the good part the acting is brilliant (let aside the exaggerations in the script), first of all that of Jane Fonda and Charles Boyer. I rarely wish for a remake of a classic, but this one deserves it to gain a more realistic feel. How about Amy Adams (who even looks a bit like Jane Fonda)? Or Jim Carrey as Victor? "},{"Title":"Park yourself in front of the tube, everyone; at nearly fifty years old, this one is still flat-out funny and sweet","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Corrie (Jane Fonda) and Paul Bratter (Robert Redford) are newlyweds. After six days at the Plaza Hotel in NYC, they move into their new digs on 10th Street. Its a five flight walk-up and Corrie, arriving first, greets the telephone man and is thrilled with her first appliance as a married woman. Hoping the furniture will be delivered before lawyer Paul gets home from work, she is, alas, disappointed. Also, Paul is breathless from the many stairs, finds a hole in the skylight which lets in a cold draft, and learns he has his first case in court in the morning. More trouble follows as Corrie's mother, Ethel (Mildred Natwick) drops by for a surprise visit. It's obvious that only Corrie sees the apartment's potential, as she is naturally flighty about most issues, in contrast to her more cautious hubby and mother. Late at night, one last visitor sneaks in. He is Victor Velasco (Charles Boyer) and he needs to climb through Corrie's window to make it to his attic apartment, as he is late on the rent. Ahoy! Now, Corrie's gets the brilliant plan to match up Ethel and Victor on the next Tuesday night. On that day, the older folks don't really seem to hit it off and Paul becomes annoyed when Corrie backs up Victor's plan to take a ferry to a Staten Island restaurant. Suddenly, after the young newlyweds are finally alone in their apartment, the bickering becomes screaming, which becomes I want a divorce!. After barely a week of marriage, could they really be headed to Splitsville? Well, things were already on shaky ground when Paul wouldn't walk barefoot in a nearby park in the cold! This classic, timeless comedy of the first days of married bliss is one for the ages. Written by Neil Simon, the jokes come flying one after the other. Fonda, Redford, Natwick, and Boyer are a darling quartet who nail their parts with aplomb. There's not many scenes outside of the apartment house but what fun to see the costumes and décor of a different era, too. Therefore, get this one and park yourself happily in front of the tube for a couple of hours. If you do, you can pat yourself on the back and say clever viewer! "},{"Title":"A charming and funny tale newlyweds discovering the seven-day itch","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A truly sweet movie about newlyweds (Robert Redford and Jane Fonda) living in their first, tiny sixth-floor apartment in New York City.It's funny because a movie like this just wouldn't be made (or, possibly, work) today. After all, how many couples are still virtual strangers when they marry these days? Yet this lovely often guffaw-inducing tale, about a stuffy young lawyer who falls for and marries a vivacious, life-loving gal who's quite his opposite, is about just that, a story of two young people who tie the knot and have to grow up - and grow together - very quickly.It's a simple, funny and lovely film that provides 106 minutes of old-world entertainment and spark.Fonda and Redford are fabulous together! "},{"Title":"Cracking Comedy of One-Liners","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In terms of plot, BAREFOOT IN THE PARK is quite hackneyed, involving the trials and tribulations of newly-wedded couple Peter and Corey Bratter (Jane Fonda, Robert Redford). The sentiments are very Sixties, with the wife expected to stay at home and look after her husband, and sacrifice some of her self-esteem to ensure his collective well-being. However as with most Neil Simon plays that were turned into film, Gene Saks' production has been rescued by a series of snappy one-liners and two strong central performance. Fonda is particularly good as the apparently self-centered yet vulnerable young wife, complimented by Redford's more edgy spouse. The studio sets jar a little - especially the use of back- projections of late 60s New York, but there is a good climactic scene where Bratter actually walks barefoot in the park, set in Washington Square. Worth a watch, especially if viewers fancy something comically diverting. "},{"Title":"evergreen","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" so many ingredients than it is difficult to escape from its charm. first - Neil Simon play and the smart dialogs, precise humor, old fashion details. than - the cast. sure, first Jane Fonda , Charles Boyer and Robert Redford. but, I admit, in many moments, for me, Mildred Natwick was salt and pepper of movie. her role - a window to a predictable past and nice sketch for second youth. it is an interesting film for the force to resist to time provocations. it is not the best, great or gorgeous of its period. but it remains fresh against evolution of interest of viewer or evolution of technique. this fact can not be a surprise - many romantic comedies are evergreens. but in this case something may be different. the art of a great playwright. and the universal story of a young couple. "}{"Title":"Witty and unpretentious","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Barefoot in the Park has one big cliché written all over it, and yet I genuinely enjoyed watching this movie. Partly because of the witty dialog, and partly because the characters weren't throwing pearls of homespun wisdom at me all the time (which is the case with many a romantic comedy these days). So I guess the director's motto must have been, Keep it funny and unobtrusive.As for the cast, I practically fell in love with Jane Fonda as a truly feminine, hopelessly optimistic and vivacious but slightly whimsical and emotionally unstable young lady. And truth be told, having watched the movie, I can hardly imagine Corrie being played by any other actress.All things considered, I'd say this is the right movie for those who want to cheer up a bit at the end of a long day. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Neil Simon Comedy that Still Evokes Smiles and Giggles","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The 1967 film adaptation of Neil Simon's BAREFOOT IN THE PARK still holds up as one of the strongest film adaptations of Simon's massive body of work. This charming story of newlyweds adjusting to married life in their run-down, fifth-floor walk-up in Greenwich Village is slightly dated (you'll laugh when you hear what their rent is)but for some reason this film is still completely captivating, almost 40 years after its original release. Jane Fonda takes over the role of Corrie Bratter, originated on Broadway by Elizabeth Ashley, the headstrong, young bride who wants to be the center of her husband's world and yet have everything her way. Fonda is a delight in this role, but IMO it is Robert Redford, who really shines in this movie, reprising his Broadway role as Paul Bratter, the young lawyer who is having trouble concentrating on getting his career in gear and keeping his nubile young bride satisfied as well. Redford delivers a beautifully low-keyed performance here...softening the classic Neil Simon one-liners, making their effectiveness all the more amusing. Redford never goes over the top yet never allows Fonda to blow him off the screen either. It's a great performance. Mildred Natwick received a Best Supporting Acress Oscar nomination for her deft turn as Corrie's ditzy mom, Mrs. Banks and Charles Boyer is charming as Victor Velasco, the Bratters'eccentric upstairs neighbor and Mrs, Banks' potential suitor. Veteran comic actor Herb Edelman also scores as Harry Pepper, the guy who installs and repairs the Bratters' phone. OK, the bit about climbing the five flights of stairs gets a little old, but it does not detract from this thoroughly winning comedy that is still fun to watch after all these years. "},{"Title":"Charming and timeless","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Really a feel-good comedy with a delightful cast. Flawless. Charles Boyer as the upstairs eccentric neighbor is very good. All we need is for someone to remake this film with Sean Connery in the Boyer role! It'll work! "},{"Title":"Delightful Romantic Comedy","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jane Fonda and Robert Redford in their prime.  Great comedy.  Supporting cast is also excellent, especially Mildred Natwick.  The musical soundtrack by Neil Hefti is perfect for this light comedy.  This is a true American Classic Comedy.  "},{"Title":"A light romantic comedy, one of the few I have liked...","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As a rule I do not like recent romantic comedies that have been served up to the public. Think Picture Perfect or French Kiss and other saccharine trite films.This film, however has talented actors, and while some of the scenarios are a bit predictable, they are light and fun, and do not seem as contrived as the tripe we are offered today by studios.Robert Redford is very young and amusing a young newlywed, starting his law practice in NYC. Jane Fonda is his eagerly awaiting, fun-loving wife who has found them an apartment for $125.00 a month (that alone is amusing, to think of an apartment in NYc was ever at that price!).Margaret Natwick is her mother, and a character role with Charles Boyer as an eccentric attic neighbor (Mr. Velasco) adds some amusing scenes to the problems of a young couple living in a tiny studio apartment. There are some amusing scenes where Boyer takes them all to an Albanian restaurant, and falls in love with Fonda's mother.Overall, I would not be harshly critical of this film, it is well-written and acted and better than any romantic comedies I have seen since 1989. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Typical good for a rainy day sort of Neil Simon comedy...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fresh-faced JANE FONDA in another one of her ditzy ingenue roles (before politics did her in) and ROBERT REDFORD reprising his stage role as the overwhelmed lawyer coping with a hyperactive wife and a five story walk-up in Greenwich Village, are the stars of this Neil Simon comedy that remains bright and cheerful despite an inclination to get a bit tedious about the walk-up jokes.The amorous young honeymooners soon find themselves battling over all the things that can go wrong when cooped up in an apartment where nothing really works and the windows need fixing and--well, you get the drift. The girl has a mother (MILDRED NATWICK, repeating her stage role), who is just as ditzy as her daughter but a little more timid about relationships. And then we have the attic neighbor (CHARLES BOYER) who charms the mother and flirts with the daughter.It all begins to wear a little thin before the resolution in time for a happy ending, but there are a few delightful moments (such as Redford actually running barefoot in the park), and all in all it's a satisfying comedy if you can put up with all the exaggerated humor. "},{"Title":"Not the best visuals, but great dialog","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you've ever been in a committed relationship you can genuinely appreciate this movie.  It addresses the very essence of love without all that time-consuming business of actually falling in it.  The movie doesn't actually look all that great the sets are rather drab, as are the costumes (except for Corie Fonda, she looks adorable).  The dialog and the chemistry between the characters make this one of my favorites.  I usually watch this movie with my mother and/or my daughter (five years old). It's one of those that my husband will never agree to watch.  Instead he stops on his way through the livingroom while us girls are watching it, and leans on the couch smiling at the TV until we start to tease him or his feet get tired.  He typically sits down and finishes the movie.  All in all, it's romantic and fun and sexy and pensive. "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Chickflick my bottom!!!! This movie is funny and entertaining!!! Jane Fonda is superb in her role, in fact I've never seen Jane Fonda play better!!!! Okay! It's not as funny as I expected with Neil Simon and all, but its still worth while. I only wish the DVD had more features!! "},{"Title":"I love this film!!!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The ultimate feel good film as far as I'm concerned, never fails to cheer me up.This film is, in the best tradition of Neil Simon plays, brilliantly written, the jokes are subtle and witty and plot moves along nicely, is well acted and shot and the music accompanies it perfectly. I own very few dvds and videos but I will ALWAYS have a copy of this film! "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great comedy!  The casting was superb, and Mildred Natwick, who was also a wonderful star of broadway, is fantastic in her role as the mother.  I highly recommend this movie, it's sure to make you laugh! "}{"Title":"Good romantic comedy.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked it, and there is nothing nostalgic about that, since I wasn't even born when it was made. (my mom was only 7!) I could not believe that Robert Redford was so young, and actually good looking!This movie was funny and cute. All of the actors had good performances, and made me laugh at different times. One thing I didn't like was Jane Fonda's character, how she's so impulsive and so...I don't know. Crazy, maybe. But Jane Fonda did play her well. "},{"Title":"Barefoot in the Park","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Newlyweds move into a top floor apartment and experience post-honeymoon adjustments. Redford, Fonda, Boyer and Mildred Natwick (Oscar nominated) are all wonderful in their performances, led by the direction of Gene Saks and the delightful words of Neil Simon.  "},{"Title":"Milquetoast","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Robert Redford plays Paul Bratter, a conservative young lawyer, just married to a vivacious young woman, Corrie, played by Jane Fonda. Their highly passionate relationship descends into comical discord in a five-flight New York City walk-up apartment.The only reason to check out this horribly dated comedy are the performances by Charles Boyer and Mildred Natwick, who play the eccentric upstairs neighbor and Corrie's uptight mother, respectively. Whenever they are on screen the movie comes alive with a comic energy that is absent in the rest of the film.Redford and Fonda are alright but forgettable, and like most of the Neil Simon movie adaptations, the dialogue is corny and dated. In their day, Simon's plays must have been great on stage, but every film adaptation has the same kind of inoffensive and milquetoast humor that only Park Avenue types still find funny. After a while it just gets boring. Boyer and Natwick manage to make it work, but Fonda and Redford just sound like actors reciting dialogue from a play. "},{"Title":"When the Honeymoon is over!","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies of the 20th Century, it's up there with Breakfast at Tiffany's! Two people get married and everything is wonderful and there is nobody else but those two people. Then they move into a cramped supposed to be one bedroom apartment on the fifth floor in a very old place that has no lift (how the place got furnished was never explained). As they live together they realise that they know  nothing about each other as he is a safe boring person and she's a live for the moment and try everything once kind of girl. In the end the thing that brought them together keeps them together. "},{"Title":"Breezy comedy exploring the passage from child to adult.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fonda and Redford were a surprising match that worked. They performed this on Broadway, so had their characters down pat. I loved Corie, who is used to getting her own way but discovers meaningful aspects of herself through the selflessness of true love. Natwick steals the show as Corie's mother and I laughed hysterically at many of her scenes. Boyer is perfect as Velasko. Redford was an excellent straightman. A joy of a movie. "},{"Title":"Unconventionality is not a good reason for risking frostbite","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" During the sixties, seventies and eighties, Neil Simon was one of America's most successful playwrights, and a number of films were based on his plays during this period. A number of these were directed by Gene Saks, originally a theatrical director who brought many of Simon's plays to the Broadway stage. Barefoot in the Park deals with the early days of the marriage of a young married couple, Paul and Corie Bratter, who after their honeymoon move into a flat in Greenwich Village. The flat is tiny, cramped, cold, leaky and on the fifth floor of a building without a lift, but it is all they can afford, even though Paul is a lawyer with a major New York practice. There is a sub-plot about Corie's efforts to engineer a romance between her mother, Ethel, and their eccentric neighbour Victor, but most of the storyline deals with the difficulties caused to their marriage by the contrast between their personalities. Corie is spontaneous and free spirited, whereas Paul is sober and conservative. (His wife frequently refers to him as a stuffed shirt). As another reviewer has pointed out, there are similarities with the nineties television sit-com Dharma and Greg, although here Corie's free spirits are presented as a personality trait rather than as an expression of political radicalism or New Age spirituality. The film's title refers to Paul's reluctance to accept Corie's suggestion that they should run barefoot through Washington Square Park, which is close to their flat. The theme of the clash between conventional and unconventional ways of living and thinking was, of course, a common one in the literature and the cinema of the sixties; two other films on a similar theme from around this time are The Graduate and The Sterile Cuckoo. Barefoot in the Park, however, is not in anything like the same class as those two excellent movies. There are, I think, a number of reasons for this. I have never seen Simon's original play in the theatre, so have no idea how it would work on stage. (Performances of his works are not common on this side of the Atlantic). It does not, however, work very well on the screen, at least not in this adaptation. This was Saks's first film, and like a number of theatrical directors moving into the cinema still seems to be thinking in theatrical terms. Most of the action takes place in a single location, the Bratters' flat, or in other similarly constrained indoor settings, such as Victor's flat or a local restaurant. There is no attempt to open the action up or to take advantage of the greater freedoms offered by the cinematic medium, and the whole film seems very static and stage-bound. The film stars Robert Redford and Jane Fonda, both rising young stars in 1967; they had also starred together in The Chase the previous year and were later to do so again in The Electric Horseman. In this film, however, their styles of acting do not really blend well together. Fonda's acting is somewhat exaggerated and theatrical (as, indeed, is that of Mildred Natwick as Ethel and Charles Boyer as Victor), whereas Redford's is much more naturalistic and cinematic, even though Redford had created the role of Paul in the original Broadway show whereas Fonda had not appeared in that production. As a result Corie never comes across as a very sympathetic character, Fonda's rather showy acting making her seem ludicrously over-emotional, the sort of woman who is either berating her husband for failing to kiss her with sufficient ardour or screaming at him that she wants a divorce, just a few days into their marriage. Her suggestion about running barefoot in the park seems less like free-spiritedness than like pure stupidity, given that the action takes place in a cold and snowy February. The desire to be unconventional is not a good reason for risking frostbite. When Paul, under the influence of alcohol, does start to behave in a more spontaneous manner, Corie is predictably horrified and demands that he revert to his old, stuffed-shirt self. Saks was to achieve more success with some of his later Simon adaptations for the screen, such as The Odd Couple or Brighton Beach Memoirs, but Barefoot in the Park is a disappointment. The script is never witty enough to compensate for the uninteresting plot and the unsympathetic characters. (Boyer's Victor can be just as annoying as Fonda's Corie). Forty-odd years ago this film might have seemed like something original, but today it seems like one of those comedies which have failed to stand the test of time. For a film supposedly celebrating the joys of unconventionality it comes across as very dull and conventional. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Very dated with clichéd characters","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This stars Jane Fonda and Robert Redford. What a pair right? It's a comedy about a somewhat straight laced attorney and his quirky, immature, goofy new wife. They move into an apartment in New York and just can't seem to connect very well. She wants him to be more like her and he's happy being a stuffed shirt. The harmony of the new marriage turns to comical discord. The film is dated. It came out in 1967 and has that quintessential 60's silliness similar to I Dream of Jeannie or Love American Style. Or maybe like Breakfast at Tiffany's. At moments it is charming but suddenly it might feel very dated and actually kind of strange. She is very hard to take in this. It is meant to have a somewhat madcap feel to it but it all just seems sort of forced because the story isn't that strong. The characters and some situations tend to be a bit cliché.Still, it isn't a total loss but I think a lot of people might just find it too out of date. The sets are very good! Especially Mr. Velasco's apartment with it's bohemian, Turkish decor. I'd give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Irresistible...","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Flipping through channels on a bad TV night I noticed a Robert Redford movie I had not seen was about to start.  I hesitated at first, thinking it was going to be a chick flick, but I was pleasantly surprised.  I have now seen Barefoot In The Park more than any other Redford movie and every time I come across it I have to sit down and watch it again.  The movie has great comedy from everyone involved and the overall mood is very relaxing.  This is truly a classic whether you are a Redford fan or not. "},{"Title":"Spoiled Bratter","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This may well be the best screen adaptation of a Neil Simon play which is, of course, saying something as Simon, who often did his own adaptations (as he does here) was also a dab hand at Original Screenplays. Okay, it's not The Cherry Orchard, but then it doesn't try to be in fact it doesn't aspire to anything more than a light as air soufflé about young love, conflict, eccentricity and New York. It succeeds on every level, Charles Boyer shines in an actor-proof part as the charming eccentric, Mildred Nantwick is more than a match for him in a neat reversal of the young lovers (Redford is uptight, Fonda is the free spirit; Fondas MOM, Nantwick is uptight and Boyer the free spirit) that's about as complex/sophisticated as it gets but it's a gem. "}]