[{"Title":"''Let's Have A Drink On It!''","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" Yes, The Happiest Millionaire was Walt Disney's last film. Yes, it was obviously made to top Mary Poppins and yes, like many late-sixties musicals, it flopped at the box office. But the fact remains that it is a glowing, beautifully made musical (with songs by the Sherman Brothers who were responsible for Poppins) and it never got the recognition it truly deserved. The cast, headed by Disney Stalwart Fred MacMurray and legendary star Greer Garson (in her last film appearance) is excellent. The musical numbers are fun and engaging and the players do them well. Both Lesley Ann Warren and John Davidson were introduced in this film and proved an ideal pair of romantic leads. Warren, who became an overnight star courtesy of her delightful performance as Cinderella in the 1965 Rodgers and Hammerstein television musical, literally shines as Cordelia Drexel Biddle. Many scenes are stolen by Geraldine Page playing Davidson's haughty mother, and Tommy Steele can sing and dance with the best of them. There is also a grand performance from Gladys Cooper as the family matriarch. And, for Poppins fans, Hermione Baddely appears as the Irish housekeeper. There is also a brief bit by Joan Marshall, the star of William Castle's Homicidal (billed as Jean Arless) as a maid. The fact that this story is (loosely) based on the prominent Biddle family of Philadelphia, adds to the fun. Because the film was released after Disney's death and exhibitors complained about its long running time, it was drastically edited, shortening and removing several scenes, as well as one musical number (It Won't Be Long Till Christmas), and here is where the controversy comes in. Garson was originally cast as Mrs. Duke, after the part was turned down by several actresses, including Geraldine Page. Just before filming began however, Page changed her mind, and Greer ended up as Mrs. Biddle. (a part she was not anxious to play). She agreed to the switch when she heard the score--especially It Won't Be Long Till Christmas which was her one musical number. Indeed she COULD sing, and she did so in a few of her '40's films. Because her song was subsequently cut from the film (after it's Hollywood world premiere) she declined to attend any further premieres, though she had been at the Hollywood opening. Thanks to the newly restored roadshow edition, the song has been restored, and Garson and MacMurray perform it to perfection, truly the highlight of a warm and wonderful story that makes for perfect holiday viewing. "},{"Title":"The last true example of Disney brilliance","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  The Happiest Millionaire has stayed with me since the first time I saw it when I  was a child of four.  Since then I have watched this brilliant blend of brilliant  writing, music and even better acting dozens, perhaps a hundred times.  Why should my comments weigh a little heavier than other posted?  Because I am only 21 years old.  This movie came out twenty five years before I did and my  love for it speaks of its timeless charm.  I won't give away one single hint of the  plot for those who are checking this having never seen the film.  Do yourself a  favor and let the picture remind us of a time ( a time some of us have never known) of great innocence and beauty.  I speak not only of 1916, when the film  took place but also of 1967 when shortly before his death Walt Disney himself  oversaw the making of this movie.  It has been said in reviews that this film was  supposed to compete with the earlier success of Mary Poppins and while the box office or revenue reports will show that the masses did not experience it, it  does not show that they would not have appreciated it.  I am your run of the mill 21 year old college student who likes all sorts of movies but I treasure this and  several other films of the era with many of the same actors, DO NOT MISS THIS  FILM!!!!! "},{"Title":"A DELIGHT","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  I am not sure why some of the people disliked the film so much. The musical score by the Sherman Brothers is first class, the casting excellent, and the story moving. It seems to me those who review films like this in the negative really can't sit down and be entertained for a few hours. One doesn't always need a deep movie....a person can watch this film and feel good when it's over, and to me, that's what film is best at.I just watched for the 6th time the dvd of the roadshow edition, and it is much better than the edited version.  The ending was too abrupt before, and now we have not only an extra song, but a much better climax, that of a grand musical.Leslie Ann Warren and John Davidson make their screen debut, and both are perfectly cast. The soundtrack on the dvd has been restored and sounds wonderful, especially in scenes with an orchestra, and the picture quality is very good for the period.The best thing about this film is the score of the wonderful Sherman Brothers.  Songs like FORTUOSITY,ARE WE DANCING, I'LL ALWAYS BE IRISH, DETROIT, NO DILLY DALLY, THERE ARE THOSE are much under-rated. This is an excellent original musical score.Highly recommend for kids, families, and grown ups with a child still within. "},{"Title":"An under-rated Disney Classic","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  The Happiest Millionaire is a lively musical adaptation of the hit 1957 Broadway play that starred Walter Pidgeon as Anthony Drexel Biddle. The play was written by Kyle Crichton, who adapted it from a biographical book he co-wrote with Biddle's daughter Cordelia, My Philadelphia Father.As adapted to the screen by AJ Carothers (who would go on to create the TV sitcom Nanny and the Professor), Millionaire tells the story of eccentric millionaire Biddle and his family in 1916 Philadelphia.The movie actually isn't really about Biddle at all, instead it focuses on his daughter Cordelia Lesley Ann Warren in her big screen debut and her impending romance with Angier Duke John Davidson in his big screen debut.The two youngsters fall in love much to the dismay of Angier's mother Geraldine Page. The clash between Philadelphia old money the Biddles and New York's nouveau riche the Dukes comes into play, but ultimately love conquers all in the final reel.Thrown in for good measure is Tommy Steele as John Lawless, an Irish immigrant whose landed a job as the Biddles' new butler. He's the film's narrator of sorts and oversees the proceedings as they unfold.The score is provided by Disney veterans Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman of Mary Poppins fame, and while this score does not exactly reach the caliber of their work in Poppins it's not entirely bad either. There are some gems Fortuosity, Let's Have A Drink On It, Valentine Candy and Are We Dancing among them.The choreography by Marc Beaux and Dee Dee Wood Poppins and The Sound of Music is brought to life by both Tommy Steele and Lesley Ann Warren.Screen legend Greer Garson is Cordelia Drexel Biddle, Sr. and generally plays it straight opposite MacMurray's eccentric-slightly goofy portrayal. Also in the cast Gladys Cooper My Fair Lady as Aunt Mary, Paul Petersen The Donna Reed Show as Anthony, Jr., Eddie Hodges as Livingston and Hermoine Baddeley Mary Poppins as the Biddle's maid.At an original 164 minute running time, Millionaire may seem to some a bit excessive in length, and while this may be true it is still in my opinion a very entertaining movie which for some reason or another Disney has ignored save for an occasional 3 am screening on The Disney Channel.  It took Anchor Bay Entertainment to save this gem from relative obscurity when in 1998 they licensed the film from the Disney studios and released it on VHS and DVD in both a general release and road show edition.  Disney finally got wise and finally dusted off the film's soundtrack and released the long out-of-print score in August 2002.I recommend this film for it's music, it's light-heartedness and a compelling motion picture debut by the multi-talented Lesley Ann Warren. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  When I saw this movie as a little girl, in the movie theater, I loved it for its songs and the dancing and especially Tommy Steele! Now that I am a grandmother, I still love it - for the above and for lots more. This movie makes me feel good - and isn't that what movies are for? "},{"Title":"A most musical musical!","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" When I was a boy, I'm in my 40s now, my mother would get Disney albums in the mail. They contained music from the soundtracks of movies. Consequently, I was familiar with the songs long before I had seen the films. 'Happiest Millionaire' was one of them, but I have never seen the movie until 2004 when I bought it on DVD, and it was fantastic!The version on the disc lasts close to 3 hours. It is a 'Roadshow Edition,' and that is entirely enjoyable. It begins with a music overture. In the middle of the film is an intermission, and after the movie is over, there is another musical medley with the word 'Exit' on the screen. That must have been there to remind people to leave the theater!I see that on IMDb it gets an average rating of 5.5. Maybe that comes from the shorter, lesser cuts of the film. This restored edition is much better than that. My children loved it, too! They were literally glued to the screen for the duration of the movie.This is easily the most musical of any film I have ever seen. That is one of the reasons the movie is so entertaining. Tommy Steele looks as if he is having a lot of fun, and that feeling is contagious. 'Happiest Millionaire' was released in 1967, the year after Walt Disney died, but he loved this film. The music is by the Sherman brothers, the same duo who gave us the unforgettable tunes in 'Mary Poppins.' I think it is sad that these kinds of films are no longer made. The great family oriented musicals are gone. Can anyone recommend 'Moulin Rouge' or 'Chicago' to their children?And yet, this is not necessarily a kids' movie. Walt Disney had the genius to understand that things need to appeal to everyone. That was the inspiration behind Disneyland.Out of four stars, I rate this *** "},{"Title":"A fun, lighthearted musical with excellent songs by Disney's Sherman Brothers.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  This picture has some excellent songs written by the same team of song writers that wrote the award winning songs for Walt Disney's MARY POPPINS. The opening number of Fortousity is a delight. Although this movie is based on a true story about Cordelia Drexel Biddle, I would recommend it more as a lighthearted and fun movie for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Family Film","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  I have always loved musicals, but I've never cared for the most popular ones from the 50s and 60s, such as The Sound Of Music.  However, The Happiest Millionaire scores on every level.  The music is superb, and there's a ton of it.  Tommy Steele does indeed steal the show as a new immigrant who shows up for an interview to become a butler, not quite realizing how wacky the Biddle family really is.  His tunes are the most lively, particularly the bar scene.  However, others such as Fred Macmurray and Leslie Anne Warren really shine here too.  And who knew John Davidson had talents outside of being a game show host?  This is a real diamond in the rough.Some minor guidelines - the Roadshow edition has quite a bit of extra footage, and for those of us who know the standard edition by heart, it's great to find little bits and pieces (20 minutes worth, overall) that we've never seen, including parts of some of the songs.  However, the standard edition is a tighter movie and keeps things moving more quickly - and since the standard edition is already over 2 hours and 20 minutes, I'd recommend it first.  Then if you like it, the Roadshow gives you more of the best stuff.This was Disney's last picture, and from all accounts he loved it, even though it was unsuccessful due to being released at just the wrong time. With 30 years distance, though, it is still so much fun that I'd love to see it made into an actual Broadway show.  Oh, well, one can dream... "},{"Title":"Disney's Last Live Action Film is One of His Greatest!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this terrific film. I was nine going on ten and living in Westchester County, New York, at the time. Happiest Millionaire was the Christmas attraction at Radio City Music Hall that year 1967 and it was a delight! The performances, particularly those of Tommy Steele, Fred MacMurray, and Leslie Ann Warren are all bursting with effervescence and energy, and the Sherman brothers' songs, if not up to their work on Mary Poppins, (But, then, what could be?) are consistently pleasant and enjoyable. As the last complete film that Walt Disney was to oversee before his death, it's one of his best latter-day works.Which is why I find the critical drubbing it's taken over the years, particularly Leonard Maltin's in his book The Disney Films, so hard to understand. Happiest Millionaire is what many family films try to be today, rarely succeeding. I was given a video of it as a present recently and found it just as enjoyable as I did 32 years ago, if not more so. Plus, living in the Philadelphia area as I do today, there's the historical interest, as well.In short, Happiest Millionaire was great in 1967, and even better today. If you can see it, by all means do. You'll be in for a rare treat and a hidden treasure from the Disney vaults! "},{"Title":"Too bad Uncle Walt couldn't have gone out with a real bang...","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  A combination of desires- to top Mary Poppins and to capitilize on the then-current trend of big-budget, three-hour musical films playing to roadshow audiences- caused Walt Disney to make this film, the last he personally oversaw.  He hired several of the same people to work on it that had worked on Poppins, including the songwriting team of the Sherman brothers, the chereography team of Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood, and supporting cast member Hermoine Baddely in much the same role of the acerbic maid.  In addition, he spent freely on costumes and production and hired an impressive cast, including Fred Macmurry, Greer Garson, Tommy Steele, Gladys Cooper, Geraldine Page, and in their film debuts, Lesley Ann Warren and John Davidson.The result was a pleasent, somewhat entertaining but all-around silly and, for the most part, instantly forgettable confection.  Yes, it's fine for the whole family, but it will be hard for the kiddies (and even the adults) to stay awake as the rather simple story is stretched to nearly three hours, with a series of plotlines connected by merely a shimmer all going on at once.  Macmurry is at his least inspired, making the title character into a bumbling, blustering idiot; it's pretty hard not to cheer whenever someone shows him up, verbally or physically.  The songs are nice enough, but only one or two really stick in the memory, and half of them are totally irrelevant.  (I saw the restored roadshow edition; there are a variety of other editions that cut out several of the songs)  Still, Tommy Steele is likable as the forever perky Irish butler (He gets a very hummable song to sing called Fortuosity) and the chereography certainly is lively.  The songs, for all the irrelevance of many of them, really move the picture along, as it slows down considerably whenever the screenplay takes over.It's too bad Disney's last film couldn't have been better, but oh, well.  That's life. "}{"Title":"Charming, underrated Disney musical!","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" A young Irish man, fresh off the boat, immediately scores a job as the butler in the home of millionaire Anthony J. Drexel Biddle. The Biddle home is no ordinary home- Biddle runs Bible classes in his home, keeps alligators in the conservatory, and is preparing to help with the war. His lovely young daughter, concerned that the goings-on in the home are keeping her from finding a beau, announces her desire to go to boarding school; reluctantly, Anthony lets her go. She comes back with a fiancée-Angier Duke, of the New York Dukes. Biddle gradually warms up to the engagement, and make plans for an elaborate wedding. But the young lovers didn't count on their families having a bitter argument between them. Will they ever find happiness amidst the troubles? This fine musical (somewhat reminiscent of You Can't Take It With You, IMO) is known for being the last film produced by Walt Disney before his death. With the success of MARY POPPINS, Disney decided to gather some of the POPPINS team to try and recreate it's success. Unfortunately, the film didn't do as well as hoped, and the film was cut to try and make it more popular (the complete roadshow print is available on DVD). That is unfortunate, because the film is a pure delight from start to finish. The score by the Sherman Brothers is a lovely one, full of showstoppers (my personal favorite being the love song Are We Dancing?). An all-star cast delivers great performances, including Fred MacMurray, Greer Garson, energetic and ever-grinning Tommy Steele, Geraldine Page, and Lesley Ann Warren (CINDERELLA) and John Davidson in their film debuts. The production and costume design is impeccable, and remind one of the classic MGM musicals of the day. Check this one out; it is fun for the family, and you are guaranteed a great time! Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"What a singable, laughable shame!","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" Walt Disney's The Happiest Millionaire, like other road show musicals of the time, is a victim of the tumultuous 1960's. What separates The Happiest Millionaire from the others is that Millionaire is an excellent piece of musical entertainment that holds up today. It's a shame. Had this film come out 5, 10 years earlier it would surly be regarded with the likes of Meet Me in St Louie, and Singing in the Rain. This film is a nostalgic gem. The visuals are stunning, the acting is pure musical theater and the songs memorable and snappy. Speaking of the songs. This is sadly also one of the most underrated and overlooked score of all time. The songs are perfectly placed (well it is a Disney film!) beautifully written and executed. This was the Sherman Brothers in their prime. Fortuosity will come to those who stumble upon this musical classic. A film sadly in the wrong place at the wrong time. "},{"Title":"Fun and Heart Warming Musical","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" This movie has been in my top ten of all time since I was a little girl. The music and the storyline are engaging, romantic, and family friendly. It is one that the whole family can enjoy together. It will make you and yours fall in love with musicals, theater, and the like again and again. For young girls, it is one of those movies that whisks you into an enchanted dream of the romance that awaits and the exciting possibilities of things to come. All the actors are amazing, but Lesley Ann Warren is astounding. Anyone who remembers the long and sadly forgotten age of musicals should gladly add this movie to their DVD collection as it is a classic. "},{"Title":"The best movie for the whole family - bar none!!","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" This one has it all! We have alligators for the boys, gorgeous turn of the century fashion for the girls, singing and dancing for those of us who love musicals (my husband hated musicals and he loved this movie), a great barroom brawl, historical accuracy, excellent performances by all (neat to see John Davidson and Lesley Ann Warren at the beginning of their careers and Greer Garson at the end as well as the historical significance that it is Walt Disney's last). It is a great story of a girl who is trying to find her place in the world (Are You Valentine Candy or Boxing Gloves?) with the contrast of old money and nouveau riche (There are Those - rewind frequently - this is the best song!!!)set in the fascinating era of early 20th century (Byum Pum Pum - you gotta see Warren's high kick in this one!) Great love story with plenty of action. The only sad part is that the marriage between Cordelia Drexel Biddle and Angier Duke didn't last. I saw it in 1967 on vacation in St Louis and we recorded it on a PBS special 30 years later. Our tape is worn out and I have been looking for a copy of this movie for a year!! I do have the video of my son at age 4 dancing Tommy Steele's Fortuosity on our bed. I need a new copy!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A quality film - if you don't like it, you're probably about instant gratification","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" This is an absolutely wonderful movie. It's difficult, if not impossible to find movies like this anymore. Tommy Steele is wonderful as the understated, humorous butler and everyone else plays their roles remarkably. Based off the real life story of Anthony Biddle, it is wonderfully heartwarming and genuinely funny. You won't find sex or special effects beyond the stopping of the film to show one of the pet alligators taking a bite out of a broom, and the film is all the better for it. I've loved it since I was in middle school and am in college now and still love it just as much. It is one of my favorites and is the most quoted film in my family! "},{"Title":"The Happiest Millionaire made me the Happiest Viewer!","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" I remember coming across this film in Halliwell's Film Guide 2006 and it appealed to me merely because its running time was staggering and it really isn't like Walt Disney to make hugely long films like this. I told my mother about it and she saw to it that I got it on video. It came from America and the actual video was amazingly old but still going strong after at least twenty years of being used. I secretly hoped I wasn't going to be disappointed because, according to the Halliwell's guide, The Happiest Millionaire was drearily inept (I don't know what it means but it certainly sound pretty bad) and was full of boredom but OH how they were wrong! In my mind, it most certainly was NOT drearily inept - bloody hell! What do they want?! They're only films not life-changing events! It was such a happy movie and I was so pleased and frankly relieved that I wasn't going to be let down. So many people are happy in this 145-minute film; vivacious, strong-minded Cordelia is happy (who also loud and excitable), the timid but determined Angie is happy (because of his dreams in Detroit), the gentle, kind-hearted John Lawless is happy (happy to be Irish and being the new butler of a wealthy family), Mrs Worth is happy who is also very kind to Mr Lawless at the opening when he arrives at the home of Anthony Drexel Biddle, who is the star. Ironically, Mr Drexel Biddle is not such a happy person but more like a middle-aged man who pursues sympathy and fears for her daughter and is emotionally drawn to her - although, he does have a good sense of humour and excellent one! When he keeps saying What's Wrong With THAT??!! all the time, treating his alligators like pet dogs and grumbling at the no-nonsense Englishwoman Mrs Mary Drexel (Gladys Cooper) and she, too, is funny. In the Uncut Roadshow Edition of The Happiest Millionaire, which runs for nearly THREE HOURS, there is an Intermission/Entr'acte included and the ending is a lot more extended than what I saw in the cut, 1980s video. As we know, Cordelia separates with Angie when she learns that they were to live near his stuck-up, insensitive mother after their honeymoon but reunites with him at the prison and they go off to Detroit after all. After they leave, we see Anthony and his wife back at the mansion where it's quiet and there's no more liveliness now that Cordelia has left with her man, his wife sings Let Them Go to help him realize that his daughter is not a little girl anymore but a young lady and is now old enough to live her OWN life and I think it ends there (I'm not fully sure as I've only seen that version once).This is more-or-less like a version of Father of the Bride because in that the father can't let go of his daughter who is no longer a little girl only this is much more charming, much happier and has more story lines than just that one. Sadly, The Happiest Millionaire is horribly underrated from what I've heard from other critics across the world. YOU MAY LIKE TO KNOW Cordelia Drexel Biddle was a real person and wrote a book about her life called My Philadelpia Father. "},{"Title":"absolutely excellent","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" this is one of my most favourite movies,and i love the story and the songs and tommy Steele is my favourite actor and his role in this film is great, my most favourite song is by-um-pum-pum sung by Cordy's flat mate when she is at school and my favourite line from the movie is 'wll now, to have you alligators thaw out and you daughter forgive you all in the same bright day, thats fortuasity' even though the film was made even before i was born i still love it. and as the film is a musical, thats another reason why i like it as musicals are my most favourite genre of film. this film is worth watching for the whole family "},{"Title":"Wonderful Period Musical","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  I just bought the DVD roadshow version of this film, as I had seen it as a teenager and thoroughly enjoyed it....this is the complete 3 hour version with prologue, intermission, and exit music; although it has been panned through the years, I have always thought highly of it...it is based on the memoirs of Cordie Biddle, who is the daughter of Anthony Biddle the highly conservative and inventive head of the Biddle household..there are some wonderful actors including Fred MacMurray as the patriarch, Greer Garson as his wife, Gladys Cooper (in I believe one of her last roles) as Cordie's grandmother, and of course Leslie Ann Warren, and John Davidson as the younger romantic interest....If there is a complaint, I would have to say there is too much time spent on the romance of the two younger players, and whatever happened to Paul Petersen, and Eddie Hodges, who are only in ONE scene as the brothers of Cordie....their scenes must have been left on the cutting room floor if they indeed had anymore!!!  This is an early 20th century piece, with wonderful costumes, decor, and settings of the period, and lilting music for the most part...and as others have said Tommy Steele as the butler STEALS the show with his singing, dancing, and commentary on the goings on throughout the story.  I have on order the movie Half a Sixpence which Tommy originated on the stage in London; am looking forward to this film also...I think we all miss the family oriented musicals, and movies of this time period;  they are so easy to view and so enjoyable...One final comment; what a wonderful way to end the movie with Fred MacMurray and Greer Garson doing a duet on Let them Go  a poignant ballad on their feelings of dealing with the empty nest syndrome...this was added for the roadshow version I believe, I don't recall it in the original version....Does anyone know whether Greer Garson's voice was used in this; I wasn't sure if she was a singer or not....at any rate I would recommend this film to any one... "},{"Title":"It'll make you happy and feel like a million bucks!","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  While Fred MacMurry *is* the Happiest Millionaire, it's Tommy Steele's John Lawless that keeps a smile on your face throughout the whole film! Playing the role he was born to play, the Irish immigrant, Steele steals the show. From his opening number, Fotueosity to Let's Have a Drink On It Now you'll be standing in front of the tv trying your best to dance and sing along!  The Happiest Millionaire, a Disney Classic, has songs that have a strong flavor to such great musicals as Mary Poppins and My Fair Lady while the story is a delight as well.  A man, MacMurry, has an unethical way about him that makes him an odd-ball among the upper-crust.  His Biddle Bible School (made up of losers that even the Salvation Army would have rejected) is a strong-willed man with a gentle heart.  Loving his family, friends, servants and alligators more than *society*, he finds that when you love some one you know when to let them go  but that it isn't as easy as it sounds.  When his oldest and only daughter goes away to prep-school and falls in love (John Davidson and those adorable dimples ... ) he has to make the best of it ... as best he can.  Filled with fun, frolic, romance, and near-tragedy, The Happiest Millionaire is worth a million ... and then some!  4 stars "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  This was a great movie.  When I saw it, I was amazed.  The plot changed so many times on me, that I did not know what was going to happen at the end. It turned out being the best movie that I have ever seen and would give it 500 thumbs up. "}{"Title":"Singing, dancing and hide and seek with the alligators","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" People who don't like musical plays won't like this movie (is this the place for a 'duh?'). Those who can take or leave musicals will probably split on their enjoyment of this one. But, stage and movie fans who love song and dance and the stories of musical plays will find great fun and enjoyment here. The Happiest Millionaire is a rollicking fun and entertaining musical. The Sherman Brothers &#x96; Richard and Robert, who gave us the music for Mary Poppins, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, and Winnie the Pooh wrote the dazzling score and a baker's dozen of songs. I couldn't find a credit anywhere for choreography, but whomever handled that chore did it superbly. There are several individual and small scenes with dance, but my favorite is the men's troupe in Clancy's Tavern. We see some excellent hoofing, hopping and singing perfectly matched and timed by a gang of men at the bar. All of the cast perform admirably. Tommy Steele plays John Lawless, the new butler who never has a job interview but finds himself quickly assimilated into the Biddle household. As a newly arrived immigrant from Ireland, Lawless narrates the story in snippets as it unfolds with him in it. He sings and dances to Fortuosity, which became a pop tune. The Mills Brothers featured it as the title track on an album in 1968. Others recorded the song over time, including Carol Burnett, Vic Damone, Count Basie and Nancy Sinatra. The rest of the cast are great matches. Fred MacMurray wasn't a Walt Disney regular by happenstance. MacMurray had more than three decades behind him as a leading man. He was one of the best male comedy leads of Hollywood's Golden Age. In 1943, he was the highest paid movie star in the world &#x96; not bad for someone who didn't go looking for a movie career. He was a versatile actor and he could sing and dance. MacMurray grew up in a musical family. His first years were playing saxophone and lead singing in orchestras and bands. He played in musicals on Broadway. He was a three-sport athletic star in high school, and he kept in good shape during all of his career. MacMurray was 59 years old when The Happiest Millionaire reached theaters. He was the perfect specimen (and actor) to play the role of Anthony Biddle who was 42 in 1916 when the movie takes place. Apparently, Paramount had sought several other women first, but now it's hard to imagine anyone other than Greer Garson as the mother, Cordelia Biddle. The Oscar-winner from Mrs. Miniver of 1942 had a wonderful record of movies and TV films. Lesley Ann Warren is excellent after her TV film success as Cinderella in 1965. She is Cordy whose coming out drives the plot that develops around Anthony's household. John Davidson was very good in song and dance and as Cordy's suitor. Geraldine Page is hilarious as Mrs. Duke. The rest of the cast shine as well. A.J. Carothers wrote the screenplay for this movie. He collaborated with the Sherman Brothers on many Disney projects. His source material was the stage play, The Happiest Millionaire, by Kyle Crichton, which was based on a book Crichton co-authored with Cordelia Drexel Biddle, My Philadelphia Father. She is the Cordy whom Warren plays in the film. While the movie is a musical and fiction, I was surprised to find out how much of its content and the main character, Father, were true to the real Anthony Biddle and the family. The Biddles were wealthy indeed. While Mr. Biddle didn't have to work &#x96; in fact, disdained being hemmed in by walls of an office, he couldn't be counted among the idle rich. He was an active, energetic man who gave his time to many good and worthwhile efforts. He boxed and trained his kids and many other people to box for fitness. He was renowned as the eccentric person that MacMurray portrays so well. He pursued theatricals, self-published various works, trained and taught athletics and Christianity, and had pet alligators. He founded the Athletic Christianity movement that grew to more than 300,000 members in time. Biddle had served in the U.S. Marine Corps, and he was an expert in close combat. He wrote manuals on the subject and trained Marines for both world wars, as well FBI agents. By the time this film came out, the allure of musicals had faded. It wasn't the big hit that Walt Disney had envisioned. He had started this project but died of cancer before it was finished. Still, it covered its costs at the box office. Occasional new musicals are done today, and they have an appreciative audience. So, The Happiest Millionaire will live on, as will other very good and great musicals of the past. I am particularly glad that I purchased the 2004 Disney release of the restored roadshow edition &#x96; and new longer version at 172 minutes. This is truly a film that the whole family will enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Happiest Millionnaire - Radiates True Happiness and Joy","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" Great, old-fashioned musical for the family. As we began watching this action-packed musical, we were a little confused at first. I love the plot, which is loosely based on the true story of the Biddle family of Philadelphia. I loved the fact that the story is about a Christian man who is rich and even eccentric! Played by Fred MacMurray, one of my favorites, he showcases a great singing talent. Leslie Anne Warren made her debut in this film and also shows her dancing, singing talent, as well as acting (and looks beautiful in her costumes). The scenery caught my eye, but at first, I thought there was too much singing and dancing. I think Robert Sherman, who wrote the beautiful songs for Mary Poppins could have composed some better, more catchy tunes. (Although Detroit had been on my mind a long time after the movie). Tommy Steele is absolutely adorable. (I loved when he was speaking to the camera and Fred MacMurray, Mr. Biddle, asks, Who are you talking to? Hilarious.John Davidson also looks great and showcases his singing, dancing and acting talents in his debut performance. What kept me watching during this long movie, at first, was the scenery and the alligator pets! I think this was a great film, but the songs, again, could have been better--to keep viewers better engaged. (Maybe not so many songs, also). The ending was a bit disappointing--maybe could have showed the alligators just one more time to add humor. But, all in all, a great family film. I applaud Walt Disney films! "},{"Title":"Well Ain't This An Elegant Neighborhood...","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" ain't dis uh eleegunt naybor-hooood... coo coos the butler played by Tommy Steele. well i suppose. it kind of seems like it's populated by right wing Republican fanatics. for the rest of us who don't lean that far or those in the middle, this neighborhood can be a little off-putting.Republicans are always griping about how Hollywood is so far to the left and they never make fun films that glorify the Republican way of thinking. those people have obviously never seen 'The Happiest Millionaire' or know much about Disney's politics. Disney was a avid right wing Republican who loved Richard Nixon and was a personal friend of his. he also was rabidly anti-communist and hated labor unions. this was Disney's last film and was a true testament to what he believed. not to mention one of the most deeply right wing films i have ever seen from Hollywood.if you are even remotely skeptical, then maybe you should know the songs and see the movie. what other musical has the lead character pontificate fondly about God, the Bible, the Marines and the flag above? no joke. those are the lyrics. if that ain't right wing American politics...i'm no liberal and am hardly toward the left. but i'm no Republican either and am always suspicious that right wing politics really embodies any true values. not being a Republican, do i still like this movie commercial for the United State's Marine Corps.? well yeah. i hesitantly assert that and with some embarrassment. especially since i hate politics. especially in pure entertainment films. i also feel that politics has no place in a Disney film. but this was how Walt felt politically. no use in hiding it or making pretense about it. Disney was a hard core Republican. simple fact. deal with it or let it haunt you forever.i grew up loving this film and it's soundtrack. it was one of the first big, film musicals that i actually understood and liked outside of the lavish children's musical 'Mary Poppins'. i also happen to love the films that Fred MacMurray made for Disney and i happen to really, really, love the coupling of John Davidson and Lesley Ann Warren who are one of my favorite and one of cinema's most innocent romantic couples. they just generate a sweet, blissful, naiveté.i also am really fond of the songs. Are We Dancing is one of my favorite romantic duets in film musical history. and i've seen a lot. i also love the Tommy Steele musical number Fortuosity which is much the foundation of Disney's philosophy for America.it's also interesting to note, that in one of the film's best musical numbers, I Will Always Be Irish, there is a lyrical nod to Democrat elect John Kennedy. the lyric is, and i'll bet one day we have an Irish President!. the one single light for liberal Democrats in a film that is a sea of conservatism and Republican rhetoric.no i don't really support the politics in this film. i try not to be partisan or support anything so slanted toward one point of view. but i still continue to watch this film to this day. and probably always will. i don't like politics, but i love Disney. i also love Fred MacMurray, Greer Garson, Tommy Steele and John Davidson and Lesley Ann in this. and it is a very well made film.oh. and lets not forget the alligators. definitely the alligators were what attracted me to this most as a child. seeing Tommy Steele walk the alligator on a leash is, for me, a very memorable Disney moment.oh. and Fred MacMurray sings opera. for whatever that's worth. "},{"Title":"This movie will always be Irish and full of Alligators","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" In the tradition of Mary Poppins. That is the tag line on the DVD cover that Disney put on the cover of 'The Happy Millionaire' to try and entice potential viewers. What's wrong with that?I got this film from the library expecting a regular normal comedy. But instead I got a musical. I like musicals but was surprised because I wasn't expecting it. What's wrong with that? It is not a musical classic and a minor Disney classic if it is at all. It has the same type off charm that 'High School Musical' has. The songs aren't all that memorable but the characters have such fun singing them, that it is at least fun to watch. What's wrong with that? The dancing is fun to watch to. There is something always fun about watching people break out into song when they could just as easily said what they wanted to say without singing. It is so unlike real life where boring people just talk to one another with out music coming from nowhere to liven up their lives. This is the type of picture that if you watched often enough you would grow to really like it. It's likable as it is, but maybe not enough to watch it again. The film has some fun things in it, such as Fred MacMurray. He is amusing as a 'happy millionaire', the founder of Biddle Boxing and Bible School, who owns of all things, pet alligators. Doesn't everyone want one? The new maid at one point leaves the window open during the wintertime, freezing all the alligators in their tubs of water. When they de-thaw they aren't dead and crawl around the mansion scaring the new maid half to death. That's fun. He also likes to challenge various visitors to put on the boxing gloves. For an old guy he is quite good. Who would have thought? What is also fun is watching Fred run his Bibble Bible class. That is his name by the way, Mr. Bibble. It is a spiritual work out of body, mind, and soul. It is Exercise while learning about the good book. That is Fortuosity. That's me bi word. An Irishman (John Lawless) played by Tommy Steele, a popular singer. He has a fun time singing a song about how he will always be Irish even if he becomes an American. He then has a fun little short number dancing while holding the alligator on a leash. Another great moment in the film., in her film debut), At one point as he is talking to the audience, Fred comes over to ask what who he is talking to. He says no one. He replies 'Well you know what they say about those who talk to themselves.' A fun little gag.There is also Fred's beautiful daughter, Cordy played by Lesley Ann Warren in her film debut. Man is she gorgeous. I was thinking before I wrote this review that this is at least a rental, but I have enjoyed it more the second time I put it in after taking a break from it. So I'll see what my opinion is by the end of the film. At this point the 2nd part of the film has just started. The 2nd half has an amusing dance number in a beer hall that turns into an amusing brawl. The Irishman is in the middle of the whole thing and never once gets hit. Yeah for the Irish!After watching this film, I have concluded that this movie has many amusing and fun bits. But as a whole it's only kina so so. So it is at least worth a rental. If some of the scenes were edited down to a few parts it would be worth keeping. What's wrong with that ?Interesting little fact. This was the last live-action feature film that Walt Disney saw completed before his death in December 1966. He never saw the film released to the public. "},{"Title":"A pleasant musical","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  I have seen today the roadshow restored version of this film, and enjoyed it very much. It isn't Mary Poppins but never mind. The story is simple, the actors are all perfect (I liked very much the wonderful Garson and John Davidson) and all is filled with a touch of class that is enchanting. In Italy I saw on television the 118 trimmed version, where several songs were missing and that was a pity, 'cause the music of the Sherman brothers is brilliant and worth of their talent. In conclusion the only thing was that this movie came after Poppins and, as will happen for Bedknobs and Broomsticks and Elliott, unfavorly compared with it and consequently badly edited. The roadshow version is enchanting, don't miss it and you'll whistle tunes like Are we Dancing and Soon will be Christmas for weeks.I highly recommend this movie to all Disney fans and lovers of comedies.   "},{"Title":"A musical that is at least one hour too long","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" The Sherman brothers did their best..... (trying to copy the sound and atmosphere of Mary Poppins as much as they could) and Uncle Walt did what he could, I do understand that this movie never became popular and the big hit.Where Mary Poppins or The Sounds of Music are still a joy and good stories, this one leads to nowhere. Scenes with Alligators and all the boxing that make no sense, songs in every place to prolong the movie into an almost 3 hour drama/sit.The only interesting and -really- humorous scene is the first meeting of Mrs. Duke (Geraldine Page) and Aunt Mary Drexel (Gladys Cooper). And that is it....I wish I had seen the Swedish copy, as it has only 118 minutes runtime. Probably the film would have been a little bit more to my liking..... and at least an hour shorter!! "},{"Title":"instantly out-of-date family musical -- for kids","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  It's hard to believe that this was made in 1967 -- it seems like something from the 40's. It's not bad, and young kids will probably like it, but it apparently was released with a big thud, and it's easy to see why. Greer Garson is as unbelievably elegant as ever, but she doesn't have a lot to do. MacMurray is okay, but no musical star, and you long for the days of Double Indemnity when you see the indignities he suffered in his later years. Leslie Ann Warren is as cute a button, and surely deserves better than John Davidson, who at least can sing, but not much else. Gladys Cooper provides some much needed edge and Hermione Baddeley some humor, but they have near-cameo roles. Tommy Steele provides the only real energy, but it just isn't enough.What's more interesting is that this pablum is based on real people, and poking around on the internet I got a glimpse of what appears to be far more interesting and complex lives than you'd dream of from the movie. Apparently this Biddle was a decendent of the Drexels, who founded Drexel Institute and the investment banking firm that bore his name (and was far from the first important banker of that name). Also, these Biddles married into the Duke (of Duke University and big tobacco fame) more than once. The character played by Davidson in the movie died in 1923, having fathered 3 children (if I counted right) and his sister married his wife's oldest brother.The Biddle father went on to become a colonel in WWI and then either his oldest son or he became a Major General in WWII. The father wrote a book on hand-to-hand combat which is out of print, but listed on Amazon.com. His grandson served as head of two U.S. State Dept. missions.I'm sure that there are some fascinating stories in the history of this extended family given that I was able to find all this in about 1/2 hour using Google and looking in an encyclopedia. This has nothing to do with the movie, but it seemed related enough to put it in.Anyway, get the movie for your kids if you are sick of Mary Poppins. They'll like it and it will be a nice change for you. "},{"Title":"Happiest Millionaire- Money the Root of All Fun **1/2","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" Despite a phenomenal cast, The Happiest Millionaire really never takes off.This is probably because the star of the film should have been butler Tommy Steele who begins the picture on a high note with the clever tune Fortuosity. Steele is toothy and with that broad smile, he could easily captivate audiences. Unfortunately, he soon falls into a rather supporting role to an eccentric Biddle family.Fred MacMurray is all right for the part but his monotone voice is annoying at times. As his wife, Greer Garson, is wonderful. She depicts that regal elegance that made her so famous through the years. She is just an older, elegant version of Mrs. Miniver and all the other great roles she had in the 1940s.Gladys Cooper is a rather tame Auntie here. Cooper was always at her best when she was an upper class mean person. The upper class is certainly there but where is her usual nastiness? Ditto for Geraldine Page. Page as Lesley Ann Warren's prospective mother-in-law causes mayhem as she usually did in pictures. This being a musical comedy, her usual frustrations are missing and we could have used them there.Enough with the alligator scenes already. MacMurray and family wear their bible shirts and practice boxing. MacMurray is anxious for the U.S. to be prepared for World War 1 and he urges President Wilson for this preparedness.The big surprise of this film is that all our players could carry a tune. I thought that the argument scene between Cooper and Page would have been exacerbated.The film falters as we have seen the bar-room brawls and social fights among the upper classes in society before. "},{"Title":"Another Philadelphia Story","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" Live Disney musicals that were made after Mary Poppins had an almost impossible standard to meet. Even with a lot of the same talent that brought us Mary Poppins, The Happiest Millionaire falls well short of the accolades that Mary Poppins won.Not that it's a bad film by any means, just not an outstanding one. Uncle Walt once again made use of the Sherman Brothers to write the score. Their best number is right at the beginning of the film and sung by Tommy Steele, Fortuosity.The film is based originally on a book of memoirs that Cordelia Biddle Duke wrote about growing up in Philadelphia with her eccentric father. The book was co-authored with Kyle Crichton who also authored a Broadway play The Happiest Millionaire which ran a respectable 271 performances in 1956-57 and starred Walter Pidgeon.Taking Pidgeon's place for the screen is Disney's favorite star Fred MacMurray. The story takes place 1916-17 in Philadelphia where we meet Anthony Drexel Biddle a man who keeps pet alligators he captured in the Everglades and believes that Christianity should walk hand in hand with pugilism. He gives both Bible and boxing classes in the stately Biddle manor.Although she did television through the next decade occasionally The Happiest Millionaire marked the farewell big screen appearance of Greer Garson. Greer's fine in the part as the ever patient wife, but I see traces of that other perfect wife of the big screen, Myrna Loy in the part.Although daughter Cordelia wrote the book, the film is really seen through the eyes of the newly hired butler, who himself is newly arrived from Ireland. My favorite in this film is Tommy Steele as John Lawless the butler who just fits right into the general zaniness of things. And Steele has the best song.Lesley Ann Warren and John Davidson make an appealing pair of young lovers as Davidson is quite intimidated by the eccentric MacMurray. Others in the cast are Geraldine Page as Davidson's grand dame of a mother, Gladys Cooper as an even grander dame as MacMurray's aunt and Hermione Baddely as a maid who lets nothing faze her.The Happiest Millionaire is not Mary Poppins, but it's still contains it share of magic from the Magic Kingdom. "},{"Title":"Tall on Sugar, Short on Plot","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" I purchased this as a gift for a friend, who had raved for the longest time about how enjoyable this film was. She was happy; I was bored.The good Bright, bubbly, effervescent Disney cinema. Excellent set design, with colourful sets. Tommy Steele is engaging, although his use of breaking the fourth wall becomes tedious after a while -- Dick Van Dyke he's not. Fred MacMurray surprised me. I'd forgotten that he actually did have a musical background, and while even Dennis Day would never have to fear his singing talent, he did manage to breathe emotion into his songs. (Not an easy task, considering how insipid the lyrics were.)The bad It's clear from the opening music that the intention of Walt Disney was to top Mary Poppins. Having set the bar that high to begin with, the film falters, sputters and stalls before it ever leaves the starting gate. The songs are forgettable. While the dancing is energetic, it's clear that the choreographer lifted the Chimney Sweep dance whole cloth from Mary Poppins, so few steps were changed.The ugly This is a movie in search of a plot. Whereas Meet Me in St. Louis had a brilliant score and strong direction to make up for its lack of plot, The Happiest Millionaire just drags. It's rather hard to cheer for MacMurray's Mr. Biddle, who is apparently a non-conformist who marches to his own drum, when he seems so white bread and square. (For the role as it should have been played, see Clifton Webb's turn in The Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker.) There's also some down home Disney politicization occurring in the film. MacMurray's Mr. Biddle is very much in favour of America's joining England and France in World War I. While no one expects a Disney film to readily acknowledge the horrors of war, at a time when gas attacks and the brutality of trench warfare were known (the film was set in 1916), MacMurray's gung-ho attitude is off-putting. As this film was released in 1967, at a time when US involvement in Vietnam was starting to turn), it's pretty obvious that Uncle Walt was attempting some kind of pro-war message.The film is safe for children, and they'd likely find it enjoyable. However, you might want to show it in two parts. At nearly three hours, the padding is very visible. "}{"Title":"For true fans of musicals only.","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" This movie is for true fans of musicals only, numerous songs popping up unexpectedly followed by numerous dance sequences and daydreaming characters. This is one of the final motion pictures Walt Disney produced, a story about a happy Irish immigrant, John Lawless (Tommy Steele), who lands a job as the butler to millionaire Biddle (Fred MacMurray). His daughter, Cordy (Leslie Ann Warren) meanwhile falls in love with Angie (John Davidson), to the dismay of her parents.While I am sure many people like the romance, music and comedy of this movie, it was too carefree and light-hearted for me. Everybody looked too happy and spirited, like there is not a care in the world, and many of the characters seem to sing their way out of their problems. Tommy Steele's character, while classic I'm sure, was very annoying and irritatingly cheerful. The pace of this movie's plot was pretty slow as well - not very suspenseful or intriguing. The saving grace of the movie was Leslie Ann Warren.Overall, not a very good movie due to the slow plot, overzealous characters and overly-exerted musical numbers. I also wished the overly-cheerful acting was toned down a bit.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Mousterpiece of Awfulness","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" This laughably bad musical gets 2 stars just because it's fun to watch in the What were they thinking? mode. It's impossibly long. On DVD, in the road show version, it is the death and burial of 172 minutes of your life. Every 5 minutes, another horrible song, usually in the bad music hall style of 60s variety shows. For the beau you get the #1 Macy's mannequin of 60s TV, John Davidson, here named ANGIE DUKE!! (Again, what were they thinking? Angie Duke, a name to be archived for a denim-thonged cutie on the Dukes of Hazzard?) For cheery butler, you get Tommy Steele, grinning insanely and kicking up his heels -- very much like the Lawrence Welk vocalists who smile, smile, smile, smile as they sing. Number after number, all done in an exaggerated, high-stepping, head-tossing style. As I watched it, I dreaded any line of dialogue that might result in another inane song. And by the way, what child wants to sit through this many charmless easy listenin' ditties just to see a few scenes with runaway alligators? In 172 minutes, there's almost no story. Fred MacMurray (pretty good, but he can't do much with a part that has him saying, Blast! in every scene) is a Philadelphia millionaire who raises alligators and conducts musical Bible lessons with local marine recruits. His daughter gets engaged to a young New Yorker with an equally boring family. That's pretty much it. A few mysteries Why did they include the 2 sons(Eddie Hodges and Paul Peterson)? After an early scene where they scare off their sister's suitor (and, of course, perform a cheery, exaggerated song), they vanish. Why were voice doubles used for MacMurray and Greer Garson toward the end? I guess the DVD included a restored scene with a damaged soundtrack. The MacMurray double was notably off. Good cast in a long, charmless, cheerless stinker. "},{"Title":"Forced happiness...","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":" Teeth-gnashing live-action Disney musical, adapted from a non-singing Broadway play that starred Walter Pigeon, has Disney mainstay Fred MacMurray heading up the household of a frantically gay family in 1916 Philadelphia. 'Old-fashioned' in the worst sense, the movie seems to combine the weakest qualities of Mary Poppins with the scenarios of a dozen or so morally uplifting family dramas of the 1940s. Lesley Ann Warren tries hard as MacMurray's daughter (about to be wed to John Davidson, playing a mama's boy) and Geraldine Page is a surprising choice as a high-society in-law, but the escaped alligators, the colorless songs, and British butler Tommy Steele (who addresses the camera directly) are fearsome. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Disappointing musical!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Musical","Review":"  Although an entertaining film because of the cast, this musical is nevertheless disappointing.  A truly forgettable score by the Sherman brothers.  But the kids will love it. "}]