[{"Title":"As good as ever...","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had great memories from when I saw it as a kid.  Usually, the movie's never as good as it was, you know, when you see it again once you're older.  This one is still great, though!  The jokes and gags are, for the most part, routine and common, but I think Peter Ustinov made the movie. You just have to let go of everything and have fun with it. "},{"Title":"A good Disney movie.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a movie that brought back good memories.  Our family went to see it at the theater back in the 70's.It is a good story, with a few scenes that are very funny.Dean Jones has the lead (of course), and Suzanne Pleshette is also very good.  Peter Ustinov, is a great pirate for the kids to enjoy.A good Disney movie, and a great family movie. "},{"Title":"From the Newton School","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Watching Blackbeard's Ghost yesterday put me in mind of the late Robert Newton and his portrayal of Blackbeard in a classic film from the Fifties. Had Mr. Newton not died of chronic alcoholism in 1957, I'm sure he would have been the Disney studio's choice to play Blackbeard.With Robert Newton not being available, the studio got another actor famous for a bravura performance, that of Nero and Quo Vadis. Who'd have thought that Peter Ustinov would have gotten another role that called for flamboyant overacting. Ustinov's Blackbeard is a combination of Newton's Blackbeard and his own Nero. And he dominates the film completely.Dean Jones who was Disney's major leading man at the time who played the roles Kurt Russell was too young for, borrows a great deal from that other actor, who's career Disney rejuvenated, Fred MacMurray. In fact the similarities between this and Absent Minded Professor and Son of Flubber are too obvious to be missed.Still those were two pretty funny films and Blackbeard's Ghost is in a great tradition. Dean Jones is the new track coach at Godolphin College and he stays at the inn that's run by the descendents of the crew of none other than Edward Teach better known as Blackbeard. But they are a harmless bunch of senior citizens led by Elsa Lanchester. Yet that inn is coveted by gangster Joby Baker who's bought the mortgage. Jones finds a faded piece of paper in an old bedwarmer and it's a spell that makes the ghost of old Blackbeard visible to him only. After that Jones plays straight man to a hilarious Ustinov. Blackbeard and is doings cause some romantic problems for Jones with Suzanne Pleshette, but in Disney tradition in the end the old buccaneer sets everything to right and escapes the limbo he's consigned to.For Peter Ustinov fans, this is a must. You can see it in his face and his performance how much of a good time Ustinov was having with this part. It will translate into your enjoyment as well. "},{"Title":"His breath would stun a horse!","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Blackbeard's Ghost is a live action picture out of Walt Disney Studios and it's directed by Robert Stevenson. It's based around the novel written by Ben Stahl, with the adaption for the screen by Don DaGradi & Bill Walsh. Starring are Peter Ustinov, Dean Jones, Suzanne Pleshette, Elsa Lanchester & Joby Baker.Plot finds Ustinov as the titular phantom of the title, who is suspended between worlds after a curse was put on him by his ex-wife. When amiable track coach Steve Walker (Jones) arrives in the coastal town of Godolphin he attends a charity sale and buys an antique bed warmer. Later that night Steve finds a hidden spell located in the bed warmer and after reading it out aloud he conjures up the ghost of Blackbeard. Seems that only Steve can see the bluff old pirate, and apparently Blackbeard can only escape his curse if he does a good deed. Good timing, then, since the old hotel run by the old ladies of Godolphin is under threat of closure from unscrupulous gambling gangster Silky Seymour (Baker) who wants to build a casino on the land. In spite of the fact that they just can't get on, Blackbeard and Steve may just be good for each other.A perfect light hearted live action film for the young and the young at heart. Looking a bit dated now on account of the advent of special effects, Blackbeard's Ghost none the less carries a weighty good against evil parable and brings on the laughter in spades as it goes. The set up is classic Disney, a pretty little coastal town is home to buccaneer secrets and the equilibrium is being upset by baddies who want progress to further their greed. Enter a bad boy coming good and the underdog sports team suddenly finding a new lease of life; aided wonderfully by Blackbeard during the film's funniest quarter. And there's even an engaging romance between Jones & Pleshette that's easy to warm too. The cast are inoffensive and pleasant, particularly Ustinov who is on full tilt pantomime overdrive, while the little devilish motif of cheating for the greater good finds Disney not hiding behind the syrup jar.Personally I laughed out loud on a number of occasions, most notably a cheerleader sequence that still has me giggling as I write this piece. Hopefully this film can have a similar effect on those looking at it for the very first time. Seek it out folks and watch with the family, for it is perfect family entertainment. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Ustinov is a master at comedy","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This Ustinov performance is one of the few I saw of him. The amazing ease and wit with which he performs is admirable. Who would have thought that a classic role such as a pirate could be filled in with such dignity. The story itself is a patchwork of silly situations all centring around the fund raising for a group of old ladies. The whole cast is up for a good laugh (I suspect Ustinov has something to do with this) and this gives the movie some swagger. The sets and effect used in the movie are amateurish, BUT this is what makes the movie all the more gullible. Although this might at first seem a movie to be seen on TV on a rainy Saturday afternoon, I recommend you go to the videostore and enjoy it on a Friday night before you go out. "},{"Title":"They don't ,make movies like this anymore.","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie on Easter Monday this year, I loved it, it has so many great jokes, mostly ghost jokes which were great.One of the most funniest movie, I have seen, I could not stop laughing.Blackbeard's Inn, a small hotel on the Carolina coast, is run by the Daughters of the Buccaneers, a group of little old ladies all claiming to be descendants of the notorious Edward Teach, known as Blackbeard. When Steve Walker. The new track coach for Godolphin College, registers at the inn, he learns that the Daughters are desperately trying to pay off their mortgage in order to prevent a takeover by the local gambling czar, Silky Seymour. Encouraged by Jo Anne Baker, a college instructor, Steve helps the old ladies' cause by buying an antique bed warmer at a charity auction and discovers that it was once owned by Blackbeard's 10th wife. Before being burned as a witch, she had condemned her philandering husband to wander in limbo until he performed one good deed. By accident, Steve conjures up the devilish pirate's spirit and persuades him to help the Daughters.After that he life is being turn upside down by this ghost, it some very funny scenes, then people starting to thinking that Steve is the one who is going crazy.Great comedy for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Funny  and entertaining movie about a likable ghost excellently performed by the great Peter Ustinov","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fun Disney-fantasy comedy about a pirate/ghost that returns to our time. Enjoyable story that mingles adventure , fantasy , slapdash and amusement . One of Disney's best live-action comedies , this stars Peter Ustinov in the title role as Blackbeard , he has been cursed by his spouse who was an evil witch , so that he will never die . The phantom is suspended between worlds after a curse was put on him by his ex-wife . When a sympathetic trainer named Steve Walker (Dean Jones) arrives in the coastal little town called Godolphin he attends a charity sale and buys an antique bed warmer. After that , Steve discovers a hidden spell and after reading it out aloud he conjures up the title character and he only can see the fantastic pirate , being one important trouble , no one will believe him . The only way to break the curse is to do a good act for once in his life . As the notorious pirate is a ghost who has to prevent his descendants from becoming a gambling casino . Meanwhile , an ancient hotel run by some old ladies called ¨Daughters of Buccaneers¨( Elsa Lanchester and others ) of Godolphin little town is under threat of foreclosure from nasty gambling mobster who wishes to construite a house game on the location . As the coach Steve and the gorgeous Jo Anne (Suzanne Pleshette ) help protect his descendants' home from being taken over by racketeers who want to make it casino , both of whom along with the 400-year-old ghost romp around in the motel threatened with closure.This slapstick fantasy Disney is plenty of adventure , imagination , comedy ad lots of fun . This is a likable sort of a kiddies' adaptation of a ¨ghost story¨ and another attempt for repeat the Mary Poppins magic . Peter Ustinov as the titular phantom of the title is terrific , he steals the show , as himself grins, grunts and botchers around which makes him all the more endearing . Many of the gags are good , but the movie sometimes drags . Highlights of the movie result to be the amusing scenes in which the pirate uses his powers to aid the young runners to gain competitions and fun final at the house game . Well produced by Bill Walsh , colorfully photographed by Edward Colman and lively musical score by Robert Brunner ; the three of them customary experts on Disney fantasy home . The motion picture is well directed by usual craftsman from Disney productions named Robert Steveson who achieved for the famous company its greatest successes such as ¨Mary Poppins¨ , ¨Bednobs and broomsticks , ¨Gnome-mobile¨, ¨Herbie rides again¨ , ¨Absent-minded professor¨, ¨Son of Flubber¨, ¨Shaggy DA¨ , ¨That darn cat¨ , ¨One of our dinosaurs is missing¨ and many others . Rating  Acceptable , 6,5 , worthwhile watching . Amusing and engaging film with effective combination of primitive special effects , live action , adventure , fantasy and humor . The children will get a kick out of this Disney film . "},{"Title":"Fun Disney flick","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Peter Ustinov has a ball and the rest of the cast are most enjoyable in this fun Disney flick which is ideal for young audiences.Director Robert Stevenson brings Ben Stahl's novel to the screen as he tells the story of legendary pirate Captain Blackbeard, who was cursed by his wicked wife to walk the earth in limbo until such a time as some small portion of good might be found in him. Disney released similar films around the late sixties and early seventies including Bedknobs and Broomsticks with much success at the time.This enjoyable, merry fun also stars Elsa Lanchester, Dean Jones (of Herbie fame) and Suzanne Pleshette.Sunday, January 18, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Though this movie isn't a well-known classic, it is still most certainly a shining example of why Disney films were once so enjoyable. The movie features an interesting, offbeat plot of the new coach of a rather dismal track team unwittingly summons the ghost of the vicious pirate, Edward Teach (Peter Ustinov). After centuries caught in limbo, the pirate has evolved into a lovable ne'r-do-well, and does his best to help his new companion, much to the consternation of the coach.Disney regulars Dean Jones, Suzanne Pleshette, Elsa Lanchester, George Murdock, and Richard Deacon star in this little gem. They play their usual character types, but the move is truly made by Peter Ustinov, who plays the role perfectly.The movie features a lot of slapstick, though it's cleverly presented and plays host to wry dialogue. All in all, a very enjoyable film "},{"Title":"Silly and a little overlong, but thanks to a stellar Peter Ustinov it is a very enjoyable film","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" While silly and over-the-top at times, this film is a lot of fun. My main problem though with Blackbeard's Ghost though is that it is tad too long by 10 minutes. But it is hugely enjoyable entertainment for the whole family, with some nice costumes and cinematography. Also a vast majority of the jokes are very funny, the intriguing plot is along the lines of The Canterville Ghost and the performances are spirited. Peter Ustinov, a great actor, makes a very lively lead who is condemned to wander in limbo until he performs a good deed, and Dean Jones also does a good job. Elsa Lanchester almost steals the film though, as one of the ladies he must save from gambling gangsters. Overall, while not perfect, it is enjoyable and worth watching. 7/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The cursed Captain's ghost meander around looking for redemption!","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Disney have a great share of making joyous movies for a long time, every little movie they make shares laugh over my face, and BlackBeard's Ghost is no exception too. The movie with all its dainties is an awesome treat to watch. Actually I wasn't a kid when I first saw this movie in fact I was in late twenties and I enjoyed that movie a lot. There are many pirate movies but the way Peter Ustinov played Captain BlackBeard was not just hilarious; it was utter treat to watch him playing treacherous captain gone good. The movie is very funny and I love it any time I watch it. The movie is highly recommended for those who wanna have nostalgic attack! "},{"Title":"Hilarious. Great Disney And Great Comedy.","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" note do not bother to watch the American release DVD of this. for some reason with a few of the harder to find live action classics from Disney like 'Gnomemobile' or 'One of Our Dinosuars is Missing', the DVD transfers offered on the American disc are inferior transfer. they looked like Disney transfered them from VHS or something. the region 2 DVD releases from England are, for some reason, a far superior transfer and look like they were transfered from film and not VHS. don't know why you should have to go to a foreign market to get the best quality from an American studio, but this seems pretty typical of the failure by the Disney co. to adequately showcase it's live action classics from the studio's golden age.all that tech talk aside,'Blackbeard's Ghost' has always been one of my favorite live action Disney fantasies. and definitely one of the studio's best comedies ranking with 'The Absentminded Professor' and 'One of our Dinosuars is Missing'. with the (shall i say it?) stellar acting combination of Ustinov and Jones, 'Blackbeard' plays out like a Diney/fantasy version of Neil Simon's the 'Odd Couple'. and if you are partial to Disney and slapstick, possibly a lot funnier.the performances by Ustinov and Jones are decidedly a focal point that drives the film and gives it it's most weighty substance. the performances, especially Ustinov's, are inspired and sharp witted. they come off as sort of lunatic fringe, counterparts to Matthau and Lemmon, but with a lot more testosteroned, highly charged, craziness. Ustinov and Jones performances are much more over the top than Matthau's or Lemmon's, but as charged up as their performances get, they are restrained and controlled with lots of character insight that makes the two protagonist seem like human beings and not nuttily drawn cartoons which could have easily have happened with all the buffoonery.even though cartoonish, the characters are developed with some psychological insights. insights very similar to Simon's 'Odd Couple' play. one is uptight and repressed, the other is gregarious and lacking any moral conscience and a slob. also much like the 'Odd Couple', this is a take on the age old saying you can't keep two bulls in one pen. a testimonial satire on the difficulties in the male relationship and of male dominance assertion. the compatibility between the two is aggravated by their extreme differences. one is a square, the other a pirate, one is living, one is dead, etc. of course in true Disney fashion, they learn to come to terms with their differences and work together.it's also interesting to note that for a film that is over forty years old (God. forty years. i saw this at the movies when it first came out), the gimmicks and FX are still true today as ever. in many respects, the mechanical effects are even more inspired in an age that relies on CGI for everything. Peter Ellenshaw's beautiful matte composites look even better and more painted art than the monochromatic CGI composites of today.classic Disney doesn't get much better than this. and it is certainly better than a lot of the bland, under-whelming fare, offered by the Disney channel TV movies of today. "},{"Title":"Blackbeard's Ghost","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A feel-good Disney production, a priggish track-and-field coach (Jones) accidentally invokes the ghost of the centuries-old notorious pirate Blackbeard (Ustinov), who has been stuck in limbo eternally after death because of his 10th wife's vicious curse, while being only visible to the coach, Blackbeard needs to do something good to break the curse, so he decides to assist the coach's lame team to win the college competition (using his stunt of invisibility) in order to win the wager to pay back the bank mortgage and save the hereditary hotel which runs by Blackbeard's descendants (a gaggle of old ladies led by Lanchester). Directed by Robert Stevenson after his post-MARY POPPINS (1964, 7/10) glory, the film fully taps into the jejune bickering and antics between the coach and Blackbeard, an anachronistic farce which hones up to a gratifying hilarity meanwhile tips the scales in hasty absurdity. The over- exploited shtick of Blackbeard's invisibility is as stock as fatiguable, it is a decent family treat after all. Ustinov's eloquent oratory shines even under the circumstances of nothing stimulating needs to be uttered, whose mellifluous cadences alone can save the audience from the stodgy character' default setting, a tad annoying, a tad self-boasting, but nothing remotely hints Blackbeard's venomous nature. Dean Jones, with a Sean Connery-alike visage, contradictorily jibes with Ustinov's maverick image, has a holier-than-thou standard offering in his goodly appearance, completely sedated under Ustinov's grandstanding and so is Suzanne Pleshette, a professor of child psychology but more frisky and outward than her formal love-interest. Elsa Lanchester, owns a great gambit as an offbeat soothsayer, shamefully then steps off most of the time as a sightseer. The embellished plot-line of the track events and casino gambling works well with the laughters, Stevenson and screenwriters surely had contrived a plan to let everything looks plausible no matter how illogical it seems, so as hard as they tried, it is a run-of-the-mill level of creation and self-aware of its demographical appeal. "},{"Title":"lovely","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" nice, a good family film. and this is not a really surprise because presence of Peter Ustinov is always great virtue for a movie. but, in same measure, it is a smart script and the gangs are really seductive. a pirate story but in different manner. a coach, a book, a hero, and a lot of adventures. all as slice of childhood cake of emotions.it is a wonderful Disney work. a fairy-tale with role of moral lesson in which love, duty, humor, nuances of facts are in wise way presented. must see it ! not only in a gloomy afternoon. because need of magic and soft entertainment are gifts for each season of year. for each season of life. "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Funny","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This just came on the television as I was working on some sewing ... I sort of half started watching it and before I knew it the sewing had been set aside and my 16 year old daughter was calling from the other room to ask what I was laughing at. I hadn't even realised I was laughing so much and it really is funny - mainly because of Peter Ustinov's wonderful comedic performance as the pirate Blackbeard's Ghost, but also the completely bonkers events that occur - particularly the madcap track and field competition, and the fight with the bad guys at the end in which fingers are used as guns to hilarious effect (you'd have to watch it to understand what I'm on about). Silly, slapstick, knockabout nonsense it may be ... but the script is sharp and funny (particularly Ustinov's wonderful dialogue) and all in all it's a delightfully daft romp that made me smile, chuckle and yes .. laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Great Disney Movie","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie last Saturday morning with my 11 year old daughter. This was the first time she saw this movie and about the fifth time for me.It is a movie full of humor and great acting. I really enjoy the Disney movies from the 60's and 70'sIf you have not seen this movie you must rent it. It is a movie the whole family can enjoy. No dirty words, no political agenda, just good old fashion fun.If Walt Disney were alive when this movie came out he would have put his stamp of improvement to it. Kariokebob "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Blackbeard's GhostFor a pirate from the 1600s, the biggest shock on the high seas today would have to be the treasure trove human trafficking.And the while misplaced marauder in this comedy is interested in loot, it's for charity.When a college coach (Dean Jones) buys a bed warmer owned by the pirate Blackbeard's wife, he finds a book of incantations inside and recites one.In doing so, he resurrects the restless spirit of Blackbeard (Peter Ustinov), who has been cursed by his wife to remain in limbo until he performs a good deed.Deciding to help save the local inn, Blackbeard's bumbling antics instead expedite its transformation into a casino. An optimistic take on the murderous pirate, Blackbeard's Ghost is a zany romp that doesn't skimp on classic live-action Disney charm.However, now that pirates are harmless, does that mean we can drink liquids with the Jolly Roger on them? (Yellow Light) "},{"Title":"Another title How every comedy movie should be","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is just a masterpiece of comedy movies! In the same words of Peter Unistov as Blackbeard, it seems that people don't know how to have fun anymore nowadays. I think that's the reason why I never saw many excellent comedies like that anymore. I love to see a great piece in the big screen, one of those who give us some reflection of life, some outstanding lines, epic portrayals of great men of our history and everything. But I also LOVE to strike a great laugh as well! And this movie delivers!! You just blow your head off of laughing, from the very beginning 'till the very end! The jokes are some of the best of all times!! Every single frame of this movie is a turbulence of nonstop laughing!! I just can't find words to say something bad about this movie, I mean it.How can one not give a single good laugh after seeing Blackbeard (Peter Unistov) put Steve Walker (Dean Jones) into trouble with a police officer? Or even, in the olympics where Blackbeard helps poor Godolphin team to win, specially when he messes up with the final competition, where he confuses every other runner simply using a hot-dog, a flag and a bottle of rum! THIS FOLKS, IS HOW EVERY COMEDY MOVIE SHOULD BE MADE!! I mean it! This is first class comedy! I first saw this movie when I had 8 years. I'm 26 now. And I continue to love this as much as I loved when I was a boy.This is, without a doubt a 10 out of 10! And even giving this a 10 is not enough, because it deserves much more! Perhaps, shouting the magic words (kree kru vergo gebba kalto kree) out loud can make some other picture like that appears around. While this isn't happen, get this one and have fun beyond your imagination! "},{"Title":"Funniest picture ever","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The movie is is a great all around, has a good storie and the characters are absolutely perfect, specially peter Ustinov, is absolutely fantastic in the movie, haven't seen a more funny picture ever!!!.A truly funny picture dosen't try to be funny but it just is. Recommend every one to see it.This is the story of black beard the ghost, whose wife put a curse on him, causing him to be stuck in limbo between the world of the living and dead i.e a Ghost, to be free of his curse he has to do a good deed which for Blackbeard is extremely difficult and all through the film goes wrong. "},{"Title":"A Walt Disney Classic that will have you laughing","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Title Blackbeard's Ghost opened in theaters on February 8, 1968 and it was 106 minutes long. Blackbeard's Ghost is a 1968 live-action fantasy comedy Disney film starring Peter Ustinov, Dean Jones, and Suzanne Pleshette, directed by Robert Stevenson. It is based upon the novel of the same name written by Ben Stahl and was shot in Walt Disney Studios. The Disney Channel aired this film until the late 1990s.Summary Steve Walker (Dean Jones) arrives in the seacoast town of Godolphin, North Carolina, to take the position of track coach at the local college. The night of his arrival coincides with a charity bazaar at Blackbeard's Inn, a hotel run by the elderly descendants of the pirate's crew, where Steve will be boarding. The owners are attempting to pay off their mortgage in order to keep the inn from being bought by the local crime boss, Silky Seymour (Joby Baker), who wants to build a casino on the land. In quick succession, Steve discovers his track team's shortcomings and conflicts with the dean of Godolphin College, its football coach, and Seymour; but he also makes the acquaintance of an attractive Godolphin professor, Jo Anne Baker (Suzanne Pleshette), who is anxious to help the elderly women save the Inn. A bidding war with the football coach at the charity auction nets Steve an antique bed warmer, once owned by the wife of Captain Blackbeard (who is the spitting image of Jo Anne, and was a witch). Inside this bed warmer is hidden a book of magic spells, that had once been the property of Blackbeard's wife. Steve recites one as a lark, unintentionally conjuring up the ghost of Blackbeard (Ustinov), who appears as a socially inappropriate drunkard whose wife cursed him to an existence in limbo unless he can perform a good deed.Questions What kind of problems did Blackbeard have? How did Blackbeard come alive? Who was Blackbeard hanging around with? Who was Steve talking to? What was stolen from the Inn? Who put a lot of money down on Steve's track team? Did Blackbeard interject himself into the track meet? Who was Silky Seymour? What does Silky Seymour have to do with the women at the Inn? My thoughts I love this movie and it was a Walt Disney classic. Blackbeard role as the Ghost was excellent. The trouble he caused was classic in itself. Suzanne Pleshette role in this movie was good. Despite the movie really not having a leading lady I give this movie 9 weasel stars because of the great comedy. "}{"Title":"Peter Ustinov is ever so good as I rememberd him!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film some 30 years ago and when it came on my television I remembered it as very funny. And it is still very funny, thanks to Peter Ustinov who is the real soul of the film. I would say that this film ages well. "},{"Title":"Alternately tiresome and funny.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This entertaining Disney comedy-fantasy drags at times, but its two major set pieces (the track championship and the final showdown) are worth watching. It's true that most of the film's dialogue passages are pretty tiresome, but it also has many clever visual gags, and some spectacular special effects.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Blackbeards ghost","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is by far, my favourite movie of all time. The cast is perfect and the script never fails to amuse me. I only wish i had discovered it sooner.I think the funniest scene must be at the casino near the end, where the guards are fighting Blackbeard but have no idea who they are fighting because he is invisible. Also when Blackbeard first appears to Steve in his room and they are both on the bed..My advise to people reading this is to go and order the DVD because i loved it the first time, and i still do after watching it almost 20 times. Call me sad? Wait and see. "},{"Title":"Superior Disney Film","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a classic from prolific Disney director Robert Stevenson. Dean Jones and Peter Ustinov are hilarious together and the script seems to have more in common with a witty Moliere-era French farce than the usual live-action Disney fare. By incorporating a curmudgeonly yet lovable ghost into the average world, Stevenson once again concocts his special blend of myth, magic and comic reality as established in 'Mary Poppins' and 'Darby O'Gill.' "},{"Title":"Yo Ho Ho and a Disney Bottle of Fun","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" 'The Ends Justify the Means', is the great moralistic virtue that this Disney tale weaves. The means of this Disney film is to justify plot elements to create opportunities for wacky moments. Such as when Disney Veteran Dean Jones is cornered by some bad goons, he points his finger into gun and says 'Bang'. And the goons start to fall over. They then try to knock his fingers out of the gun position. Of course when Dean fires his imaginary gun, it is Blackbeard's ghost who is knocking the bad guys over.Dean Jones makes any movie he is in, a lot of fun. For some reason the DVD copy I had, had a bad transfer. Maybe it was the TV. Overall despite the negatives, it was a fairly fun film. It was not as good as some Disney films, but better then others. If your into Disney films, it may be worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much; there is rarely a moment where I wasn't finding it interesting. There is some great acting, especially by Peter Ustinov, playing the ghost of Blackbeard.  9/10 "},{"Title":"A 1968 movie with its head stuck in 1959.","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The chronology of Disney movies that I saw growing up are almost a record of the stages of girlhood Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Lady and the Tramp, Greyfriars Bobby, The Moon-Spinners and lastly, at 14, The Fighting Prince of Donegal&#x97;a satisfying transition out of puberty, with Peter McEnery swashbuckling his way into my adolescent heart. Three years later, I was buying tickets to Bonnie and Clyde, The Graduate, and In the Heat of the Night, as well as imports from Bedazzled to Closely Watched Trains. By 1968, I didn't even notice the release of Blackbeard's Ghost. Today I appreciate Disney movies not only for the purity of the nostalgia, but for the durability of the formula, and Disney's skillful choice (if not use) of talent. I recently re-watched several, just because of the casts Moon-Spinners for Eli Wallach, Joan Greenwood, Irene Papas, and (yes) Pola Negri. Pollyanna for Donald Crisp, Adolph Menjou, Agnes Moorehead. Kidnapped for Finlay Currie and the Peters O'Toole and Finch. Swiss Family Robinson for John Mills and Sessue Hayakawa.And Blackbeard's Ghost for Peter Ustinov and Elsa Lanchester. There's barely a glimpse of her after the first half hour or so, but he is in almost every scene, buttressing a silly plot with his inventive light physical comedy, and managing to sell a truly ridiculous role. Beyond, ridiculous, really as the plot hurtles forward, he develops preternatural powers more associated with superheroes than with fat drunken ghosts.Ustinov, unfortunately, is the only reason to dedicate 106 minutes to this movie. Its few other qualities lag far behind the wildly creative sets for Blackbeard's Inn do look like they were assembled of jetsam (as the dialog says), and though Dean Jones is no Laurence Olivier (he's not even Fred Macmurray), he does a fine job as the dauntless straight man to Ustinov's spectral pirate. "},{"Title":"Blackbeard's Ghost","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Ustinov is entertaining as an infamous pirate in this slapstick Walt Disney comedy. It has moments quite overbearing and moments that are quite engaging. Ustinov is the one that keeps you interested and laughing. Elsa Lancaster co-stars.   "},{"Title":"Blackbeard's Ghost A Brilliant Comedy","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Blackbeard's Ghost is a terrific comic tale of what might happen if the great, terrible pirate captain came back but only to have a heart.Dean Jones gives a terrific comic performance and some of the sight gags are simply incredible, particularly a scene in which Blackbeard (Ustinov) makes the roulette table miraculously successful for Jones.This has always been a Disney classic, but I would venture to say it should be considered a comedy classic in general.I saw this first when I was about 10 and have loved it ever since. "},{"Title":"A good laugh here and there...","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The new track-coach in town conjures up the ghost of an 18th century pirate; together they save an ancient inn from being taken over by crooked men who operate in rigged casinos. Hammy opus from the Disney Studios, right off their assembly-line, is colorful in presentation without being very whimsical. Still, it's not without the requisite G-rated pleasures, silly-funny slapstick, and some laughs. Dean Jones and love-interest Suzanne Pleshette are an easy match, but blustery Peter Ustinov as the besotted spirit could use some lessons in subtlety. Supporting cast (Elsa Lanchester, Richard Deacon, et al) is like a round-up of Disney's stock players. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Family entertainment","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Have a fun time as Peter Ustinov and Dean Jones frolic in Blackbeard's Ghost.  An innocent family movie where Ustinov gives a demonstration on fun acting.  Typical Disney fare of the 1950's & 1960's.  Have a few laughs without having to think to deep.  I rated this a 7 on the scale.  "},{"Title":"Blasphemy","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this piece of tripe and couldn't believe the mockery of a brilliant yet ruthless legend. Teach deserves more respect, like the portrayal of him in the National Geographic film Terror At Sea. He was inventive, strong minded, and wise up until his brutal death. To betray these traits is offensive to me when there aren't many others who could have held a candle to him and most likely never will. To make some goofy film about the most notorious seaman of all time, especially in the era of Sergio Leone & others is just an embarrassment. I don't mean to be a nerd or defend a man who some may find offensive, but as far as history is concerned (in my own opinion) he was among the most riveting. I feel he was more of a role model than a villain depending on the perspective you take. Any film that takes at shot at a man such as he is a display of ignorance and stupidity. I suggest reading Under The Black Flag by David Cordingly who writes about Teach using fact, not silliness which only minimizes and belittles the genius of one of the last true men who embraced freedom and had the will & courage to choose his own destiny The floggings will continue until morale improves. "},{"Title":"A shipwreck of a movie, it's just not funny.  Perhaps young children might like it?","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"       In this Walt Disney produced comedy, a track coach (Dean Jones) begins a new job coaching the Godolphins, a team without a ghost of a chance of winning anything.       The ladies he is staying with are the great-great granddaugters of Blackbeard the ghost, and they are about to lose their home if they don't come up with $38,000 to pay off their mortgage.  A crooked gambling man plans to get their propterty and build a casino on the site.      Dean Jones' charcter accidently finds a spell or 'conjuration' that brings back the 'ghost of Blackbeard' who gets involved in trying to save the home of his great-great granddaughters from the crooked gambler, and all types of antics follow.       The characters in this film do not click together.  Translation  it's just not funny.  Perhaps younger children (definitely under 13) might like it, but I suspect most adults will be annoyed by the corny acting performances of almost every principle actor in the film.  Even the great Peter Ustinov can't save this sinking ship.  It would have been better to leave 'Blackbeard's Ghost' in limbo, thus sparing the rest of us from this shipwreck of a movie.  I give it a 4/10 "}]