[{"Title":"This is truly a very entertaining family film for every one.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film has not been seen by me in quite a few years.  It came on the Disney Channel in the wee hours of the morning.  I stayed up to watch it, and found it even more entertaining than the first time.  The story, the scenery and the characters are as good as they come.  I know that if anyone takes the time to view this film, they will find it definitely worth seeing a second time.  It's very memorable in more ways than one.  I would recommend this film to anyone because it is both entertaining and educational for all concerned.s "},{"Title":"Superior to newer Disney offerings","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a really fun movie with great narration.  The acting is sub-par generally, but this only seems to add to the effect of a rough logging camp and its workers.Adults should find this film enjoyable, but it's mainly for young people. This film deals with issues that youth will find prescient  loneliness, alienation, fitting-in, and growing up... all through that scampish yet delightful cougar.Much better than Disney's silly, flashy, A.D.D. inducing, garish animated movies of recent years; Charlie, the Lonesome Cougar should not be overlooked, parents. "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to Charlie?","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I recently saw this film on TV for the 1st time in more than 30 years. The memories it brought back are indescribable. It reminded me of a time when Disney made family films that were not just cartoons. For those of us who are parents now, it is becoming harder and harder to find films that we can take our children to, except for cartoons. It is very sad that films such as Swiss Family Robinson, Candleshoe and Freaky Friday are no longer being made. And after seeing this film again made me curious about what happened to the cougar who played Charlie. As far as I know, he never played in another film. Where did he live and when did he die? If anyone knows, I would appreciate any information they can offer. "},{"Title":"Great family film.","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" A lumberman finds a young cougar in need of help. To young to be on his own the cat soon takes up with the rugged camp workers. Nicknamed Good Time Charlie' his antics amuse everyone at first. His wild nature eventually begins to cause trouble and reintroducing him into his natural habitat becomes an issue. This film is among those wonderful Disney nature films that were common in the 50's and 60's Lots of action, beautiful scenery and some endearing animal to charm you. These films were not long but included fascinating glimpses into wildlife and the effects of human contact. Unlike Disney's animated talking animals the animals in these films remained true to their own nature. They also make great travel films for seeing the western states. "},{"Title":"One Good Disney True Life Adventure","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  It isn't billed as one of his true-life series, but it could be. It ranks with Bear Country and Living Desert, two of his True Life Adventure episodes. Charlie is the name loggers of the Northwest give to a cougar who has the habit of visiting their camp at mealtime. Soon, he's as tame as Disney's imagination can make all wild animals. He does revert a couple of times to the wild instinct in him, but nothing too violent for children of all ages. It could be used in the schoolroom, if there weren't so many other good media choices already. "},{"Title":"Log drive on the Clearwater","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of those movies you just watch for the pictures. There isn't much of a story and there isn't much acting, aside from the animals, but the scenery is great and it's amazing they can train animals like that.It's worth watching just to see actual footage of one of the last log drives on the Clearwater river. Not long after the movie was made, the Clearwater was dammed up, and that whole beautiful valley was killed by the muck and slack-water behind Dworshak dam. If they tried to make a movie like this these days, they'd have to do it with CGI, because you just can't pile up 600,000 feet of old-growth logs and dump them in a river any more, even if you could find one that wasn't dammed up. The animal rights people would probably have something to say about having a cougar jump into a pen full of sheep and run over top of a bunch of piglets, too. There are some hokey parts of the production such as the moonlight cougar romp under a bright sunny sky, and the dynamiting of a small pile of driftwood that is supposed to be a log jam (after lighting the wick, no less), but in the genre of animal pictures this is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Friendly Big Cat","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Winston Hibler directed this pleasant story from Walt Disney studios about a group of loggers in the Pacific Northwest who adopt an orphaned cougar cub they found in the woods, and make him their unofficial mascot, who entertains them with his playful antics throughout camp. When he gets bigger, it isn't quite so funny, since he tends to raid and wreck their kitchen! When Charlie gets lost, he embarks on a series of adventures that cause him to revert to being wild, so when he finally makes his way back to camp, starts to become destructive, and possibly dangerous, though one man in particular(played by Ron Brown) is determined to save his life, and protect his future(along with a nice lady cougar he met along the way...) Entertaining film is fun for the whole family, and cat lovers in particular. "},{"Title":"Rooowwwrrr!","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Excellent film. I don't know how they contained a cougar, domesticated or not, as he ran through a town, a lumberyard, etc. How did a cougar run around in the open forest without just taking off? I wouldn't trust my cats or dogs to do this. Must have been a very well-trained cougar. I never knew that log flumes stretched for over ten miles! How did they get the cougar to ride a log? It was obviously happening, since there was no computer generated imagery back then. The part where he chased a raccoon up a tree and they both fell in the river....I don't know if that borders on animal cruelty - what did they do - release a raccoon and let the cougar chase it? How many raccoons did they go through until they got it right?? I actually watched this movie on the big screen TV with my two cats in the room. They were riveted - I think it's their favorite movie. My black cat, Shaft, jumped up on the table in front of the screen and stayed there - watching Charlie's every move. Too funny! "},{"Title":"PERHAPS THE GREATEST FILM IN HISTORY!!!!!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  this is one of my favorite movies ever!  along with casablanca and cannibal holocaust, this is near perfect cinema.  rex allen narrates this wonderful tale of a cougar who just needs a little loving.  contains action, adventure, suspense, comedy, and riverbed chaos!  SEE THIS MOVIE IF YOU HAVE TO KILL TO DO IT!!!  you will not find a better cat picture anywhere, with cat from outer space coming in as a not so close second.  charlie's performance is magnificent.  even includes animal cruelty and intense logging!  gotta love disney, for all moral failures! "}]