[{"Title":"An Underrated Poitier Vehicle","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Recorded on a budget of just $640,000, To Sir, With Love was drafted, as with Lilies of the Field, to give Sidney a share of the gross profits to account for his diminished fee. Writer-director Clavell also received the same arrangement, a writer who was chosen for his love of the source material. The rights to the source, an identically-named novel by E. R. Braithwaite, had passed from studio to studio, and been offered to numerous stars before finally getting the green light when in the hands of Columbia President Mike Frankovich.Poitier noted in his autobiography the similarities in terms of racial issues between America and England. Filmed in London, the picture featured a number of minorities, many of whom, he observed, would be unable to find work outside of the confines of the movie. However, for his time spent with the cast, he was delighted with their company. Sidney played Mark Thackeray, one of his most famous characters, an engineer taking a teaching post as a stopgap between jobs. Eventually the relationship he develops with the students causes him to question his loyalty to the profession.To Sir, With Love is often frowned upon nowadays due to its sentimentality. While not wholly condemned as a film, it is certainly regarded as the poor relation of Poitier's three 1967 works. This is an unfair assessment of a movie that commits the only crime of having its heart on its sleeve. And, though the late sixties would see an increase in the political situation, To Sir, With Love was the only one of the three Poitier vehicles that year that did not rely upon his colour for its subtext. Instead, a few bigoted remarks were inserted, largely from a fellow teacher (Geoffrey Bayldon as Mr. Weston) than the pupils. Compared to his other overshadowing works that year, direction paled, too, the camera-work at times almost static. However, the scope for Poitier as an actor was broader than in the other '67 roles, and certainly broader than in the 1996 TV sequel. Where there the plot would be propelled largely by one pupil, here multiple characters would be guided through numerous situations over an entire term period. Over the course of the lengthy film the viewer can feel as though they have experienced the timescale too. And who would argue that the sheer amount of silly moves Sidney and Judy Geeson perform in the final ball didn't directly influence Travolta and Uma Thurman in Pulp Fiction? "},{"Title":"But how can you thank someone who has taken you from crayons to perfume...","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is about many things &#150; teen angst, race relations, and poverty. But what it's *really* about is teased hair, heavy eyeliner and miniskirts. And the title song, of course. Who could ever forget the gushing sentimentality of Lulu warbling about crayons and perfume? It is a charmer of a movie with life breathed into it by a fresh cast of young Brits. Released at a time when the world was captivated by all things British, it was relatively daring at the time it was made. A low-budget film that raked it in at the box office, Poitier, as in *Lilies of the Field*, wisely accepted a low salary in exchange for a share of the profits. But the biggest profit of all is his portrayal of the East End school teacher, Mark Thackery, who quickly learns that his students need a different kind of education than that of a textbook. It has been, unfairly or not, relentlessly compared to *The Blackboard Jungle*, and it is a blood-relation to *Up the Down Staircase* and *Dangerous Minds*. But none of them have the sweetness of Judy Geeson, as Thackery's irrepressible student Pamela Dare. At the end of the movie, when Thackery and Dare dance together, racial, social and philosophical barriers are smashed, and hope springs eternal. "},{"Title":"Great, landmark teacher-student relationship film","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The school movie against which all other school movies are measured. Sidney Poitier was on a roll in 1966-67(A PATCH OF BLUE, GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER, IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT)and TO SIR, WITH LOVE crowned that succession of great films. Poitier's Thackery is meticulous and elegant, something of a revelation to the unwashed juvenile deliquents and teen sluts who populate his class. Yet this unemployed engineer has his work cut out for him, as his motley crew will try just about anything(including burning tampons in the classroom stove!)to run him off. Instead of exploding like the kids wish, Thackery takes a different tack; treating them like adults and talking about things they have questions about. The ploy works, and along the way Thackery learns to deal with indifferent fellow teachers, racism, lovestruck female students, and a hard decision that will determine his future . . .      A great inspirational movie, TO SIR, WITH LOVE also boasts British songstress Lulu in her first film role, as well as prominent soundtrack artist(The Mindbenders are the others). The process by which Thackery molds these wild, rebellious teens into mature and thoughtful adults--and the teens' resulting respect for Thackery, quite possibly the first respect they've ever felt for an adult--is touching. Definitely a classic film worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sidney Poitier is absolutely superb in this film about a novice teacher who prepares a class of uncouth youths for adulthood. There are too many wonderful scenes to catalogue in this commentary but among the highlights are his reaction to the naughty chatter of the ladies on the bus, his coping with the young lady who has a crush on him, and his complicated relationship with the stiffnecked rebel of the class. There are so many positive messages imparted in this film and they come across without being heavy-handed. Highly recommended, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rent this movie. Don't read any reviews of it, just go out and rent it.It's one of the best movies of the last forty years, and Sidney Poitier is just beautiful in it. The movie glows, has a soul even, and actually dares to say something of value. I wish they made more movies like this today! Just a gorgeous movie going experience........ "},{"Title":"Touching film; anchored by Poitier's flawless performance","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Poitier's exceptional lead performance anchors this touching film about that special person who changes your life. As the first time teacher to a group of undisciplined British youth, Poitier is in virtually every frame of this picture. It is a role that calls for a high degree of character development, and Poitier meets and expands the challenge by totally inhabiting the character he is playing. I honestly cannot think of any way his performance could be better, and this is a huge compliment for any actor - even one of Mr. Poitier's immense talents.While not in the same league, the young cast of then-unknowns also perform quite well. Particularly effective of the young cast members is fresh-faced Judy Geeson, who brings unexpected depth to the stereotypical role of the young schoolgirl love-struck over Mr. Poitier (who could blame her). Director/writer/producer James Clavell avoids over-sentimentalization by inject his well-written script with a healthy dose of realism. The film may not be particularly striking, in the visual sense, but Clavell is a perfectly competent film maker, and his love of the material is evident throughout the entire picture. "},{"Title":"Dated but still a good movie.","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first time I had watched TSWL, I was probably about 14, but not from the era the film is from. None the less, I found it fascinating, poignant, funny at times, and warm. The funny thing is that while the clothes, music and styles may change, the feelings we have are common and do not change much over the years. Kids rebel, test and resist authority, and push the rules. We've all done it in some way or another. I smoked cigs, drank beer and had long hair. Others hung-out with the wrong crowd, drank beer or skipped class. TSWL as is The Blackboard Jungle are dated today, but so are Class of 1984 and Stand and Deliver, but they all share the same premise, emotions and struggles. If a movie can convey them honestly, as does To Sir, with Love, then it deserves recognition. I always like to watch TSWL, it does make you feel good in the long run. Even after all your disobedience at school, most of us grew up and realized the importance of what we had learned and were now sad to leave the memories, friends and teachers. I think we also realize that we are also leaving a young version of us behind and it's sad to let that childlike version go. It's time to start growing up. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming classroom drama with a great sound-track.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Novice teacher, Mark Thackeray, arrives at a secondary school in a depressed area of London's East End and transforms a class of jeuvenile delinquents into a group of responsible, mature and caring young people, confounding his critics amongst the jaundiced teaching staff.From the very beginning, members of the class try to bait him into losing his temper so that he'll quit.  Their previous teacher committed suicide, we are told.  Gradually, he gains their trust and helps them overcome their personal struggles, thus winning their respect and friendship.Its a slice of sixties social idealism that may appear dated and oversentimental to some, but it loses none of its sincerity or good intentions.  The book by E.R. Braithwaite was based on his own real life experiences in the 1950's.  Once again, James Clavell displays his winning touch with the screenplay and direction.  The role of Thackeray had strong appeal to Sidney Poitiers for its portrayal of African-American characters as responsible role-models, a theme common to many of his films.  There is a notable screen debut for Judy Geeson who went onto become one of the most fashionable jeuvenile actresses of the late 1960's.  With a schoolgirl crush, she competes with beautiful teacher Suzy Kendall for the attentions of Thackeray.The films sound-track provides good material for another debutante, Lulu, who sings the main title.  It went onto become the top-selling record in the U.S. for 1967, but inexplicably, was never released in the U.K. as a single. The lyrics are provided by the highly talented Don Black who had also written the themes to 'Born Free' and 'The Italian Job' as well as collaborating with John Barry on three of the James Bond Films of that period.  The backing group are The Mindbenders who provide the school band sound. They had a U.K. No.2 in the charts at the time with 'A Groovy Kind of Love' and in collaboration with Wayne Fontana, a U.S. No.1 with 'Game of Love' the previous year.The recently released DVD provides a good quality print of this thoroughly enjoyable film and is well worth viewing.   I give it ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Feel Good Film","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A new teacher arrives at a tough inner city school populated by teenage hooligans . Hardly a new concept for a movie is it ? , but TO SIR WITH LOVE is slightly different from the same type of film made in the 1980s and 90s , it`s set in swinging sixties London when Britannia really was cool , and the kids are  Cor blimey guvner  cockney kids who are not really bad , they`re just misunderstood and if you treat them as adults they`ll behave like adults . This is a totally naive , predictable film with an extremely progressive streak but that`s what I enjoyed about it as Mark Thackeray shows the kids what being an adult is all about . There`s not a cynical bone in this movie`s body , and it`s good to remember a time when a  really tough  school meant pupils talking in class and slamming doors    "},{"Title":"This may be the ultimate movie about a teacher.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As one of the movies (along with In the Heat of the Night and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner) that made 1967 Sidney Poitier's annus mirabilis, To Sir, with Love shows a man forced to take charge in a less-than-pleasant situation. Poitier plays Mark Thackeray, a Guyanese engineer hired to teach in a high school in a rough London neighborhood. The students not only have little interest in school, but are not quite ready to be taught by a black man. Mark is forced to show the students that he will not tolerate insubordination.Poitier did great in this role, with good support from the rest of the cast (including Lulu, who sang the theme song). It affirms his status as one of the greatest actors in movie history. And also, I hope that nobody tries to compare this with Dangerous Minds; the latter was in my opinion an insult. To Sir, with Love was a masterpiece. "}{"Title":"A life-affecting movie","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. I can honestly say that it helped to inspire me to become a school teacher, because of the influence that one can have on the lives of young students. In this sense, this movie is probably the one that had the most profound effect on my life... "},{"Title":"A lesson in communication","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A graduate engineer Mark Thackeray (Sidney Poitier) can't find a job in his field of expertise so applies for a job as a teacher at an East End school in London. The school administration is virtually non-existent and the students a bunch of noisy and unruly teenagers completely out of control. Desperate for a job Mark accepts the position. His first confrontation with the students augurs a life of misery and disappointment for him. They are a disrespectful and cheeky lot who make snide remarks about the fact that he is black.While the other teachers have given up all hope, Mark after careful thought decides on a new psychological approach believing that if he treats them like adults they may respond in a similar way. The main interest in this film is observing the slow but positive transformation of each of the students.Sidney Poitier is at his finest as the teacher who grapples with the multitude of problems that each day brings. The characters in the schoolroom played by a young cast give great support as their cruel attitudes towards their teacher melt into respectful admiration.There are two scenes in the film which are particularly moving. The first is the arrival of a letter indicating he has at last gained a new job as engineer and the second is the day he receives a present from the East End kids the product of broken homes in London.This film is highly recommended for those contemplating school teaching as a career. Only a brave person could face a class like that, but if and when the class is tamed and brought to a respectful conclusion, what better reward than that? Highly recommended but tissues may be needed. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie but suffers from the West Side Story Syndrome","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I finally got around to seeing To Sir With Love and thoroughly enjoyed it.   To Sir With Love has been greatly affected by what I call the West Side Story Syndrome, wherein the kids who used to be shocking and menacing are now quaint. It completely changes the emotional impact of the movie. West Side Story greatly benefited from the syndrome but To Sir With Love mostly suffers from it.When I watched To Sir With Love, I had to keep telling myself, Oh yeah, these are scary kids.  So, when they transform from lowlifes into budding, lovable adults, the emotional impact just wasn't there. Also lost is the shocking audaciousness of a black man dancing with a white girl. Kudos to James Clavell for daring to do that scene in 1967.  It's something even modern directors shy away from.The lead song by Lulu is absolutely terrific except that the movie WAY overplays it.  Once at the beginning and once during the dance scene would have been enough.   I hope I don't sound too critical since it really is a good move.Sidney Poitier is in top form and sexy in a way that disappeared soon after 1967. It is also interesting to note that Poetier looks like a real black guy... not the chocolate with white features look that  later became so popular.  "},{"Title":"Heart warming - jerks a happy tear. Must See. Ageless","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Heart warming  full of compassion and good communication that cuts through despair and complacency. Jerks a happy tear. Stunning musical interpretation by Lulu of a clever tune with even more clever lyrics. Despite the 1966 date, the emotion is ageless in reaching out. A MUST SEE for everyone's movie favorite list. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful, simple screenplay can do","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film stands as one of my all time favorites.  What I love about it is its simplicity.  I just gets my heart.  I can't tell you how great a feeling it is to enjoy a great screenplay, devoid of ridiculous 90's special effects.  There's no Bruce Willis with an oversized machine gun improbably hosing down 37 ninjas.  It's a story from the heart brought to the screen crisply and cleanly.  The cinematography is that fantastic semi-gritty 60's style, coupled with an amazing amount of deep-focus shots a la Citizen Kane (watch for them!).  Make no mistake about it, this is not at all shot like a made for TV movie, the shooting is fresh and the editing subtly evocative. In short, it's not canned Hollywood garbage.Regrettably, there seems to be a shortage of this type of film, and I dare say that kids today are probably unfamiliar and unable to appreciate this type of product.  Why do I think this?  Maybe those kids are raised with the non-stop accompaniment of digital effects in every commercial and tv shows and would frankly not have the patience or introspection necessary to enjoy the film.  Maybe they see it strictly as a 1967 period piece, which it isn't, because they lack a real understanding of how fine stories and emotions can be told in any time period.  Anyhow, what a great movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember how moved I was by this movie the first time I saw it.  I still feel the same every time I see it.  I enjoy a movie that can take me from tears to laughter almost in the same scene.  I only wish I would have had a teacher like Mr. Thackery once in my lifetime.  Great Movie! "},{"Title":"Old school","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are so any things which date this film, you could lose count. Its outlook towards the generation gap, racism, sexism, music and more really do seem preserved in mid-60's aspic and while it has some vintage charm, it has many more embarrassing aspects of almost look-away gaucheness.In its favour are the exterior London locations, I suppose the feel-good nature of the plot and a mostly watchable star performance by Sidney Poitier as the Sir of the title. Supposedly the new teacher at a school for difficult near-adult pupils you too will be amazed at how he tames his class of young hooligans just by throwing away their text books and talking about life.Elsewhere clichés abound, from Poitier's encounters with the class rebel, who he eventually teaches a lesson in the boxing ring and the class beauty who eventually forms a crush on him, to the unconventional way he gives out lessons. Occasionally the film tries to grow up with some adult-banter on the bus at Poitier's expense or the strange ritual burning of a sanitary towel in class, but with its largely teenage cast and references to contemporary pop-culture, it seems definitely aimed at the younger movie-goer.Poitier is good right up until he does his silly one-on-one dance with the adoring Julie Christie lookalike Sally Geeson and you feel more could have been made of his relationship with Suzy Kendall as his white, female colleague who offers him support. The young cast of class pupils occasionally turn to wood but a very young Lulu does quite well in concealing her broad Scottish accent and singing the hit title tune.The direction tries to be hip too, never more so than with the photo-montage of the class trip to a museum, but the editing isn't always clear and you suspect many of the scenes are watered down for the benefit of the censor.Still it was nice to jump into my 60's time-machine and watch a reasonably entertaining film from that era "},{"Title":"Enough to Restore Your Faith in Human Nature.","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Poitier, doing just fine as usual, is a teacher assigned to a rough gang of kids in an Enblish working-class school. They hate him. Not because he's black, though that fact figures in a few off-hand insults, but because he's a toff. He speaks proper English and dresses in suits and ties and he knows stuff -- like the girls' bouffant hair styles are 2,000 years old. He takes them to museums to prove it. He shows them that there's more to a salad than just a couple of leaves of wilted lettuce, which is an advance over the culinary skills of my ex spouse. I once tried to show her how to boil an egg. The resulting scuffle became a scandal but I thought Fox News went a little too far in labeling it Hard-Boiled-Egg-Gate.These ructious British kids are user friendly. Not like Poitier's earlier effort, Blackboard Jungle, where they threw baseballs at the teacher and beat hell out of him in an alley. Here, their English equivalents are just noisy and irreverent. Potier straightens them out in the course of the film. One of the students, the delectable blond Judy Geeson, develops a crush on him, but the suave, knowing, and sympathetic teacher knows how to solve that problem too. Turn him to any cause of policy, The Gordian Knot of it he will unloose, Familiar as his garter The film oozes a savory sentimentality. It's like a fairy tale with a happy ending. The best part is that we know the happy ending is coming, so we can allow ourselves an anxiety jag, as if we weren't quite sure. Watching the kids mature under Sir's guidance is like attending a religious ritual, a fixed point in a changing and disappointing universe. And what a climax -- with Poitier and the adoring Judy Geeson dancing 1960's style to the theme song.The theme song, To Sir, With Love, by I guess Ron Grainer, was a popular tune on the period hit parade. At the time it was just another pop tune. But listening to it today, the inventiveness of the melody, the intricate rhyming lyrics, the purity and clarity of the vocalist's voice -- she seems to have flawless control over her slow vibrato -- it just rouses our awareness of the decline in vernacular music since then, unless you can't get enough of electronic percussion, anger, and rhymes that don't quite rhyme.Sure, the film is laden with devices that are designed to engage the viewer's emotions. But at least the emotions are among those that have traditionally been considered positive. If it were remade today, I wonder if the students would turn out to be vampires, invade Poitier's home, wrench off his head, and suck the blood out of his neck cavity with straws. God, we've become desensitized to the point of insensibility. "},{"Title":"Pop art classroom drama","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mild account of trained engineer (Portier) taking job as a teacher in troubled East End secondary school in order to make ends meet, who discovers that his greatest fulfilment emanates from the life lessons he's able to impart on the delinquent and impoverished youth giving them the impetus to strive for a better life. Portier is confronted by the nay-sayers (Bayldon) on staff who've temporarily lost the essential attributes of an educator, and the not unexpected behaviour of his wayward charges who indulge in every primitive misdemeanour imaginable. Portier's decision to approach this challenge by treating the students as young adults and with dignity to which they're unaccustomed brings welcome relief to all, and ensures Lulu sings the title song at least twice before the film's end.Geeson is alluring as the temptress on the verge of womanhood with a palpable crush on Portier, while Kendall plays his obliging peer, also enamoured by his chivalrous temperament. Clavell's film previews a plethora of mature concepts (racism, teenage pregnancy, death, drugs, infidelity, domestic violence) but opts for a neutral postcard rather than engage the characters to any considerable depth. Therefore, while well acted, the overall result is superficial and subdued.Light entertainment, the type of film that would comfortably nestle into school curriculum with the aim of introducing children to the aforementioned themes, but not to canvass them in graphic detail. "},{"Title":"I love the supporting cast of this movie","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I give this film 5 out of 10 specifically for the great supporting cast all of the kids and all of the other teachers and adults, except...SIR. I absolutely can't stand this patriarchal sexist jerk of a teacher! he is so incredibly obnoxious and self-righteous.It's fun to see Patricia Routledge in a film role (she played Hyacinth Bucket in Keeping Up Appearances and Hetty Wainthrop on television). Lulu is great and sings the great theme song.I love the sense of place and the sense of time (1967). The music, the look of this movie is great.But the film's attitude is basically the same as Sir, which mars this film too much for me.There was an American film that was similar in 1967 called Up The Down Staircase, where Sandy Dennis (splendidly) plays a first-time high school teacher, but in an American school. That film is so much better because it isn't marred by all that sanctimony - patriarchal and sexist attitudes.I didn't understand that oven scene either, good grief! (; "}{"Title":"an inspirational film","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen To sir with love many times and i love this film.Its a pity we don't have teachers like Mark Thackery in todays world then maybe our children would enjoy the learning process.Sidney Poitiers character shows his pupils that he cares about their education and that he cares about them as people.The way he instills respect into the boys and shows them how to respect others is an inspiration in its self.He helps them to overcome many problems especially the racial issue when one of the pupils parent dies. And they can not attend the funeral or go around to the boys house as its not the done thing.Thank god its 2004 "},{"Title":"Quite special","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can remember watching this movie when I was a child, and knew I liked it, but couldn't remember why. Now in my twenties, it wasn't until I watched it again recently on DVD that I remembered why. Even though many of these kinds of movies have been made since this one's release, this movie gives it to us in a convincing way. Unlike many others that tried to make us feel for the characters, this movie actually does the job. We want the people we watch here to succeed, and we feel for the teacher. Where Remember The Titans gave us the desire to see the young men get along, To Sir With Love movie makes us want to do the same. A definite classic in my book.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think people have to reflect on the racial tensions at the time this movie was made, and to look at the transformations that occur within the film. The main character does not really want to be in the job, he is an engineer, who has worked his way through the system to get his degree. It shows a high degree of tolerance and determination.Yet, quickly in this film, he is reduced to anger and frustration. All his education does not prepare him for what do I have to do to reach these kids?. He is at a crisis, the students are at a cross-road in their lives, and neither side wants to be at school.So he decided to introduce respect and tolerance of others as part of the lessons. It is laughed at in the beginning, but self-respect seems to be something that the kids really want. It is a reflection of the self-respect the African-American desired. The kids in the beginning are considered beyond hope, and just putting in time. It is not that different from the African-American lack of hope in the mid-60's.But, the teacher teaches, and the kids learn. He treats them with respect, and expects repect in return. I think it a relevation to those in the film to realize they are adults, and need to act like adults. A very surpising turn of events in the end when the teacher must chose for himself .. the engineer, or the teacher. It is an economic and social choice. To help the masses raise themselves up, or to become part of the industrial machine. In a movie like this there really is only one choice, but it is intesting to see it happen.Poiter is rather stiff and aloof at the beginning, some might call it bad acting .. I call it brilliant. He is uncomfortable with the role of teacher.. to stand in front of a class, and server others. He is used to an academic lifestyle where he can hide away in thoughts and calculation .. and they never give reason to search his soul deeper. But the students become the teacher, and the teacher the student of life. He grows, as do they. In the end .. during the dance .. he is still stiff, but more sure of his path. He does not bow out as would be the typical persons choice, but he finishes the dance to become one with those he teaches. It is a rite of passage, and shows the deeper thoughts of the man.See the movie, and relaize it was filmed almost 40 years ago in the high of racial unreast in the USA. Imagine yourself in the same situation .. and how would you react? Poiter gives us a picture of a man in crisis, not just a black man, but anyman. I think this picture is a credit to it's time, and should be a classic. A white man in the same role would not have had the social impact this film did in the mid-60's, and it is a credit to Clavell for casting Poiter. Always an under-rated actor, but he always produces a superior role.  "},{"Title":"Great story. Top-notch acting.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my all-time favorites. Sidney Poitier is absolutely fantastic as the teacher who takes over the class of tough kids that nobody wants to teach. The acting is all first-class. I find this hard to believe, and hate to admit it, but whenever I watch this movie, the ending with Lulu's song puts me in tears every time. They just don't make movies like this anymore. This reminds me very much of another teaching movie, Conrack, which I believe is just as good a movie. I give this movie a 9 on a scale of 10. Rent it! "},{"Title":"The one which should have won an oscar!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a poignant film based of the real experiences of E.R. Braithwaite.It's difficult to define what makes a film a classic.  But I believe this is one.  You can watch it time and again.  The film addresses issues which (sadly) are still current today.Most often I think of the way in which the children in the film are reported in the newspaper after a visit to the school by a reporter and photographer. Whenever I read an article about delinquents in school in a newspaper today, I take it with a pinch of salt.  The one thing which has not changed since the '40's and '50's is the way in which the media colours the truth to make a sellable story. "},{"Title":"Incredible movie that helped break down racial barriers.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was only 11 when I first saw this movie. Sidney Poitier's role shed a whole new light for me on how blacks and whites could grow and work together. My own life to that point had not given me this awareness. What I knew at that juncture had been based upon my Grandfather's ideas as a white, southern plantation owner. To Sir, with Love opened my eyes as nothing had ever done before. I became a fan and have remained a Sidney Poitier fan since that time. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie Full Of Hope","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is simply a beautiful movie made even more special for the time it was produced in the midst of the most hostile times of the civil rights movement.  To Sir With Love is a movie set in the mid 60's at a run down inner city high school and it's pure awesome.  To Sir With Love is a tear jerker tale of a strong black man's trials by fire learning himself as a teacher who helps troubled teen aged kids grow up, learn lessons and grow into strong solid adults.Now by todays standards these kids are angels any teacher would ache to have in their classes as their is not a car jacker, herion freak, crack whore or psycho gun crazy in the whole lot of them.  Naw this was back in the day where student thugs carried switch blades, stole cars to joy ride, drank beer on the way to school, harrassed everyone who was not cool enough to be them and showed a genuine abiding disrespect to all authority and, people over 30 years old.  While this movie is not exactly leave it to beaver in its wholesomeness its pretty close by todays standards alrighty.No this movie is not a factual look into school violence or, teen mischeif and mayham.  This movie is about how a strong black man with honor sets out to make the world a better place than it was when he found it.  This movie is more inspiration than sensational.  The main theme song was cut and released as a stand alone song sung by a person named Lulu when the movie was released.You definately should treat yourself to this one. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  the movie to sir with love was in my opinion a great movie. i believe that it held a message that is applicable to many areas of life. i.e. that the normal conventional way of handling problems is not always the best or most effective way to go. also that sincerity and caring can be a crucial element in solving problems. sidney poitier reminded me a lot of one of my teachers years ago- a teacher i have never forgotten and have always been grateful for. the song, to sir with love, reminds me of this teacher and how much she really taught me- things that were in addition to my subjects lessons. i thank God that there are such people working with our kids because they are worth their weight in gold.  "},{"Title":"Student-Teacher-Staff Relations","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  He may have graduated from Blackboard Jungle at MGM, but he's back again with unruly youth in need of training at Pinewood Studios in To Sir, With Love.  Sidney Poitier is now Mark Thackery, an unemployed engineer who takes a job as high school teacher in London's east end to make ends meet. Here he encounters various predicatable professional and personal obstacles to overcome at his new school assignment. The set up is fairly standard, and one senses the charismatic actor will out before the school year is over. It's just nice to see his back-to-basics curricular approach winning over and transforming a rather motley group of class seniors by graduation time.James Clavell's production moves along well with pertinent lines and strong acting, with Christian Roberts' Denham and Judy Geeson's Pamela being outstanding. The title song is also catchy and appropriate.Made at the height of Poitier's popularity (with his sole name over the title) this film quite adequatey fulilled the star vehicle property.  It also managed to convey some constructive attitudes concerning mature and youthful approaches to adult responsibility.     "},{"Title":"Sixties Classroom Battle","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film increases in charm and innocence every year that the fashion, social attitudes and stereotypes appear more outdated.A school leaving age class of working class kids who don't know better (cockney accent) have anything but education on thier minds in the last few months before leaving school. Until a middle class idealistic teacher  shows that they like him can improve upon the blight of thier situation if they try.This film may sound corny  but it actually works.    Essentially it champions  the benefits of  education and social awareness.The haze of sixties teenage culture, pop music make this film vibrate with a feel good factor than cannot be ignored.Most Enjoyable !!!! "}{"Title":"To Sidney Poitier, With Respect ...","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love To Sir, With Love and this applies to both James Clavell's film and Lulu's song. You can't imagine the effect this beautiful melody has on me &#x85; making me wish to go 'back' to 1967, 15 years before I was even born. 1967 If one actor ever exemplifies the groundbreaking aspect of this year, it certainly is Sidney Poitier, by starring in three films that paved the way for a new depiction of African- American people Guess Who's Coming for Dinner, Best Picture nominee and In the Heat of the Night, Best Picture Winner; and if not in the same vein, To Sir, With Love conveys the same kind of inspirational message through the struggle of a man facing alone a hostile group and ultimately defeating intolerance and prejudices. I will never say that Sidney Poitier plays the 'same character' as a reproach but as a tribute to his talent and his brilliance for never having fallen in the trap of stereotypes, to play elegant, distinguished and soft-spoken middle-aged men. He might not be the most versatile actor in the world, but like such stars as Humphrey Bogart or James Stewart, he's perfect within his personal range. So, after playing a doctor and a police officer, two noble professions to say the least, it's almost natural that Poitier embodies the noblest and most idealistic of all the vocations in To Sir, With Love as Mark Thackeray, a teacher and engineer-trainee affected in a high school located in the slums of London's East End, facing a classroom of white students whose racism can be forgiven in the name of ignorance and because it's obviously a wall that can be broken with some efforts. It's up to Thackeray to educate them before their entrance in the adult world. As I said, Thackeray reminds so much of the characters Poitier played in 1967 that the film can be regarded as the third of an unofficial trilogy, whose only theme would be the eye- opening experience of a black man, victim of prejudices, and the ultimate triumph of tolerance and human spirit. I'm not a fan of 'big words' but put in their context, these films were not only significant but necessary to educate some viewers, and it's quite fitting that Poitier incarnates here, a teacher.Before To Sir, With Love, only two movies impacted the spirits about the value of an exceptional teacher, Goodbye, Mr. Chips and Blackboard Jungle, starring Poitier too as a good-hearted hoodlum, there where other films of course but To Sir, With Love can still be regarded as a pioneer on the subject even more interesting because it was made in 1967, a year where the baby-boom generation stood up against the establishment and the system, holding the red, the green or the rainbow flag. But what struck me in To Sir, With Love is that the film avoids these clichés and portrays a group of kid who're too practical to be just rebels without a cause. Ultimately, they are not kids learning about discipline, but about life, sex, marriage, employment, being a man and being a woman. Thackeray can appear as old- fashioned but he addresses a youth that can respond to his lessons, especially because he reflects the very attitudes and behavior he 'preaches' to his students. There's no room for clichés in To Sir, With Love, it's not the chronicles about rebellion as a sickness that can be cured by education, only the journey of a teacher who'll reconcile a bunch of misfits with society. Of course, Thackeray's struggles will earn him the hostility of some elements, but inculcating trust, understanding and communication is a process that demand patience, and a moral strength to overcome the most difficult obstacles with calm and empathy. The key is respect, politeness, a capability for admitting faults or reacting in extreme situations. Three pivotal moments will punctuate Thackeray's journey, the culminating incident where he'll finally understand what matters the most for these kids is less theory and more practicality, a visit in the museum, and the ultimate confrontation with one of them. From all these situations, Thackeray will turn out to be one hell of a teacher, too perfect to be believable if Sidney Poitier didn't play him. Despite some obvious subplots, like the cute girl having a crush on him or some clumsy displays of racism by a colleague, the film keeps a certain complexity in Poitier's character, who disorients his own students. You're like us, and not like us, says one of them, which is probably the greatest compliment a teacher could receive, above the students enough to teach them but not too much, so he also can understand them. And through his experience, even Thackeray learns one thing or two about teaching, and about his very purpose in life. And I wouldn't be surprised to know that To Sir, With Love encouraged many vocations. Now, the film is not perfect, some details like the students wearing the same clothes every day betray its low budget, but I was in fact touched by the film's modesty and I guess the film was counting on the emotional pay-off of the ending that redeemed all these little things that didn't work, and I reckon the sight of Poitier almost bursting to tears after hearing one of the most beautiful cinematic farewell songs cut straight to my heart.Indeed, To Sir, With Love is also this beautiful melody that carries all the positive aspects of the film, and I will never believe how this never got nominated to the Oscar for Best Original Song (Talk like an Animal? Give me a break), another mystery like Poitier not having an Oscar nomination in 1967 (although it was a strong line-up that year)&#x85; doesn't matter, To Sir, With Love is a beautiful film, carried by a superb performance from one of the last living icons. "},{"Title":"This IS  how it was in the 60's.. how many times do I say that.","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Channel Five just showed this film, and I'm so glad. I'm 58 and left school, which was changing as I left it in 1966.. and this film IS how it was at that time. The coloured teacher, well, we had coloured pupils at my school and thought nothing of it. American of course, far more sensitive.. but THIS IS how it was then. We had the young delinquents, looked upon as heroes by the less educated, we had mixed classes and never gave the girls a lot of thought at that age, respect, yes.. and the characters in this film ARE how things were. How many more times am I going to say that. The class rooms, the teaching staff, yes yes and yes again. I'd forgotten a lot of this film, and it captivated me. Its a LOST time.. it was a good, fairly innocent time, pregnancy WAS a no no.. WE didn't do those thing YET.. but girls older than their time came a cropper. WE DID form a relationship with our teachers and one I mer later in my career said the mid 60's WAS the last of the 'family' class feeling. It all changed after that. The system was changing so THIS FILM.. is a lovely reminder of how it was. Judy was ALWAYS gorgeous.. HOW can anyone be that lovely.. it just WORKS. YES WHAT was in this stove.. I didn't get it either. And the end.. WILL HE WONT HE.. hes reminded of the challenges hes already met and conquered.. I cant praise this too highly. 60's London life IS HERE.. Lulu deserved her hit.. and the other young stars DID go forward. WHY didn't all these films of the mid 60's come out?? STILL many not.. WHY NOT.. we NEED the feel good NOW... Smashin Time..Mulberry Bush.. COME ON.. "},{"Title":"Sidney Poitier's Defining Role","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Poitier (as Mark Thackeray) wants to be an engineer, but finds jobs scarce; so, he takes a job teaching a group of unmanageable East End London secondary (high) school students. The inexperienced Mr. Poitier has no control in the classroom. With only a few weeks before graduation, he decides to teach discipline and respect. Poitier's biggest classroom problem is rebellious youth Christian Roberts (as Denham). He also has to deal with pretty blonde Judy Geeson (as Pamela), who develops a schoolgirl crush on her handsome black teacher.Poitier doesn't seem to be doing much academic teaching; but, with only a few weeks to go, he makes some instinctive, wise decisions. As the students' newest replacement, he must start with extensive classroom management. Mostly, the students like to dance and smoke cigarettes. But, through the young cast's performances, and their scripted background, you believe they are worse than they appear on film. The film is a simplistic representation.Poitier's dignified characterization is superb. As Mr. Thackeray, he handles societal racism with quiet reservation. Thackeray does not verbalize any racial blame for his 18-month failure to find an engineering job. He grins sweetly when the ladies on the bus hint about his sexual prowess. He does not respond to the cynical teacher's bait. And, he responds with non-sensual sincerity to the film's interested blondes. More than anything, Thackeray values courtesy, which is evidenced by his first tantrum.Thatcher is a man of polite manners, who values respect. He demands the students call him Sir. Poitier's command for respect works not only with the students, but also with the audience. Poitier cuts through the film, and demands the same respect from the audience. You call him SIR!So, the lesson achieves the unexpected - both Thackeray and Poitier are successful with their audience. The audience responded by making Poitier a Box Office superstar. It was the right message, the right time, and the right man.Director James Clavell and the Lulu-sung title song are also outstanding. Most movie award organizations favored Poitier's two successive 1967 films. But, To Sir, with Love did very well with the Film Daily critics To Sir, with Love was the year's #4 Film, and #1 song. Poitier was the #3 Best Actor (one better than his In the Heat of the Night role), Christian Roberts was Juvenile Actor #2, and Judy Geeson won as #1 Juvenile Actress.********* To Sir, with Love (6/14/67) James Clavell ~ Sidney Poitier, Christian Roberts, Judy Geeson, Lulu "},{"Title":"One of my all time great flicks to see over and over again...","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen this movies at least 50 times since 1967 I know. It's just one of those movies that you see that you never forget. I have always had great admiration for teachers because I think they have the hardest job in the world. Sidney Poitier is such a great actor that he makes you want to cheer his characters and you believe he is who he is portraying. I still love the theme song and I think it defines the whole movie and makes you want to see it again and again. How do you thank someone, who has taken you from crayons to perfume. Great flick... And of course the dance scene at the end. I still can't do those moves... "},{"Title":"This film still inspires!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With the emergence of media that allows films to be readily accessible, we've become so media savvy we often deny ourselves the simple joy of seeing a good film. Released during a era when movies were an event and Black leading actors were a novelty, To Sir, with Love holds up quite well. Though predictable by todays standards, Sidney Poitier gives a grand performance depicting the true story of a teachers dramatic influence of his classroom of troubled teens. It depicts a far more realistic portrayal of race and class relation then many films produced today. I've seen To Sir, with Love numerous times in the theatre as a teen and it still inspires me some 40 years later. "},{"Title":"and love it we did...","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Can you believe the profitability of this film! It must have returned 50 times its cost worldwide if it's rentals were $20m in just the USA all from a $600k cost.....It paid for Columbia's whole production of FUNNY GIRL from those US rentals alone. That is a massive income for a small film. As Catholic school boys we were taken aged 13 to see how the 'publics' behaved. Of course we really were worse at heart and we loved the Carnaby Street grooviness and the swearing. I can remember wanting someone's yellow suit seen in the last reel. Still an effective and honest school film it is a treat to show this to teens in the family today. If you seek a tough and realistic 60s film that now has the added Austin Powers edge attraction to 2004 teen family members, this is an excellent choice. Good chasers include LILIES OF THE FIELD and BLACKBOARD JUNGLE equally interesting family viewing night. "},{"Title":"A lesson in social psychology brutishness is routinely caused by CHRONIC poverty AND similarly suffering neighbors (it's your neighbors' behaviour that matters), but there's hope. 10/10. SPOILERS!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A perfect classic that  instantly mesmerizes. Remade 3x in the 1990s first as Sister Act2 (1993); followed by Dangerous Minds (1995); and finally as To Sir With Love2 (1996), the made-for-TV sequel with the aging Sidney Poitier. None of these remakes hold a candle to the beaming lighthouse of the original. Based on the genteel ER Braithwaite's own experiences in 1960s England, the screenplay is a primer in social psychology.Mark Thackeray (Sidney Poitier in his signature role) is a struggling Elec.Eng. graduate who can't get an engineering job, so he answers an ad for a teacher in the East End (a chronically run down, industrial part) of London. He's a decent man who's nevertheless met the many faces of rejection, of prejudice, of poverty, yet no-one has managed yet to break his spirit-otherwise he couldn't have brought hope to the East Enders the way he clearly did. He's about 30ish, and single. Ha, as he himself observes to his new students, `Marriage is NO way of life for the weak, the selfish, or the insecure.' Amen to that! Spoken like a man I wouldn't mind (exchanging-shhh) for a husband.Mr Thackeray is a very cluey guy. He quickly realizes that the `razzing' he's getting from his ill-educated, brutish students is courtesy of their need to dominate the system to SUCCESSFULLY cover-up their academic incompetence. Moreover, the push for this always comes from the biggest bully (ie who rules the school), because the b***ard always has enough cunning to realize he can't afford to show any weakness, for fear of getting toppled by his own. Very primitive behaviour, baboons do the same thing!Anyway, things come to a head 29mins into the movie. Already exhausted after just a few weeks, Mr Thackeray walks into his classroom and instantly smells a foul stench emanating from the smoking stove. `All you boys, OUT! The girls stay where they are!' he barks. He waits till the boys exit, then rounds on the girls `There are certain things a decent woman keeps private; only a filthy slut would have done this! And those who stood by and encouraged her are just as bad, I don't care who they are!' He thinks it was a girl who threw a soiled sanitary pad onto the fire (this is never spelled out), but I disagree. Girls don't have ANY fascination for such things, only immature, brutish boys do. My point being, that, of course, it was the boys; but the accusation was extremely effective against the girls nevertheless, because it instantly drove a wedge between the genders. The girls didn't appreciate being humiliated by the boys in the first place, but to be accused of their guilt was now BEYOND what they're prepared to tolerate.That was the watershed for `Sir'. By the time he re-enters after having demanded they clear the air, he's figured out how he should treat his students, and demonstrates his seriousness as he just junks all their textbooks. Obviously, it's the right technique at the right time, because it starts to work (they don't always). His students begin to trust him; especially the girls who have found their independence from the boys. Soon the class goes on a field trip to the museum. Matched to Lulu's glorious almost-lullaby of a theme song, we watch a montage of heart-tugging stills (by Laurie Ridley & Dennis Stone) of the students wide-eyedly enjoying their first museum experience, as they realize that their mod hairstyles and fashions really are just retreads from history.There IS another watershed scene that seems to shock all the kids, in the yard, when Denham (Christian Roberts)'s girlfriend Pamela Dare (Judy Geeson) rounds on Seales (Anthony Villaroel), the only black student in the class, for `never speaking up'; who then publicly admits `I'm not Sir. I only wish I was'. It was what they were all thinking about themselves, but Seales is the only one who blurts it out.The politics between Denham and his girlfriend shift again, because she develops a probably life-altering crush on Sir. I always smirk at the scene where Babs (Lulu) defends Pamela `You lay off, Denham, you sonova b_' as her voice is drowned out by a passing train. It must be in large part due to this movie that people now GROAN at objections to interracial relationships (so do I-to objections I mean), and no wonder-Sir is `big, broad, handsome, clean, intelligent...', as the Deputy Head, Mrs Evans (Faith Brook) describes him. Poitier is never better than in the scene with Mrs Evans where he is tortured and at a loss at Pamela's crush. His other delicious scenes include being embarrassed at the bawdy candor of some mothers on the bus during the opening, and at the final dance when he gets tongue-tied and almost bursts out crying. I have no doubt that the entire cast had a deep camaraderie.Sir is NOT PERFECT, though. Some of his attitudes are unjust. He's too aloof as he kept whitewashing the world's continued right to chronically disadvantage his students. He refuses to discuss questions of justice external to his classroom. This seems like insensitivity to me! But he'd apparently put in enough work to have his students trust him, although it was a fine line that could've still gone wrong. Denham, the brewing storm, to our astonishment, actually feared the power that teachers had over his employment prospects. Perhaps he figured he shouldn't really antagonize Sir, who at that stage still tolerated Denham's brinkmanship.One final WARNING the cinematography just might blow you away as you watch stills of Sir's students flash by, interrupting a decision he has to make. `So long as we learn, it doesn't matter WHO teaches us, does it?', remarked a colleague in the teachers' lounge when he first started. If you can stand this scene without it almost breaking your heart, then perhaps you've learned that lesson a long time ago. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Amazing and touching","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the few I know that has aged well. Its message of respect and love for your fellows is still well captured and brilliantly portrayed when held up to today's questionable world of special effects and blood and gore to prove a point. Hollywood today is incredibly fake, but the emotions To Sir, With Love evokes are some of the most realistic that tinsel town has yet to produce. It is a simple and innocent story, well worth watching for anyone of any age. The title song, although not your typical lively theme, truly shows the loving and unusual relationship that students *used* to be able to have with teachers, when a teacher was someone who you could turn to in trouble as well as someone who taught you your three R's rather than someone who looked at you as a number in a classroom. I have been fortunate enough to have two teachers who have also been my friends, I left two of them behind when I graduated from high school, and the other retired after my first year at University, the only farewell gift I gave them was a parchment paper copy of the lyrics to this movie's theme song, with a message written on the bottom...for nothing could better express my feelings.If you want to see a movie that truly captures so many true emotions and a relationship that of mutual respect that is so rare these days...sit down and watch this...you will not regret it.10/10  "},{"Title":"Important movie at an important time","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Important movie at an important time. Heart touching movie from a period not that long ago that still may be too forgotten by some.It reflects on a period in British recent history that still lives in peoples mind today but easily forgotten by others. Excellent acting by Sidney Poitier and support cast. Theme song's just about one of the best songs ever written. "},{"Title":"A simply great movie.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can you say? - Brilliantly scripted with as realistic a depiction of inner-city London as has ever been put on screen. Poitier at his charismatic best, supported by a wonderful cast, and great music. If you haven't seen it, do yourself a favour and get hold of the DVD (or wait, and watch it on TV!). Probably my favourite film of the last thirty or so years.  "}{"Title":"So many lessons about learning and teaching and Sidney Poitier as well!","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Set in the mid 1960s Mark Thackeray has arrived in the UK, as a black British Citizen. He is from a poor background, and has a degree in engineering. He cannot find a job, and decides to work as a teacher in the East End of London. He has had no training to teach. His class is in its final term, before the pupils move out into the world. The pupils are an interesting range of characters, initially defiant and challenging. The degree of antipathy and disruptive behaviour look mild compared with today's images of classroom life in deprived areas, however the characteristics are the same. Mr Thackeray illustrates and teaches dignity and self respect, and one by one wins the class over, with his charismatic steadiness, honesty and personal morality. His is not the extrovert all together now leadership of the teachers in Dead Poet's Society and School of Rock, which tends to result in an in crowd and out crowd. Mr Thackeray sets the pupils free to be true to themselves, to be in his words adults. One of the female pupils tries to stand too close, and he stands off, but in the penultimate scene, she has grown up and they can dance together in secure distance. Sidney Poitier fills the film with characteristic handsome dignity.The themes around racial prejudice are handled subtly rather than head on. Britain in the 1960s is portrayed as a tolerant welcoming society, with the humour of humanity drawing people together. Comments about colour and race are made out of inexperience not out of prejudice. The main characters see through each others colours to their personalities. I could sense that Thackeray had experienced prejudice and grown through it, to his full character.Of course the film is romantic and idealised, but that is partly how film has its impact, to overemphasise the messages to ensure they get through.Definitely one of my top films! Chapter Minutes Comment 13 I don't know what you know, read from your workbooks &#150; a teacher must find out what the learner already knows.20 What they need is a good hiding &#150; the unsuccessful teacher recommends the bullying approach to class control.28 He loses his temper, leaves the class and takes time out in the staff room and gets support.30 He realises the class will soon leave school for the world and they need to learn to survive out there, and decides to treat them like adults. He sets rules for speaking and behaviour and teaches them self respect. Uses front runner pupil to turn the class 35 What will we talk about, Sir? Anything you want &#150; within the rules of behaviour he will allow any discussion on any topic.40 He approaches the head about a class excursion I would like to try &#133;&#133; demonstrating calm reasoned leadership.41 What would you like to talk about today? &#150; teacher gives control of the learning to the class, and this leads into discussion about marriage.44 I think marriage is no way of life for the weak, the selfish, or insecure. Just a brilliant quote! 44 So long as we learn it does not matter who teaches us. Another wonderful quote.47 The class teach him Cockney slang &#150; a teacher should always be ready to learn.56 I teach you the truth, well my truths &#133;.. To thyself be true! 59 You are getting involved with your children! &#150; yes the teacher must be involved, but avoid the Stand too close sexual involvement. His handling of the too close girl is a lesson in respect.60 The PE teacher is a bully. Mr Thackeray defuses the situation, and then teaches the class adult behaviour.63 Are you going to use a weapon every time you get angry? Did you behave like an adult? 64 If you apologise because you are afraid, you are a child not a man. Another amazing quote.65 People make mistakes &#150; everyone deserves a second chance. "},{"Title":"Sidney Poitier carries this film","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Trying to keep in mind that this movie was made in the late 1960s, there are so many questionable calls in To Sir, with Love from a director's standpoint.Starring Sidney Poitier, To Sir, with Love is the story of an English school teacher who tries to tackle a classroom of deviant students. And while the theme and even the script are well thought out, Director James Clavell (who co-wrote To Sir, with Love and 1963's The Great Escape) makes a lot of choices that guarantee this movie will always be dated.For example, when Poitier's character takes his class to a museum, Clavell chooses to show the experience by still photographs of the students looking at sculptures, while 1960 rock music plays in the background.And speaking of music, Lulu's unspectacular title track from the movie is played three separate times during the movie, much to the distaste of anyone under 25.Plus, there are small technical problems that should have been averted. A party near the end of the movie showcases a band singing without any microphones. A conversation in the hallway is difficult to hear because of the echo. Small details that current Hollywood filmmakers would never dare try to get away with.All of that said, Poitier is brilliant, and makes this a film worth seeing. Poitier proved his ability to have fun with a character in 1963's Lilies of the Field. He showed his tremendous ability to remain stoic in 1967's In the Heat of the Night (which actually came out after To Sir, with Love). What he brings to this role, however, is a spectacular example of how a character can gradually grow throughout a one-and-a-half hour movie.A terrific example comes at the very beginning of the movie, when Poitier's character is in a bus surrounded by a group of lewd women. He remains emotionless for as long as he can, then shows just a hint of disgust, followed by just a hint of amusement.That scene provides great foreshadowing for the rest of the movie, as Poitier's character remains completely emotionless to his students, then loses his temper with them, and finally begins to care for them. Near the end of the movie, he actually tears up.Another good performance comes from Judy Geeson (Maggie Conway from TV's Mad About You). In this movie, Geeson plays one of the students who has a crush on Poitier's character. What makes her so fun to watch is not necessarily the chemistry she and Poitier have, but, instead the awkwardness that accompanies every scene they are in together.All in all, performances and a suitable script make this movie worth seeing. The directoral choices are cumbersome at times, but do not weaken the movie as a whole.I would not recommend the soundtrack, however. "},{"Title":"It takes a special man to tame a rough classroom.","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sidney Poitier is at the top of his game playing Mark Thackeray who is looking for an engineering job, but takes a position teaching a rough London school where the students have no respect or discipline. Excellent story and meaningful in tune with the times. Also in the cast areChristian Roberts, Judy Geeson, Suzy Kendall, Geoffrey Bayldon and Lulu, who sang the movie's title song that became an international hit. In 1967, To Sir, With Love by Lulu was the number one song in America for five straight weeks. "},{"Title":"This movie taught me a lot","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I was growing up, Julie Andrews and Sidney Poitier were the biggest movie stars in the world.  The fact that this movie featured Poitier as a teacher was tailor-made for me and I watched it every time it ran on television, after seeing it in a theatre.  The movie has not aged as well as one would have hoped, but it is worth seeing and should be remembered as the fore-runner to Stand and Deliver and Dangerous Minds, among others. Sidney's star power helps smooth over some of the rough spots. I always wondered, though - what was it in the furnace that was burning that got him so bothered? "},{"Title":"One of the Most Touching Movies Ever","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mark Thackeray (Sidney Poitier) is a black unemployed engineer, born in the English Guyanna and with a simple and humble origin, who accepts to work as a teacher in an English school. Very poor and undisciplined teenagers compose his class and he has lots of difficulties to approach them. In the end, their students consider Mark as their best friend and dedicate him one of the most wonderful songs in the cinema history. Mark finds that his real vocation is being a teacher and gives up the new job as engineer he has just gotten. The first time I watched this movie I was twelve years old, and I went at least three times to the movie theater to see this movie again and again. On video, I probably have watched it at least fifteen times more and I do not get tired of this marvelous story. This wonderful movie is in my top ten films list ever. It is sentimental, touching, maybe silly in the present days, but it is also a reference for other movies about the relationship between teacher and rebel students. Michelle Pfeiffer's 'Dangerous Minds', for example, is an updated copy of this story. The direction and cast have an outstanding performance. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Ao Mestre com Carinho (To the Master, with Endearment)Note On 14 August 2012, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"Ahead of Time","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I viewed this movie couple of days before and incidentally my first movie of Mr. Sidney Poitier. Now we are speaking about the period 1967 (49 years) &#x96; in the span umpteen films were released globally dealing this umbilical cord (teacher &#x96; student relationship). Without being biased, this film deserves appreciation and accolades. It pioneered in the field of speaking in subtlety two generations trying to find their foot with the changing times and values. Subjects conceived to be taboo discussed within the walls of the classroom. One element that needs reference is 'racism' &#x96; we speak in volumes even today and struggling to eliminate. Here it is addressed in a more mature fashion. Students had no problem in getting tutored by a 'black teacher' and sharing their problems. Teacher understands the implications of his identity. Taking a wreath to the funeral of their black class fellow's mother is unacceptable; they prefer to send it. The teacher never insisted &#x96; he attended the funeral and surprised to seek his entire classroom arrived prior to him. Here, humanity takes precedent than human made elements of caste, creed, culture etc.Now about Mr. Sidney Poitier whose works was oblivious to me was a treat to view. His character as an amateur teacher, taking teaching profession due to necessity not out of love for the job was an artistic narration. It left me awe-stuck, smiling and how easier he was able to think in a positive perspective. He broke the glass ceiling and enabled artists like Denzel Washington, Morgan Freeman, Samuel Jackson, and Will Smith to join the wagon. My thoughts go for the team for the technical and artistic crew for handling a sensitive subject half a century before. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic Film with an Entirely Believable Leading Performance","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I knew that the Australian-born novelist James Clavell also acted as a film scriptwriter, often adapting his own novels, but until I recently watched To Sir, with Love I had not realised that he was also a film director. This film, which marks his directing debut, was not based on one of his books but on an autobiographical novel by E. R. Braithwaite. To Sir, with Love is, along with Goodbye Mr Chips, probably the best-known British entry in the inspirational teacher genre, but the two films are very different. Mr Chips was an elderly retired teacher looking back nostalgically at his long career. Mark Thackeray, the hero of this film, is not a career teacher but an unemployed engineer who only applies for a teaching position because he cannot find a job in engineering. Chips taught in a prestigious public school; Thackeray's job is at a secondary modern in the East End, a deprived working-class area of London.One thing that caused quite a stir in 1967, but which would not do so today, is the fact that Thackeray is black. (He is originally from what the film calls British Guiana, although it had become independent as Guyana the previous year). His students are nearly all white, although today virtually all East End schools would have a sizeable number of pupils drawn from the black and other minority ethnic communities. Racial issues, however, play a relatively minor part in the film. One of Thackeray's less enlightened colleagues makes some insensitive remarks, but apart from that the only real hostility he experiences comes, surprisingly, from the only mixed-race pupil in his class, a boy who identifies as white and resents the way his white mother has been treated by his black father. The film is much more about social class than it is about race. Thackeray takes on the school's most troublesome class, working-class youngsters with a well-deserved reputation for disruptive behaviour, and teaches them about self-respect by treating them, for the first time in their lives, as responsible adults rather than irresponsible children. In return, Thackeray earns the class's admiration and realises that he has a vocation as a teacher. The film ends with his rejecting an offer of an engineering job to stay on at the school. Thackeray's class are all in their final term at school, which in 1967 would have meant that they would have been 14 or 15. (The school leaving age in Britain was 15 until 1972, when it was raised to 16). The actors who play them, however, are all considerably older; Christian Roberts, who plays class ringleader Bert Denham, was 23 when the film was made, and Judy Geeson, who plays his classmate Pamela Dare, was 19. This casting may have been intended to make some of the film's plot lines more acceptable in the eyes of the public. It is strongly implied that Pamela has a romantic crush on the handsome Thackeray, and such a storyline would have been far more controversial had she actually been played by a 15-year-old actress. Another member of the cast was Lulu, here making her acting debut. She also sang the film's title song, also known as To Sir With Love, which became a huge hit in the American market, much to the surprise of the British. (In Britain it failed to make the Top Ten). Its transatlantic success may have contributed to Lulu concentrating more on singing than on acting in subsequent years; she became one of the most successful British pop acts of the late sixties and seventies, but only acted in a handful of later films, most of them now forgotten. The film's main drawback is its pervasive sentimentality and its simplistic assumption that all the problems of education in deprived inner-city areas can be overcome simply by drafting in better (by which it means more permissive) teachers. Yet it is saved from a lower mark by the arresting performance of that fine actor Sidney Poitier in the leading role. The plot may seem unrealistic, but Poitier does enough to make his character entirely believable and to make every adult watching the film wish that there had been a Mark Thackeray on the staff of his or her school. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great movie. Interesting, thought-provoking and emotional plot. A bit idealistic though. Also has some dead end sub-plots. Ending is a bit abrupt and could have done with some polishing. Still the original teacher-gets- through-to-some-unteachable-kids movie though.Superb performance by Sidney Poitier in the lead role. Good support from a cast of mostly unknowns. The theme song (by Lulu, who also stars in the movie) is excellent too. (The cover version, live, by 10,000 Maniacs and Michael Stipe is even better) "},{"Title":"Heart-warming high school drama","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" TO SIR, WITH LOVE is a fine little film which provides a neat snapshot of secondary school life in the late 1960s. It's one of those films which has a fairly simplistic storyline, but don't be fooled by the deceptive simplicity this is actually a movie of great depth, exploring racial tensions, student/teacher romance, childhood vs. adulthood, and much more besides. It's easy to overlook these undercurrents given how subtly they're portrayed, but combine them together and you have a quite wonderful movie.Much of this film's success comes from the central casting Sidney Poitier, which must have been an unusual decision back in the day. Poitier makes the film his own and gives the movie a sentimental heart, although his emotions are hidden for the most part. His acting reminds me of the likes of Japanese actors such as Toshiro Mifune, displaying a stony face on the outset while putting across hints at the feelings bubbling beneath.Elsewhere, we get fun scene-setting in the form of '60s music and dance, enhanced by the presence of pop starlet Lulu. Judy Geeson is completely believable as the besotted student, and there are many familiar faces who would go on to future success (Patricia Routledge, Geoffrey Bayldon, Chris Chittell, Suzy Kendall). Although this is very much a feel-good film with scenes of sentimentality, its depiction of a realistic social milieu makes it uplifting without being sickly. "},{"Title":"Sydney Poitier being exemplary - once again","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd never been a particular fan of Sydney Poitier - he always seem to play the same exemplary (black) character of such dignity, self-control and thoughtfulness, rarely if ever giving in to any temptation and then rapidly resolving to never repeat it. Never, as far as I'm aware, giving way to lust of any kind. He plays characters who if they had ever been considered for school head boy, would have been rejected for being over-qualified in all departments. And this film is no exception,.However I discovered that the character's back story of poverty in British West Indies then clawing his way upwards through education in America is actually Poitier's own life-story. Poitier always, it seems, plays versions of the real Poitier. Poitier's family came from the (formerly British) Bahamas so one assumes there was a particular poignancy for him playing this part as a teacher in a fairly tough London school.The film is a fairly light-weight vehicle for Poitier. It treads very lightly on the question of racism (racism the character experienced in the US gets no mention at all). The Poitier's character's perfection - of intelligence, courtesy, dress and quiet modesty causes a fellow teacher to remark that he could have come out of a bandbox. He charms and disarms all the British that he meets - probably true to life.It would have made a much more interesting film to have had a more realistic less saintly central character. But for an early pioneering film of its kind, intended to encourage harmony perhaps it was better that it was how it was. "}{"Title":"Nobody would doubt that as a teacher American actor Sir Sidney Poitier had indeed made a lot of difference in the lives of some English kids !!!!","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" British film 'To Sir with love' is set in a poor school located in east London where a substitute teacher comes to replace his colleague who has left the school. The new teacher is absolutely determined to make some difference in the lives of school children. He is somewhat saddened to hear negative remarks about children from his school colleagues. Although he witnesses a lot of discipline related issues at the school, he is able to put some sense in the minds of students who end up becoming responsible adults. While watching 'To Sir with love', viewers would clearly observe that the white kids from London's poor neighborhoods do not have any special problems in accepting a black person as their teacher. Hence the issue of racism does not arise. This film makes a sad commentary about the people who would like to choose teaching profession for all the wrong reasons in the world. One should not treat teaching profession as a temporary job which can be done while one's search for another lucrative position is under way. American actor sir Sidney Poitier dazzles as Mr. Thackeray- a teacher who is able to win students' love and affection by treating them as equal as well as respecting them. He does not favor them openly but he is aware of their importance too. The social relevance of this film continues to be felt as keenly as ever due to the fact that English schools are still extremely unruly where students make a lot of noise. "},{"Title":"A 60's classic with my favorite Poitier performance","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1967 was a very good year for Sidney Poitier. In addition to appearing in that year's Oscar winning Best Picture, In the Heat of the Night and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?, he created one of his most endearing characters, making To Sir, With Love, one of the best movies ever made about high school students changed by the dedication of one teacher.Based on the book by ER Braithwaite, Poitier plays Mark Thackeray, a recent engineering school graduate unable to get a job in that field, who accepts a job teaching at a school in the slums of London's east end, teaching high school age students and the lengths to which he goes to reach these kids.Not only does Thackeray have to deal with the kids' bigotry, but realizes that normal teaching methods are not going to work as most of the kids are barely literate and have no social skills whatsoever and it is when Thackeray decides to throw away the textbooks and decides to teach the kids the basics of being civilized human beings, he finally starts making a connection.Poitier is magnificent here, creating a character of quiet dignity and unassuming intelligence with whom respect is immediately demanded, from the viewer as well as the rest of the characters in the movie. Poitier is one of those actors, like Meryl Streep, who never has to resort to scenery chewing in order to command the screen. If memory serves, there is only one scene where Thackeray actually raises his voice. This is a performance that, like a lot of Streep's work, should be studied by acting students...Poitier beautifully internalizes Thackeray's initial confusion on how to reach these students and the joy it brings him when it begins to happen.Christian Roberts and Judy Geeson offer effective support as Thackeray's biggest problem student and another student who develops a crush on him, but this is Poitier's show all the way and his performance is the film's number one appeal. Mention should also be made of the smash hit single of the title tune the film produced, performed by Lulu, who also appears in the film as student Barbara Peg. "},{"Title":"kids not threatening","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mark Thackeray (Sidney Poitier) is an unemployed engineer from British Guiana originally and a few years in California. Unable to get an engineering job, he reluctantly takes a teaching job at the North Quay Secondary School in the lower class East End neighborhood of London. His class is compose of some of the worst rejects from other schools.The cockney accent is quite thick but the movie is mostly understandable. Poitier is doing his stoic acting with some flashes of power. The kids are generally nice looking trying to act tough. None of them has any real edge especially compared to modern movies. It may actually be the idea that these are good kids trying to be bad. It plays more like a less intense sentimental movie. The song is great though. I don't want to say the movie is too soft. Just by having Poitier, the race issue is being dealt with. The main thing is that Poitier is never truly outmatched by the kids. He projects so much presence that the kids don't have anything equal to him. "},{"Title":"Poitier Shines as Sir","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1967 Was Sidney Poitier's annus mirabilis. He starred in three remarkable films In the Heat of the Night, Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, and this wonderful film, which became an unexpected hit based upon his popularity.To Sir, with Love was released years after Blackboard Jungle and, though it falls within the same genre as various other films about teachers inspiring hopeless students, it is different from many of them due to Poitier's gentle demeanor. Stand and Deliver is similar in that way.There are many thankless teaching jobs and it is always inspiring to see a film that shows what a dedicated and caring teacher can accomplish. Mark Thackeray (Poitier) starts as a teaching neophyte whose plans are to get out of teaching as soon as he can locate an engineering job. After some misfires, he finds that he has some natural teaching talents.The music is current to 1967 as are the dancing styles. The film is shot on location in London's East End, lending authenticity. The other actors, especially the kids, do a great job. With an economy of film and story, TSWL takes the viewer on an enjoyable journey as the students learn lessons about life. Montage is used judiciously and effectively in two instances. I saw this film when it was released. I enjoyed it then and I enjoy it still. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this film several times over the years and I really don't think that it dates much. Poitier is brilliant and the supporting cast of mostly untried youngsters are all excellent. It may not be 'Blackboard Jungle' but it's still bloody good, with great performances from the principals and today's teenagers could learn a lesson or two from it, if they could be bothered to watch and learn. Some of the odd support, such as the ubiquitous Rita Webb, do their usual turns and the 1960s East End atmosphere is well re-created. Judy Geeson is an excellent, though much too old, female lead as a besotted kid in the classroom, while Suzy Kendall is much more suited to her role as an awed teacher. Having been at school in the 1960s, I can see so much that resonates that I'm always attracted to this film. Great music too with Lulu making a name for herself as both a singer and a half-decent actress.As a by the way, it's quite amusing to see 'Mrs Bucket' as one of the teachers in her earlier days, as well as 'Catweazle' without his make-up. It all just goes to show how life can change over the years. "},{"Title":"My rating 9","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Why I am rising so high rating to such movie that was shot mostly in a room and with a very low budget? I answer to that in general and make it clean in detail.Because it is a wonderful example about how with very little you can achieve a lot. One good teacher can teach his skills to the students of a class, and a good movie - to show them to the hundreds of viewers. On the other hand, one small review of this movie can continue the effect.To be a gentleman, a lady or a sir much is needed. There is not impossible to gain this system of values that make possible the modus of this highly development of the personality.Not to be a slave of the system but its creator. Always to know in what position you are put and what you can allow to yourself to do. Wherever you are, even if you know that you are called upon something much more, to give everything in order to achieve the most good results. To reveal your potential to its limits and not being egoist or egotist. To leave the material in favor of the spiritual!http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Exceptional film...a type of film that usually is quite routine","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" By shear coincidence (or perhaps it was a TCM theme night) I watched this film and Blackboard Jungle. Both, of course, about magical teachers with seemingly incorrigible students. And, both with Sidney Poitier -- in BJ as a student, and in TSWL as the teacher.I don't know much about England. Never been there. But I taught middle and high school for 13 years, and then was a school administrator for another 20. Overall, TSWL is believable.With that out of the way, I just want to say a few words about Sidney Poitier. I didn't always like the films Poitier chose to make, but there was never a role that he took that didn't impress me. Poitier had a power on screen that is rarely matched. He's one of those few actors who can say as much without speaking, as many actors say with long soliloquies. And just watch the way he projects anger -- not by being loud or vocal, but with something inside that even the viewer can see. And while this isn't my favorite Poitier film (that is reserved for Guess Who's Coming To Dinner), it's a close second. I hope we never forget what a national treasure Sidney Poitier was and is.The other thing that impresses me about this film is that the kids and the situations seem real. At least to American audiences, none of the young actors are well known (except, of course, for Lulu, and she is known primarily for her singing). Yet, their portrayals here are very realistic.I rarely give an 8, but I will for this film. Watch it! It's a treasure, as was Sidney Poitier. I'd have him to dinner anytime. "},{"Title":"A Teen/Teacher Classroom Clash","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1960s, Poverty-Row High, troubled, defiant, East London teens and their unwillingness to take instruction from their first black teacher.Gabby girls with teased-up hair, heavy eye-liner and miniskirts. Beligerent boys with shaggy heads, scowling faces and tight pants. Dancing madly to rock'n'roll, smoking cigarettes and pulling pranks on the unsuspecting teacher.Idealistic, young engineer, Mark Thackery, takes a temporary teaching position at Poverty-Row High. Thackery quickly dispenses with conventional teaching methods and opts for showing his students a basic means of survival. He soon instills in his pupils a firm belief in themselves and genuine respect for one another.All wrapped up with an ending that clearly said sequel-soon-to-follow, but it never happened. "},{"Title":"You'll fall in love with Sir","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sentimentalized and idealized, To Sir, with Love (1967) is a heartwarming comedy-drama that is hard to resist thanks to a sterling Poitier in his signature role along with a likable and well-chosen supporting cast lead by Judy Geeson and Christian Roberts and, of course, the title song sung by Lulu. Poitier's charm, dignity and talent give it credibility and depth and though he appeared in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner? and In the Heat of the Night the same year, this is one of his richest, most naturalistic and fully rounded performances. Unlike, Up the Down Staircase, released the same year, the conflicts are not societal, just adolescent hijinks. Thanks to Poitier and that song, it's memorable entertainment. "},{"Title":"I Luv Ya, Fackerey!","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Call this one a guilty pleasure for me. I remember when my English auntie and my young cousin visited my family when the movie came out, and Auntie Ann called it hackneyed. But then, as now, it breathes something fresh. Columbia found out what it needed to know the movie took off in the U.S. because Poitier is brilliant and compulsively watchable, and because the setting of British scruffs was just exotic and appealing enough. Don't even get me started in attacking it. Like, didn't get a little icky around the salad when the kids are all mulling how this tiff, this prat, is still so undeniably hip. And didn't they turn around into ladies and gents a little too quickly. And for him to say that now, going forward, they're going to start being concerned with matters of dating and sex and marriage was ridiculous! Yeah right tell me (and the movie even asserts, quietly, in places) they're not active already. And the punch-up with Denham resolved itself a little too pat . . .But there is a fresh energy here, and I was reminded of it upon viewing its recent screening on TCM. I think the dance scene with Ms. Dare and Thackerey was charming. All that implied sexuality was fittingly sublimated, and beyond the tacky things we might be thinking lies a true and noble vision of a man revivified by youth and a budding woman coming into her own. I teach tough kids myself and think there's something fine and fun about the movie. And I like the hard ending, when to cover his tearful reaction to the gift he's hiding out in his office and is busted in on by two young louts, lovers probably, the boy saying Hello guvnor! We've got you next year! And giggling and chiding him they bust back out, after the boy slams his metal cup onto his table. It's a good touch. If he stayed in this business, he'd have it to do all over again. And so when he stands up and rips the new-employment letter from the engineering job, it's got more ... roundness.I thought it was at least as good as Blackboard Jungle. In fact, I've not seen Staircase. Freedom Writers was, to me, hokey and trite somehow. I liked To Sir With Love, for all its sentimental lapses, best of all the teacher flicks I've seen! By the way, I think the burning item was a used menstrual napkin. "}{"Title":"A message of optimism and hope from the Sixties","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dated? Look around you, especially if you live in Britain. Do you really think students are better behaved, and that the issue of race is passé'? Then why were there riots across London for several days, apparently with racial overtones? Why are there undercover videos showing out of control classrooms?This movie is just as true today, and for any country, including the so called well-behaved Asian schools, where they resort to beating children with sticks in the hallways to maintain classroom discipline, not entirely successfully. Treating each other with respect never goes out of style. I saw a classroom for lower-income students where they taught students good manners, how to eat properly at a table, etc. The self-respect it instilled spilled over into their schoolwork. But it seems so long ago. Now they would be teaching to the standardized tests, making sure they can fill out the blanks for math and reading tests. What is dated is the optimism and idealism of 1967, the feeling that there were answers to our problems if we approached them with good will and a willingness to change things. Today, in 2011, 44 years later, there is a deep pessimism and resignation, a feeling that the world has spun out of our control, that life will keep getting worse. And people these days don't even make the pretense of treating others with respect whom they disagree with. We could use some of that Sixties spirit today.The amusing opening of the movie, on the bus, is at the heart of the problem of teaching the parents and home life of the students. Look at the adults, their behavior and values, and you will get some insight into their children as students. That is a big part of the problem a teacher faces, yet when the students don't learn, it is all the teachers' fault, not the parents. During the first phase of the movie, its strength is conveying the stress Poitier feels, the dread he must feel at facing these monsters again the next morning. And then you can feel his, and his students' joy later in the film. Is this movie predictable? Perhaps, in terms of outcome, but the question is how he will respond to these students, a problem that had stymied previous teachers, and still does today. That is what grabs your interest. It may seem like a hackneyed theme, but only because there have been so many imitators in the decades since this, the original, was made. If you only watch this one film of Sidney Poitier, you might think he is only a good actor. Poitier, who is still alive, was a truly great actor, and a great human being who rose from an even humbler beginning than that of this fictional teacher. What he rose to was a man of great charisma and dignity and humility. It is such character that he brings to this film, for which he was perfectly cast. The performance is powerful, but there is not an trace of over-acting in it. Poitier was one of the earliest leading black actors to be cast in roles that were not primarily race-related; race is only a sliver of the story in To Sir. And the public, even those with some prejudice, fell in love with him. I still remember seeing him in Lilies of the Field in the theater with my parents. It was a powerful experience, a truly great performance, and remains a movie that I truly love today. I did not watch that movie at that age with much understanding of the racial aspect, though I wish I had. Heck, I'm even Jewish, and the movie was about Poitier's encounter with a bunch of Catholic nuns. Great movies transcend race, religion or nationality. To Sir, With Love is one of them. There have been a number of great movies about teaching over the years. This, and Stand and Deliver, are among the best. Stand and Deliver is great because it is true. To Sir is great because of the writing and directing of the great James Clavell. I have heard and seen Poitier interviewed on radio and TV about his life. He is an extraordinarily gifted man who achieved his full potential in life as an actor, despite odds that should have seemed insurmountable at the beginning. He is an inspiration. But more importantly, he is just a fine actor who is a joy to watch. And so I would like to say, Thank you, Sidney Poitier, for the fine films you have given the world. They will never be dated. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, interesting treatment of race","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To Sir With Love is an enjoyable movie. In 2011, the theme of idealistic-young-teacher-inspires-kids-everyone-else-has-given-up-on is kind of tired, but in 1967 it was no doubt more groundbreaking. Even in 2011, it's refreshing to see a black teacher and mostly white kids. It seems unlikely that such a setup would have worked in America, since we so strongly associate poor with black (or Latina/o) -- more's the pity. Race is definitely a factor in the movie, but it's more of a constant but not dominant thread. Another way the movie varies the typical formula for these kinds of movies (and again, it's a forerunner of the genre) is that the teacher is not portrayed as middle/upper class. As the kids say, in such a great portrayal of the teenaged experience of big ideas without the articulateness to express them -- you're like us, but not. That framing makes it less problematic in some ways than the Well-Meaning White Woman phenomenon.I've seen another review that mentions the misogyny, and that's definitely a factor, but it strikes me as typical for the era -- the second wave of feminism didn't really get going until the 1970s. The idea of clearly-defined and constrictive roles for women was still well-established in 1967. Still, it's an interesting cultural study for a film that takes such a definite anti-racist stance to be so oblivious of feminist issues. It's also interest to contrast it with something like the TV series Mad Men, which purports to be about the 1960s but is creating it from a 21st century perspective, with all of our contemporary cultural moment in the background.Sidney Poitier and the rest of the cast do an excellent job. This is the first Poitier film I've seen, and I'll be seeking out more. "},{"Title":"If you wanted the sky I would write across the sky in letters.","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To Sir, With Love is directed by James Clavell who also adapts from the autobiographical novel written by E. R. Braithwaite. It stars Sidney Poitier, Christian Roberts, Judy Geeson, Suzy Kendall & Lulu. It was filmed in the East End of London and Pinewood Studios. The film's title song To Sir, with Love is sung by Lulu, and proved popular enough to reach number one on the U.S. pop charts. Mark Thackery (Poitier), born in British Guyana, just can't find work in the engineering trade he is trained for. More out of need than want, he takes up a teaching position at a secondary school in London's tough East End. Previous teachers have come and gone, unable to handle the undisciplined students. But Thackeray is no stranger to racism and hostility, so takes up the challenge by treating the students as young adults and disposing of conventional teaching methods.It seems old hat now-but there once was a time when the inspirational teacher turns unruly students around to being better human beings-theme, was fresh and truly inspirational. Enter this Poitier led, To Sir, With Love. OK, so it takes some stretch of the imagination to believe and feel that this particular group of students actually pose a threat to not only civilisation, but also to the excellent Poitier as well. And the big turn around is all a bit too swift. But the film is so well made and ultimately uplifting, it delivers all what one can reasonably expect. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Evergreen Favourite","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1967, director James Clavell brought us what would become an evergreen favourite. E.R. Braithwaite's coming of age novel became the darling of a generation.Sidney Poitier does a wonderful job as Sir, the young would-be engineer who finds himself teaching to make ends meet. Great too is Judy Geeson as the young girl who becomes a woman under Sir's care. The supporting cast of young British thespians is also strong.Ironically, it was Lulu's hit song To Sir With Love that became more popular than the movie.Friday, April 2, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"Good but dated","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" England's take on The Blackboard Jungle benefits immeasurably from Sidney Poitier's dignified performance as Mark Thackeray, and unemployed black engineer who takes a position as a teacher of underprivileged kids in a run-down London school in order to make ends meet until something better comes along.I enjoyed this film enormously as a 16 year old when it first came out. Revisiting it years later shows that the rough and ready disadvantaged working class kids (downright scary to this white rural middle class 16 year old) are fairly obvious stage school alumni, and pretty un-scary, all things told. In particular, Christian Roberts, who made something of a career out of playing bad boys at the time, comes across as a nice middle class lad putting on a Lor' lumme! accent and bigging it up fairly unconvincingly.For all that, the film still has lessons to be taught, and a warm and loving heart, and a central performance of quiet strength from Poitier (even though he dances worse than I do, and I dance REALLY badly!). "},{"Title":"Touching, vibrant film about growing up.","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Poitier stars as talented engineer Mark Thackeray, who decides to try teaching high school students. At least until he can land his dream job in the engineering field. The teenagers that he winds-up teaching, are incorrigible delinquents, from the rough slums of London's east-end. Thackeray gets off to a bad start, while trying to gain the respect of his troubled students. As a black man, he also has the additional problem of winning the respect of the white students, who haven't had to answer to a black teacher before. And most of them harbor some underlying racial animosity, towards Thackeray.After a particularly bad day in the classroom, Mark decides to try a new approach, to getting through to his students. He goes to the skeptical Headmaster, and proposes the idea of taking his students on field trips to museums, and other culturally educational places. Though he's reluctant, the Headmaster decides to grant Thackeray permission, for the field trip program. The students begin to thrive, due to these field trips. And also because Thackeray teaches the teens self respect, and treats them like adults, rather than like juvenile delinquents. The students start looking up to Mark, especially troubled teen Pamela Dare. When Mark gets a great engineering job offer, he's torn between taking that job, and continuing in his new teaching career, at the high school.Sidney Poitier gives a flawless performance, as Mark Thackeray. Poitier portrays his Thackeray character, with an air of stern dignity, as well as genuine compassion. The supporting cast shines too. Especially Judy Geeson, as the angst-ridden Pamela Dare. This film is buoyed by featuring lots of exciting rock music, and by the crackling energy, of the talented cast. To Sir, With Love, will always be a superb cinematic classic. "},{"Title":"Life's Teacher","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie has a nice arc, beginning with wary students versus the teacher, a small crisis (involving only the threat of violence), and ending with appreciation for the teacher's efforts. But one has to wonder if a teacher in a classroom today conducted themselves the way he did,whether that teacher wouldn't find himself on probation with the school board (don't yell at the little darlings!) and sued by the parents (don't tell us how to raise our kids). The main point of the movie is that sometimes in lower economic neighborhoods, kids are not taught how to survive but only how to subsist.Still, it's entertaining and I have never yet been bored by a Sidney Poitier performance. "},{"Title":"A Heart Warming Movie About A Teacher!","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If there is a movie that truly depicts a teacher in a straight yet effective manner, it is this movie To Sir, With Love based on the book of the same name by E R Braithwaite. I had read a small excerpt of the book during a literature class and this attracted me to see the movie. The movie moved me a lot and I personally consider this movie as a true classic. Sidney Poitier is simply an amazing actor. He plays the role of a teacher Mark Thackeray who has failed to find a job as an engineer and hence has decided to work as a teacher until he gets a break. He ends up in a school where all the kids are rejects, considered as the worst of all. Initially losing his temper with the kids and not being able to resort to corporal punishment, Mark comes up with a revolutionary method of teaching which he hopes can be used to bring about a change in the spoiled bunch of kids. And he does. His method works and soon all the students begin to transform themselves. But not everything goes on perfectly smooth. There is always this generation gap between the students which causes them to lose their faith in him at one time and distance themselves. All the actors who play the students also have done a wonderful job with their respective roles. What is very special about this movie is that it does not show something magical. It is simply psychology at work. Mark knows the way kids think and precisely attacks them in the areas where they will get affected most. He plays a wonderful set of tricks and manages to bring about a transformation in the kids which comes out at a believable pace. The movie does not show unbelievable magic but demonstrates to us the power of patience and goodness.This movie is about an ideal teacher and might well serve the purpose of being an ideal movie to demonstrate the qualities of a great teacher. The most touching scene comes at the very end. Knowing how many more kids he can help makes Mark realize that it is his purpose in life to help kids transform into men. The still scene where he tears up his appointment letter as a radio engineer simply sums up the message of the movie effectively.A must watch for all serious movie goers. It is an old movie but nonetheless it still has a message for our times. "},{"Title":"To Sidney With Love","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1967 was a banner year for Sidney Poitier at the box office, with three massive hits in a row. Not only financially but critically as well. To Sir, With Love, In The Heat of the Night, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner. Not even Tom Hanks has had three huge hits in one year.To Sir, With Love is kind of a mid sixties answer to the mid fifties high school film The Blackboard Jungle, which featured Sidney as one of the students, so everything came full circle. He was already pushing 30 when he did The Blackboard Jungle, so he could of easily of played Glenn Ford's role as the teacher. But a movie with a black teacher in the mid fifties was not likely. Even in To Sir, With Love there are a few racial issues addressed.And we can't forget the students. Most of the male actors never went on to anything else of note, except for Michael Des Barres to an extent. On the female side though, we had of course, Lulu, who also sang the theme song. Anyone who has seen recent photos of her taken in the last ten years will probably agree with me that she has gotten extremely more attractive than she did 40 years ago. Then we have the cute as a button Judy Geeson as Pamela, who develops a bit of a crush on Sidney. Judy went on to work pretty steadily in films through the rest of the 60's and into the 70's. Then she kind of faded from view a bit, but did turn up again in a recurring role on the sitcom Mad About You. As well as appearing in the made for TV sequel of To Sir, With Love in 1996 i believe, along with Lulu also returning. Also of note is Suzy Kendall as a fellow teacher at the school. Suzy was only in her early 20's at the time but looked more like she was in her early 30's, so seeing her playing a teacher was odd but believable. Just like Judy, Suzy would work steadily through the rest of the decade and into the 70's before fading from view. Mostly appearing in Italian Giallo thrillers such as The Bird With the Crystal Plumage, and Torso.The director of this film, James Clavell, led a life far more interesting than all his films put together. Wounded in WW2, then became a prisoner of war by the Japanese. Then came the Hollywood career as a writer/director, followed by a successful career as a novelist in the 70's and 80's, before dying at the age of 69. To Sir, With Love was originally a novel by E.R. Braithwaite, which Clavell then himself adapted into the screenplay.This film is essential viewing for all Sidney Poitier fans. "},{"Title":"Respect others and you will respect yourself","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like films about teachers. There's something about them. Probably my favourite is Dead Poets Society, which contains the greatest performance a Hollywood studio ever got out of Robin Williams. I also really enjoy The Paper Chase and the underrated Mr Holland's Opus. They all share the same conceit of an inspirational teacher encouraging his students to be the best that they can be. And To Sir, With Love is another that can join the club.Although it had the edge taken off it by Blackboard Jungle, To Sir, With Love is still a film that holds a certain resonance. As long as you can get around the sheer datedness of the film, you will find it has its pleasures.It was ahead of its time. To my knowledge it was the first Hollywood mainstream film to feature a Black teacher. And quite a few of the inherent clichés are kept to a merciful minimum. I'm sure if the film were remade today, you would get a lot of the expected scenes of the teacher sweating under the racial climate. Facing opposition from students and teachers alike.And while I suppose To Sir, With Love comes within arms reach of all of the above, it never quite goes the whole distance. Perhaps Mark Thackeray is a little too easily accepted into the community considering the setting, but the impressive determined performance from Sydney Poitier goes some way towards making up for any shortcomings.1967 was quite a year for Poitier. The same year of his equally impressive performance for In the Heat of the Night. And To Sir, With Love was a surprise box-office smash hit. I'm sure that's in no small part to the signature theme song hitting Number 1 in the charts. It was a point where Sydney Poitier must have been the highest paid Black actor in Hollywood, up until Eddie Murphy at least. Mark would much rather be an engineer than a teacher. But the job offers for such a position haven't been rolling in (whether its because of his race is unknown). Still, circumstances dictate flexibility, so Mark gets a job in an East End public school. A school that gets the worst in the country.Mark makes little headway with his students, and even the faculty have given up on them (and themselves), until Mark has an epiphany. He realises what he's been doing wrong all these weeks. He's been treating his class like they were children when he should have treated them like adults. They're only weeks away from leaving school. They need to learn how to survive out in the real world. So Mark teaches them about life, and life's expectations of us.To the jaded reviewer, To Sir, With Love has absolutely nothing enlightening to say. It doesn't tell us anything we don't already know. And I suppose the same applies to all of the other teacher films I mentioned. But the success of them rides on whether or not the teacher is a charismatic or persuasive figure. And Sydney Poitier is.Even when he blows his top at them, Poitier never steps out of character. He's still the model of respectability that the members of his class should be trying to emulate. He's they're example of what it means to be a productive member of society. Even when they drive him up the wall, he maintains an air of dignity.In the supporting cast, we get quite a few early risers, and all do an admirable job of fleshing out what could easily have been clichéd, unimaginative characters. Particularly appealing is Judy Geeson as Pamela. In a very impressive rotation of emotion, she starts out as the class slut, and under Mark's tutelage, slowly transforms herself into a proper lady. What impresses about her performance is she's just as convincing a loudmouthed brat as she is a sweet young woman. Her unrequited crush on Mark is touching too.Look out for an early appearance from Lulu in her screen debut, who also provides the catchy theme song. Suzy Kendall is equally sweet as Gillian, the timid teacher who (one suspects) also has a crush on Mark. And Geoffrey Bayldon and Patricia Routledge (Hyacinth Bucket!) add amusing support as the teaching staff who rediscover they're love for their jobs because of Mark's presence.A common failing of British films released through American production companies (in this case Columbia) is they can't resist showcasing England like it were a travelogue book, and To Sir, With Love is no exception. There are times when the film holds still to show off Tower Bridge, Double Decker buses and in the most telling scene, a montage at a London museum. Its an irritating habit purely designed to increase mass market consumption, and slows the film right down.Still, when its eyes are on the ball, To Sir, With Love is a pleasingly thoughtful film. Such subtleties as Mark and a student both wielding a block of wood at different points in the film illustrate the need for self-discipline, even when you've been pushed too far. Its nice to see something like that handled with a nonchalant touch and not hammered home. Mark and Pamela's dance at the end is worth a watch too (and predates Pulp Fiction's by 27 years!).The ending is not all that unexpected, but To Sir, With Love has its charms, and even though it looks stuck in the 60s, its lessons in life are timeless. "}{"Title":"A timeless message","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To Sir, With Love, is a gem in that the story, the characters, and the message of the novel are transferred almost flawlessly to the screen. Sidney Poitier is masterful as the titular character, Mark Thackeray, assigned to teach a classroom full of delinquent London teens.His own epiphany and announcement--after a number of trying events--that the students are not children, but adults, each deserving of concern and respect, and owing responsibility to the world--is the turning point of the story. Simply by abiding by the rules by which he expects them to abide, Sir earns not just the students' respect, but their love; he has treated them like no other adult in their lives has done.The message is obvious regardless of race, creed, colour, or even gender or social position, every person is deserving of the same level of respect. It was true in 1967; it's true today; it will always be true.See the movie; if you can find a copy, read the book, too. "},{"Title":"Sorely under appreciated!","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't believe this movie does not even rank on some of the internet lists of the top 100 movies of the 1960s! Are you kidding me? How can that be? This movie is UNFORGETTABLE and one I have seen repeatedly and still love to see again! This is CLASSIC, CLASSIC, CLASSIC drama! One of the greatest stories ever written, and it is made to perfection. You couldn't improve it by re-making this movie - so please don't try!! I LOVE THIS MOVIE.Patch of Blue is another outstanding Poitier film that doesn't get as much appreciation as it deserves.This movie should be shown in high schools all over the world. It should be studied by film school students. It's movie-making at its finest. I find absolutely no fault with this movie whatsoever. I definitely want my grandchildren to see this when they're old enough! Hope I can watch it with them. ) "},{"Title":"Let's just say battle was joined.","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Clavell's To Sir, with Love has a premise that has become somewhat of a cliché. That is, of an innovative instructor reforming an initially difficult batch of students, but To Sir, with Love rises far above being an average iteration of the premise. The setting is London's East End, and the teacher Mark Thackeray, played by Sidney Poitier.Sidney Poitier is perfect as Mark Thackeray, who tries to be even-handed and cool-headed despite the conditions, but sometimes loses his temper. Poitier plays the role authoritatively, but also tempers his authority with genuine concern and at times even a touch of shyness. The students and the fellow instructors are also well-cast. In particular I enjoyed Geoffrey Bayldon's performance as the seemingly perpetually cynical Mr. Weston.This film succeeds in its primary goal to be an inspiring story and the obstacles Sir faces ensure that this film doesn't become boring. This film is firmly planted in the time in it was made, the 1960s. This dates it in some respects, but the time and setting are overall highly appropriate for the film and interesting to consider. The film's exploration of the friction between teachers and students and racism remain particularly pertinent. Additional and effective tension is added to the film when one of the students takes a fancy to Mr. Thackeray. The film also showcases a decent original song from a young Lulu, who is one of the students, based on the film's title and repeats the song several times for maximum impact. "},{"Title":"Better Than I Remembered","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To Sir With Love (1967) could be considered a blue collar and contemporary The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie (1969) or an urban Mr. Holland's Opus. I was entertained but unimpressed when I saw it in a theatre at the time of its release. At the time the film was simply too obvious in its attempt to cash in on the hot issues that were being embraced at that time. Anything British was super cool, race relations was the in topic-especially things dealing with the plight of blacks, Lulu's hit title song was being played incessantly on all the pop stations, Judy Geeson was suddenly every guy's dream girl, and Christan Roberts was obviously intended to draw teen girl's to the theatre. Surprisingly the film has held up remarkably well and now seemed far less contrived. In part this is because I have learned that the novel (of the same title) from which it was adapted, was written by a cultured black man (E.R. Braithwaite) who taught similar students in a similar East End London public school. In addition, the story is timeless as educational systems continue to pigeon-hole students at an early age, steering the least promising into dead-end programs where little is done to tap whatever potential they may have for learning. That's basically the film's story as out-of-work engineer Mark Thackeray (Sidney Poitier) takes what he hopes will be a temporary job at an East End school. His class is the one nobody wants, full of students who have no apparent aptitude or interest in anything academic. They are in their last year (British schools set this type of student loose on the world at age 15 but these students look several years older) and just killing time until they can leave school at the end of the term. These are not the JD's of Blackboard Jungle (a 1955 Poitier film) but a real socio-economic segment of British society.Thackeray quickly sizes up the situation and realizes that he can do nothing to make up for years of low expectations. So he starts teaching them basic manners, survival skills, and how to behave as responsible adults; things that will soon be useful to them. And they quickly recognize this and for the first time become really attentive to a teacher and his lessons. More importantly, he gives them a role model, a poor black man who worked hard, paid his dues, and transformed himself into someone they consider cultured and literate. They have been tagged as losers by the educational system but Thackeray opens their eyes to other possibilities. Of course Lulu sings the excellent title song, which is nicely connected to the actual story, and does a surprisingly good job of acting for the camera. The film's best moment is the field trip to the museum creatively illustrated by a montage of still photos accompanied by a version of the title song. The Mindbenders, a contemporary pop group (Groovy Kind of Love) contribute a couple songs and actually appear briefly at a dance gig. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.Those schoolgirl days, of telling tales and biting nails are gone, But in my mind, I know they will still live on and on, But how do you thank someone, who has taken you from crayons to perfume? It isn't easy, but I'll try,If you wanted the sky I would write across the sky in letters, That would soar a thousand feet high, To Sir, with LoveThe time has come, For closing books and long last looks must end, And as I leave, I know that I am leaving my best friend, A friend who taught me right from wrong, And weak from strong, That's a lot to learn, What, what can I give you in return?If you wanted the moon I would try to make a start, But I, would rather you let me give my heart, To Sir, with Love "},{"Title":"A tribute to Mr Sidney Poitier, a very important man !","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" TSWL will always stay an EVERGREEN ! My wife and myself should like to see this film about once a year. Sidney Poitier is a very superior, very highly intelligent and a kind man. His kindness and his personality are indeed able to change people's life ! He's the living proof that everybody can become many good things in his life and be a magnificent person when you are good and when you want to work for it ! He will always be an example for many of us ! I've seen the diner-interview with OW. He is a very special man ! I respect him very much ! I hope that he will live for another 100 years because to many people will miss him when he should leave us ! We can't allow him to... He is to important for this world ! FW. "},{"Title":"Charisma on Parade","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To Sir with Love should forever be on a list of the top one or two hundred films. My comment, however is related to the subject of the film rather than its quality Emerging from, and being much affected by a serious study of educational and other inequities, I determined to spend part of my early career teaching disadvantaged inner-city youth. In the classroom, I found that even at the elementary school level there were many children radically disaffected from the project of education, and indeed from any prosocial endeavor. Try as I might to present my pedagogical skills in an interesting way and to express my very genuine compassion I was in large measure a failure-at least compared with the superlative effects of a teacher like Mr. Thackeray. There are a few blessed people who possess the rare gift of being able to find the key to communicating with students popularly considered incorrigible. These rare souls are invaluable, and once found, should be treated with the respect and awe accorded to rare emeralds. "},{"Title":"sidney Poitier's master performance","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this movie more than any of the teacher/class room movies.I've never seen Sidney's movies before and I was awestruck watching this movie. Hats off to Sidney for his brilliant performance. Even the boy/gals in the class portrayed their characters with much ease and temper.You can see the struggle that a teacher faces in his early career dealing with the pupils. How sidney handles his temper and how he behaves/shows his feelings is too good. The climax is most touching of the entire film. It leaves you dumbfounded as the students dedicate a song for their Teacher and a small gift.Overall it's a must watchable for a teacher/pupil and of course for every movie bluff. "},{"Title":"A classic right out of the starting gate","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How can this movie not impress you? It's got it all. It's a coming of age film.Poitier as a young,black school teacher in London's east side takes the job nobody wanted...not even him. Everyone learns something about themselves here.What's really important in life and how , sometimes, we don't even know for ourselves.Bravo!!! Lulu, I'm not sure where you are or what you're doing these days but I just wanted to say Thank You for one of the most beautiful songs to ever come from a movie. I LOVE IT. Man's struggle against his own hopes and dreams. Searching for what he believes to be his Dream Job but just falling short, or so he believes. We can all learn a lesson from this. Sometimes where you are is right where you should be.... "},{"Title":"The crowning jewel of Sidney Poitier in 1967","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Poitier had three films released in 1967, in my opinion this was the best of them. In the Heat of the Night might have been more socially relevant when seen today, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner might have been more conventionally entertaining, but To Sir, With Love was to me more intelligent, sensitive and emotional that the other two. I am amazed that Sidney was not nominated for the Oscar in 1967, but given his performances in all three films, it's obvious the voters were torn. Sidney Poitier had a year in 1967 that, due to the length of time it takes to make a film these days, may not be repeated now, that is 3 starring roles in three extremely profitable films. This did not happen that often then, so think how may films Tom Cruise, or Nicole Kidman or even Meryl Streep make in a year now. Please rent this film and watch it with an open mind and heart. A genuinely touching, sincere, and ultimately truthful film. "},{"Title":"If you've compared this to other films, you're wrong!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent film, and should not be compared to The Blackboard Jungle or any other film or book, for that matter.  To Sir, with Love is based upon a book by E.R. Braithwaite, and is not a sequel or successor to other films or books.That said and done, I would like to say that is a film par excellence. Poitier gives an outstanding performance as Thackeray, the new school teacher, and the kids, for the most part, were really from the East End. (Lulu, I believe, is Scottish; and Michael Des Barres -- Gypsy, the kid with the ubiquitous sunglasses -- is of French aristocracy/English descent; otherwise, what you're seeing is what you get  kids from the East End.)True, the script and some of the cinematography are dated, but what do you expect?  The film was made in 1966 (I believe) and released in 1967; in many ways, it was ahead of itself.  (How many films, besides Blowup, showed a white woman dancing with a black man?)The main point, however, is not cinematic technique but character development and storyline.  The film does portray strong characters, and does develop in a logical, positive way.  And the material is excellent; having stayed a bit in London, I have seen young people who needed a teacher like Mark Thackeray.Many thanks for reading my review. "}{"Title":"Humanity in the School corridors","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To Sir With Love is another film examination of a teacher's struggle to win over under-privileged youth, in the tradition of Blackboard Jungle and Boys Town. In this film Poitier's character, Mark Thackeray, is less committed to his task than the protagonists in the aforementioned movies, but is no less dedicated in his resolve to instill self respect and empathy in his pupils.The desire to do so stems from his own realisation that he was once in their shoes, and was able to escape the downward spiral wrought by poverty. At the same time, he faces a dilemma in furthering his own career (as an engineer) at the expense of his students. The tension between the two choices - engineer or teacher - might be unpalatable to career teachers, but is deftly handled by director/writer James Clavell as he sets up a series of set-pieces designed to test Thackeray's mettle.The students are ultimately the catalyst for Thackeray's decision. Unruly, vulgar and contemptuous of authority Thackeray gradually pierces their armour to reveal their underlying humanity. Poitier's performance, aided by an excellent supporting cast including Judy Geeson and Lulu, portrays this gradual revelation without any cloying sentiment.  "},{"Title":"A super drama.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sidney Poitier gives one of his greatest performances in To Sir With Love. As Mark Thackery, he instills lessons of life (respect, kindness, support and common decency toward others) in his students which continue to be extremely valuable today for children, youth and adults. Although the movie is now over thirty years old, I never tire from viewing it. The performances given by Judy Geeson, Lulu, Christian Roberts, Suzy Kendall and Geoffrey Bayldon were also very good. This movie comes highly recommended. (I wonder what ever became of all the students in Mr. Thackery's class). "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brilliant movie.  I have lost count of the number of times I have seen  this classic.  Sidney Poitier is fantastic as Mr Thackery and the lovely  Judy Geeson is perfect as Pamela Dare.  The song by Lulu is one of my  favourites. "},{"Title":"The Black Spot on Judy Geeson's bottom lip","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just watched the film again it screened on TV today and I noticed that Judy Geeson has a large black spot on the left hand side of her bottom lip, however the spot has disappeared by the end of the movie, could this be a touch of authenticity and the make up dept decided to add a coldsore? Or it could be a real one that judy was suffering from, after all who could resist kissing those beautiful lips? Anyway, a great film, I never tire of it and one of Mr Poitier's finest performances' yes the theme song does get used quite a bit = but to me it is never obtrusive as its such a great song sung by one of England's greatest girl singers and it enhances the mood of the scene.Possible the finest example of the high school film genre.Also- perhaps this film UK TV series Please Sir, there are some obvious differences but perhaps the makers of Please Sir decided to take the basic plot and give it a comedic twist? A great iconic 60's film. "},{"Title":"So upbeat and idealistic it's hard not to like, and to not quite take seriously","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To Sir, With Love (1967)An update of Blackboard Jungle set in mod England. While Sidney Poitier plays a role that could be any teacher in a tough neighborhood school, trying to win over a rough and tumble bunch of students, he is also the prototypical black man trying to rise above prejudice in the 1960s. He plays both sides of his role with usual aplomb and grace.If you look beyond the feel good idealism here, and the general high production standards, there is a bit of a preachy and awkward movie beneath it all. The clichés the students play are believable, but they are clichés. The twists in the plot are well used ones (see Blackboard Jungle for most of them). And there are moments you just have to say it wouldn't be like that, the way people react, or the apparent ignorance of Poitier's character when he begins teaching, or the too obvious set-ups of the bad kids doing their bad things. How can it be I feel guilty saying this? I guess because it's such a well-intentioned and generally good movie. It really is feel good enough to make you feel good, really good, and you want life to always turn out so perfectly perfect. Poitier is a wonder, really, a presence on the screen unlike anyone else in these kinds of roles, brimming with dignity and humility and good humor. Director James Clavell does what you might call a creditable job directing. It's well done, doggone it, especially for a writer of over-sized, ambitious popular novels. I've read a bit of Clavell's work in the past, and this feels similar--important themes, lots of side issues, but a sense of the obvious all along. And a sense of succeeding with the dramatic, and winning you over while your in the middle of it, book or movie. I certainly think anyone would enjoy To Sir, With Love on that level. "},{"Title":"On The Other Side Of The Classroom","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Twelve years earlier a much too old Sidney Poitier was cast as one of the delinquents bedeviling Glenn Ford in The Blackboard Jungle. Now across the pond Sidney got a taste of what he was dishing out to Glenn in one of his biggest hits, To Sir With Love.Poitier is an engineer, born in British Guiana and educated in America, he's now in London taking a teaching job in the tough East End of London. But delinquent kids are the same everywhere. These kids are into sex and rock and roll and at that time rock and roll had a most English accent, courtesy of the Beatles. It takes a while, but eventually Sid wins their trust in a variety of ways from sage advice to a good body blow to Christian Roberts who plays the toughest nut in his classroom bag to crack. To Sir With Love was shot on location in the United Kingdom and did very well at the box office. The title song, sung by Lulu who plays one of the kids here, was a tremendous hit in the middle sixties on both sides of the pond.To Sir With Love helped launch the career of Judy Geeson who's still doing quite well. She plays young Pamela Dare who's developing quite the crush on handsome Sid. Poitier certainly handles it a lot better than it would be shown today.I'm surprised that a television series wasn't developed from this at least in the United Kingdom. It certainly had a lot of potential in that direction.For those of you nostalgic for the British scene in the sixties when they ruled the pop world, To Sir With Love is your film. "},{"Title":"Teaching right from wrong and weak from strong in a good 60's flick.","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1967 was a tough year for Sydney Poitier. Not for his career because it was one of his best but he sure didn't get much recognition for it. He stared in three of the years tops films To Sir With Love, In The Heat of the Night, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner. All were black-white racial themed movies of which he was the pivotal or principal performer. 'Heat' and 'Dinner' combined for a total of 17 Academy Award nominations, winning seven Oscars. 'Sir' was shutout from the awards and received no nominations. Despite the success and importance of these three films Poitier received was not nominated in any of them. He turns in another fine acting performance in To Sir With Love. Also in the cast are the marvelous Judy Geeson and the talented singer-actress Lulu. This film has often been compared with 1955's Blackboard Jungle and Poitier comes full circle from playing a student in Balckboard Jungle to being the teacher in To Sir With Love. The guy knows his way around a classroom. Sir, is not an obligatory forced term they address his character of Mark Thackeray by. They give it with love. I've seen this several times and would give this an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yes, Sir!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't have high hopes when I saw this was going to be on TCM but having never seen it, I decided to give it a try. While it's essentially a remake of The Blackboard Jungle only set in England, it did have some nice moments and managed to hold my attention. I especially liked the montage scene where the students visit a museum and art gallery. The title song, while quite nice, seems to be used too many times in the film. Every chance they get, Lulu comes out and sings it one more time! Overall, while slighted dated (unfortunetly unruly kids are rather tame today) it does make you cheer for Sidney in trying to break into their world to help them learn. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A reasonably well made and engaging mix of schooling drama and racial drama, it is predictable and lacks a bit in credibility, but there is enough in it to make it quite a satisfying watch. The title song, sung by actress Lulu, is great, most of the acting shows earnestness, and the film paints a good picture of contemptuous youth. The film seems to drag out a bit too long, but that is probably just because it is so easy to see where it is heading. In all fairness, the sentiments and messages of the film may have been radical at the time. For a modern audience though, the film would probably seem less ambitious, but still it does the job fairly well, so for what it is, it can be appreciated. "},{"Title":"It's a true story!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love the movie for the movie. I first saw it when I was ten and at the age of 17 I still love it for what it is. I was disgruntled by many reviews because the authors did not know that this is a true story. Although it is slightly different from the book (much about his relationship was left out of the movie)it is based on a true story. Those that said that it was predictable or that this plot has been done too many times are unaware that it is based on a true story.Watch the movie then read the book,if you are too busy looking for what it doesn't cover you will miss what it does. It covers what in my opinion was the most important story line, Thackery's interaction with his students and his ability to change after being slightly weathered by life (you can teach an old dog new tricks, OK so he isn't old but you know what I mean). See the movie and then after you do read the book and understand though the author has a different name than the character, it is a memoir and a very well written one at that! "}{"Title":"The first truly great film I ever saw.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lemme see, what can I say about this film that has not been said many times before? Probably nothing. This was a magnificent movie, touching and topical, and a fitting vehicle for Sidney Poitier's tremendous talents.Set in a secondary school in a rundown part of London, Mark Thackery, recent graduate and prospective engineer takes a job teaching a class of seemingly unreachable kids. Intimidated at first, he decides that the curriculum is worthless to them and commences to teach them life lessons about courtesy, civility and the real world into which they are about to emerge. I was 11 years old I guess when I saw this film, and it touched me deeply to think that a teacher might care as deeply about his charges as Poitier's character does in the film. Add to that one of Poitier's greatest performances IMHO, and the film is riveting, emotional and deeply moving. Before this movie, probably the movie that touched me most was Old Yeller. Now I was real young so it wasn't like I had a 20 year track record. For many years afterward this film would be the standard by which I judged all movies.8 out of 10 for a fine film and a powerful performance by Poitier "},{"Title":"Brit Blackboard Jungle","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The same year Sandy Dennis jostled her way up the down staircase, Sidney Poitier finagled himself with a motley crew of Cockney youths.It'd been a dozen years since young Sidney played a rebellious youth in Blackboard Jungle. Now he's older, wiser, wears a pressed suit and carries a briefcase.He also has some personal ideas about how to handle these crass kids. While it takes time to work his ways, he's persistent and patient. One gets the feeling that the actor's own brand of philosophy buoys him in the role of Mark Thackeray.Whatever the case, To Sir With Love is quite an engrossing drama about tough love, understanding and redemption. The film did then and continues to resonate with movie viewers. "},{"Title":"It's also about growing up","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw it as also about being growing up & learning. I saw the kids growing up(I know, that's blatant), but also the adults growing up some & learning from the kids. I'd like to see this movie used as a tool for teaching students. when they first start, they'll watch it & write a paper on how the kids & teachers (in the movie) changed over the course of the year,& then as part of the final exam, the watch it again & write another paper contrasting how they perceive the roles of the kids & teachers now compared to when they started their education as teachers. It would be interesting to see how it would change, as well as how they would handle the kids differently, if at all. I know I probably don't make any sense here, but oh well. "},{"Title":"Job Interviews ?","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My wife and I just saw this great movie (me for the first time) which she remembers seeing many years ago.We watched the DVD release, and she is convinced there was a scene in which Sir helped the kids prepare for, and then actually go on job interviews.There is no such scene on the DVD, but there are references to the interviews by one of the kids later.Does ANYONE know if such a scene actually existed, or if it was omitted on the DVD release? Or is my wife crazy? We loved to movie, but we searched the DVD (both sides) to see if we had somehow missed this scene.Thanks to whomever can clear this up.Sincerely, Gracers "},{"Title":"A gem that is timeless","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Loved the film so much - was brought up in London at that time, and have to say that the film perfectly reflects the culture, society, prejudices and morality of the era.Sure its not high budget, nor is much of the acting world-class (although I think Poitier was superb!) but its the kind of story that warms the heart and for many like me will serve as an ever present piece of nostalgia.I am sure that attention to detail was more by design than accident - and it was so true to life. Whilst some will say same old same old... I have to say that in its make up, this is a little masterpiece that will certainly be in my collection for life! "},{"Title":"A FILM THAT TEACHES RIGHT AND WRONG","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To Sir, With Love is a movie based on the novel by E.R. Braithwaite and I also read the book too and I recently saw the movie on television and it stars Sidney Poitier as Mark Thackeray a new teacher from the North Quay Secondary School in London and he teaches a class and he call them Miss and Sirs and also staring Judy Geeson as Mr. Thackeray's student Pamela Dare, with Suzy Kendall,Christian Roberts,Patricia Routledge (Keeping up Appearances) with The Mindbenders and introducing Lulu as Barbara Pegg who also sings the title song. My favorite scene where Mark dances with Pamela and after the dance Lulu sings the 2nd verse of To Sir, With Love and he gives a speech.A great flim written for the screen and directed by James Clavell followed by a made-for-TV sequel 30 years after the United Kingdom relase by Columbia Pictures which is own by Sony.I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mixed emotions on this one","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was an important film from the 60's insofar as it starred a black man, Sidney Poitier. However, I believe the film is somewhat held back by stilted performances from the entire cast. The story is a good one, about a black teacher in a rundown school in England. Most of the students are from a rough, poor neighborhood. It's about relationships, self-esteem, discipline and the fact that one person can make a difference in several lives. However, there's that acting thing again. Even Poitier's performance lacked any real zip, and he's usually quite better than this. The majority of the remainder of the cast were relative unknowns, at least at that time. I think the film could have been very good had it been better acted. However, it wasn't and that holds it back somewhat. Still, not a bad film and one that has a message that still rings true today, perhaps more than ever. One person can affect many people. And they don't even have to be rich or famous to do it. "},{"Title":"Read the Book!","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK, it's a good movie. But I wonder why the credits say based on the novel by E.R.Braithwaite? The book is actually a partial autobiography, and is a great read, filling in any gaps you may notice in the film. I read it before I saw the movie, and was a little disappointed with the changes and omissions. I suppose casting a famous American in the lead was the only way to attract US audiences, but putting overage actors in kids' parts looked strange. In answer to one of your reviewers, the offensive object which was being burned near the start of the movie was a used tampon. I don't understand why this wasn't explained - but maybe when the movie was made this word couldn't be used on screen. In that case, why include the episode at all?  "},{"Title":"The film that set the stereotype.","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watching the film now in 2006 obviously gave rise to lots of deja-vu feelings in my mind. So predictable, so stereotypical... yet I had to understand that it's made in 1967 and the other films actually copied from this one. Once you get that idea in your head, the film will appear as fresh and original as it could be.Apart from the idea, two other things stand out to make a lasting impression. One is acting; Poitier is wonderful as Mr. Thackeray and Judy Geeson also did a good job. And two is the music. In the school dance scene the band played some really good music... perfectly capturing the flavor of that time. "},{"Title":"Sidney Poitier plays a very inspirational teacher in To Sir, with Love","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After some 25 years of first watching this on Cinemax, I just saw this again on YouTube just now. This is such an inspirational movie with Sidney Poitier doing one of his most inspirational performances. No wonder he became such a superstar when this came out in 1967, I mean look at him and the way he put himself out there! And since this took place during the Swinging London scene you also get such cool music from The Mindbenders and Lulu who plays one of the initially incorrigible students. Also among them is Judy Geeson as Pamela who develops a crush on Poitier's character of Mr. Mark Thackeray which is handled with the utmost sensitivity. Really, I have nothing but love for this still highly enjoyable movie. So on that note, I very much recommend To Sir, with Love. P.S. Since this is Black History Month, I have to take note that one of the students is played by Anthony Villaroel as Seales whose character has something that happens to someone close that affects the others to the point of some debate. "}{"Title":"Very Dated And Very Predictable But Poitier Does Well With It","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My first reaction to this film was that it was too obviously a product of the 1960's. From the music, to the clothing, to the hairstyles, to the dances it reeks of the 60's too much to be truly relevant to 2008. Having said that, upon reflection I also realize that some of it might have even seemed a bit old-fashioned in the 60's. In an era when women's libbers were starting to burn bras, I think of Sir's request of one of his female colleagues to teach some of his female students how to use makeup, because some of them would look very pretty if they knew how. (Not to mention his female colleague's ready agreement to his suggestion, unusual for a very young female teacher who would presumably be up on the social trends of the day.) Frankly, the basic story has also been done more powerfully. I think of Morgan Freeman's turn in Lean on Me for example. The movie was also, I thought, a bit naive. This class of rowdies seemed to come around far too easily.Sidney Poitier's performance as the new teacher sent in to deal with this class of inner-city rebels was a complicated one. At first he didn't really grab me, but once I thought about it I began to appreciate his work more. He plays a very detached Thackeray (known as Sir), and seemed uncomfortably distant at times. At first I thought it was a flaw in his performance, but then I realized this was probably a very accurate take on Thackeray. I mean, the guy really didn't want to be there. He wanted to work as an engineer, and wasn't shy about making it known that teaching was at best a second choice that he couldn't wait to get out of. You ended up questioning does he really care about these kids, or is it just his job to look like he's caring about these kids? Was he just a more convincing Weston (one of his definitely uncaring colleagues) in other words. Being detached was probably the way Thackeray would have been. Poitier was definitely the star of the movie. The other actors playing the teachers were mostly window-dressing, although Geoffrey Bayldon's take on Weston as the burned out teacher who just couldn't care less about these kids anymore was quite convincing. The students were a bit more interesting - especially Judy Geeson as Pamela, who falls for Thackeray, and Christian Roberts as Denham, the hardest case of the bunch. There were also some good scenes the opening scene on the bus was quite funny; Thackeray catching the girls burning something (the movie doesn't identify what it is but apparently the novel tells us that it's a used sanitary napkin); his boxing match with Denham; saving the gym teacher from Denham; and the emotion when he's presented with a good-bye gift from the students at the end of the year. All those stood out for me and remain with me, as did the title song, which is wonderful, and was performed by Lulu, who played one of the students.Having said that, the movie's predictable. You know that the kids are going to turn around (which, as I said, they do far too easily) and you know that in the end Thackeray is going to decide to stay (although the suspense about that was kept going right to the end.) I opened with a comparison to Lean On Me. To me, what made that movie more powerful was its reality based story, whereas this is based on a novel and therefore can't be taken too seriously. It's got a lot of good stuff in it, but I still thought it no better than average. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Softened variation on Blackboard Jungle","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Despite a charismatic, stern-yet-flexible performance, Sidney Poitier is lost amongst the clichés in this unconvincing do-gooder drama. He plays a young teacher in an East End London slum school saddled with illiterates and mini-skirted degenerates. Poitier played the rebellious student in 1955's Blackboard Jungle, and he's just as good in the square, forthright adult role, but this film is sentimental and a bit soft, commercially soft, and doesn't ring true. It's also handicapped by a ridiculous conclusion. There are some relevant lines about the education system, but dated trappings abound. Lulu sings the pretty theme song, but it's played four times (two times too many). **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Mr. Poitier is Better Actor Than This Movie Allows Him To Become","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I felt this was one of Sidney Poitier's lesser films.One may argue that since it was a British film, that's why it did not get recognition at the Academy Awards. That's a very loose argument, as many directors, actors, and writers from the UK and elsewhere work for the Hollywood machine and have either won or been nominated for Oscars. And one also may point out that the BAFTA awards also did not recognize this film for anything.I have not seen many of Sidney Poitier's films. But I have seen a few great ones. These are 1) In the Heat of the Night (1967); 2) Lilies of the Field (1963); 3) Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967); 4) Uptown Saturday Night (1974); 5) Sneakers (1992)... I intend to see, sometime in the future, A Patch of Blue (1965) and The Defiant Ones (1958)...To Sir, With Love was not a great choice on part.22 years later, a film was made that fed off the basic formula of To Sir, With Love - a teacher who must encourage compassion, empathy, and will to survive and thrive. This film was Dead Poets Society with Robin Williams. He was Oscar nominated for his role. Tom Schulman won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. To this day, this is my favorite classroom film or professor/teacher film.5 years after this, Danny Devito stared in Renaissance Man about a man forced to teach dimwitted Army recruits. Teaching them Shakespeare, no less. This movie was in the category of To Sir, With Love - it was fine for some tastes, but usually cheap genre movies.If you are a fan of Sidney Poitier, don't be upset that he did receive recognition for this role. Be upset that he didn't receive recognition (at least in the Academy Awards) for a great film like, In the Heat of the Night. This was not only an important film for the time (and today), but an incredibly well acted film. This film received 5 Academy Award wins out of 7 nominations! I really think that is the greatest Oscar snub in history.They Call Me MISTER Tibbs! Yep. "},{"Title":"Awfully familiar","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  By no means a classic, this school drama is undoubtedly well- intentioned and reasonably well-done, but, by now, it's awfully familiar stuff. "},{"Title":"A black engineer guy goes to a school for bad kids in 60/70s London to teach and deals with issues of sex, color, and growing up.","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We had to watch this movie for Health class and although it is okay with an okay plot it isn't great. Problems The accents are very British and sometimes hard to understand when they talk really fast. The bad fashions and funny music distract you from the plot and dialog. The school is a place where rejects from other schools are sent. This makes the problems less identifiable because you know the kids are the worst of the worst (they are still good kids if you know what I mean). Good Things Some of the plot lines/issues still ring true today..Conclusion ...but overall I don't think the movie is anything special and there are better things to rent on a rainy day. Teachers might identify with it and like it more than younger people. I think I remake would be okay and would let younger generations like myself identify better. "}]