[{"Title":"The thinking person's horror/sf movie","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"70 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Quatermass & the pit is one of the best movies made by Hammer studios, who are more usually associated with 1960s English horror films.  The screenplay is by Nigel Kneale and is based on his 1950s 6-episode television mini-series of the same name.A mysterious object is unearthed during extension work on a London underground station, and although the authorities try to explain it away as an unexploded German weapon from WWII, the heroes (Professors Quatermass & Rowney) discover it is far more ancient and threatening.A horror/sf film which will appeal to thoughtful viewers.  The plot is intelligent and the film is quite different to the modern style of blitzkrieg-action style thrillers.  The acting and direction are faultless. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest science fiction films ever made - in fact my favorite.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"63 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is not your usual sci-fi monster from the deep or outer space but a story based on comprehensible logic - the suggestion that the human mind and it's psychic and sixth sense qualities was the result of alien intervention with our ancestral primates millions of years ago.   Andrew Keir plays a fine role as the tweedy dressed sometimes gruff gentleman professor, Bernard Quatermass who teams up with  equally amiable James Donald as Dr.Mathew Roney and his attractive female assistant Barbara Shelley as Barbara Judd to solve the riddle of a strange craft and several ape like skeletons unearthed during the reconstruction of an underground London railway station.  At first thought to be an unexploded second world war missile an Army demolition team is brought in to disarm it, led by the bombastic single minded military thinking Colonel Breen played by Julian Glover who scoffs at the theories of the two scientists that this could be anything more than a German V weapon.  The finding of large insect like creatures preserved within the hull of the craft and an analysis of their physical attributes leads Quatermass and Roney to conclude that they are Martians who along with their ape like passengers were killed as a result of a crash landing five million years beforehand. Quatermass also speculates that the apes had been previously taken from Earth to Mars and altered in order to give them Martian thinking characteristics which were then inherited by their human descendants.  Breen dismisses the insect creatures as fakes and convinces his government superiors that the missile is safe, against the advice of Quatermass, Roney and Judd who have already discovered sinister awakenings within the craft after a workman dismantling his drill therein is seized upon by an invisible propelling force along with terrifying mental images.  When the public and press are admitted to the site the craft comes to life generating a ghostly devil looking  apparition, along with the now mind affected local population banding into groups and unleashing a killing spree on their own kind.   Quatermass and Roney must now pool their scientific expertise to neutralize the menace and restore order.  Nigel Kneale's compelling screenplay is sheer brilliance and gives this film a distinct and special uniqueness in the world of science fiction.  A must see for the serious minded movie watcher.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Sci-Fi horror that will mesmerise and get you thinking!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"56 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and the Pit is one of the finest of Hammer's vast and largely very fine oeuvre. Strangely, however, when you hear people speak of Hammer horror, this film rarely gets a mention, and that's a great injustice as it easily ranks up there with the best of them. The plot follows a group of construction workers that discover a plot of skeletons while extending London's subway station. This immediately attracts the attention of local scientists Mathew Roney and Barbara Judd, and later the man of the title; Dr Quatermass, who end up facing opposition from both the army and the press while trying to investigate the find. Where did the skeletons come from? How did they get there? And what's the meaning behind that bomb in the tunnel? All these questions and more are answered in Quatermass and the Pit.As you might expect, the film is very camp. The effects are truly ridiculous and very easy to laugh at; but they add to the fun and charm of the movie. The reason why Hammer Horror films succeed is that, despite being unpleasant at times, it's obvious that they were made with a lot of heart, and the good nature that went into making them always shines through. Unlike many horror (or Sci-Fi) films, however, this one actually bothers to pose some interesting questions and really gets you thinking. The normal idea behind alien based Sci-Fi is completely turned on it's head, and it makes for both an enjoyable and interesting, not to mention original movie. It's quite ingenious, in fact; much more so than many recent 'thought-provoking' movies. There is also quite a lot of the trademark British humour in the film, which is always nice to see. It's obvious that the film is meant to be tongue in cheek anyway, but it's always nice to have a few moments of laughter in there. Quatermass and the Pit is directed by Hammer Horror supremo Roy Ward Baker. When people think of Hammer directors, it's often Terrence Fisher that comes out on top; but Baker is by far my favourite. He's delivered the lovely Asylum, the ingenious Dr Jekyll and Sister Hyde, not to mention The Vampire Lovers; and now this. And that's only the ones that I've seen!Overall, this is an incredible movie. It's generous mix of horror, Sci-Fi and fantasy is truly refreshing and it makes for an interesting and enjoyable ride. I loved every minute of this film, and it easily ranks as one of the best Hammer Horror's that I've seen. Make sure you don't skip this one. "},{"Title":"A great Hammer film","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of nonsense is written about the significance and meaning and quality of Hammer Films, whereas mostly they were pedestrian and derivative. There were some gems in their output and this film is one of them. The science may be wayward but it unfolds plausibly from the initial discovery of the thing in the pit to mayhem and madness in the streets of London. The opening credits are sparse and it goes straight into the story and never lets up.It has a clear narrative and each new discovery pushes the envelope of fear and amazement further out. There is no romantic interest (though I must declare the Miss Judd character is pretty darn attractive) to hold up the driving plot. If there is a fault it is that the story can scarcely contain the wealth of material that Nigel Kneale puts in the script. Presumably there isn't a longer director's cut in some film archive!With limited resources at hand the director, Roy Ward Baker, directs some great scenes, weird and strange and scary. He is served well by the acting of James Donald, Andrew Keir and Barbara Shelley, which is perfect for their roles. As the alien presence become stronger you believe it when it affects the characters. The scene at the pit where Miss Judd has her visions recorded is excellent. The special effects are varied but the green arthropods and the space ship look quite malevolent. The ending is great and somehow disquieting as the closing credits slowly roll.This is a good example of an interesting intelligent film, costing less than the catering budget of the elephantine mega-budget film we have these days, but much more effective and memorable.  "},{"Title":"One of the best British films of the Sixties - genuinely","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and the Pit is a genuinely great screenplay, one of the smartest sci-fi films ever written because it deals with interesting ideas rather than stock effects. There are a few of them, some good, some bad, and the budget isn't always enough for the ambition, but the ideas are what carry this one - tying in colonisation, evolution, race memories, the Devil, hauntings and other theories alongside military and government closed-mindedness into a cohesive intelligent whole by not going for the sensational but sitting to down to think, Now where could that belief in so many people have really come from? The conclusions may be outlandish, but the logic is rational and the treatment straightfaced, and once it builds up its head of steam, it's not just compelling but also a little bit worrying - particularly when civilisation starts to break down in an extremely violent way. Andrew Keir and James Donald are excellent and Barbara Shelley manages to be a convincing strong female lead in a genre that doesn't usually allow them and also to look really good in red jumper and Wellie boots! Powerful stuff and highly recommended - there really is a lot going on here, and it has a strong story sense to back it up. Just remember We're the Martians now! "},{"Title":"Remarkable late 60s Hammer product","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brilliant writing motivates a suspenseful sci-fi satire with intelligent, but often over the top, acting.  Aliens invaded the earth thousands of years ago, and left behind their hatred and evil as a sort of gift to our race. One of the only films to successfully negotiate the fascinating territory between science fiction and the supernatural -- or, science and religion. Good suspense held up by a fast plot that reveals just enough to keep you interested.  Poor production values -- the monsters in the film are truly laughable, which may hurt its reception by the younger crowd. "},{"Title":"Still scary even today...","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this film when I was about 7. Although we lived in the Central region I saw this on HTV. My memory of it is there for fuzzy. I have seen it again on DVD since. And this film is great. Unlike many Hammer films story and performance is key here. The story as often been imitated but never topped. Its a very intelligent horror film which is something we don't get very often anymore. Or at all.I also recently saw the original BBC TV show and that too is well worth picking up. Its just as good if not better.This is definitely worth a watch. British cinema at its finest... "},{"Title":"highly recommended, story and acting exemplary.","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first viewed this film on American television under the title Five Million Years To Earth. The reason I find this film so fascinating is because the producers had the courage to examine the possibility that evil does exist in the universe in the form of an entity, even though the story is written from an evolutionist perspective. This film basically asks the same question humanity has been asking for millenia Where does evil originate, and why? Although relatively old and perhaps considered archaic by today's motion picture standards I feel the special effects are compelling enough to keep 21st century viewers, both young and old, riveted to their seats. An excellent film for those of a creationist persuasion as well. "},{"Title":"an attractive female interest?!?!?!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"35 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I usually don't comment on another's comment, but that the film lacked an attractive female interest had my jaw dropping. Barbara Shelley NOT attractive? She's beautiful and at 34 when this was made, she made being middle-aged look like a great goal.Other than that, the reviewer is right on the money. Great film. Great acting. Great script. Not bad effects overall. AND Barbara Shelley! "},{"Title":"Creepy, interesting, above all else.....intelligent.","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whilst excavating at the site of a new underground tube station, workers unearth a mysterious object. On to the case comes Professor Quatermass who deduces that the object is Martian in origin. Initially viewed with scorn and disbelief, it becomes apparent that the Martian race have been involved in the human race before, and now they have been awoken again. This was the third Hammer film adaptation of Nigel Kneale's BBC-TV Quatermass serial, with previous entries being The Quatermass Experiment & Quatermass 2. This to me, tho, is undoubtedly the shining light of the bunch. Chiefly what works the best in this one is the wonderful fusion of mystery and intelligence, the eerie sense of dread only off set by a yearning to find out just what has happened? And more crucially, what will happen? Building up perfectly, courtesy of Roy Ward Baker's astutely paced direction, Quatermass And The Pit is a film that just begs you to pay attention to every little detail, each conversation is fully fleshing out this most intriguing story. Then there is the finale that pays off handsomely, to hint at what is involved would result in a spoiler of sorts, and really it would be stupid of me to prepare you for the film's closure. See it because it's one of the best genre entries of the 60s, a must for sci-fi enthusiasts that like a bit of brains to go with their genre persuasion. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Intriguing, intelligent movie","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Workers at the Hobb's End Underground Transport unearth skeletal remains that seem to date back five-million years. They also hit a strange non-metallic plate that ends up being part of an alien spacecraft. Perplexed by the substance, which is harder than diamond and resistant to the 3000 degree flames from a blow-torch, some conflicting experts are called in to investigate. Derelict apartments across the street from the excavation site have strange claw marks on the walls. A hidden compartment on the ship also houses some dead, medium-sized, horned, green, insect-like creatures. But it's really the ship itself that poses the strongest threat. And what is lying dormant in all of our minds. The military, of course, continually butt heads with the scientists and call the whole discovery a hoax (a German propaganda item from World War II).But Professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Keir) thinks otherwise and proposes a theory that offends just about everyone involved; managing to question both creationism and evolution. Quatermass comes to the conclusion that millions of years ago, aliens landed on Earth, removed primitive apes and took them back to their home planet (which may have been Mars) for experimentation. They continued to do so, each time making them more intelligent until man was eventually born&#133; He could be right, but not necessarily. The government definitely is on the wrong track and open up the site to the general public. The dormant evil is unleashed and those exposed to it become mindless and violent. Buildings collapse, fires start, citizens go on a rampage and London will eventually be completely leveled if Quatermass and chief archaeologist Dr. Roney (James Donald) can't stop it. Barbara Shelley co-stars as Barbara Judd, an assistant who has visions of an alien colony and becomes possessed, eventually getting socked in the face by Quatermass himself! Julian Glover is the close-minded militarist who's fried into crispy critter.All four of the principal actors are excellent in this intelligent, thoughtful and multi-layered science-fiction film, which raises an impressive number of interesting questions. And it's not without a sense of humor. The Hammer Collection DVD has both the UK and US trailers (It could happen in your lifetime!), plus the science fiction episode of the ho-hum 1990 WORLD OF HAMMER TV documentary series (narrated by Oliver Reed), which covers the titles DICK BARTON STRIKES BACK, THE DAMNED (aka THESE ARE THE DAMNED), FRANKENSTEIN CREATED WOMAN, QUATERMASS 2, QATP, QUATERMASS XPERIMENT, SPACEWAYS, X THE UNKNOWN and a few others. "},{"Title":"Classic British Sci-Fi  movie with an excellent Andrew Keir as Quatermass","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The picture concerns about the strange deeds into a London underground . There find a Martian aircraft which probes the humanity is created by a superior civilization . Then arrive Quatermass (Andrew Keir) , an official army (Julian Glover) and two obstinate scientists (James Donald and Barbara Shelley) , all of them discover fantastic events . The plot is developed for continuous discovery , leading a spooky and astounding finale.The movie is an outstanding adaptation from a TV serial exhibited in BBC (1958-59) written by Nigel Kneagle . As protagonist turns up Andrew Keir substituting to Brian Donlevy starring in ¨The Quatermass experiment¨ and ¨Quatermass II¨ , both of them directed by Val Guest , besides John Mills starred the final chapter titled the ¨Conclusion Quatermass¨ directed by Piers Haggard . This 1967 film is one of the greatest British science fiction films and the best of Quatermass trilogy . The great climax film is , of course , the final confrontation between the starring and the weird entity . In the picture appears the usual Hammer technicians and artistic team as cameraman Arthur Grant creating a riveting and colorful cinematography , Bernard Robinson making an awesome production design and ordinary musical conductor Philip Martell . The film is well produced by Anthony Nelson and magnificently directed by Roy Ward Baker . The flick will appeal to science fiction movie enthusiasts and Hammer fans . Rating  Above average and well worth watching . "},{"Title":"Brilliant sci-fi/horror.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this remarkable sci-fi horror produced by Hammer Studios an extension of the famous London Underground is halted by the discovery of prehistoric humanoid remains. An excavation team is brought in headed by Dr. Matthew Roney (James Donald) but their work is also soon halted by the discovery of what at first appears to be an unexploded bomb. However, the device shows no parallel with any other weaponry that the military are aware of and soon the bomb disposal unit calls in Colonel Breen (Julian Glover), an expert on weaponry. Breen is accompanied by Professor Quatermass (Andrew Keir) who upon examining and studying the strange object, as well as local folklore, becomes convinced that the bomb is far from what it seems.&#145;Quatermass and the Pit' remains one of the most intelligent and detailed films produced by the legendary Hammer Studios. While the story itself is somewhat fanciful it does manage to raise significant questions about the origins and actions of mankind all the while remaining a compelling sci-fi/horror movie and never resorting to the dubious social commentary that one could anticipate from such a film. Instead, &#145;Quatermass and the Pit' identifies itself within the sci-fi/horror boundaries and the structure of the scientific aspects to the story is rooted firmly in mankind's desire to substantiate and attest to its own existence while offering a theatrical explanation for those supernatural occurrences that have besieged history yet remain startlingly inexplicable. However, it would be somewhat ludicrous to suggest that &#145;Quatermass and the Pit' has accurately realised the truth behind humanity; instead it has given itself a base and a reality. When considering the movie within the confines of itself and accepting the story as just a story, &#145;Quatermass and the Pit' has successfully been able to attain its own veracity and this is the reason why the film is able to become great. Of course, the scientific discussions would not have been as effective without incredibly strong performances from Andrew Keir, James Donald and Barbara Shelley who display some superlative acting abilities and further the believability and pseudo-realism of this extraordinary film.Nigel Kneale did a remarkable job of penning a story which fully explains itself while retaining a certain degree of uncomfortable peculiarity and unknown. This was fully capitalised on by director Roy Ward Baker who seemingly managed to represent the creepy and eerie aspects of the film so that they linger on in the minds of the viewer yet move the film along at a steady pace so that the film never appears to be dragging. Baker's direction, while not appearing to be anything extraordinary for the genre, is adept enough to build an atmosphere equivalent to the most terrifying of genre films as well as filming some exceptional scenes of panic, mass-hysteria and a near-apocalyptic vision of London. The only real downfall for the film was the lacklustre and cheap looking special effects that the film partially relied on in places. Still, one can forgive this even if they are fairly detrimental to the quality of the film in places. The production team had already managed to produce an exceptional film considering the low-budget.So, to summarise, &#145;Quatermass and the Pit' is a thinking person's horror film. Perhaps the scientific proposition and ideas do get rather carried away sporadically but the sheer quality and integrity of the film upholds it further than the majority of sci-fi films from the era. Fans of intricate and thought-provoking horror films should be rather impressed with the way that &#145;Quatermass and the Pit' presents and portrays it's case and events and when one is able to engross themselves in this theatrical world then there is a definite essence of horror and fear when the seemingly impossible happens in a disturbing and shocking way. My rating for &#145;Quatermass and the Pit' &#150; 8/10. "},{"Title":"Underground London provides a mind bending mystery.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Workers unearth a mysterious object while digging in a London underground station. At first the object is believed to be an unexploded bomb dropped on the city by the Germans during WWII. Upon further examination what has been discovered is an alien spacecraft and the remains of its occupants. More Sci-Fi than horror, Hammer studios comes through with one of its best directed and acted films. Also known as FIVE MILLION YEARS to EARTH, this movie is based on a TV mini-series than ran in the 1950s. Cast members of note Andrew Keir, James Donald, Julian Glover and Barbara Shelley. "},{"Title":"One of Hammer's best","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Hammer film is never a great film like Fanny and Alexander or Kagemusha, but they are always entertaining, full of surprises and quite often very funny, intentionally and otherwise.Five Million Years to Earth caught my attention about 40 years ago at 2 in the morning. I was probably in an altered state at the time (college years) and in the right frame of mind to be mesmerized by this far above average chill-fest.Young'uns brought up on Star Wars and permanently bedazzled by CGI f/x will be bored stiff by this quaint English flick. It is one of those movies, like Day of the Triffids, that tells a creepy story really well with a script far superior than the offal being barfed out by Hollywood creep-features now. And there is no nudity, vulgar language or fake blood and gore to divert attention from lousy acting (the acting in this movie is excellent, a fine cast of British actors).Five Million Years to Earth is worth seeking out. You'll probably have to buy a cheap DVD to see it as British horror movies don't seem to venture past old Christopher Lee flicks on cable during Halloween season. TNT considers The Texas Chainsaw Massacre as classic stuff, this English hokum with the funny accents isn't even on the map to them.But this movie is not hokum, it is truly chilling and the insect monsters are not as cheesy as some have stated on this forum. They remind me of Colin Wilson's classic psychological/sci- fi horror novel The Mind Parasites. If you like Hammer horror don't miss Five Million Years to Earth. "},{"Title":"An ancient evil is released during work on a subway station","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best Science Fiction films ever made.  It is thoughtful and exciting.  The special effects hold up well for the most part.  The story tells of how an ancient spaceship is discovered during the excavation of an underground station in London and how officials can not understand the dangers it might hold.  An interesting note  the ability to visualize what someone is seeing become a reality in 1999 when scientists were able to see the world through the eyes of a cat. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Sci-Fi.","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With todays Sci-Fi movies looking more and more like video game intros (or is it the other way round), it is very refreshing to see a movie that is actually thought provoking to watch. The implications in the plot are mind bending - Martians land and influence our development. Genuinely unnerving, great performances and an atmosphere you can cut. Best of British.  "},{"Title":"A Milestone in S.F.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why a milestone?  Because its concept of outside manipulation of human evolution isn't unique to written s.f., but in the realm of movies and TV it's the first of its kind.  Echoes of this movie can be seen through Doctor Who, 2001 Space Odyssey, and Babylon 5.  Quartermass is a chilling combination of science fiction and Lovecraftian horror, boosted by great performances by Andrew Keir, James Donald, and Julian Glover. "},{"Title":"The best Quatermass and an excellent sci-fi movie.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Quatermass and the Pit (aka Five Million Years to Earth) shows us that science fiction can be presented as thoughtful and intelligent and not just escapist fare. An unknown object is found during the excavation of a subway system. After some investigation, Prof. Quatermass concludes that the object is really extraterrestrial in origin. Then things get really strange as psychic disturbances occur and humans discover their ancient links to Martians. A creepy yet thought provoking movie not to be missed. Great climax! "},{"Title":"Science fiction meets horror thriller.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know this film under the title Five million Years To Earth, and have always considered it one of the best of British science fiction. A weird mix of science fiction, horror, and thriller, this film manages to evoke the 'What if' emotion in me. Plausible enough to suspend the disbelief, yet far out, with creepy moments thrown in. Some of the best chaotic crowd scenes I have ever seen on film, plus a broad poke at the military mentality when faced with the new or unexplained.No moralizing, or visions of alternate societies, as is common in science fiction from this era, this film is just straight up entertainment. "}{"Title":"Intelligent SF/Horror Movie","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a thoughtful science fiction/horror movie from the 1960s that doesn't insult the intelligence of the viewers. Instead of relying on CGI to enthrall a clueless audience, this movie relies on something rather novel &#x96; a real story. Filmed on a budget, this Hammer Film's special effects are good enough to advance the story. Some IMDb reviewers have criticized the film for its corny special effects or its ridiculous story. They simply don't appreciate the movie's effects in their context. Further, I would disagree that the story is ridiculous. The story unfolds as the characters and viewers discover the secret in Hobbs End. If you don't know what the movie is about, you will enjoy this bit of discovery. Instead of so many contemporary films where the viewer is simply told what happens, as if he or she is slack-jawed imbecile, in Five Million Years to Earth the viewer is part of the discovery process. Finally, the sense of horror builds from a vague sense of unease to a real sense of loathing and fear. I've seen this movie at least a half dozen times and continue to enjoy it as much as the first time. "},{"Title":"Definitely NOT the pits!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my favourite sci-fi films.The atmosphere is absolutely perfect.  When I watch the film, I believe it is happening and I am there.  The effects may not be up to Star Wars quality, but who cares.  Glitz is fine, but a story is better.  And the story is great.  Mind-provoking.In Melbourne we have no underground like the London Underground, but somehow I identified with it instantly.  (The original Quatermass story was set in a vacant block where foundations were being dug but I like the film version better).If I watch this a thousand times I'll want to see it just once more.   "},{"Title":"Strong story and gradual delivery make up for some dated and weak effects","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maintenance works around an underground station in London reveals a collection of human-ish ape remains and Dr Mathew Roney is called in to this astonishing and important discovery. However when the recovery work progresses a much bigger discovery is made when some form of metallic missile is uncovered. Professor Bernard Quatermass gets involved along with military bomb expert Colonel Breen in the investigation. What they find is not made of any material they have ever seen before and it cannot be penetrated with even the most powerful means. Despite Colonel Breen's assurances that it is nothing more than a WWII bomb, Quatermass begins to piece together an altogether more terrifying theory.I quite enjoyed Quatermass II and when the next film came on the title enough was enough to make me check it out. At some point I really must check out the BBC version that my IMDb colleague Theo keeps encouraging me to do but for now I'm on the films. It concerned me a little that this was a Hammer film because to me this sums up images of camp and bloody version of Dracula; it didn't help that this was in the rich colour that I would usually associate with those films.I needn't have worried though because the film is not about quick gore or camp horror but is actually quite a smart piece of sci-fi that builds well. Not only does it build but it engages as it does so, with the developments in the plot being interesting in their mystery and delivery. Much as with Quatermass 2 it has themes of Governmental cover-up, powerful forces and unseen danger and it uses these to shore up the story and characters. The story builds into a breakdown of local society really well and this produces solid chills as personally I find the loss of everything that I recognise as normal to be more frightening than any specific horror monster (aside form zombies but they are normally associated with the sudden collapse of society). As others have said it is all quite chilling and I found that it effortlessly gripped me.There are problems of course and it is ironic that the film almost works as a flip of modern sci-fi's. By this I mean that, as satisfying as the plot is, the effects are not great at all (nowadays it tends to be the opposite). The aliens are absurdly plastic and do rather undermine the mystery for how clear and visible they are. More forgivable are the debris effects &#150; they work if you are already into it but otherwise it is clear that string and a lot of painted Styrofoam has been used in those rubble effects. It is a shame because of the good work done elsewhere but fortunately the effects are sparingly called upon apart from in key scenes and one would hope that the plot has done enough to help viewers overlook them.The cast are solid. Keir makes a good Quatermass even if he was a bit too hammy and emotional for my taste but I liked the vulnerability he had within the plot. Glover is suitably stiff and arrogant while Donald is equally good at the excitable scientist type and I agree with Theo about the very memorable specific scene he had. Shelley is there but to be honest she doesn't have a lot to do other than be a female character &#150; which she does I suppose. Effects aside Baker's direction is very effective, bringing out a sense of gradual dread on the way to the conclusion (which although not perfect is still good).Overall then a surprisingly effective British sci-fi. The effects are terribly weak and dated but the strength is in the telling, with an interesting and intelligent sci-fi leading to chills and action. I'm not calling for a remake but it should be a good working example for those making films today who think only in terms of the short term audience by relying mostly on the new effect shots to get the crowds in &#150; they will date as they have dated in this film, the difference is that here the material makes it seeing over forty years later. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just happened to switch over when this was starting. Seeing the name Hammer made me think it might be good for a laugh. Well - it turns out this is one of the most captivating movies I've seen in a while. Not of a lot actually happens in the first part of the movie, but the unfolding mystery and interaction between the characters kept me riveted.As other reviewers have said sometimes the effects are laughable, but for the most part they don't distract from the story, and the story really makes you look at things differently. Recommended watch - if you can find it! "},{"Title":"The Best Of Hammer's Quatermass Films","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a decade long absence from the silver screen, Hammer released Quatermass And The Pit in 1967. Adapted by Nigel Kneale from his own TV serial that aired in 1958 and early 1959 on the BBC, the film version would prove to be as much as fitting conclusion to the Hammer Quatermass films as it TV counterpart was for the BBC serials. For like the TV version it remains not only the best of best of the three initial Quatermass stories but also one of the most imaginative and brilliantly crafted pieces of science fiction to ever be put on a screen either big or small. The film features a fine cast of actors. Playing Professor Bernard Quatermass is Andrew Keir, replacing Brian Donlevy from the first two Hammer Quatermass films (and the fifth actor to play the role if you include the three BBC serials). Keir, alongside actor André Morell as Quatermass in the TV version of Pit, gives what might very well be the definitive Quatermass. From the moment Keir appears he takes on the role and makes it his own. He does this by being convincing as both scientist and as a man frightened by what he discovers in the pit and beyond. He is man who discovers a horrifying truth and struggles to convince his bureaucratic bosses of it before an even greater horror is unleashed yet retains a sense of authority at the same time, not an easy thing to do but Keir pulls it off brilliantly. Even more important, Keir's performance makes the whole film all the better for it. Joining Keir is a fine supporting cast. James Donald is Dr. Matthew Roney, the anthropologist who is fascinated by his discoveries and willing to face the consequences of them no matter the cost. Julian Glover is Colonel Breen, a military man forced upon Quatermass' British Rocket Group who takes Quatermass into the pit and, as a man almost primitive in his thinking to the point of ignoring the facts, becomes most responsible for the films ending. There's others as well ranging from Bryan Marshall as the leader of the bomb disposal squad to Barbara Shelley as Roney's assistant to Duncan Lamont (who incidentally appeared in a pivotal role in the BBC version of first Quatermass serial, The Quatermass Experiment) as Sladden and Edwin Richfield as the Minister of Defense as well. The supporting cast, in roles big and small, give fine performances while anchoring the film firmly in reality. With with its fine cast, it is as much the aspects of the serial behind the camera that make Quatermass And The Pit as imaginative and brilliantly crafted as it is. The sets stand out from the Underground (subway here in the States) station where the pit is located to Roney's lab and the halls of the Ministry of Defense. The score by composer Tristram Cary, in both its orchestral and electronic pieces, helps give the film a strong sense of both atmosphere and tension, especially in the lead up to its finale. The special effects are well done as well ranging from the effective insect like Martians to the various effects seen in the finale. While some of the effects might not be up to the standards of present day CGI, they remain effective nonetheless. Then there is the script of course. Though it took nearly a decade before it could be brought to the big screen, writer Nigel Kneale superbly adapts his classic serial into a fine piece of science fiction film. The film, released a year before Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C. Clarke brought it to the mainstream in 2001 A Space Odessy, asks the fascinating (and to some terrifying) question what if what makes us human isn't human at all? and terrifyingly answers it in a way that turns 2001's ideas standing on their heads. Kneale looks at human nature and in particular racism and the occult in a science fiction context and shows us the consequences of racism in a way that is too realistic to be ignored. Though free from the limitations of live TV and only about half the length of the TV version, Kneale's script is full of fine dialogue and debates on everything from the nature of racism to the military takeover of otherwise peaceful scientific research. In particular there is one scene set at the Ministry where Quatermass is called to explain what has been found in the pit, that stands out as amongst the best pieces of science fiction writing ever. If there is a fault with the script it is that it ends the film at a rather odd point when compared to the TV version and misses out on using a fine piece of Kneale's original script in the process. Overall though Kneale adapts his scripts superbly and gives this remake a life of its own.In short Quatermass And The Pit is not only the best of the Hammer Quatermass films but may well be the finest film Hammer ever produced. This is thanks to the films fine performances, good effects, fine music and a brilliant script. While perhaps too dialogue heavy for some, Quatermass And The Pit is proof that you don't necessarily need a huge budget to create a fine science fiction film.Quatermass couldn't have ended at Hammer any better. "},{"Title":"More Monsters From The Id","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember reading at one time that the BBC ever so briefly contemplated making a new Doctor Who an American. As much as I would have liked it, that idea never flew thank the Deity. Doctor Who is so British, the character never would have worked with another nationality. The same is true with Dr. Bernard Quatermass.Although Brian Donlevy did two Quatermass films, for me the essential Quatermass has to be Scottish actor Andrew Keir. He stars in this film, one of the best of the Quatermass series, in fact one of my favorite science fiction films. If it were done today with computer graphics, it would really be something.While digging for a new extension of the London Underground, workmen find some unusual skulls and then a most unusual metallic object that is originally thought to be a calling card from Mr. Hitler during the last war. Even today those things are still found in real life.The skulls bring archaeologist James Donald and the calling card brings Andrew Keir. It's a calling card all right, but from some folks a good deal further away than Germany. The place where these things are found is named Hob's Lane and it has a history of strange and evil happenings over history. That object wreaks havoc with the mind and it brings about an unforgettable climax where Donald and Keir have to save nothing less than the human race.What are the two saving Earth from? The best answer I can give is that the theme of Quatermass And The Pit is an expansion of Forbidden Planet's monsters from the Id.Quatermass And The Pit is one of the best films that Hammer Films in its history ever put out. It's imaginative and intellectual at the same time and makes you ask some disturbing questions about the very origin of man. Don't miss it ever broadcast. "},{"Title":"Chilling!","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an excellent Sci-fi movie that holds up after 32 years.  It does have that Hammer-films look so unique to the others made around that time. Some of the actors are recognizable from the Christopher Lee Dracula series. I saw this movie when I was very young and it haunted me through-out my adult life.  I didn't even realize it, until I saw it again recently.  You see, eveytime I would see one of those huge construction cranes, I would get this foreboding, disturbing feeling I couldn't get a grasp on.  I would stare at the crane, trying to figure out why it disturbed my so.  It didn't click into place until I saw the movie again. "},{"Title":"one of the greatest sci-fi films ever--British film making at its best!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently purchased this on DVD from AnchorBay. I had seen the film when it first came to the US in 1968, and after that--except for a few network showings--it seemed to disappear.I can't add many more comments than the excellent ones that have already been posted. I do want to say that this was a film that was definitely ahead of its time, and I don't think people realized it when it first came out. I remember TV-movie critic Judith Crist, reviewing it in TV Guide for its first network showing, declared that she was mystified by the storyline.Some observations about the DVD The DVD has an excellent commentary by Roy Ward Baker and Nigel Kneale.There is a World of Hammer featurette that didn't particularly impress me.One of the best things about this DVD release is the excellent quality of the transfer. The colors are vibrant, and the grain of the picture is pristine and crisp. You can easily see the finest details--down to the stitching and cloth texture on the actor's clothes. There are just a few lateral scratches at the beginning of some of the reels, but they are virtually unnoticeable. Fans of this movie finally get a chance to see it as it must have looked when it first was shown. Also the soundtrack is simply superb--no hiss or pops, and the full dynamic range is evident. I never fully appreciated until now the incredible sound effects that this movie used.PS> Despite what Baker and Kneale say in the soundtrack commentary, I do think Five Million Years to Earth is a better title than Quatermass and the Pit. "},{"Title":"SCIENCE FICTION AT ITS BEST","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well paced and ingenious story altho the special effects and acting are somewhat dated this should keep you in suspense and provide plenty of food for thought about human nature and what ifs.The story begins when a subway construction crew run across what appear to be human skeletons. The anthropologists step in and discover that they are indeed human skeletons but very old ones. 5 millions years to be a close estimate. Further excavation reveals what appears to be a craft which is at first mistaken for an unexploded Nazi rocket from WWII. Not quite and the craft contains the fossilized remains of what appear to be giant locusts.It gets better as our scientists discover that the neighborhood where the subway is to built has long been regarded as haunted and some of the ancient carvings resemble that of our own ancient demons or devils.The craft itself emanates a strange power over those in contact with it and we see images of a race of insects arriving from a dying planet (mars) and genetically altering the natives (man) as well as cultivating them for food. The images purport to be from our primevial mind and our devils with horns may have been insects with antennae.The story line has some frightening implications and could be remade with today's digital effects into something more frightening, scientifically plausible and intellectual enough to give religious philosophers and anthropologists some second thoughts about man's evolution.Alas we haven't developed any screen writers or film producers with the ability to tell a truly good science fiction and philosophical story since Space Odysessy and our best, George Lucas, would rather bring comic book characters to life.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary in many ways","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arguably the most intelligent sci-fi film ever made. What it lacks in budget it more than makes up for in intellectual clout and finely crafted composition.Kneale is an insightful writer, to whom most of the credit for this masterpiece belongs. His argument about the human race being descended from Martians is plausible within the confines of the film (the only unrealistic part is how quickly people agree with Quatermass's proposition). But the script does not suffer from talkiness nor (as some have suggested) is it too complicated for an audience to follow.Roy Ward Baker, at best a functional director, pulls out the stops well enough, but he is assisted by some splendid performances from Keir, Donald and Shelley. Their measured acting contrasts with the hysteria and cod heroics exhibited by many of the film's American equivalents (Invasion of the Body Snatchers is a noble exception); and, indeed, most of Hammer's other offerings.10 out of 10. Why couldn't Hammer have made more stuff like this? Proof that you don't need megabucks and a King-of-the-World director to make memorable, sincere and thrilling sci-fi. "}{"Title":"I'm strangely driven to watch repeatedly","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I should give it a higher rating, simply because I've gotten so much pleasure out of it. It's just that I can't put my finger on why I enjoy it. I believe that most people might not like it, so I don't give it an 8, since it is a personal avarice.The set coloring is one of my favorite styles, similar to that of the Star Trek series, but darker and grittier. The sound of the mental telekinesis effect is spine-tingling for me, in a childish horror way. The shape of the alien vessel is strange and intriguing. I like 60's spaceship design. The dialogue is realistic and simple. The tracing of Hobb's Corner back to Roman times is quickly and tastefully done, and there's no annoying background music to try and force an ominous attitude. I get more spooked when there's not a soundtrack telegraphing what I'm supposed to feel. It allows you the viewer to feel as if you uniquely detected an issue. It's purely a subconscious response. I mean, who would watch a detective story if at every clue there was a Dun-dun- dun! "},{"Title":"Very Scary - especially if  you grew up with Hammer flicks","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the scariest movies I have ever watched. A lot of younger people may not appreciate the way the director keeps leading you down a path, and then makes a sharp turn in a totally unexpected direction. You had to grow up watching old horror flicks, not just Hammer but Wolfman/Frankenstein/etc. The movie would very subtlety lead you to think it was one type of monster/horror movie, and that you could predict (somewhat) what is going to happen next, and then it jerks the rug out from under your feet. VERY unsettling !!!! And it does so repeatedly, and then comes up with what was then a new twist for the ending.Would have gave it a 10 except for some of the really laughable special effects (mainly the grasshoppers glued to yardsticks trick) "},{"Title":"Eerie and fascinating 60's Sci-Fi classic","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and the Pit is a 1967 Hammer production and was released in the USA as Five Million Years to Earth, which is a better title in my opinion.THE STORY (!Basic Plot Spoiler!) Construction workers in London unearth Neanderthal-like skeletons and a large object initially thought to be a WWII missile. Col. Breen (Julian Glover) and Prof. Quatermass (Andrew Keir) are put in charge of the operation and draw completely different conclusions about the discovery Breen ludicrously believes it's a German propaganda weapon from WWII, whereas Quartermass concludes that it's a martian spacecraft that incredibly explains the origins of the human species (!), not to mention so-called myths about the devil, demons, gargoyles and various other occultic items. Unearthing the object turns out to be a big mistake because it lets loose a malevolent supernatural force that starts to possess the populace (!End Spoiler!).I remember seeing Five Million Years to Earth a handful of times growing up and I never failed to be enthralled by the creepy and thought-provoking events of the story. Viewing it recently, I was interested to see how well it would hold up in the new millennium and if it could still inspire and maintain my fascination now that I'm an adult. Well, it holds up quite well, and I still found it thought-provoking, spooky and fairly fascinating. Yes, the clothing is decidedly dated, and naturally so, but that adds to the charm. Some complain about the dated special effects but -- c'mon -- this was made in the mid-60s! I feel the F/X hold up quite well and don't detract from the story at all. Hey, at least they're better than the F/X of the original Star Trek TV Series. The spaceship, the Martian carcasses, the numerous floating objects and the eerie Satanic image at the end all work fine as far as I'm concerned. Besides, it's the story that counts and this is Sci-Fi of the highest order.One highlight is the beautiful Barbara Shelley, who assists in the operation; she was 34 at the time. If there's an American remake, I'm sure her part will be played by a 22 year-old skinny blond with over-sized breasts. Shelley incidentally appeared in a few other Hammer flicks, like Rasputin, the Mad Monk and Dracula, Prince of Darkness. The climax is quite apocalyptic (!SPOILER ALERT!). I love the final shot of Quatermass and Barbara, still in shock, recovering from the events and just thankful to be alive; then the credits start rolling, accompanied by a beautiful melancholic musical piece. A potent ending to a stellar 60's Sci-fi masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Sequels are not always inferior to the original","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This third installment features Quatermass in Terrifying Technicolor! And that's even more fun! I wouldn't exactly say this third entry is a better film than the second one, but it manages to entertain a bit more and has a slightly more original concept. Once again a totally different sci-fi/horror story in this final installment of a classic British trilogy. This third Quatermass-movie easily features the most complex plot of them all, up to the point that all the characters spent the whole first hour of the movie discovering things, speculating, trying to figure out what the hell is going on. Speculations from secret German war-tools over pure devilish evil in catholic terms to Martian life-forms. Terms like 'collective consciousness' and 'on-screen memory visualisation' are thrown in the mix. And it is, of course, Quatermass who provides us with the unbelievable truth about the fantastic goings-on. And just about then you can prepare for the most utterly destructing climax. If you're a fan of classic sci-fi (silly or not), then there's no way of not loving the Quatermass-trilogy. So maybe - and dare I say this? - it's time for Hammer Films (since they appear to be getting busy again) and the BBC (or whomever has the money in the UK) to join forces and produce a new spectacular Quatermass for the new millennium? The BBC definitely has the post-production facilities to make it look finger-licking good, so no Hollywood interference whatsoever is necessary... Anyone with me on this? Or should we not touch the Quatermass-legacy? "},{"Title":"one of the finest sci-fi - horror movies ever made","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this movie 9 out of ten only because of some cheesy acting by bit players and a very few dodgy moments. I have been a huge fan of sci fi and horror / monster movies since I can remember. I was allowed as a small child to sit up late and enjoy all those midnight movies (in the UK) and especially loved all the scary stuff. As a result of this exposure I am very desensitised to this type of film and not easily scared. This film though has haunted me and fuelled nightmares since I first saw it. The plot outline is very intelligent, Imaginative and extremely claustrophobic. The underground setting adds to the underlying menace and threatening atmosphere greatly. Andrew Kier is a perfect choice for the professor ans the other leading actors are equally well picked. The writer Nigeel Kneale is a true genius of angst and the dystopian and had talent for dialog unmatched for directness of of delivery of fear both obvious and subliminal. He will be much missed, and this movie, with it's flaws, in my opinion is a genuine classic that if allowed to be absorbed will certainly disturb at a very basic level. I love it but still, if I am honest, find it difficult to watch, the bloody thing still creeps me out, and my favourite film is the Exorcist! Also, the design of the martian ship is a work of genius as well. Give this movie a chance, with the lights out and the amazing soundtrack turned up loud and just see if it works for you. Zaphod. "},{"Title":"Science-Fiction at it's most intelligent.","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hammer Movies. A company normally associated with the horror genre, through it's Dracula and Frankenstein movies, amongst others. However, they've also made movies in other genres. Three of the best were the Quatermass trilogy.The first two, THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT, and QUATERMASS II, were impressive movies from the '50s. QUATERMASS AND THE PIT was made towards the end of the '60s and it is not only one of the best movies Hammer made, but it is also one the best and most intelligent sci-fi movies ever made.Skeletal remains are found during the construction of an extension to the London Underground. The skulls don't appear human. Also uncovered is a large metallic object that is thought to be an unexploded bomb left from world war 2. However, when strange things begin to happen, the army and scientists led by Quatermass and Roney uncover what appear to be locusts inside the object. However uncovering the fact that the location of the find, Hobbs Lane (or Hobs Lane as previously called) has been the sight of mysterious sightings over the centuries and when linked to the object that's revealed to be older than mankind, a staggering and horrifying implication is made....To say any more than this would give away far too much plot. However for it's entire running time this movie does what a lot of serious sci-fi movies try for and fail... make you think. Despite being made in the '60s this movie will make you think and will linger in the mind long after it is finished.The cast led by Andrew Keir, James Donald, Julian Glover and Barbara Shelley are all good. The direction by Roy Ward Baker keeps the tension running through-out. But it's the script by Nigel Kneale that is the stand-out here. He wrote all the Quatermass stories, and this is easily the best one of all.The special effects may have dated a bit since it's original release, but don't let that put you off. This movie does not rely on it's effects for impact. It's the intelligent story (which is more thoughtful than a lot of today's movies!) and acting that carries this movie to it's fitting end. "},{"Title":"Truly Thought-Provoking, Frightening Stuff...","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie as a kid in Compton on my small black and white TV. The eerie holographic image of the Martian Devil's Head floating over the wreckage of London stayed in my mind, and led to more than a few nightmares. Still, I can't deny this film's pull after the decades, and it is a Guilty Pleasure that I often pull from the DVD cabinet. And no, I'm not a Quatermass Fan.Even today, despite the film's fair degree of dating, I am impressed and staggered by the conceptual genius of Nigel Kneale's script, and Roy Ward Baker's ability to mesh sci-fi and Spiritual Evil (as a disturbed Parson notes) in a product that is well removed from the standard Hammer fare. There is a real subversive pull to this little film, which piles on concepts such as Race Memory, Evolution, Conformity, Alien Colonization, Belief in The Devil and the occult, Ethnic Cleansing, Human Supremacy, and the arrogance, stupidity and mendacity of politicians and the military. On some level, it's hard not to be awed by the film's ambitions..(****SOME PLOT SPOILERS BELOW****) The plot progress on The Hobb's End Underground Transport comes to a halt when the subway workers unearth what appear to be primitive apelike skeletons and a mysterious craft which is initially believed to be an unexploded bomb left over from The War. Professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Keir), at odds with the government over the planned military use of his rocket group investigates, with the assistance of two paleontologists, Dr. Mathew Roney (James Donald), and Dr. Barbara Judd (Barbara Shelley). Disturbed and intrigued that the skeletons were found IN the ship and appear to date nearly 5 millions years, and that the largely vacated Hobb's End Lane area has been a site for of demoniac activity, for centuries. Given the film's rather meager resources, it is hard not be impressed by the story, acting, and general mood of growing apocalyptic. In the usual Hammer film, the nemesis is clearly the supernatural in these movies, we fear violent death at the hands of vampires, werewolves, ghouls, etc. The horror on hand in this movie, which doesn't show itself in all its preening glory until the end, is far more insidious and devastating. The Evil that threatens human civilization itself, questions our Evolution, Intellect, and Spiritual Beliefs. Because The Evil in Quatermass is, in essence, Dead from the get-go, it can't be easily faced, conquered, disputed with and laid to rest. The evil is, in fact, rooted firmly in the collective Mind of Man, and given the right trigger, is able to manifest itself on a staggering, all-encompassing level. It shows itself in small clues the scratches on the walls in the houses on Hobb's Lane, old local newspaper pieces and local history tomes, skulls, pentagrams on spaceship hulls, etc. but when it finally does arrive, it upends Mankind's very identity, and the damage that is done, doesn't look like it can be repaired or explained away. Even when the Pit's alien ghosts are defeated, the victory seems pretty hollow.Keir, whom I remember from such films as Fall of The Roman Empire, and Dracula Has Risen From The Grave, plays his role with gruff conviction (I never had a career, I just had work! He grouses to his unwanted colleague Colonel Breen), and I have always liked the amiable Donald, who was terrific as the most sane character in one of my favorite movies, Bridge on The River Kwai.. The two are well-matched by the excellent Barbara Shelley, who brings a fair degree of wild sensuality to her role when she's possessed by an alien race memory. Still, I have to give some major plaudits to Glover, whose character is such a smug and supercilious ass, that it's fitting when you do see him kneel in lethal supplication to The Truth he has been dismissing throughout the movie. The occasional moments of dry as well as bumptious British humor are truly appreciated, offering occasional respite from the overall sense of rising darkness.Many have pointed out that Quatermass and The Pit, in its theme of alien intervention in human evolution is the dark flip-side to 2001, and that is certainly true. I also saw echoes of this film in Tobe Hooper's Lifeforce (1985), especially in the climactic scenes of London's devastation at the hands of its space vampires.. You could also throw in Stephen King's novel, The Tommyknockers. Even so, I was and still am, spellbound by the movie's novelty, its thought-intriguing meld of science-fiction and horror, the juxtaposition of skulls and sleek extraterrestrial metal, the Martian spaceship standing in quite nicely for the proverbial Haunted House. The movie does have its share of gaffes the alien locust carcasses should have been seen as little as possible, and a scene where a soldier goes bonkers after seeing an apparition of a small, hideous dwarf inside the ship, lacks the timing to pull it off.Still, given its execution and drive, the movie's coda of Keir and Shelley leaning wearily against the rubble of London as the city burns in the background, nicely sums up what horror films should be about Things Are Not Okay, and may never be Okay anytime in the near future. "},{"Title":"The Attack of the Killer Mind-Controlling Martian Bug Thingies","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Get past the paper mache Martian Beetles that are puttin' a voodoo hex on the good guys and you're probably going to enjoy this tense and suspenseful British scifier. I saw Five Million Years to Earth (US title) back when it was only a half dozen years old and stories like this scared the paper mache out of me.Needless to say, there's bad stuff going on down there in the London subway, with construction workers levitating and scientists getting to see grainy, video images in their brains from the bugs who landed on Earth. There's enough talent, money, and wherewithal here to turn a cheesy mess of a alien bug mutant cheapo into a tough and menacing Martians-in-league-with-the-Devil flick.I enjoyed it, but that's just me. "},{"Title":"A British sci fi classic","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best Hammer , Sci-Fi films made. The acting and the plot always make this one of those films I can watch again and again. James Donald's understated performance full of Pathos and understanding are an example of what a fine actor he was. Taken from the classic series I saw this first on Christmas night and had nightmares from the apparition of the devil. The simple design and excellent use of lighting enhance the mood and Julian Holloways sinister Colonel Breem add to what is a very enjoyable film. . . It is an example of how a low budget film which is well acted and directed can be just as effective as some of todays high budget horror films which rely on special effects and shock tactics. Ignoring the fact that the imagination can produce far more effective results. "},{"Title":"Nightmares for Years","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Through an odd course of events, I remembered this film vaguely, with no idea of the name or the plot or any of the cast...just an image of a devilish apparition in the night (?) sky which has remained with me since childhood. I am 41 years old now, but remember seeing this film one Halloween night as a child (thanks Mom and Dad). I remember, even more vividly, the immures of that terrifying devil's face which would visit me every so often for quite some time after. If that memory is any indication of the power of this film, even at the basic level of comprehension of a child, then there must be many more powerful, if more subtle messages to be found as an adult. I am looking forward (maybe) to renting or purchasing this classic in order to visit my demon once again. I have a ten year old son now, but rest assured, the screening will be a private affair. "}{"Title":"Stunning. Simply Stunning. One of the most intelligent Sci-Fi films ever made.","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Early on I discovered John Wyndham and the off-message school of British science fiction which never rested easy with the Hollywood Cold War science-fiction remakes which is how many now seem to remember their stories. Village of the Damned, Day of the Triffids and the 1950's War Of The Worlds are good examples of how thought provoking stories were warped into a delete Ruskies insert Aliens mindset. So after buying the original BBC broadcast on DVD and as a warm up to watching it, I thought I'd revisit the film which I remember being scared off when I was younger as a reference point. Even then Hammer weren't known for their fidelity to the source material.Strewth! They don't make films like Quatermass and the Pit anymore. It's nearly 40 years old and although a few sequences could be improved with modern special effects, I can't see how the tautness of the script and direction could be bettered. It touches on racism, xenophobia, the manipulation of the masses and genocide in a way which you can only imagine modern directors trampling on in Hob nailed boots.I just hope I'm not disappointed by the original TV play when I finally get to watch it! "},{"Title":"Very scary","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had no idea this movie had another name.  Nor did I know that Hammer made it.  Hammer?! By any other name it would be just as frightening.  I've seen MAYBE near every horror/sci-fi movie made.  This one I saw at the DRIVE-IN in 1967.  With my parents.  They let me watch any scary movie I wanted and I did.  This was the only one I have ever seen that gave me nightmares. I've seen it since and it still gives me chills.  Can't really say why.  It's just something psychological, I think.  See it. "},{"Title":"Sensational Hammer film!","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just when you thought it was impossible to improve on a certain horror franchise after two already brilliant films, this third parable in Hammer's Quatermass-series literally blows you out of your socks! The Quatermass Xperiment and Quatermass 2 are excellent films but this third and final entry is&#133;well&#133;superior, period!! Incredibly scary, innovating, trend-setting and ultimately compelling these are the terms that spontaneously pop up my mind in case anyone would ask me to describe what exactly Quatermass and the Pit stands for. The intelligent screenplay is like a nearly perfect amalgamation multiple superb themes, like occultism, anthropology, Darwinism and psychology. This is thought-provoking Sci-Fi, with the amazing Nigel Kneale even suggesting that we humans owe our entire existence to the colonization-attempts of icky Martians (that look like giant grasshoppers!) The story is far too complex to summarize in only a couple of lines (and it would be a real shame to spoil anything), so I can only insist that you check it out for yourself as soon as you can. I'm willing to believe all my fellow-reviewers who claim that the TV-series, predating the cinematic version by a decade, is even more intense but I can't judge on that (yet!) so I'll just continue with praising the film-version some more. Compared to Kneale's earlier work, the ideas are more expanded, more ambitious and more properly elaborated. The movie is SO good that it even points out flaws in the previous Quatermass-installments that you didn't immediately notice, like the presence of a solid female protagonist. This production has its flaws &#150; naturally &#150; but none of these are overwhelming enough for me to rate the film any less than a vast 10 out of 10. Besides, the main demerits concern a hasty climax and a couple of underdeveloped characterizations and I'm sure the more detailed TV-version covers them perfectly. Adrew Keir takes over the role of Quatermass and everybody seemed extremely satisfied with that. Keir is great, without a doubt, but there was something cool and omnipresent about Donlevy that he lacks. This is downright brilliant Sci-Fi and arguably the best film Hammer ever produced. To me personally, it's either this movie or the Devil Rides Out. "},{"Title":"The first what if sci-fi movie I remember","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this movie I was about ten, which meant the movie was already close to 15 years old, the first time I saw it I was so lost that I actually hated the movie, I was looking for a Star Wars type straight forward no deep thinking movie, which had just come out 3 years before. When I was in my teens I caught it on TV after another good show had just ended that was Dr. Who, and I had not remembered the name of the movie so I left it on and watched it. It was not til they showed the memory scene with the aliens being killed by the other aliens as they try to flee that I remembered having seen it before. Most people will not get the very good questions this movie presents, did we become the race we are with or with out outside help. Did the aliens that may have pushed our evolution do so to help us to protect ourselves, help them, or to be the next set of victims. The movies never really answerer this but the fact that a genetic race memory is left in us that the devil looks like the killer alien in the end supports that they tried to help but before they could they died idea. Did all the aliens come to earth at same time or in separate ships, or was the ship the aliens used a double trap, it brought them to earth to help us only to start the process and then they all died, was this the plan all along, after the start of the process, seal up the ship til we were ready to be used and the little insect like aliens providing nourishment for it til we awoke it. It would follow that the reason some and not all humans were affected by the tings brainwashing also points to a hand in our advancement, was the effect desired by the insectoids, or was it a side effect. I am a romantic and think they came to prepare us to resit there devil so it could not wipe us out as it did them. This is a movie worth seeing if you want to come away thinking what if.... "},{"Title":"A Reasonable Sci-Fi Produced by Hammer","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In London, while digging in the Hobb's End Underground Station, the workers find a skull and skeleton in the excavation. Dr. Mathew Roney (James Donald) and his assistant Barbara Judd (Barbara Shelley) research the findings and believe that the skull belongs to a prehistoric ape man. When they find an unknown indestructible metal, the army is summoned and Colonel Breen (Julian Glover) believes that the metal is actually a V-2 German missile from the World War II. However, Professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Keir) believes that it is a spacecraft from Mars. Quatermass and Roney find a plan from the Martians to invade Earth affecting the earthlings but the skeptical Colonel Breen does not accept their theory.Quatermass and the Pit is a reasonable production by Hammer Film in the sci-fi genre. The plot is developed in a slow pace and there are silly moments. The effects are cheesy in the present days, but great in the 60's. However, this film is a cult-movie for many viewers where I do not include myself. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Sepultura para a Eternidade (Grave for the Eternity) "},{"Title":"A British Quatermass!","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roy Ward Baker directed this belated(10 years later) third entry in the Quatermass saga, this time casting a proper British actor to play British rocket group scientist Bernard Quatermass, called in to investigate a skeleton found near a presumed undetonated German bomb in the London underground being excavated for a new subway line, that turns out to be an alien spacecraft with Martian insect-humanoids aboard. James Donald plays Professor Roney, in charge of the dig, and one of the few unaffected by the Martian attempt to use their human descendants to purge all those not part of the hive... Intelligent, ambitious, and audacious science fiction story may have some off-putting elements, and primitive model F/X, but remains a prime example of how to do this kind of story right. Based on the Nigel Kneale miniseries, this is by far the best of the trilogy. "},{"Title":"We are the Martians now!","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A penetration of the viewer's Subconscious is what makes this one an unforgettable experience. It taps the recesses of a collective memory that is repressed but not entirely. That seems to make the case this intelligent Movie is presenting. This Genetic implantation manifests itself in Religion, Philosophy, and ironically, Science (when allowed) it can inspire innovative thought and create new Paradigms.This is one of those Films that gnaws away even if you are prone at ridiculing its low-budget effects and outlandish Theories. It is a remarkable achievement by Hammer Studios at combining Sci-Fi, Horror, and Supernatural elements into this creepy, sometimes unbearably tense Picture.It is highly ambitious in its Ancient Astronaut claims and Human Origin explanations. There is really so much going on here that it can be hard for the Audience to keep up, as well as the Filmmakers. For a ninety-minute Movie with a low-budget, this has much to offer for the Intellect and for those just along for some tantalizing Entertainment. "},{"Title":"A fantastic piece of 60s thriller","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the Hammer films I have watched, especially the Quatermass ones, this is by far the best, probably because it is the most epic. It has a fantastic story, some great special effects (for the time), a real feel of underlying horror and all the other aspects that make up a brilliant Hammer Horror Movie. To be honest, this film always sends tingles of excitement down my spine because it just encompasses all the aspects of a really well done movie with some real heart and soul to it!The story begins at Hobbs End in London, where whilst extending an Underground Line, workers come across some kind of mass-burial site of humans believed to be well over 2 million years old. Digging further, they find a large metallic object they believe to be an unexploded bomb from World War II. Bomb disposal teams are called in to disarm the device only to find that it hasn't the characteristics of a normal German Bomb. After digging further, they find that it turns out to be shaped like some kind of missile, but nothing that had ever been made by Germany during the war. In comes Quatermass who curiously comes across the site after having some irate dealings with the Ministry of Defence who wish to turn his Rocket Project into a Military Experiment rather than the peaceful intent Quatermass has set for it. However, curiosity starts to arise as he finds out that in the area of Hobbs End there were suspicious sightings and random movements of objects that resulted in people being driven insane. This comes to a head whilst they try to enter a sealed off compartment inside the Missile shaped object. Using a hydraulic drill, they try to pierce the shell, but as they do, objects in the station begin to randomly move and what can be described as an ear-shattering Earthquake takes place inside the ship. Eventually they break through the seal, they discover a group of entombed Locust like creatures inside diamond like cocoons. Alien life is discovered and the World wishes to have answers. Quatermass believes that the presence of the alien ship and the strange happenings within Hobbs End are linked, believing there to be some kind of hidden part of the Human Mind which can be used to manipulate the area around them. Going back into the station, he uses a machine which can visualise images inside the Human Mind. What he discovers is that the Aliens were once the owners of humanity on a far away planet and what is witnessed are mass-executions and purges of the alien race in order to preserve perfection. However, the arrogant military types who are superior to Quatermass believe it is all a German Propaganda trick. Can Quatermass prove that there is real danger within Hobbs End? How easy is it to lock and unlock the hidden part of the Mind and more importantly, how powerful can these hidden powers be? Only the movie has the answer...A real Hammer blockbuster, all the fun of the 1960s nostalgic setting combined with a brilliant story. What more can you ask for! "},{"Title":"One of the Best of Hammer","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the third in the series of films made by Hammer Studios based on the ground-breaking 1950s Quatermass TV serials.Workmen excavating an extension for the London Underground system come upon a series of humanoid skulls and bone fragments in clay which is estimated to be five million years old, much earlier than the earliest humanoids were thought to have developed. Further excavation uncovers a strange metallic object, which is at first thought to be an unexploded World War II bomb. Professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Kier) of the British Rocket Group investigates and quickly comes to believe that the object is far more sinister than an unexploded bomb and, as he begins to learn about the local areas extensive history of bizarre paranormal phenomenon quickly concludes that the object is not nearly as dormant as it appears.This is one of the best of Hammer's 1960s output. Andrew Kier makes a gruff but sympathetic Quatermass and Barbara Shelley is an appealing female lead. Julian Glover gives a perfect portrayal of pig-headed military stiffness as Quatermass' adversary.The script, by Nigel Kneale working from his own TV script, is intelligent while not stinting on the thrills. The idea of apparently supernatural phenomenon given a science-fiction rationale was a recurring theme in Kneale's work and the premise, while irrational, is certainly fascinating and makes for some great entertainment.The film looks good and has a lively colour palette. While it is very much a product of it's time, it has aged pretty well. "},{"Title":"a great old school sci-fi gem","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie scared the XXXX out of me when i was a kid. Even in 1977 or so when i saw it, the low-budget enemy at the end haunted my dreams for weeks. So for me seeing the end on TCM a few minutes ago made me realize this should be more available on DVDBritish Scientists discover an alien ship buried in London very ancient buried for 5 million years and empty?. Only later does the danger of opening this Pandora's Box become evident.A good film and script that with a bit of modernization that could be remade into a great remake.A classic from Hammer.a couple minor spoilers follow I also wanted to mention that it had some intelligently designed non- humanoid aliens (rare for the time). It has a great conclusion too. Sometimes the price of victory has a high price..... "}{"Title":"Just as good as the earlier movies.","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Quatermass movies from the Hammer studio's are quite special ones. They are unlike what Hammer used to produce normally and they are unlike any other science-fiction and horror productions from that period in general as well.The movies always had a more realistic approach to them, in which everything tends to get scientifically explained till an extend that it gets somewhat plausible as well in terms of something that could really happen one day. The movies because of this are also somewhat lack-lusters because they don't feature any destructive aliens or monsters that need to be fought by force and stopped before they destroy the Earth.This is the third movie about the Quatermass character from the Hammer studio's. It's not like the movies are being very consistent with each other and often feature a different cast and a different director at the helm. All of the stories are also independent from each other, so all of the movies can be watched as separate individual ones.I really like this movie for being different and taking the more realistic approach of things. It keeps the movie interesting at all times and also gives it a special sort of mysterious tension. It even doesn't matter much that the movie its effects are really dodgy and cheap looking, like you would expect from an Hammer production.A real good and unexpected original watch, just like the earlier Quatermass movies from the Hammer studio's series.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Simply the best, bar non","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the Science Fiction genre Quatermass and the Pit ranks along with The Day the Earth Caught Fire as the most intelligent and thought provoking film to come out of the British Film Industry in the last 60 years. Although the special effects now seem dated this in no way takes any of the tension from the storyline, more it allows the plot to speak for itself and build to the final crescendo. The acting from the senior cast members is first class especially that of Julian Glover and Andrew Kier in there ever more vitriolic war of words. Although in one scene Barbara Shelley is allowed to get in a good scream in no way is her role dumb down as in other films of the period. The combination of veterans Roy Ward Baker and Nigel Kneale are at their very best. As Stanley once said Everybody has a good ides, but nobody had a good script This is a good script "},{"Title":"Brilliant Conclusion To Hammer's Quatermass Franchise","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Quatermass Xperiment (1955) and Quatermass 2 (1957) doubtlessly are excellent films and true classics that helped the great Hammer Studios become the legendary British Horror entity we love them as. The third and final installment to the series, Quatermass And The Pit (1967), however, is a masterpiece that even surpasses its predecessors in almost all aspects. Directed by Roy Ward Baker, who challenges Terence Fisher for the title of Hammer's greatest director, Quatermass and the Pit clearly hat greater production values and technical possibilities than its predecessors - there is no doubt that special effects went a long way between 1957 and 1967. The great look of this film is not the reason for me to deem it superior to its, already great, predecessors, however. This film, which was scripted by Sci-Fi legend Nigel Kneale (the inventor of the Quatermass franchise and writer of the original BBC TV-Show) simply has an incredibly fascinating story to tell - and does so brilliantly. The two predecessors were both exciting and creepy; this third part is genuinely scary and simply sublime however, as it magnificently combines a macabre premise and a variety of ingenious elements including evolution to lead to an utterly breathtaking conclusion.When trying to extend the London Underground, workers uncover the mortal remains of prehistoric simian apes. Anthropologist Dr. Matthew Roney (James Donald) is convinced that the skeletons are of an unknown race of primates, older than any primate species known to contemporary science. His research is halted when an unidentified bomb is discovered near the primates, and the military develops interest in the discovery. When Professor Allan Quatermass (Andrew Keir) steps in the body, which was at first supposed to be a WW2 bomb, turns out not to be from this world...As stated above, the two predecessors were great films, but they had their minor flaws and plot holes. This concluding entry to the Quatermass saga is far more elaborate in its storyline. The film, which is full of interesting, intelligently-drawn characters, has an increasingly tense atmosphere of doom from the beginning onward. The foreboding mood is intensely creepy, and the dark presentiment soon builds up to a truly captivating suspense level. Andrew Keir replaces Brian Donlevy as Professor Quatermass. Most people seem to regard this change as a good thing, whereas I am not quite sure. Both Keir and Donlevy are great actors, and both are truly great in the role. Personally, I really liked how the former film-noir tough guy Donlevy was a rough-and-ready Quatermass, resembling a tough private detective rather than a scientist in The Quatermass Xperiment and Quatermass 2. In comparison to that, character mime Andrew Keir, who also enriched the Hammer-world when starring as a priest in Dracula Prince of Darkness (1966), seems quite typically Professor-like (in spite of a thick Scottish accent and relatively rowdy behavior for scientist-standards). James Donald is very good as the anthropologist, Julian Glover is great as an obnoxious military Colonel, and beautifully Barbara Shelley finally brings an interesting female character into the Quatermass franchise. Some fellow Hammer fans regard this film as the great Production Company's finest offering. My personal favorites are still some of their magnificent Gothic tales, such as their Frankenstein and Dracula film series, The Vampire Lovers, Twins of Evil or Vampire Circus (my personal No. 1 Hammer film), but there is no denying that Quatermass and The Pit ranges among their truly great films. Brilliant stuff, and a must-see for all Horror/Sci-Fi fans! "},{"Title":"There's something down in the Underground","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and The Pit is directed by Roy Ward Baker, has a screenplay by Nigel Kneale and stars Andrew Kier, James Donald, Barbara Shelley, Duncan Lamont and Julian Glover.The film is a perfect blend of horror and science fiction.Down in Londons Hobbs End Underground station work is being carried out to extend the tracks.All is going well until workers discover human skeletons and call in the Police and archaeologist's,including the respected Dr Roney(James Donald)and his young assistant Barbara Judd(Barbara Shelley).Dr Roney makes the discovery that the bones are millions of years old and this attracts the attention of the press and pretty soon the station is swarming with journalists looking for a story.During further excavation work the team discovers a strange object that looks a bit like a bomb.The Government orders in the army along with top bomb expert Colonel Breen(Julian Glover)who is joined(out of curiosity)by scientist Professor Bernard Quatermass(Andrew Keir).Further examination reveals it's not a bomb but some sort of craft.It's at that point the film really turns into something special as strange noises and visions appear scaring people. Miss Judd discovers a history of satanic occurrences in the area dating back centuries.Quatermass is torn between believing in the occult being behind it or it being from another world.Whereas Breen(who refuses to accept any other theory accept a German weapon)thinks it's all a lot of rubbish.With fine performances from Andrew Keir,Barbara Shelley,James Donald and Julian Glover as the stiff army officer with no imagination,and Duncan Lamont as drill expert Sladden who has a terrifying experience he'll never forget.This is a suspenseful and creepy film which doesn't go over the top with gore or scares but is frightening anyway. "},{"Title":"Quatermass... and the pit...","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the Quatermass Xperiment and Quatermass II on two consecutive nights, but it took me awhile to find this movie. Now that I watched it, I don't really know if there's a connection between the first two movies and this one; except the main character.If you have watched the first two films, you could try to anticipate what you can expect. But I was rather surprised while watching this movie.Miners uncover a strange aircraft while digging a new railway station. Quatermass rushes to the scene and comes up with a theory about aliens and selective abduction of our early ancestors for scientific reasons. All rubbish according to the military officers. Then some strange phenomena occur. What exactly is going on here...? This movie is very strange at times. I liked it, for it has it's moments. The acting isn't bad, the effects are okay and the story develops in a nice, steady pace. Slowly telling us what happened and what is about to happen. The climax at the end of the movie starts interesting, but ends a little... dumb.So in conclusion, Quatermass and the Pit is a strange, but enjoyable movie. If you liked the first two movies, I say go watch this one too.7 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Dated, but gives some genuine creeps","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Opinion seems divided on this movie, and I guess most contributors seem to think it belongs firmly with other Hammer misfires rather than up with the contemporary super smart Sci-Fi flick we all seem to think is being made these days, inevitably a franchise or comic-book adaptation.What's to like? First off, if horrible things are lurking in Olde London Town, where else would they go but the creaky Underground? Classic location for creepy goings-on, and a realistic evocation of Sixties London; not in the least 'swinging', but knackered and still on its knees after the war and the on-going hardships of peacetime.Secondly, and for my money the best reason to see this movie, is Nigel Kneale's central idea that the lone Martian craft has been down there for millions of years, somehow infecting the location, and giving rise to occult rumours of hauntings throughout history. I love the idea that the street name 'Hob's Lane' has been replaced with the more mundane 'Hobbs Lane' (Like the Cricketer - referring to Jack Hobbs), obscuring the warning from our recent past of the sinister nature of the area, and providing a real clue that Mankind's history and that of the Martians is inextricably linked.So 'Hob' is the colloquial name for the Devil, and when you mention the Devil, up He pops! It's when this film escalates into its 'running and screaming' final act that it loses most of the inherent creepiness that the story has worked hard to achieve, but it's a great fun flick, with lots of memorable ideas, and a perfectly acceptable cast saying perfectly unreasonable things. As for the denouement, see Tobe Hooper's bonkers 'Lifeforce' for the full-blown 1980's attempt to do what Hammer did for a fraction of the budget. "},{"Title":"There's more at the beginning then we see","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have this movie in widescreen on Laserdisc. All the prints that I have seen (and even my old 16mm print) starts off with the Hobbs End station. BUT, I saw this movie at a drive in when it first came out AND there was a whole prologue before the Hobbs End station. It consisted of people in various houses complaining of noises and spooks and strange things happening. I think this went on for a good 5 minutes or more before we come to the subway station. Anyone remember this?I can't remember what title it was under but it was a triple feature at the drive in. I'm hoping that this will be re-released at some point in a complete form - maybe even Blu Ray. There must be a lot of interest for this as the only copies I've seen for sale now go for $150. "},{"Title":"Inventive Superscary Buried Martian Spaceship In London Classic Sci-Fi Horror Thriller","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Workmen excavating a London Underground tunnel come across a mysterious buried craft, and renowned rocket scientist Professor Quatermass is called in to investigate. He theorises that it is a Martian capsule containing a dormant race memory which pre-dates human evolution, and warns that it might still be activated. His claims are ignored by the authorities, much to their subsequent regret ...This is the best of the three Hammer / Nigel Kneale Quatermass films, with the biggest budget, glorious DeLuxe colour, a fine cast and one of the most fascinating, original and influential science-fiction/horror stories in all cinema. The plot is a precious example of a gripping what's-gonna-happen-next suspenseful tale combined with a stimulating what-if scenario that completely turns all genre conventions upside-down. The idea that humans might be descended from aliens is brilliant, and its repugnance to the authorities is a savage, hilarious piece of satire. So many horror movies have either half-baked ideas or extremely thin characters (or both), it is incredibly refreshing to find a film so intelligent, thought-provoking and carefully constructed. It moves seamlessly from scientific mystery to haunted melodrama to full-blown apocalypse with no let-up in the horror. The fine cast blast through the terse dialogue, with Keir, Shelley and Glover all excellent (Colonel Breen is the military idiot par excellence), the photography is wonderful and Ken Ryan's sets are beautifully creepy - you can almost smell the mud in the pit and hear the clanking of ghostly tube trains shunted into long-forgotten sidings. Extremely well directed by the talented Baker (he made several other Hammer classics, notably The Vampire Lovers), who makes a complex storyline easy to follow, paces the movie beautifully and extracts the maximum effect out of the mystery and the scares. This film casts a large shadow over its genre, notably the John Carpenter flicks Prince Of Darkness and In The Mouth Of Madness, and Stephen King's novel The Tommyknockers, and if you can manage to track it down there's a wonderful 1959 Goon Show radio pastiche called The Scarlet Capsule. If you haven't seen this watershed horror classic (or its two predecessors, The Quatermass Xperiment and Quatermass 2), check it out now; it's a rare treat, a spine-tingling creepfest and a terrific hair-curling tale to watch with the lights out. Originally released as Five Million Years To Earth in the US. "},{"Title":"One Of The Very Best Sci-Fi Movies","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Intelligent, well-done sci-fi classic, with great smatterings of horror and hints of witchcraft neatly tied into the storyline, make for some truly chilling scenes. Add wonderful performances by all involved, and you've got an extremely watchable and enjoyable movie. Most likely, you will have to watch it several times to pick up all the nuances in the relationship between characters. I originally saw this movie a year or two after it was released; I was very happy to rediscover it recently as it has always stuck in my mind. The youngsters will probably enjoy the Star War series more, but for the seasoned (and older) sci-fi aficionado, this is a real gem. "},{"Title":"Vintage sci-fi, matures rather than ages.","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a science fiction film which should be watched by those grown weary of watching the world destroyed by asteroids. For a film thirty-two years old, very little about it can be said to be dated or anachronistic.The plot holds together very well. An earlier (black and white) version of this film had some post-disaster moralising by Quatermass, which is omitted in this one. The viewer is left to recover and reflect.The acting by the main characters is superb. Andrew Keir and James Donald, as the physicist and zoologist thrown together by a crisis, make an excellent double act. The authoritarian figures (such as Julian Glover's army officer and Peter Copley's civil servant) manage to be the bad guys without being one-dimensional. Thanks to some very good and natural dialogue, there is good acting lower down the credit list.Best feature is the special effects. These were good for their day, and appear far more realistic now than the thermonuclear pyrotechnics indulged in at the least excuse by too many modern film makers.The bad points ? Well, the music grates a little and tries too hard to emphasise the menace of the situation. Some of the costumes, such as Quatermass's tweeds, are starting to look a trifle conservative.This is a reflective film, although there is plenty of action. Any fan of Doctor Who will identify instantly with it. "}{"Title":"There's some kind of new activity starting in that thing!","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sci-fi is my favorite entertainment of the mind, whether reading, watching movies, or writing (I've written a sci-fi book), so I can say I've had a bit of experience. Quatermass and the Pit is my personal favorite sci-fi film, actually one of my favorite films, period. Wonderfully intelligent plot, cracking good acting, draws you in right at the beginning and never lets up for an instant.It answers strange questions with even stranger answers, then just when you think you might have figured it out, the whole thing takes a turn for the truly weird. Great fun.An earlier reviewer suggested that remaking this film with modern special effects would give us something truly scary. I think that's true, but also important would be capturing the original effort's heart and sincerity. This sort of thing can easily devolve into satire, or worse, corniness. But this crew plays it dead straight, and it works.I first saw this film back in the early 80s on a late-night sci-fi channel of some sort under the name released in the U.S. Five Million Years to Earth. I spent the next decade trying to find it on tape now and then under that name with no success. Finally when I got on the web in the early 90s I discovered the original release title, found it immediately, and was happily reunited with one of my very favorite films.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Interesting and unsettling movie - what if......?","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, what a film... this is one film you will remember for a long time afterwards... not for the special effects... but the very intelligent storyline. I am not going to give anything away but it will truly make you think twice about our very existence, and about the evolution of humans in general. If this film was remade today with updated effects and the like... it would scare the living pants of people!! Just remember this film was made in 1967 - and as such the technology used back then was a little ropey to say the least - but this puts more emphasis on the acting by the characters and 'flavour' to the script.Too many films nowadays rely heavily on special effects to make them fly... so stories and acting are drab... not in this film! The final result you have a film which oodles atmosphere. Great film that will be extremely valued with those that have an interest in history / science / horror / suspense / action - all into one!!! 9 out of 10 given as I feel the special effects are dated now but still have the power to do what they intended without looking silly. Otherwise 10 out of 10 for a fine story and a roller-coaster in suspense! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Reason Why Hammer Was King of British Cinema","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and the Pit (AKA 5 Million Years To Earth)shows the viewer why Hammer was (And in my mind, IS)the King of British Cinema.While doing construction in the London Underground in Hobbs End, some skeletal remains are found that are clearly not human. They also find a strange metal object. Dr. Mathew Roney (James Donald),assistant Barbara Judd (Barbara Shelley) and Professor Quatermass (Andrew Kier)are on the scene to investigate the find. They soon discover that the remains are not of this earth. The military, lead by Col. Breen (Julian Glover)are unimpressed by the findings and are unwilling to listen to the scientists' pleas. To make matters worse, the object has strange powers that causes weird things to happen, and shows the fate of the creatures from another planet a fate which will soon repeat with the London inhabitants.To this day, the last part of the picture in which we see what happens when the ship comes alive and reveals itself to be the devil incarnate, STILL creeps me out. Recently watching it at 2 in the morning caused me unable to sleep. I mean, how would YOU react to seeing the ghostly image of the devil floating around YOUR town? It's too bad that it's not available on DVD (Unless you're REALLY willing to spend almost $200 for it). It's dated (The 60's after all, before CGI), but it still has the power to creep and freak you out. And that's the power of Hammer the ability to still chill years later.If you can catch it on TV, make a copy. Worth checking out. "},{"Title":"A  Hammer  Classic","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this has to be one of Hammers most famous films and is certainly high on most Hammer fans top ten list. I would say its as much a sci-fi film as it is a horror,or you could say it combines both. Some of the effects are funny by todays standards especially the bit when you see the alien locusts hoping about on the moon,this bit always has me in stitches,there are also similar flaws in the special effects department but then the film was made in 1967,40 years ago so what should we expect they were probably top notch at the time.Either way it doesn't distract from the clever storyline and only adds to the appeal.This film would still be scary for the under 12s,my son is 12 and he thought the film was great.When i was his age i thought it was really scary,shows how times change. "},{"Title":"Quatermass and the Pit . 1967.  A great movie.","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has given me much enjoyment, from the very start to the very end. The music score fits the atmosphere perfectly throughout, the storyline and plot is still a fresh and original idea, linked together with a great script, fine actors good locations and sets, this movie holds a very high standing within my collection. Yes there are one or two goofs, yes the SFX leaves a little to be desired, overall any misdemeanours(there's very few)are soon dispelled as the film advances to it's memorable climax. There are some excellent facial expressions traded between the actors at various points in the film in particular as Quatermass is alighting from colonel Breen's car and again when he decides to walk rather than accept a lift. Ah yes look for the delicious piece of over-acting by Duncan Lamont(Sladden)in the church. "},{"Title":"Best of British Sci-Fi","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" During the excavation of a London underground extension fossils of five-million year old apemen are unearthed. Also, what appears to be an unusual WWII vintage rocket is discovered and a military expert, Colonel Breen, is called in. Breen has just joined the British Rocket Group over the protests of its leader Professor Bernard Quatermass, who joins him in at the subway excavations. When fossils are discovered inside the rocket as well, Breen is dismissive, but Quatermass suspects that the rocket may be extraterrestrial. He and palaeontolists Dr. Roney and Barbara Judd try to solve the riddle of the bizarre craft and why the area, known as Hobb's End, is notorious for demonic apparitions. Several notches above what usually passes for cinema science fiction, this film is superb in every respect. Compelling and suspenseful, it offers not only action, mystery, and a magical sense of wonder, but intriguing ideas as well. It was written by the brilliantly creative Manx writer Nigel Kneale and the film was based on the third and last of his Quatermass TV serials, which were hugely popular in Britain in the late fifties. It is expertly directed by the much underrated Roy Ward Baker, (who really knows the value of the reaction shot) --- he did not only horror films and British TV shows but films such as A Night to Remember. Scottish actor Andrew Keir is outstanding as the irascible Quatermass (succeeding Brian Donlevy who appeared in the previous two Quatermass films made a decade earlier), and fellow Scot James Donald is excellent as Dr. Roney. Stand out, though, is the soft-voiced, sensitive, and genteel Barbara Shelley, beloved of all British horror fans, who is nicely showcased in perhaps her last important film role in the genre. (And memorable, too is Julian Glover as the arrogant Col. Breen.) --- It's a superbly done package whose quality holds up well today. "},{"Title":"Far from the pits","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hammer Films was renowned for its forays into horror but some of it's science fiction films have held up pretty well over the years. The character of Quatermass - the scientist with the heart of coal and the nerves of steel - ranks with one of the most compelling science fiction characters ever created. I found this film years ago under its US VHS title, Five Millions Years to Earth and I was amazed by the intelligent writing and the deep thoughts it inspired in its audiences. Are earthlings descendants from Martian bugs? Would this have a negative impact on the religions of the world? Quatermass and the Pit won't have you peeking out from behind the couch or cowering under the covers but it will engage you intellectually and bring you some thrills and chills along the way. For a film done nearly 40 years ago, the special effects and the spaceship and the martians are all pretty well done and hold up even in today's overrated CGI world. Give this one a viewing and I guarantee that you'll want to watch it again soon after. "},{"Title":"It Makes You Think!","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot of this film is one of the most original that I've ever seen! The great thing about it is that it can be taken in so many ways. Was it evil? Was it supernatural? Was it pure science? Take it as you will! If nothing else, it has you in suspense while you're watching it, and well afterward.Granted, the acting in some respects turned out to be a bit trite, but there was a lot of that in the era that this flick was made. Nowadays it tends to add to the fact that it is a period piece. However, any attempts to try to remake it in my opinion would be a waste of time. Computer generated effects would cheapen it. I've said this before that the story is the main concern, and this one shines! Here we have something very very old and hitherto unknown, but as the characters gather more knowledge of it, we find that it could be something intrinsic to the very being of mankind. Or not! These days, everybody wants the entertainment to be laid at their doorstep-they don't have to do anything. With this one, you may have to let your mind work a little bit at achieving it. That's what makes it so much fun. "},{"Title":"Strange goings on down the Underground","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and the Pit is Hammer's third and final Quatermass movie. I enjoyed it as I did the other two.In this one, excavation work on an Underground station in London unearths a strange looking object. At first this is mistaken for a unexploded World War 2 bomb, but strange things start to happen and some strange looking skulls are found, along with some dead locust type creatures. Professor Quatermass is put on the case and we learn that this object is a very old Martian spaceship. The Martians intended taking over the Earth centuries ago and they are now going to have another attempt at it. A large image of one of these creatures then appears in the sky but is destroyed by a crane and everything can now get back to normal.Biran Donlevy is replaced by Andrew Keir as Quatermass for this movie and he plays the part well. The cast also includes James Donald, Julian Glover and Hammer regular Barbara Shelley.This is one of the very few sci fi movies that Hammer made in the 1960's and is a must see. Excellent.Rating 4 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Brilliant example of how to make a low budget work","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This fun, quintessentially British SF film still holds up after more than 30 years. Sure, the  storyline is dated, but that gives it a classic old-school charm. Quatermass was a  character created during the atomic age, when fears of The Bomb were first beginning  to manifest in culture. This film is the product of a later time, and deals more with  classic concepts of good and evil wrapped around a premise that Brian de Palma's pitiful  Mission to Mars basically cribbed years later. The apocalyptic climax still registers very  high on the coolness meter, even by today's CGI-ridden standards for SF movies. When  Hammer got it dead right, the result was movies like this. Now if only Anchor Bay would  release a full-fledged special edition DVD with an anamorphic transfer, all would be  right with the world. "}{"Title":"A wonderfully interesting sci-fi movie.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" There story makes several surprising turns, so you are often un-sure of where you will be taken next. This guessing keeps the intrigue and suspense at a high level.The acting and plot are terrific as well as the script. As a matter of fact you need think a little about what is being explained in the story as it unfolds, because the story's explanation says a few things about human (and non-human) nature, and superstition.It honestly has quite a few chilling moments, and the moments are chilling not because of grotesque special effects makeup(which is what many modern Hollywood movies rely on for chills).A very intelligent and entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Very good but the TV version is much better!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw 'Quatermass and the Pit' on TV as a small child and it scared the living bejesus out of me! I recently watched it again for the first time in years, and while I no longer found it all that frightening it was still enjoyable and surprisingly well made (apart from the pretty awful special effects - the movies one real weak spot). However I had the opportunity to see the original 1950s TV version of this story via video, and I think it is far superior to Hammer's cinematic remake. Andrew Keir's Professor Quatermass is fine, but he is no match for Andre Morell, and the more relaxed pace of the TV version is better suited to the material. While the movie sticks very close to the original (and Nigel Kneale scripted both versions), several sequences seem a bit too hastily dealt with in this version, especially the apocalyptic climax which was MUCH more memorable in the original version. Here everything is a bit too rushed and easily concluded. If you haven't seen the TV version then you will enjoy the movie all that much more. Kneale is one of the most underrated SF writers/popularizers of modern times, and in many ways his mix of SF, horror and religious/philosophical themes (arguably influenced by H.P. Lovecraft and Charles Fort) lays the groundwork for 'The X-Files' and 'The Matrix'. "},{"Title":"The best British Sci fi movie ever","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this when i was 9 and I had nightmares for days. Saw it again recently and yes the special effects are poor but the claustrophobic sets are still brilliant. Did you know that the plot was reworked as a Doctor Who story ? True  "},{"Title":"A flawed, smart and frightening sci-fi.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This complex, scary, fascinating and flawed science fiction movie deserves a look and perhaps two.  It has more ideas going on in it (almost too many) than can be easily digested in a single sit-through, and even a viewer not blown away by the film may find the images haunting enough that a revisit becomes welcome and perhaps even necessary.The films has a few drawbacks, undoubtedly.  I am a great fan of low-budget movies, and I don't require state-of-the-art special effects to enjoy a movie.  In this case, however, I will admit that the low production values hurt the film; although the movie makes intelligent use of its resources, a few scenes clearly call for a more ambitious budget.  (Though this was made in the 1967, it's possible that the movie might have benefited in this regard from black-and-white rather than color.)  The performances, too, are uneven-- ranging from flatness to a few moments of unsettling power.  (Although Keir gives a good performance as Quatermass, fans of the two earlier movies may miss Brian Donlevy's gruffer, more bellicose version of the character.)Flaws aside, however, the movie has intelligence and imagination-- and enough intriguing notions for three or four sci-fi flicks.  The construction of a new tube station leads to the discovery of ancient human bones, a most unusual object alongside them, and a disquieting revelation what if human evolution was brought about not by nature, but by science-- another race of creatures, conducting experiments on prehistoric humanoids, for their own dark purposes?  And what if the seeds left inside us, rather than being erased by time, have merely lain dormant for millions of years, surfacing only in our collective subconscious, and in the disturbing visions brought that arise when that history, by accident, is tapped into again?The idea at work here represents the flip side of Kubrick's 2001 an alien intelligence brings about the development of humanity not for benign purposes but for selfish ones-- and the contact releases not cosmic redemption but furious destructive power.The premise resounds less on a scientific level than on an allegorical one, in which the duality of human nature may be more deep-set than we want to believe.  This movie can scare you on a surprisingly deep level; and the final shot may leave you with more doubts than reassurances.  This is appropriate.  The movie is too ambitious, and too intelligent, to let us easily off the hook.  "},{"Title":"The best Quatermass by far","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Faced with an unearthed missile, Quatermass has to battle a sceptical war department and a hostile Army Colonel to try to get his ideas across about the original origin of our species on Earth.Rebuffed and ignored, the 'missile' is opened to the public, with terrifying and chaotic results.  Now the battle is joined, true humans being massacred by the alien inside everyone else.Can Quatermass win?Of course.  But the finale is a great piece of cinema, and will leave you thinking...  "},{"Title":"A fascinating story combining science fiction with the supernatural","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Using the then very real threat of UXBs, and the imaginary threat of invasion from space, Nigel Kneale's ingenious story of alien colonisation took a new and terrifying path.The image of Martians taking the appearance of Satan gives the tale a supernatural twist, which cleverly makes the movie appeal to both sci-fi buffs and horror addicts.The steady build up pulls the viewer into a story that affects every culture - demons and the fear of an ancient menace that pervades all society.  "},{"Title":"One the best British Science Fiction Movies ever made!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Quatermass and the Pit (a.k.a. Five Million Years To Earth) is one of the best science fiction movies to come out of Britain.  I think the only better film in the genre is Quatermass 2 (a.k.a. Enemy From Space), which Quatermass and the Pit is a sequel of (of sorts).  To the uninitiated, the Quatermass saga centers on Professor Bernard Quatermass, a gruff but brilliant scientist in the employ of the British Government who is always working toward putting mankind in space.  All the movies are based on Nigel Kneales brilliant television series. Quatermass (a.k.a. The Creeping Unknown) was the first movie in the series, concerning a failed attempt at launching a rocket into space.  Quatermass 2  featured Quatermass's moon project and the ends to which it had been perverted by an alien race.  In both films, Quatermass was portrayed by Brian Donlevy, who was fairly well intoxicated through most of the shooting, but still was able to act with the necessary brusqueness and overacting.  It fit well with his interpretation of the character, but wasn't necessarily a good version of the television Quatermass.Andrew Keir takes over as Quatermass in this movie, and is a bit more subdued than his predesessor, which seems to make this Professor a bit more intelligent and rational. James Donald is excellent, as always, as Professor Roney, the inadvertant hero of the film.  Barbara Shelley is excellent as always.The other movies in the series were about us trying to get into space, but this film is about something in space coming here...at least coming here a long time ago.  Quatermass and the Pit offers a rather novel approach to natural and unnatural selection...Martians seeded our world with more intelligent proto-men who were actually our ancestors. The special effects in this movie are very good...some are quite creepy in fact.  The giant glowing image of the Martian hovering above London haunted my dreams for many a night when I was a child.  This is a movie for those who like the classic works of science fiction by Bradbury, Clarke or Asimov...no frills, good story, good characterizations and nice effects.  There is really nothing NOT to recommend about Quatermass and the Pit...just watch it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Probably one of the best sci-fi films ever made.","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and the Pit starts as a group of workers excavating a London subway extension to Hobbs End station unearth several skulls that Professor Roney (James Donald) believe to belong five million year old prehistoric man. Then soon after they uncover part of a metal something, the army's bomb squad is called in but after further excavation it turns out to be a large missile shaped ship. Colonel Breen (Julian Glover) & Professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Kier) are called in, despite Breen's insistence that the ship was part of German propaganda from the war Quatermass believes differently. Inside the ship they discover large insect like creatures that Quatermass thinks came from Mars, creatures that altered the course of human evolution & that part of the Martian psyche still remains dormant in most of us...This British production came from Hammer studios who are probably better known for their Victorian period Frankenstein & Dracula films with Peter Cushing & Christopher Lee although after the success of the BBC serials which were written by Nigel Kneale Hammer brought the rights to them in order to adapt them for the big screen. Hammer made The Quatermass Xperiment (1955) & Quatermass II (1956) soon after but sat on the rights for this for ten years before they made Quatermass and the Pit, there are a couple of noticeable changes in that Professor Quatermass is played by a different actor & that it was shot in colour. Directed by Roy Ward Baker this is surely one of the most intelligent & thoughtful sci-fi films out there, the basic story is very involving & works on many levels. It's a multi layered story that attempts to say lots of things, it tries to rationalise many supernatural myths like psychic phenomenon being repressed remnants of the Martian civilisation, like the way their Locust insect horned form is where humanity takes it's idea of the devil from, there's also an explanation for evolution & why we suddenly went from apes to thinking humans as well as a myriad of other ideas, themes & theories. It all comes together remarkably well, the story is a little contrived at times but it's easy to follow, extremely absorbing & is one of those rare breeds, a an intelligent sci-fi horror film. The character's are very good & very well fleshed out but Barbara Judd the assistant felt a bit tacked on at times & surplus to requirements, the dialogue is fine too & although exposition heavy it's actually a sci-fi film which should make you think for a change. In that respect I doubt it would ever get made today which is a shame & says something about the film industry as it is. It's quite a slow film at times but I never lost interest in it & it always keeps you intrigued & manages to make you want to find out the truth.Director Baker does a good job on what would have almost certainly been a low budget, some of the special effects vary in quality though. The Martina ship looks good & the scenes set in London during the dramatic climax are also very impressive but the alien Martians themselves look terrible & whenever something is supposed to hover in the air you can tell it's being held up on a piece of string! A lot, & I mean a lot of films & TV show's have stolen ideas from this & you can see the influence it had on many imitators. It feels like a big screen classic Doctor Who (1963 - 1989) episode on occasion while it's Government cover-up sub-plot could have come straight out of The X-Files (1992 - 2002). There is some pretty creepy imagery in this although nothing violent or gory apart from a melting soldier. I don't get the scene when Roney climbs on top of the crane though, what was he going to do exactly? To move the crane into the energy devil he would have to have got inside the operators cab & operated it that way so why climb out to the very edge of the crane itself? While watching the scene it just felt a very odd thing to do with no real purpose, I mean the fact the crane fell over wasn't anything to do with Roney was it?Technically the film is fine considering the budget & the time it was made. Some of the special effects are a bit iffy while other's are pretty impressive. The main cast do a good job but some of the support are pretty bad, the copper that leads Quatermass & Judd into the house near the start & some of the workmen are terrible.Quatermass and the Pit is a really excellent sci-fi horror film, some suggest it's the best Hammer Quatermass film which I don't believe is the case at all & in fact I'd rate this as the worst but even then it's still excellent. A must for Hammer, Quatermass & sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"A Hammer favourite, the best of the Quartermass films and goes with the still superior TV series remarkably well","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not as good as the masterful TV series, which is sci-fi television at its finest, but it almost is and the best of the Quartermass films. I'd go as far to say that it's one of Hammer's better films as well.Personally, Quartermass and the Pit's only fault are the rather anti-climactic and too hastily-paced ending and the on-the-cheap-side special effects especially at the end with those fake-looking aliens, the rest of the film's production values are very well-done so not sure why the quality dips at this point. The colour photography is very good though and doesn't dissipate the mystery or atmosphere at all, the setting is as spectacularly imaginative as it was in the series and the special effects generally while nowhere near as strong as those in the TV series are generally above average. Tristam Carey's music score has the right amount of eerie intensity and rousing ambiance, while Roy Ward Baker's direction is wisely careful but still very strong and Nigel Kneale's script is very true in style to his writing for the series, retaining the intelligent handling of complex and daring themes, the ability to provoke thought while not trying to do too much or undermining the mystery.The story is engrossing and continues to fascinate and resonate emotionally translated to screen, again while not making the mistake of covering too many ideas. There's a lot here and it's ambitious stuff, but it didn't feel too much thankfully. The mystery is intriguing, it's very suspenseful and scary with some memorable and quite shocking deaths (i.e. Roney's) and the disquieting atmosphere is incredibly effective, helped by beautifully measured pacing, Baker's direction and that it doesn't try to hide or exceed any budget limits. The characters are still engaging, and the acting while not quite up to their definitive TV counterparts is still very good and worthy, Andrew Keir and Julian Glover being particularly excellent.Overall, another Hammer winner and goes with the series very well indeed, if not as good as it. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Workers digging an extension for a London subway line at Hobb's End uncover some bones and a large metal cylinder they believe to be a German missile from WW2. But when Professor Bernard Quatermass examines it he comes to an altogether different conclusion, one that doesn't sit well with government officials. Soon people are experiencing strange psychic phenomena and it becomes apparent that whatever is buried underneath Hobb's End is a great evil that may destroy London if it isn't stopped.One of my favorite sci-fi films of the '60s and, really, one of my favorite Hammer films period. It's the third (and best) Quatermass movie and the first one in color. It's an adaptation of a story previously done as a BBC serial. Haven't seen that version so I can't compare. What I can say is this is an exceptional science fiction film with many thought-provoking ideas. It does have some terrifying moments although, strictly speaking, it is not a horror movie. Andrew Keir steps in to play Quatermass this time, after Brian Donlevy played him in the first two films in the 1950s. Keir is much more suited for the part than Donlevy was. The venerable James Donald and Julian Glover are both excellent. Lovely Barbara Shelley, often thought of as just another Hammer beauty, shows what a capable actress she is here. Nigel Kneale's script is ingenious. Roy Ward Baker's deft direction is some of the best work of his career. I have to laugh at some of the people complaining this movie is too slow. At the risk of sounding condescending, this is a thinking person's movie. It's not going to please many viewers weaned on Michael Bay. This is an intelligent movie with many eerie moments that effectively builds suspense leading to an intense climax. I recommend it highly and encourage you not to read too much about it before seeing it as spoilers are everywhere. "}{"Title":"The cream of old school sci-fi","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" 5 Million Years to earth - AKA Quatermass and the Pit (1967)This is the cream of old school Sci-Fi flicks. I gave it a rating of 10. It has flaws, but it is the best Science Fiction movie of it's time. The film has an interesting and original plot that is a clever mix of sci-fi with history, and is very well written. The acting is excellent. It has excellent special effects, considering that it was made nearly 50 years ago, which means the effects occasionally look a bit cheesy to the modern eye. I have heard Duncan Lamont's performance as Sladen unfairly criticized as forced and uneven. They are referring to the scene where Sladen has sought refuge in a church and is being questioned there by Quatermass. Sladen has seen things that have left him teetering on the brink of insanity, and Lamont gives a frightening portrayal of someone so terrified he drifts in and out of reality. The problems with the scene are with the direction and editing, not the acting.I've only seen it on DVD under the title Quatermass and the Pit. Released in the USA as 5 Million Years to Earth. Until recently, it was rare and expensive on DVD, but is more reasonable now. CAUTION There are several versions. Make sure to get the 1967 version with James Donald, Andrew Keir, and Barbara Shelley.The 1958 BBC TV series, available on DVD, is much longer but, in my opinion, not better, except in spots. - Paul "},{"Title":"We are the Aliens.","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although heavily condensed from it's original television mini series version(black and white and broadcast live) and thus, losing a little bit of story detail, this is still a remarkably fine, and highly intelligent film, certainly one of Hammer's finest. Arguably the finest. A superb mix of both Science Fiction and Horror, it gives us a wonderful Science Fiction explanation for demonic manifestations, and poltergeist like activity. What's more it stands as just about the best take on the idea of we are the aliens ever. We have some very heavy, well thought out concepts here, making for a highly original alien invasion story. We sorely need movies like this now, especially in a time of theaters being overrun with films where loud explosions mask a lack of intelligence and storyline. A shame that Science Fiction and Horror have fallen so far since then. But we have classics like this to remind us of better times. Come on back anytime Doctor Quatermass, you'd be most welcome! "},{"Title":"Martians from the Id","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" While digging an extension to the underground (subway) at London's Hobbs End, workmen are startled to discover prehistoric skeletons. Arriving to investigate the remains, paleontologist James Donald (as Mathew Roney) thinks they found the missing link. Rocket scientist Andrew Keir (as Bernard Quatermass) is more helpful. Red-haired beauty Barbara Shelley (as Barbara Judd) also comes in handy. When further digging reveals a possible World War II bomb, Mr. Keir suspects an alien origin. The object turns out to be about five million years old, just like is says in the US re-title...It took years for his third Quatermass film to reach fruition. Adapted from the 1950s British TV serial it seems to have had a haphazard development. The project's origin and history signal disaster, but Quatermass and the Pit far exceeds expectations. Blending several science-fiction themes together, the story is stimulating from start to finish. Hammer should have signed Keir and director Roy Ward Baker to a long-term deal re-making Quatermass films. They would need to include writer Nigel Kneale. Scripting this from his own teleplays, Mr. Kneale is the most valuable player.******** Quatermass and the Pit (11/9/67) Roy Ward Baker ~ Andrew Keir, James Donald, Barbara Shelley, Julian Glover "},{"Title":"The best of the Quatermass films","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a hugely enjoyable film, though still nowhere near as good as the original version which is one of my favourite TV productions of all time. Andrew Keir is far more suited to the role than Brian Donlevy had been. Unlike Donlevy, he met with the approval of Nigel Kneale, who was generally happy with the film. After André Morell (who was offered the opportunity to reprise his role in this film but declined), Keir is my favourite Quatermass. They are the two Quatermasses whom I would have most liked to watch in an ongoing series. The supporting cast is excellent, even though Hammer's regular leading lady Barbara Shelley is wasted in the fairly thankless role of Barbara Judd. "},{"Title":"Roy Ward Baker to the rescue!","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Directed with considerable punch by Roy Ward Baker from a wholly engrossing script by Nigel Kneale, and lavishly produced with impressive sets and fine special effects, this science fiction piece comes across with terrific impact. And not the least of the film's virtues are the fine performances by the cast. Andrew Keir makes a much better fist of Professor Quatermass than Brian Donlevy did, and he receives marvelous support from the entire line-up of thespians, but most particularly Julian Glover and Duncan Lamont. True, the story tends to go right off the rails at the climax, and there are one or two odd errors of emphasis in Baker's direction. At the initial interview with the reporters for instance, we suddenly get a close-up of one of the female journalists. This leads us to expect that she'll play an important part in the film. But after asking this one question, she leaves the stage forever! I kept expecting her to return but she never did! Maybe the rest of her part was left on the cutting-room floor? Anyway, also to be commended is the atmospheric music score composed by Tristram Cary. The fine color photography by Arthur Grant should also be singled out for praise. Australian release title Fire Million Years to Earth. "},{"Title":"top notch","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the very best British horror/sc fi films ever made,Hammer films had a strong feeling for Nigel Kneales works indeed the previous two Quatermass outings on TV had provided the basis for the first two Hammer films made with Brian Donlevy(an actor who Kneale hated for his limited acting skills).So some 10 years after the excellent Andre Morell had starred as the good Professor(who had of course already made several Hammer films )Hammer brought Quatermass and the pit to the big screen,using Andrew  I was in Dr who Keir in the lead role,this was a much more understanding ,thoughfull,restrained and fully fleshed out Quatermass than Donlevy could ever hope to be(pleasing kneale far more);The budget of 450 grand or so was quite large by Hammer standards and this can be seen in a polished production with reasonable production standards(apart from fairly basic special effects undertaken by Bowie films).The film is generally thought of as the most faithful of the 3 large screen adaptations of the TV originals and was of course the first in colour,the casting of Juilan Glover ,Barbera Shelly ( another of the hammer rep company stalwarts) etc is spot on and all the cast add depth to the film in whatever role they play.The film itself is well paced and well structured with thoughtful ideas/concepts and is still thought provoking today.This is to be expected as Kneale dealt with interesting ideas/concepts through his long career( see The wine of India, The stone tapes  The year of the sex Olympics  etc).I recommend this film to all who enjoy good scripts/ideas of a horror/fantasy/sc fi feel without having to rely on over the top gore/special effects to provide a chilling concept,although the film itself did not provide Hammer with the return it was hoping for watch and enjoy(interestingly Kneale did submit a further script for Hammer for a 4th Quatermass film which they rejected,however this was the basis for the 4th outing on TV in 1979 with sir John Mills which so far has yet to be turned into a large screen outing,and Keir did play quatermass one last time on the radio in  the quatermass memoirs for radio 3 in 1996) "},{"Title":"a must see for SF fans","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I always wondered why they never remade this movie with the avalanche of remakes that have already hit the screen, some better, some not better, than their originals. Reminds me of WW2 movie despite being set in the late 1960s, maybe because it was filmed in black and white-would look better in colour also. Well, the version I saw was in black and white... Good acting and direction helps maintain the suspense in this movie, the first film that I ever saw where I got a sense of an alien society. Miles beyond other 1960s SF efforts, and I think still watchable today, even though it is a bit dated, but not as badly dated as say, early 007 films. It is hard to get though, often the only way is too order it from your local HMV and since some film orders from them vanished into oblivion that does pose a problem. I liked the original title better-'Five Million Years to Earth'. The title with the bit with the pit makes it sound like a horror film, which I don't think it was intended to be. I think it would justify an eight, when it came out, but it has become a bit old fashioned looking over the years, so for that reason I gave it a seven, that and the title change being I think, sort of dumb. "},{"Title":"Great film - but one scene needs work","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" *** Spoiler below *** I love this film &#150; a Hammer classic. I saw it as a child and was terrified by it - in a good way.Now, I'm not, generally, in favour of messing around with classic films &#150; (can't someone stop George Lucas from making Star Wars?) but there's one scene in this film that really spoils the rest of it for me. The special effects are not bad for a film of the period and (knowing Hammer) probably made to a tight budget, but there's a problem. I'm talking about the bit where we see the 'memory' of the Martian creatures on Mars. The special effects are laughable. If ever there were a case for dropping in a bit of CG into an old film this would be it.Nick "},{"Title":"See the TV series!","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Good though this 1967 film version is, and highly thought of judging by the many comments here, it is no improvement on the original BBC series I saw as a 7 year old on our tiny TV set. I was 16 when I saw this film adaptation at the cinema on its first (only) release and satisfying though it was to be reminded of the original, the slick technicolor (eastman colour?)look of it did not compare to the gritty black and white memory I held dear. How wonderful that these days, with DVD and computer technology, I can enjoy the original six TV episodes any time I like, and Andre Morell as THE definitive Bernard Quatermass; Andrew Keir is almost as bad as Brian Donleavy. "},{"Title":"Very good 60's sci-fi","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best of pre-2001 1960's horror/scifi films. I saw this several times in the 70's and bought it again last week in a video store that was closing for 99 cents. I still loved it mostly because of how its crosses genres, it starts as an archaeological mystery, evolves into a 60's science/extra terrestrial story and finally into an explanation of the nature of the psychology/morality human race. This makes it sound like a documentary but it a fairly fast moving tale from the discovery of something odd during the digging of the London Subway system, thoughts of it maybe being a bomb or V2 rocket from WWII to a total breakdown of society. The actors are good but not distinguished, characters are well done though more mature than you would see in a more recent picture. The special effects are what they are, kept to a minimum allowing imagination to play a major role. "}{"Title":"Interesting if confusing","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, now there is allot to like about this movie. The cast does a fantastic job, the wire work for flying objects is done well and the demons what you see of them is impressive. But dumb question, is it the ghosts of the dead alien crew possessing people or is it the ship's computer causing the mass insanity and if so why? What would be the point of causing the human race to kill themselves, the bugs are long dead, so they can't repopulate the Earth. Plus, I for a party of one would like to have seen more the bugs in motion other in in flashback form. I saw this when I was a kid and was not impressed. But seeing it through the eyes of an adult I can see how some might like it and I think it's okay, not great, just okay. Plus, it also drags at points. 6 STARS. "},{"Title":"Saw it in January 2003","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well,May be a little unfair, but I saw this movie in 2003. At this time the film has a lot of things which seems ridiculous and completely nonsense (especially the images obtained with the headphones), but if you imagine that we are in the 60's you can believe that this was a movie with great impact.Good performing, with growing tension since its beginning until the end, supported by some science facts.I guess You won't be disappointed if you see it.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A fun spoiler.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Soon after the BBC TV programmes, the Goon Show did a skit. ( remember the Goons ?  Sellars, Secombe and Milligan ) Called, I think  The Scarlet Capsule  . Turned out it was an Underground train which had been shunted into a siding and forgotten. I'm sure Neddy Seagoon says to Eccles or Bluebottle  What do you know about using high speed radium tipped drills on non - porous surfaces ?  "},{"Title":"The mix of science and the supernatural has never been bettered, not even by 'The X-Files'.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film as an enthralled ten-year-old and have loved it ever since.  Its great strength is the fascinating mix of science and the supernatural, which I suspect had never been attempted before and has never been bettered - even by 'The X-Files'.  Despite periods of dated scripting and acting the story still manages to engross throughout, right up to its legendary climax.  And Barbara Shelley is always watchable (Gillian Anderson, anyone?).  The special effects range from humorous to outstanding.  I defy anyone not to laugh when images of the alien purge are screened to a roomful of dumb-struck officials. But the effects sequences involving telekinesis couldn't be bettered by cgi even today. "},{"Title":"Three great sci-fi movies were released in '68.  This is the forgotten one.","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  2001  A Space Odyssey.  Planet of the Apes.  Both of these films are recognized as masterworks of science fiction cinema.  But 1968 was also the year of Quatermass and the Pit, one of Hammer Films greatest and also one of the best science fiction films ever.  Everything about this low key masterpiece is perfect  acting, special effects, and Roy Ward Baker's sharp direction. I've seen this film many times over the years, and I'm always struck by how thoughtful and suspenseful it is.  If you love movies, particularly science fiction films, you owe it to yourself to check it out.   "},{"Title":"Excellent, Thoughtful Sci-Fi","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What if ancient devils and witchcraft and evil  in general could be explained away by martians that landed on Earth five million years ago?  Interesting concept to say the least, and it shows us that this film, Quatermass and the Pit, is not just another extraterrestrial romp with a big budget special effects as the primary focus.  In point of fact, this film is very though-provoking, just as its two predecessors The Quatermass Xperiment and Quatermass II.  It tells the story of an alien aircraft found while workers try to complete  a subway tunnel.  Human-like remains surround the vessel and finally some Arthropod(grasshoppers with and extra leg and demonic anntennae) are found within the craft.  From there on the story deals with all kinds of psychic phenomena and extraterrestrial explanations.  The story, as with the sets and acting, is first-rate.  Andrew Keir this time plays Professor Quatermass, a much more passionate and humane portrayal when compared with the performances of Brian Donlevy in the two preceding films.  Also firmly rooted is Kneale's lack of faith with the establishment as they continually act only as self-servers.  Great Sci-Fi fun! "},{"Title":"Now they've gone an' mucked it up = memorable understatement","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I always watch this through rose-tinted spectacles, I saw it the first time it was on UK TV Christmas 1973 at an impressionable 14. However, taking into account the shoestring special effects budget it's still impressive, with a powerful and cogent story that almost solves the fundamental mysteries of the Universe.It explains why there are so many different opinions on this and every other film on the IMDb, why some people actively think there's a difference in religions and some people prefer margarine to butter. Hell, it also explains why London was bombed on 7/7 - the Devil was paying another call. Maybe that's why there's no life on Mars now, not climate change but that the locusts ran out of locusts to kill!QATP to me is a wonderful, corny, sensible, nonsensical, intelligent, contrived sci-fi film that still hits the spot all these years later. I keep the Goon Show's Scarlet Capsule firmly at the back of my mind whenever I watch it though! "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I won't go over the plot. I would have liked a little more explanation of the aliens and their effect on humans. The white devil is plain weird.  I don't think the movie works on that level. The first 45-50 minutes of the movie is great with the evaluation of the ship and the implications of the alien presence. The actual results of the presence are a little disappointing.  This is a major problem with the movie. That being said, I have the DVD and periodically watch this movie.  I liked Andrew Keir's Quatermass and James Donald's Romey. Julian Glove is good as the pompous Breen.  The sacrifice that Romey makes is neat, nobility still exists.  Barbara Shelley doesn't have much to do in this movie.  Is it just me, or is she really HOT?   Overall, I really liked this film.   A 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Favorite Sci-Fi Film","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Can't add much more to the positive comments about the writing and direction - this one is a favorite along with the first two Quatermass films. One trivia note - poor Julian Glover has a tough time keeping himself together. In Quatermass and the Pit his Col. Breen suffers a spectacular meltdown kneeling in front of the alien spacecraft. He suffers a similar fate in the third Indiana Jones film (Last Crusade) as the evil Donovan - he who chose poorly when drinking from the cup of Christ in the cave.Many have pointed to the difference in how the Quatermass character was portrayed By Kier and Donlevy - I enjoyed them both but I believe that Kier came closer to the character as Kneale had written him in the BBC treatments.  "},{"Title":"Fast-paced and highly original sci-fi story.","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Andrew Keir stars in this third film involving the famous British scientist, Professor Quatermass. When a buried alien spaceship is unearthed during the construction of a London subway, Quatermass is called to investigate. One scene is wonderfully reminiscent of The Day the Earth Stood Still; a group of soldiers and engineers try to penetrate the indestructible hull of the spaceship. Inside the ship they find the remains of the dead Martian crew, midget-sized insect creatures in a honeycombed hive.Adding to the mystery is the fact that the area around the hatch of the ship is littered with the remains of ape-like animals resembling prehistoric men.The thick-headed government and military men persist in believing the indestructible ship is a propaganda weapon sent by Germany during World War II! They pay a terrible price for their ignorance, and all hell breaks loose when various occult-like phenomenon begin to disrupt the area.The scenes of destruction and mass hysteria are genuinely shocking. The basic concept of this film (involving the evolution of mankind and the origin of certain superstitions) is intelligent, thought-provoking, and disturbing. The film does a remarkable job of incorporating ancient myths and legends into a hard science story. The special effects (credited to Bowie Films) are excellent, and there are a generous number of them. The alien ship is beautifully designed and constructed under the supervision of art director Ken Ryan and production designer Bernard Robinson.The whirlwind pace and the spirited direction by Roy Ward Baker keeps the viewer riveted to this highly original story. There isn't a shred of padding in the narrative (no love interest, no comic relief), just a lean-and-mean science fiction thriller. James Donald contributes a fine performance as the dedicated anthropologist. Barbara Shelley is the courageous and beautiful assistant to the scientists. A highly recommended movie. "}{"Title":"Anthropology will never be the same!","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brought to the cinema in 1967 after a successful British t.v. video series of the 1950's, Quatermass And The Pit (aka 5 Million Years To Earth) has one of the most ingenious story lines I've ever seen in a film.Andrew Keir is the anti-establishment-acting Dr. Quatermass, who refuses to believe the British military's analysis of a recently unearthed missile-like vessel in a subway construction project as anything else but a Nazi UXB from WWII.Instead, Quatermass and his associates, Dr. Roney and Barbara Judd theorize that the still intact missile is actually from Mars, and may have had more impact on human anthropology than anything else in our existence!The very idea that an ancient Martian colonization of the earliest hominids 5 million years ago, resulting in a permanent evolutionary restructuring of their brains, is utterly fantastic. This theory goes on to explain why people have been possessed by the Devil throughout recorded time, as the ancient race memory the Martians instilled in the earliest ancestors' brains have been triggered. This same race memory is also responsible for the basic psychological cleaving of mankind into two basic groups those that still possess the most primitive Martian drive to survive, and those who do not.The film compels the viewer to not only think of these implications, but at the end, wonder if this nightmare is truly over? A fascinating film that, despite some technical FX glitches, will either force you to go to church to pray, throw out Darwin's Evolution of Man, or both! "},{"Title":"My favorite Hammer movie","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the first of 7 films that Roy Ward Baker directed for Hammer. I also feel that it was possibly Hammer's finest moment. I have seen this movie at least 5 times and I still love it. This is a remake of a British television series entitled Quatermass and the Pit. The same writer was used on the film and much of the same dialogue is used. And maybe Hammer has some other moments as equally fine as this, but this is such a good movie.While digging a new subway tunnel underneath London, a large, metallic object is discovered. Different experts are brought in and the official story from the military is that it is an experimental type of bomb from from the Germans from WW II that didn't work. Others aren't so sure, including Professor Quatermass (Andrew Keir).A little bit of detective work by Professor Quatermass and his assistant Barbara Judd (Barbara Shelley) turns up that the area of London that the object was discovered at, Hobbs Lane, has had a history of strange phenomena going back centuries. In fact the name Hobbs as it turns out, is actually a medieval name for the Devil.Quatermass proposes that the object is an alien craft that has been buried for centuries, if not millennia, despite the military's insistence that it is a German dud. And soon after the discovery of the object, workers start dying or start having psychotic episodes with visions of seeing aliens that look like insects (kind of like a cross between a praying mantis and a grasshopper actually). The military is trying every tool they can to drill into the object, but to no effect. A cover finally opens up and all hell starts breaking loose around Hobbs Lane. Winds are blowing and people are being driven mad by the visions they are seeing. There is also a giant apparition of an alien that appears in the sky above Hobbs Lane. The Professor figures out a way to bring the power in the spaceship to a halt by running a giant electrified crane into the apparition and save London.If you have ever seen Lifeforce (1985), you'll notice the endings are somewhat similar. There are winds swirling around London with debris flying everywhere and sirens going off and some terrific noise all around. People are running through the streets either out of their minds or trying to get away from the madness. And one lone figure knows how to put a stop to all of it.I hope my description of the movie doesn't turn you off, because despite the goofy sounding story it really is a well done movie. All of the principle actors do an outstanding job, especially Barbara Shelley and Andrew Kier. The first time I saw this movie on TV in the late 70's it was under the title 5 Million Years to Earth. It was probably 10 years before I saw the movie again on TV, and I was so excited to be seeing it again. Fortunately for all of us, Anchor Bay has released this movie on dvd in 1998. What is included on the disk is a commentary by director Roy Ward Baker and a World of Hammer episode entitled Sci-Fi. I have only ever seen one copy in dvd stores and of course I bought it. So I know it is not a very common title to have in stock at most outlets. It lists for $30 but I think I paid $20 for it. I highly recommend buying this for your permanent movie collection. "},{"Title":"Top-notch","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Made 11 years after the last Quatermass movie, this movie updates the series with a new director, new lead actor and new musical score, not to mention the addition of color.The movie is cleverly written and makes very credible links to the history of the devil in ancient culture. The dismissal of such evidence by government representatives such as Col. Breen (Julian Glover), despite the almost overwhelming validity, was a subliminal smack at the late culture of the decade where the old guard brusquely dismissed any idea or notion that didn't fit it's own, much like the old generation clashed with the 60's hippie culture.Like Quatermass 2, the movie relies less on special effects and more on implied horror and suspense, although the scene where a worker staggers through London in a psychic trance, creating a vortex of destruction as he goes, is quite unnerving.The film's main problem is in the casting. The character of Quatermass is played by Andrew Keir, a relative unknown compared to the supporting cast. James Donald (the commander of the allied POWs in The Great Escape) and veteran stage actor Julian Glover overshadow Keir. Also, the movie ends up making Quatermass a virtual bystander at the climax of the movie as Donald's character takes charge. Anyone familiar with Brian Donlevy's portrayal in the first two movies will be quite disappointed.All in all, it's a great movie to watch and an unusual change of pace for Hammer Films. Note it was shown in American theaters as Five Million Years to Earth. "},{"Title":"notice this!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **a previous letter states that hammer films are usually more associated with '50s english horror films..excuse me, but that is exactly what this is! is there a comparison between this film and others from hammer which are not '50s english horror?next, some really neat stuff..quatermass..the name seems quite similar-sounding to quantum, as in quantum physics..the name seems to mesh perfectly with quantum mass, which, although often theorized about, is little understood and less discussed.hobb's end, the location of the ship, is mentioned where ancient cultures held ceremonies to celebrate demons devils, etc.  ..isn't this where we got hobgoblin?is there anyone who doesn't know that rocks have been found from mars at the north pole? these rocks have formations that seem to be identical to fossilized microbiological life forms..they were ejected from martian volcanoes and floated in space millions of years before being attracted to earth's gravity..not a great leap to a story that suggests life might have developed from visitors to our planet..to paraphrase pogo we have met the martians, and they are us! "},{"Title":"Way ahead of it's time!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This 1967 production shot in thirty days at MGM Studios nearElstree,  England,  seems to improve as the years pass.  Directed byRoy  Ward Baker, ( who helmed the famous 'A Night to Remember' in1958 ) , keeps  this thought provoking.  convoluted story afloat. Nigel Kneale's profetic script appears onmany levels to be finding scientific credability as we learn more andmore about the planet Mars.  A first rate cast dosen't hurt either.  Amust see for anyone interested in Hammer,  or on recent theoriesconcerning planet Earth's relationship with the red planet Mars. Note If you enjoy this film,  you may want to check-out the BBCSeries of the same name,  and produced nearly a decade earlier.    "},{"Title":"A Hammer Classic!","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Hammer's finest efforts. A big screen version of the famous TV serial of the late 1950s, this is much faster, with better effects. However, something is lost in the colour version. In the black and white version, the grey look gave it a  menacing feel, as if there was always something hiding in the shadows. Still, it was a great effort with some fine acting from Andrew Keir and Julian Glover. Good to see Hammer Queen Barbara Shelley too.! The end sequence of the Devil hovering over London is quite well done. "},{"Title":"An influential film in its time","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent sets, very good acting and wonderful special effects for its time, but lovers of modern science fiction film will be disappointed.  One reason is that many of its plot elements have been mined for later films.  Highly recommended for those who like the science fiction and space opera films of the 1950's and 1960's. "},{"Title":"INTRIGUING CLASSIC CHILLER","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without a doubt, this is true science-fiction at its best.  Kneale's brilliant script (based on his acclaimed 50's BBC serial) proposes a truly staggering premise.  The human race was actually genetically altered by martians about five million years ago, the martian race hence perished, and mankind was left alone, stranded on this remote outpost.  Bizarre? Seemingly, but is it anymore fantastic than any others theories (religious, scientific and philosophical) on man's existence?Could this explain why we've been such a troubled and confused race, uncertain of our true purpose because we've been actually left in the dark regarding our true heritage?  Hence we've been groping with theories and speculations for centuries, never really seeing the whole picture, just bits and pieces that we're not really intelligent enough to make total sense out of.  Is religion just an ignorant, mythic misinterpretation of scientific truth?  Are the storybook devils and supernatural demons distorted visions of our true forefathers;  a superior alien race who bred us by playing a prime role in our evolutionary development?  Are we nothing more than an experiment;  helpless specimens under a vast microscope?  Ponder that next time you're confused, frustrated, disillusioned and frightened.This excellent film is not short of disturbing, but thought-provoking ideas; the essence of genuine science-fiction.  Kneale is able to propose his speculations in a very believable manner that could possibly be feasible. I'm surprised this picture was not condemned by the church for its original interpretations of our old traditions.Out of all the QUATERMASS films, this is the one that's most strongly remembered.  Its special-effects are minimal but not bad;  they exist to propel the story and not dominate the movie.  The tension builds through-out, building up to a smashing and unforgettable climax as the uncovered martian spaceship becomes reactivated and humanity receives some terrifying clues as to the source of its actual creation.  If this doesn't shatter one's complacency, I don't know what will.  Kneale makes suspension-of-disbelief so easy, it's unsettling.It would have been interesting to see what Kubrick would have done with this unique script, for it bears thematic similarities to 2001.  Baker's direction is good, but lacks any true striking qualities.  He nevertheless gets impressive results with a modest budget.  The Hammer staff were quite proficient at that, and struggling independents should take note.If you're tired of mindless action, neverending cliches and demo rolls of F/X, then give this your serious attention. "},{"Title":"Good sci-fi as it should be made","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this is a great sci-fi film, saw it in 72 and since then many times, love the plot. If you love old time sci-fi then I think you will love this. The best of the series films. "},{"Title":"Too Many Ideas for 90-Minutes","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" All in all, it's a maddening movie. The first part is a real grabber-- an eerie subway tunnel where workmen uncover skeletons of strange humanoids. They look sort of like us, even if they also look like chimpanzee rejects. After that, remains of what may be a spaceship suddenly turn up. Scientists are riveted, while the govn't, fearing panic, concocts a WWII Nazi-plot solution. At this point I'm really hooked.But then the story goes off in six different murky directions, along with fake plastic insects that wouldn't even pass Roger Corman muster. True, the action never lets up, but too often it's at the expense of a lucid storyline. I kept expecting to be at least menaced by whatever the heck is going on, but that never happened, unless you count wind tunnels and a foggy something-or-other as truly scary.I gather the screenplay is a condensed version of a much longer British TV series. And that appears to be the trouble. The movie adaptation evidently tried not to leave anything out and in the process overwhelmed the storyline with piled-on events, producing an end result that's something of a narrative mess. Given the promising premise and eerie beginning, that's a really unfortunate upshot.The movie does have its occasional moments, along with the welcome absence of a clichéd romance. But how it's managed to achieve cult status in some quarters makes me think something else is at work. (In passing&#x97;I may be wrong, but the blurry mass of b&w Martians looks a lot like the undersea fish men of the early American talkie The Mysterious Island 1929.) "}{"Title":"War of the Worlds Meets The Exorcist","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite science fiction films.  At first it plays like a ghost story as people who live in the neighborhood where the skeletons are found relate their experiences.  However, it soon becomes apparent that its not the occult that everyone has to worry about, its the Martians.  Andrew Keir did a wonderful job as Quatermass and he made the role his own.  The only thing I wish for is that someone would show the Quatermass series on television and expose a new generation, including myself, to one of the greatest characters in science fiction. "},{"Title":"So, as far as anybody is, we're the Martians now.","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never knew Hammer Studios did this type of science fiction until running across this picture as Five Million Years to Earth. The title was changed for American audiences since Quatermass and the Pit, didn't seem to have commercial appeal on this side of the pond. Besides the sci-fi quotient, there's a bit of a horror element in the story as well, with intimations of a devil at work in the Hob's End section of London where an underground tunnel has revealed an object of perhaps other worldly origins.Surprisingly, the story has a rather ambitious concept even if the execution seems rather hokey by today's standards. While the British government and military decide that the 'space ship' discovered during an underground dig is a holdover from the Nazi war machine, physics professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Keir) forms a theory that a centuries old, dormant faculty resides in the vehicle, and when awakened it displays eerie properties of telekinesis, second sight and poltergeist type movements. British scientist Barbara Judd (Barbara Shelley) experiences a 'stored memory' of the deceased creatures on board the ship, which are captured on film as depicting a Martian hive cleansing. It's the professor's considered opinion that centuries ago, Martians kidnapped ape-like creature from Earth to experiment on, in order to survive their own planet when it became inhospitable.Given all the tampering around and within the space vehicle, the Martian energy within it eventually comes alive to protect itself while destroying parts of London in the process. However in a War of the Worlds style resolution, it becomes a relatively easy matter to stop the rampage when Dr. Matthew Roney (James Donald) theorizes that he might ground the force's destructive power by maneuvering a metal crane into it's energy field. For the dormant Martians, that's all she wrote.When I got a look at that so called Martian energy field with it's horned apparition look, I was reminded of a Star Trek episode that had an intergalactic villain with a similar appearance. Thinking that maybe one work influenced the other I looked it up, and the episode I'm referring to was called The Corbomite Maneuver, the tenth episode of Star Trek's first season in 1966. It's probably a stretch to suggest that one of Gene Roddenberry's creations had an influence on this Hammer flick, but the energy devil looked a whole lot like Balok without the horns. "},{"Title":"Another fine Quatermass story from Nigel Kneale and Hammer.","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Construction workers doing some underground excavation in the Hobbs End area of London unearth some pretty intriguing stuff. Among the staggering finds are some humanoid skulls and skeletons, an extraterrestrial missile, and some insectoid-like carcasses. Those who attempt to determine the significance of these discoveries are the anthropologist Dr. Roney (James Donald), his assistant Barbara Judd (the gorgeous Barbara Shelley), and the space expert Professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Keir). Keir is amazed by the effect that these artifacts have on human victims, and by their far reaching implications. He also butts heads with a young military colonel, Breen (Julian Glover) as they argue their points of view on the matter.It isn't until the latter 41 minutes of this 98 minute long film that things head in the direction of genuine spectacle. There's a lot of excellent and overwhelming atmosphere by that point, as supernatural phenomena occur, but for a while Quatermass and the Pit is notable for taking a matter of fact, reasonably realistic approach to fantastic material. Director Roy Ward Baker, who along with Terence Fisher was one of the finest filmmakers to work for Hammer, keeps the pace deliberate, and takes great care in his telling of this intelligent tale by Nigel Kneale. Quatermass and the Pit is definitely not as creepy or as thickly atmospheric as the two previous black & white Quatermass adventures, The Quatermass Xperiment and Quatermass 2. But it's fun to watch, and pretty suspenseful, with some well executed special effects.Keir is endearing as the title character. Nowhere near as selfish or as abrasive as the Brian Donlevy version of Quatermass, he creates a hero with strong rooting interest. The performances from the rest of the cast are equally as sturdy, including Duncan Lamont as the crazed worker Sladden, and Bryan Marshall as the efficient Captain Potter.As other reviews have already stated, this is indeed a low budget genre picture for the thinking person.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Hobb's End Horror","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like all the best science fiction Quatermass and the Pit begins with a meaningful idea, not just an excuse for special effects and spectacle. This third big screen outing for the iconic Doctor Quatermass has tube tunnel diggers in London uncover a mysterious ship which has been buried under the city for 10 Million Years. The officials begin to panic, fearing a dormant Nazi aircraft but Quatermass has a hunch that the origins of the craft are something far, far more sinister.I did enjoy the theories and questions posed by this movie, and the production design, for the most part, is quite impressive. However I was disappointed by the design of the Martians and the dream sequence set on Mars. The cheapness of these effects really dismantles the film and lessens the overall effect of the premise. There are some great moments though, and the final effect of the giant Martian face over London is quite a striking image.According to Joe Dante, the effects of the TV version (made 9 years earlier and on a lesser budget) are superior, and I would like to see this version to compare. As it is Quatermass and the Pit is a notable sci-fi flick and never once boring. If only they invested more time and effort in those effects... "},{"Title":"Original, intriguing...and disappointing","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Original, intriguing...and disappointing.Workers on an extension of one of London's underground train stations discover skulls and other remains in their diggings. They then discover also discover a large missile-like object. Thinking it is an unexploded WW2 bomb, an army bomb squad arrives to investigate. However, the object doesn't seem like a WW2 bomb...Great set up, poor ending. Original story, that developed in very intriguing fashion. However, the conclusion was very lacklustre, and quite out of place with what had gone before. After such a tight, plausible first 60% or so, the remainder was quite silly, random and implausible. Ultimately, a movie of two halves with the good work of the first half almost entirely undone by the second. Overall, a decent movie, but only just. "},{"Title":"Above-average sci-fi from Hammer Films","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Engrossing Nigel Kneale screenplay, adapted from his original story (which had already been a popular serial for BBC television entitled Quatermass and the Pit), concerns modern-day London beset with an alien spacecraft, unearthed in excavation, which exerts destructive supernatural powers once assorted scientists and military personnel attempt to crack it open. Excellent production and direction, solid cast (including bearded Andrew Keir as the amusingly humorless Prof. Quatermass), though the final showdown with the Martian intelligence is visually disappointing. Otherwise, an interesting and entertaining genre effort. Keir reprised his role for the BBC Radio 3 series, The Quatermass Memoirs in 1996. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"We owe our human condition to the intervention of insects","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the 1950's TV mini-series this Hammer film from 1967 is actually really good, it's the third outing for Quartermass under the Hammer studio banner. While I am reviewing it as Quartermass and the Pit it's been re-branded as Five Million Years to Earth. This is directed by Roy Ward Baker and written by Nigel Kneale and runs for about 97 minutes and is well worth it. While digging to make an extension to an underground station in London human bones are unearthed, initially scientists believe these to be prehistoric bones. As well as bones, what looks like a German WW2 Missile is found. The military take over where the scientists leave off to find out of the missile is a threat. Along with the military experts Professor Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Keir) tags along for a look, he sees the 'missle' for what it really is, something unworldly. Quatermass teams up with Dr Roney (James Donald) and his assistant Barbara Judd (Barbara Shelley) to get to the bottom of the truth and what he uncovers helps solve the age old mystery of how humans came to being and how we work on a mental level. Of course the military don't believe him or want to so they stand in his way at every turn but their actions might make it too late for the human race to go on living. Can Quartermass and his colleagues save the world? This isn't your usual run of the mill Hammer House production, while it's branded as Horror it's definitely more Sci-Fi. Although dated now this film still has an eerie suspense to it and may even start you thinking about themes raised in the film. There is a brilliant finale and twist as the film climaxes which even by today's standard is risky but helps put the film on a pedestal as a great. I really like this film and have no issues awarding it 7 out of 10 by today's standards. If I'd have been writing reviews in the late 1960's to early 1970's I'd have probably rated this a 9 because I imagine at the time this was a cinematic masterpiece of a story and scared a lot of people. If you enjoy Hammer films then you have to watch this piece of excellence. "},{"Title":"Hobbs End.","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite having heard about the series for a number of years,I have somehow never got round to seeing any of the films/TV shows that feature the Quatermass character.Taking a look on Amazon UK for Hammer Horror DVDs,I was delighted to spot Studio Canal's DVD/Blu edition of a Hammer Quatermass film,which led to me getting ready to jump in the pit with Prof. Bernard Quatermass.The plotWorking on an extension of the London Underground,I group of workers uncover a number of strange looking skeletons.Called in to identify the mysterious remains, Paleontologist Dr Matthew Roney announces that he believes that the bones are 5 million years old,and that they belong to an extremely early version of the apemen.As Roney and his assistant Barbara Judd recover the skeletons,they find a large metal object,which appears to be an un-exploded bomb.Dismayed over his plans for the colonisation of the Moon having recently been taken over by the army, Professor Bernard Quatermass visits the bomb site with Colonel Breen watching over his shoulder.Pushing aside the bomb theories,Quatermass tells everyone that he believes the object is of alien origin.Reserching the area with Judd,Quatermass finds out that strange historical events have taken place in the area,which has involved residences seeing creatures that look similar to the skeletons that Roney has recovered.Fearing that something has been uncovered which should have remained buried,Quatermass is horrified to find the army determined to open the strange object.View on the filmBefore I get to the film,I to say that Studio Canal give the title a perfect transfer,with the audio being sharp & the vibrant colours popping across the screen.Showing remarkable restrain from showing the monster until the very end,director Roy Ward Baker & cinematographer Arthur Grant create a superb,tense Hammer Horror atmosphere.Placing most of the movie in t'pit,Baker and Grant use excellent tracking shots to fully display the claustrophobic location,and to also create a deep feeling of dread,as Baker closely follows the team digging up the secret.Although some of the special effects do have a rubber bounce,Baker covers the screen in bright golds and shining greens,which along with giving the effects a nice slimy texture,also makes the teams increasingly dangerous discoveries stand out in the pit.Adapting his TV creation for the big screen,the screenplay by Nigel Kneale offers a tremendous mix of Sci-Fi chills and tense Adventure movie investigation.Slowly revealing the hidden terror,Kneale cleverly puts Quatermass in an explorer position,which along with letting each new discovery build on the chilling atmosphere,also gives Kneale the chance to give the terror a strong foundation,as Quatermass finds himself unable to stop the army opening the object,and pushing the film into an explosive, bravely tragic Disaster movie final.Despite not being Baker's first choice for the role, (with the studio rejecting his suggestion of Kenneth More) Andrew Keir gives a wonderful performance as Quatermass,thanks to Keir giving Quatermass a perfect balance of excited single-mindedness over the discovery,and a burnt at the edges, frantic desperation,over stopping the mystery from being unleashed.Giving the film a touch of elegance,the very pretty Barbara Shelly gives a charming performance as Barbara Judd,who Shelly shows is unable to withstand the strange attraction that the object has on her,whilst Julian Glover (who did his own stunts!) strikes the film with a stiff upper lip shine as Colonel Breen,who is desperate to join Quatermass in t'pit. "},{"Title":"The Quatermass That Inspired John Carpenter","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mysterious artifact is unearthed in London, and famous scientist Bernard Quatermass (Andrew Keir) is called in to divine its origins and explain its strange effects on people.This is the film that inspired John Carpenter. Okay, so not the film, as he also was strongly influenced by the films of Howard Hawks. But you can see this film in Prince of Darkness, and also in In the Mouth of Madness. And, of course, it stands on its own.Some of this is a little silly. The alien / arthropod corpses are a bit less than believable as living creatures, but at least they tried to make up for that with goo blood and other touches. And the images from Mars... a bit weird. But, hey, still a fine film. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable!","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I shall never forget this series. Admittedly, I was an impressionable teenager, and this was an early example of TV SciFi, but it both terrified and fascinated me at the same time. In those days, I suppose we were fairly naive, and unused to side effects, so that everything seemed horribly real. The moment when one of the mummified aliens dropped was one of the most shocking moments I can remember seeing on TV.....my whole family jumped in horror ! I wonder whether anything like this can ever affect us again, or whether we are too accustomed to realistic horror on our screens. If so, a shame. There was a sense of building horror in this series, which was carefully and delicately done. No in your face  violence, but a suggestion of mounting menace which I doubt has been equalled for some time. "}{"Title":"Uneven Hammer Production of a Famous TV Show","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would guess that most people who read this will be familiar with the plot of this film and be aware that the movie is an adaptation of a 1950s BBC serial of the same name. The film is scripted by Nigel Kneale - who created the Quatermass character- and directed by Roy Ward Baker who worked on a number of Hammer Production including The Vampire Lovers as well as TV shows of varying quality such as Minder and The Champions. The stars are James Donald( best known from The Bridge on The River Kwai), Hammer Stalwarts Andrew Keir (who plays Quatermass) and Barbara Shelley as well as Julian Glover who plays the bone- headed Colonel Breen. The plot concerns the aftermath of the discovery of what appears to be an unexploded Second World War bomb during building works extending the London Underground at the Hobbs End station. The story moves quickly as the penny drops - for Quatermass and his academic colleagues Roney and Barbara Judd (played by Donald and Shelley respectively) at least- that the 'bomb' is not a bomb at all but some sort of extraterrestrial craft that has been buried millennium before The Luftwaffe flew over London. Eventually the craft 'wakes up' to wreak havoc in the area surrounding it before Quatermass and Roney find a way to destroy it. The plot of Quatermass and the Pit has been extensively borrowed over the years - numerous Doctor Whos in the 'Classic' era of that show have elements of it - and seen these days it is hard to see that the story could ever have been something original but that does not stop this being an enjoyably tense film - it moves quickly enough to jump over some of the plot holes successfully and like most good science fiction tales it works because it is just about credible. There are some real faults- the characterisations are a bit two dimensional with Colonel Breen- the prototype of Doctor Who's Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart surely?- being just too stupid ( and possibly a fraction young)to be truly credible and though she looks nice and her character is allowed to think (unusual for female characters in many Hammer productions) Barbara Shelley's 'frightened doe' expression grates a bit at times. The special effects are kept to a minimum- mercifully as those which are deployed including the film's monster 'the Hob' itself are pretty rotten. The acting- the occasional grating moments of Barbara Shelley aside- is pretty good with fine work from the reliable Donald and Keir whilst there are worthwhile supporting spots for Duncan Lamont and Bryan Marshall too. Keir reputedly found this an unhappy production to work on as he believed that he was very much not Ward Baker's first choice for the role (though he is preferable to Brian Donleavy who played the same part in the two earlier Quatermass films) and he was only given second billing despite being the eponymous hero. The finale is a bit silly I suppose but this is one of the few films where the closing credit sequence are the best thing about the production. As the closing music plays and the credits roll Keir and Shelley sit in silence, in shock, whilst fires blaze and the emergency services kick into action in the background. It is rare in a science fiction ( or horror) film or TV show for the characters to demonstrate any emotional reaction to the cataclysmic acts that have taken place but in this final short sequence these two characters are allowed to do just that - and in the process turn a decent, flawed lowish budget British film into something rather better. "},{"Title":"1967 film remake isn't as good as original late 50s BBC TV series","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Five Million Years to Earth' is the US title for the British film, 'Quartermass and the Pit'. It's based on a BBC six-part TV serial, broadcast in December 1958 and January 1959. There were two prior TV series, The Quartermass Experiment (1953) and Quartermass II (1955), followed by two films of the same name released in 1955 and 1957 respectively. The original BBC TV Series can be seen on Youtube in 21 separate segments (however, the year of release, 1955, is confused with the year Quartermass II, the TV series, and The Quartermass Experiment, the film, were released).The advantage of the 1967 film over the 1958-59 TV serial, is that it's condensed, and the story moves along at a better, somewhat brisk pace. The main disadvantage of the 1967 film is that Quartermass is woodenly played by Andrew Keir, who hated acting in the film because he believed the director really wanted another actor (Kenneth More) to play the role. Keir plays Quartermass deadpan and bores us to tears. Contrast Keir's acting with Andre Morell in the original TV series. Morell reminds one of the wry Leo G. Carroll and one of the reasons why the TV series was so successful, was precisely due to Morrell's air of sophistication and dry wit.Despite moving at a faster pace in the film version, 'Five Million Years to Earth' is still nothing more than what one critic at the time called a wordy, blob of hokum. It takes an inordinate amount of time before the big reveal, which is when the creatures are discovered. In the TV series, the insect-like creatures actually look pretty realistic&#x97;this is probably due to the fact that the TV series was filmed in black and white. Now in crisp, 60s color, these so-called 'arthopods', which resemble really big grasshoppers, appear as too obvious, papier-maché models. There's all quite a bit of overacting here probably the most guilty is Duncan Lamont who plays Sladden, the drill operator. Once the repressed memories from the aliens are unleashed, Sladden makes his way to a cemetery, looking more like a goofy, drunken reveler at a party, than someone with severe psychiatric problems. When the masses are possessed at film's end, none of it feels realistic or scary. Contrast that again with the TV series, which manages to convey a heady verisimilitude. I should also mention that the music is vastly superior in the original series than the paltry, clichéd, 60s score, written for the film.The characterizations of the principals also fail to draw one in. Colonel Breen is your basic military martinet, opposed by Quartermass, who represents the triumphant voice of pacifism. Breen is the one who comes up with the idiotic idea that the alien ship is basically a Nazi missile dressed up as a propaganda tool and the defense minister immediately announces that it's safe for the press to examine the spaceship inside the subway station. As it turns out, no one heeds the 'brilliant' Quartermass, who has warned everyone of the alien danger; it's only when Dr. Roney, Quartermass' paleontologist colleague/comrade at the site, crashes a crane into the alien spectral image, that the repressed memories of the crazed mob are 'shut off' at the scene, thus preventing mass havoc from becoming a garish reality, all over Britain.Julian Glover matches Anthony Bushell, who plays Breen in the TV series; both manage to convey the character's lack of flexibility and unbending attitude as an authority figure. It should be noted that the scenarist, Nigel Kneale, who wrote the original script, has Breen basically hypnotized by the aliens before being done in by them. Kneale is suggesting here that authoritarian types are inherently passive and paints Breen as one who too easily acquiesces to voices in authority during a time of crisis.In the BBC series, Dr. Roney is played by a rather blasé, Cec Linder, a Canadian actor; James Donald, who reminds me of a little like Michael York, seems more right for the part in the film, as he has more of an aura of sophistication than Linder. The more plain-looking Christine Finn as Barbara Judd in the original TV series, seems to work better than Barbara Shelley in the film, as there's more of a contrast when the Judd character suddenly becomes possessed.For all those film goers who view 'Five Million Years to Earth', as a cult classic, I can only once again recommend that you watch some of the original BBC TV series on Youtube. It's a shame that the 1967 film wasn't shot in black and white, as the film needed much more of a documentary feel to it (which was accomplished in the TV series). It's surprising that Roy Ward Baker, the director of the most excellent, 'A Night to Remember', the 1958 film about the Titanic, was unable to successfully handle the special effects here in 'Five Million Years to Earth'. Had he been successful, it still wouldn't have mattered that much&#x97;'Five Million Years to Earth', is still a film that surprisingly lacks (in the words of a film critic writing at the time the film was released), imagination. "},{"Title":"It's overrated to be sure...","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" An extreme amount of explication goes into this Roy Ward Baker classic at the cost of any real thrills or scares. During the expansion of a tube station, diggers uncover a rocket-ship. Soon professor Andrew Keir and scientist James Donald are on the scene and come to the conclusion that it's the remnants of a martian aircraft that landed millions of years ago. Much of their other theorizing involves martians mating with monkeys and other such horrors. Although this is likely the most cerebral Hammer film, it's also one of the most overrated and while there are plenty of solid ideas thrown around, much of the film is simply boring. Keir is terrific as is most of the cast. Barbara Shelley is great as a fellow scientist and Julian Glover steals the film as the high strung Colonel Breen, one of those by-the-book British military types who turns out to be a bumbling nincompoop. The special effects are fine though sparsely used until the explosive ending. Tristram Cary did the creepy music. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fun thing about movies is that you can trip over something that you just didn't know anything about and get swept away with it.Such was the case, for me, with 5 MILLION YEARS TO EARTH.I caught this on TCM one lazy Saturday afternoon, thinking I'd nap through a typical alien monster movie from the 50's and 60's.What I got, instead was an intelligent, thriller about alien mind control and our origins on this Earth that made me research more about this movie on IMDb.Based on a series of Television shows on BBC, 5MYTE (or as it was originally called in Britain, QUARTERMASS AND THE PIT) follows the continuing adventures of Professor Bernard Quartermass, this time as an alien spacecraft is discovered while working on the London underground.Produced by the great Hammer studios of London, the effects are cheesy (this is 1967 with a low budget after all), but the performances by Andrew Keir as Quartermass, James Donald as Dr. Matthew Roney and very young Julian Glover as the antagonist, Colonel Breen made this movie one that kept my attention.The highest compliment I can give it is that I was multi-tasking during the first part of the movie and found myself dropping what I was doing and engrossed in the ending of this picture. It wasn't what I expected and I'm glad it wasn't.6 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis) "},{"Title":"Hobbs End","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quatermass and the Pit is based on the BBC TV serial and Hammer films adapted Nigel Kneale's screenplay for a movie version.Its a straightforward film, set bound, plenty of dread and eeriness but so-so special effects. Whilst excavating at the site of a new underground tube station, a mysterious object is found. The army believes that its an unexploded bomb from the second world war and later think that it might be an advanced weapon of some kind built by the Germans.Professor Quatermass suspects that the object is Martian in origin and might have led to the creation of humans on earth. The alien inside has awoken bringing madness and mayhem to the population of London especially as the alien has a satanic appearance.Roy Ward Baker directs in an easy manner, he knows how to build tension and puts the more creative minds of the scientists at odds with the more narrow minded army and especially the pompous and hostile Colonel Breen.The acting is well served by Julian Glover, James Donald and Andrew Keir as Quatermass.Barbara Shelley is very appealing as Miss Judd but there is no romantic subplot. The ending of the film is rather abrupt but its a move away from the more traditional Hammer horror with film with tension and an alien incursion film with a supernatural twist. "},{"Title":"Wouldn't it be cool to discover a long-buried UFO?  Well....nope.","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Five Million Years to Earth was a movie version of the British TV series Quatermass and the Pit. It seems that the Brits loved their shows about Professor Quatermass, though in the movies starring this character, they seemed to always have different actors playing him. Here, he is played by Andrew Keir and a cast of mostly unknowns for Hammer Studio. The film is interesting and unusual but may be a bit too slow and cerebral for some.When the film begins, sewer workers in London discover some skeletons while digging. Soon, they find a metallic object buried as well and they assume it's an unexploded bomb from WWII. However, the object is non-magnetic and once they start digging more, it turns out to be far too large for a bomb. In fact, it's some sort of ancient space craft---and they soon find dead aliens that look like huge grasshoppers. Weird, huh? Well it gets a lot weirder. Although the ship is truly ancient and the beings who used it long dead, there is some sort of terrific psychic force within it--and it's capable of killing! The film is certainly unique--and I like the idea of the the plot. I do have a few complaints however. One is that the film, at times, drags a bit and is a bit cerebral for some viewers. While you get to see some cheesy alien creatures, they aren't seen all that often and it's a bit anti-climactic. Another is that the ending, to me, seemed a bit silly. What's this about iron being the metal that can destroy the Devil?! Huh?! Still, an intriguing idea--but not a perfect one, that's for sure. "},{"Title":"Thousands of tiny puppet alien insects used to inhabit Mars.","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Professor Quatermass is convinced that a strange indestructible object, discovered buried beneath a London tube station, is a spacecraft, and that the dead arthropods found within are the remains of an ancient Martian civilisation that intended to colonise Earth. His theories are scoffed at by the military (when will they ever learn?), who claim that the whole thing is a wartime hoax perpetrated by the Nazis. But when the object begins to have strange psychic effects on the people in its vicinity, it becomes apparent that the Professor was right all along&#151;and the Martian colonisation of Earth is finally about to begin.A slight departure for Hammer studios, who are better known for their Gothic horror films, Quatermass and the Pit is an 'intelligent' piece of sci-fi (no laser guns or droids in this one, folks) that raises several interesting questions about the origins of mankind and religion.Unfortunately, it is also a rather flawed effort which suffers from a dreadfully slow pace, a couple of very chuckle-some moments (including one memorably silly scene in which scientists use a daft piece of hardware to record a person's thoughts&#151;with hilarious results), and a protagonist who is able to make some amazingly astute deductions based on the flimsiest of evidence.Director Roy Ward Baker admittedly manages to create quite a bit of atmosphere at times, his sets are fairly impressive, and the cast does a fine job keeping a straight face during some of the more ridiculous moments, but Quatermass and the Pit is a long way from being the unmissable classic that many claim it to be. "},{"Title":"well meant, well done, but not well aged","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one really dated movie... For todays audience it is quite hard to sit through, even if you're a big fan of weird fiction and cheesy movies. It contains way too much talking and far too little, well, lets just call it optical values. In that sense, it differs quite a bit from other Hammer Films which mostly have at least some gore, sex or action. This one has none of that AT ALL. In fact, it is one of those movies you can very well just LISTEN TO while doing something else. ON THE OTHER HAND the story is really, really weird... and thus GREAT (if you ask me). It is sort of a Mixture of H.P.Lovecraft and Doctor Who. The Atmosphere is creepy at times. But then again, when people turn mad because they have witnessed something mind- bending, the actors ruin everything by overacting totally.I enjoyed the movie for two things The build up in the beginning, which creates quite some suspense, and the showdown. The final scene, in witch one of the main characters maneuvers a crane (!) into the giant ghost of a space locust (!!) would be a great thing to see in a remake, and even in this version, although the effects remind me of the old THUNDERBIRDS series, it is kinda cool! The shot in which the ghostly locust face is closing in on the camera is surprisingly creepy and effective.If you are VERY patient with your movies, if you are a fan of weird fiction and if you dig the style and cheesiness of British 60's films, only then I can recommend it. "},{"Title":"A rare latter Hammer foray into science fiction","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the third of Hammer's trilogy of Quatermass films. Like the first two this one is also based on an earlier TV serial. To be perfectly honest there isn't an awful lot between the three movies in terms of quality. This one probably just shades the other two in that it has higher production values and a colour format. The story is basically about the discovery of an alien spacecraft that is uncovered during a dig in the London Underground. Dreadful events soon begin to happen in connection to this mysterious artifact.Despite the earlier Quatermass movies being responsible for kick-starting Hammer Studios success and moving them into the horror genre, this third instalment came at a time when sci-fi horror films were the exception rather than the rule. In this sense Quatermass and the Pit is a refreshing change of direction for the studio. Although like the vast majority of Hammer's output it's a solid rather than spectacular offering. Having said that it does benefit from being written by genre specialist Nigel Kneale who ensures that the film has a sufficient number of unusual ideas and as a result is one of the more original offerings from the studio in the latter half of the 60's. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As the TV Serial","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I used to love this film . Everytime I watched it on TV I was terrified to go to sleep , so when the BBC released the original television serial from the 1950s on video I bought it. Unfortunately once you`ve seen the serial you realise that the Hammer film version of QUATERMASS AND THE PIT is very much inferior.That`s not to say there`s anything seriously wrong with the film , it`s just that the performances and characterisation pale in comparison , especially Breen and Potter . But the film is far more effective( *****SPOILERS ***** )  during the martian capsule coming back to life. Walls collapse , people are crushed to death , Breen`s death is more shocking and Roney`s sacrafice is far more spetacular than anything the TV series could achieve. Without doubt Roney`s death is a classic scene of British Sci Fi horrorAll in all a good film based on telefantasy`s greatest ever serial    "}{"Title":"Quatermass's Pits","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Originally screened live as a mini-serial in 1958, when I was just an uninformed and impressionable young kid, Nigel Kneale's atmospheric horror drama scared the pants off me.Many, many years on, I got the abridged and edited 3-hour BBC video. To my much more informed, and sceptical mind, there was little to offer. It was long, hammy, contrived, a strings-and-things special-effects package, and in many ways implausible. Some of the set pieces were pretty good for the vintage and evidently limited budget. And that classic 'Quatermass Oscillation' still knocks socks off any other sound effect in the business. But it's strictly for collectors.Remember; by 1953 we'd already had 'War Of The Worlds', an Oscar-winning strings-and-things fest. We'd had the highly-charged and equally atmospheric bug-buster 'Them' in 1954. And of course, there had been the incomparably superior ghost-in-the-machine movie 'Forbidden Planet', from 1956. Admittedly; these were better-financed Hollywood efforts, but they set the effects standard, and should at least have offered some inspiration to the BBC.In 1967, a misguided Hammer attempted to update the mini-serial into this pukka movie on an equally negligible budget. And to say that they failed would be an understatement. To a generation by then watching 'Doctor Who' (1962), 'Thunderbirds' (1965) and 'Star Trek' (1966) on television, any made-for-cinema work that was underfunded, was destined to be stuffed, roasted, and served up for Christmas.I hadn't seen this wretched effort for ages and couldn't quite remember how bad it was (though I had been bitterly disappointed at the time). However, the opportunity came at 0215 am this morning, and so I compromised my sleep to watch. What can I say? It was actually worse than the abridged video. In 9 years, Hammer had learnt nothing. This effort was a drastically foreshortened version of the original, with sets and excerpts of dialogue lifted en-bloc. No bad thing if they were good enough to transfer, but they barely passed muster in the 1950's. Kneale's original story is long and complex; it just doesn't comfortably reduce to 90mins. And this is evident from the clumsy, hurried editing. As to plot details a copper almost too scared to enter a 'haunted' house? Gimme a break! An army colonel claiming that ancient artifacts were Nazi propaganda? Even by 1967, forensic science was sufficiently sophisticated as to blow that claim to atoms. Breen would have been a laughing-stock and any politician who supported him would have been an electoral busted-flush. There was no place for a 'Piltdown Martian' in 1967. The subway is a wonderfully atmospheric environment to place a horror and suspense movie. With it's lonely stations tailing abruptly into deep, dark caverns, its endless, echoing labyrinths and the obscure roaring rumble of trains in nearby galleries; it's a creep-fest gold mine. Check out 'Mimic' and several others. Who could possibly make a lash-up of it? Hammer - that's who.The decent original cast led by Andre Morell was replaced by a bunch of largely unknowns. The 'animated apparatus' was even 'stringier' than before. And that blood-curdling 'oscillation' had been abandoned altogether. Now there was a baby thrown out with the bath water.I cannot recommend this movie on any other pretext than as a guide to bad film-making. There is no doubt in my mind that I could do better. This is proof positive that Hammer really was composed largely of Ham. And looking at some of the other comments, praising this twaddle as 'classic', or 'one of the best...' simply convinces me that there are people out there so deluded, they would award 10 stars to a blank screen.Check-out the abridged BBC video. It's long, slow, implausible and stagy, but all the best elements have still been retained. At least it's better than this. Come to that; so is a blank screen.Pleasant dreams. "},{"Title":"Poor follow-up to Quatermass 2","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is said that writer Nigel Kneale did not like Brian Donlevy's mouthy, aggressive Professor Quatermass. Here Kneale gets his way, and replaces Donlevy's snappy scientist with an insipid, tweedy creature which is the stereotype of the intellectual. I don't know what planet Kneale was living on, but I am a scientist myself, and I like to think of myself as an intellectual. I am afraid I have more in common with Donlevy.Workmen digging a tunnel at London's Hobbs End underground station find a skeleton. So they call in Quatermass to sort it all out. A little spaceship full of overgrown locusts/grasshoppers is found, and the whole thing gets a bit silly towards the end. A huge devil appears at the end. It is supposed to be scaring and horrifying us even though it is doing nothing in particular; but don't worry. Professor Tweedsuit knows what to do. Like some other nonsense about the earth being invaded, an abundant natural resource can be used to rid the world of these demons.The build up is good, intriguing. Kneale,who, don't forget was also the writer of the disastrous TV series Kinvig, knows what he is doing; and one gets the impression that this could have been as good as Quatermass 2 with better direction, a clearer denouement and, above all, Brian Donlevy as Quatermass. "},{"Title":"Pretty scary...if you're in 2nd grade.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember seeing some movie on television when you were in elementary school and being so creeped out that you carry that memory into adulthood? When I was in second grade, I saw this film on TV one night under its US title, Five Million Years to Earth. I had not seen the film since that night in 1971, until I recently purchased it. I must say that the beginning was just as cool as I remembered. The producers gave such a visceral feel to the opening scenes of workmen digging through the rich, ochre colored clay beneath London that you could almost smell the earthiness of it all. I was right back in '71! Alas, the plot seemed to lose steam pretty quickly after that. Perhaps growing up with Spielberg, Lucas, and other really great Sci-Fi storytellers has made me expect more from the genre. The film definitely has a mid-60s feel to it, but doesn't deal with the mod aspect of London during 1966-67. Speculation about human origins has been dealt with repeatedly in films like 2001, Mission to Mars, and many others, but it could be that Five Million Years to Earth was one of the first to pose the question. I'm not sure. I imagine the best way to enjoy this film is to not expect too much, and just appreciate it for what it was. Oh, yes...watch it with a 2nd grader! "},{"Title":"Screaming for a high-budget remake","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A brilliant, logical film. It works on so many levels. The pacing, the slow unfolding of the mystery, really grabs a hold of you. The story in this film is better than the plot in the Da Vinci Code.With this glowing review, why did I not give it a 10?The film is shackled by an extremely low budget and sub-B Movie production values. The special effects of the aliens are abysmal. I remember going to see the film in a repertory theatre and most of the audience was laughing at the cheesy special effects.With all the remakes being done these days, this would be my number one choice for an updated version. "},{"Title":"Contrived Sci-Fi","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those movies that has a cult following, as I have heard, and now I know why it is only a cult and not more people. The story itself, although an interesting premise, is badly executed. Too much about the life of the aliens and the spaceship is deduced from the skimpiest of details discovered. Quatermass is annoying as he creates complete scenarios of the situation based on practically nothing. It doesn't help that the special effects were even bad for its time. I will give a break to old movies and their special effects but these insect-aliens were laughable---it appeared like the producers didn't try at all. How it was all wrapped up at the end of the movie based on a silly idea thought up by one of the heroes was the last straw. "},{"Title":"Very dull.","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Or The Military & The Gov't Vs. The Scientists.Cheap-looking movie with obvious roots in TV. Some of the special-effects are so cheesy that they wouldn't be good enough for the 60s Star Trek. The insect-like aliens are unconvincing, though the cast of this movie would beg to differ; upon the aliens' discovery everyone made a grimace of disgust, whereas - I felt - they should have laughed at those bad cardboard Martians. Even worse is the b&w recording of the Martians, in which they look like bad grasshopper-puppets wandering around aimlessly. Those special-effects would have been acceptable in the 50s, but f'rcrissakes, this movie was made in the same year as 2001 (but perhaps I'm being unfair with that comparison). The ship doesn't look bad, though.But I wouldn't be picking on the visuals if there weren't flaws elsewhere. The most obvious one is that the movie, though more serious than other entries of the genre, is made up of a collection of sci-fi clichés, and as a result just gets duller and duller, until the climactic finale - by which time I couldn't care less about what's going on. It's all been done before in 50s B-movies, in comics, and sci-fi stories; we have insect-like Martians, the idea that Martians made us into what we are now, and then there is all that Body Snatchers triteness in the finale. The other major flaw is the absolutely ludicrous portrayal of the military and gov't. I mean, this was 1968 so what could one expect? The military is shown as ignorant, stubborn, and fool-hardy, and to the most absurd extent. The anti-gov't sentiment is no better; the gov't guys ignore even the most indisputable facts. Both the military and the gov't are EXTREME anti-scientists; but if this were so the British would still be fighting with bayonets in trenches. The scientists, on the other hand, are shown as angels they are pacifistic, left-leaning anti-war folk, with no career ambitions whatsoever, and the good of mankind is their only objective.The movie's increasing dullness only gets occasionally and briefly interrupted by unintentional humour. "},{"Title":"Well, let's get a little real here","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have a sentimental attachment to this movie, but let's face it, it's really awful.  I once attended a screening of this many years ago, and to my horror, the audience treated it as a comedy.  The laughs started when Col. Breen was talking about bases on Mars to patrol the earth with nuclear weapons (no need for early warning systems at least), and by the time the jeep pulled up with the freshly painted bomb squad sign screwed to the hood, I was laughing too.  The sets are ultra cheesy, all that fake clay ending neatly at the edges of beams, and the exposition is ham-handed at best.  Yes, the central idea is fun, but the monstrous gaps in human logic turn this into a farce. Recently some damn fool remade Planet of the Apes, and repeated all the nonense plot elements without any thought (excellent english those apes speak, eh)?  Now here's a movie that could really use an update.  Take the details of the basic idea and fix all the cheapo Hammer one take and time for tea knee slappers and you might really have something.   "}]