[{"Title":"the most beautiful film ever made","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"146 out of 199 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is beautiful. From the gorgeous Jane Fonda, and sexy Pygar to the wonderful costumes, and the very shiney sets, there is nothing ugly in the whole thing.Unbelievably silly it has some fantastic lines of dialogue like de-crucify the angel or I melt your face! Great characters, a killer lava lamp, fur lined space ship and a villain called Duran Duran.The evil organ of desire scene, and the opening strip tease still manage to be erotic, even though this film is dated. Cult with a capital C, this is never going to appeal to a mainstream audience, and yet remains my favourite movie of all time. A classic. And very pretty pretty.  "},{"Title":"Essential Sci-Fi","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"97 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is eye candy from start to finish-- *including* one of the most baroque title sequences ever concocted (long before digital technology made this kind of playful titling standard). It's Franco-Italian design all the way through, a celebration of petroleum products and the best of the lava lamp aesthetic. Hard to tell if it's a parody of sci-fi or a parody of porn, or same difference is probably the point. There are some very stylized, sadomasochistic uses of Jane Fonda's long legs, at the same time that Fonda delivers the wittiest lines, in a very witty screenplay by Terry Southern (of Doctor Strangelove fame) Decrucify my angel immediately! (Kids, see if you can spot the Chucky in this 1968 precursor.) Skeptics should stay the course to learn what Duran Duran has to do with Barbarella. And Barbarella with the Black Queen. And the Black Queen with the Rolling Stones. And if you don't know what camp is, then you have to see Barbarella even if the film is more sublime than camp, a kind of psychedelic Brechtian fantasia. (If that's not a contradiction in terms, then this isn't on my sci-fi shortlist.) One to own, to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"The greatest psychedelic science fiction sex comedy ever made!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"80 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw 'Barbarella' on TV as a small child in the 1970s and along with 'The Omega Man', 'One Million Years B.C.', and 'Jason and the Argonauts' the movie blew my tiny little mind! I think my interest in cult and bizarre began from seeing this classic slice of 1960s psychedelic trash for the first time. This is one of the silliest movies ever made, but still one of the most entertaining. Jane Fonda, then at the peak of her sex kitten period (history lesson - this was before radical Jane and corporate Jane), has never looked lovelier than in this movie, and manages to really pull off Barbarella's wide-eyed innocence. Anita Pallenberg (co-star of 'Performance' and then Keith Richards' old lady) is stunning as The Great Tyrant, even if her voice is dubbed, and her handful of scenes with Fonda are unforgettable. The rest of the eclectic supporting cast includes cult favourites John Phillip Law ('Diabolik') as Pygar, the blind angel, David Hemmings ('Profondo Rosso') as Dildano a revolutionary, and Milo O'Shea ('Theatre Of Blood') as renegade Earth scientist Duran Duran. 'Barbarella' contains some of the most striking and surreal images of the 1960s (the doll attack scene is one of my all time favourites!), and is definitely one of the most bizarre science fiction movies ever made. Like many of the 1960s more excessive movies it is a real love it or hate it proposition. I love it of course, and think it, Russ Meyer's 'Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill!', and Roger Corman's 'The Trip' are the three greatest 1960s trash classics. This is simply absolutely essential viewing for all 1960s buffs, science fiction or otherwise. Long live 'Barbarella'! "},{"Title":"Sexed-Up and Super-Silly","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you're looking for a cult classic, they don't come much stranger than sexed-up and super-silly BARBARELLA, the peculiar tale of an intergalactic secret agent (Jane Fonda) sent to a rebel planet to find a mad scientist named Duran Duran (Milo O'Shea.) Directed by Fonda's then-husband Roger Vadim, the film is less concerned with creating a coherent storyline than it is in finding inventive ways to strip Fonda of her already skimpy outfits.In this it is remarkably successful, and Fonda actually has both enough sex appeal and round-eyed innocence to carry the thing off, emerging as something like a Barbie doll; John Philip Law strikes a similar note as the sexy but equally innocent angel Pygar. The designs are 1960s psychedelic with as many Freudian twists as the film's makers can come up with, and when all is said and done you can't help but roll your eyes in amusement.True enough, BARBARELLA was probably much more entertaining back in the days LSD, and indeed one might read the entire thing as an acid trip time machine. No one in the cast takes the film very seriously, and neither should you; when all is said and done it has all the depth of a pancake, not so much funny as merely amusing and appealing to a very high-camp sensibility. But as cult movies go, it ranks right up at the top. Give a party and show it on a double bill with FLESH GORDON! Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Pop Art","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"52 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not sure if I liked this film or hated it!!  It reminds me of DangerDiabolik, that flash trash movie also with John Phillip Law.  It is bright and loud and trashy with a little soft porn thrown in for good measure.  It does tend to hold  your interest throughout, maybe because you can't wait to see what outrageous scene will assault your senses next. And oh, all that phallic symbolism!  Roger Vadim certainly exploited Jane Fonda in this one and she would probably like to forget the whole thing....but you've got to admit she doesn't look too bad in that plastic see-through bustier.  John Phillip Law, who is a handsome devil(oops, angel), plays the part of the blind angel, Pygar, without emotion or feeling....but he played every character he ever portrayed exactly the same way.  He wasn't much of an actor but it works here.  This film screams the 60's, so turn on, tune out, plug in your lava lamp and take a look at it.  You'll love it or hate it but you are guaranteed to have fun with it.  It's the epitome of pop art! "},{"Title":"All the plot of a high-budget porn...","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"55 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Really and truly, this could be the plot of one of the more high-brow types of porn.  I watched this with a bunch of other girls for a class, and we could not stop laughing the entire time.  See Jane Fonda meet men from around the galaxy, and have sex with them!  Dare your friends to count how many times she changes her costume!!  Sparks deep philosophical discussion, like what exactly the writers were on when they wrote this.  Great fun, not to be missed!  "},{"Title":"Pure Candy","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you're looking for a quality science fantasy experience, you will probably be disappointed in BARBARELLA, which tells a typical story of an intergallactic astronaught who is sent on a mission to save a brilliant scientist from the clutches of an evil force that threatens to destroy the universe.On her quest she finds daunting foes, unexpected comrades and twists and turns like any good superhero story should have. The only problem is that her world is made up of Christmas lights, cellophane and balsa wood, and it's all held together with scotch tape.However what some might consider schlock entertainment, I saw it as pure camp all the way, with some hysterical situations and outrageous costumes draped over not-so-difficult-to-look-at actors (especially our babe-o-naught Ms. Fonda), and to top off the cake we have an icing of infectious music by comedic composer Charles Fox (9 to 5, Foul Play) and singer/songwriter Bob Crewe.This is pure candy all the way so don't expect any nutrition here, but if you let it happen instead of looking for more, you may find yourself inspired to watch it again and again, when you don't feel like using any brain cells in this dimension. "},{"Title":"'Camp so outrageously artificial, affected, inappropriate, or out-of-date as to be considered amusing.'","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"41 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 'Barbarella Queen of the Galaxy' is the epitome of 'camp.' The year was 1968, I was in my first year of graduate school, about to get married. I knew of 'Barbarella' but I had never seen it, until today. I think waiting 36 years has actually made the experience better. This is not by any definition a good movie. Jane Fonda, a very bright actress, plays Barbarella suitably as an 'innocent' sent on a mission to a distant galaxy to find the Earthling scientist Durand Durand and bring him back, along with his invention. The story itself is secondary, the charm of the movie resides in all the sexual situations that innocent Barbarella finds herself in. A perfect vehicle for the wild 1960s. The package blurb says 'she acts like a female James Bond.' Hardly. More like a female Austin Powers, and some of the characters would have fit better in a Monty Python movie.The DVD is fine for an old movie, although blemishes are quite evident. What puzzles me is the 'PG' rating listed on the package and the disk. The opening scene, of Barbarella getting out of her space suit in the weightlessness of her spacecraft, clearly shows her breasts, and her nude butt. Very nice breasts and butt, at that, nonetheless inconsistent with a 'PG' rating. Plus many other scenes in the movie show groups of men and women in alluring positions, again with some obvious female nudity. So anyone who plans to view this movie with those under 18 should be aware of this. For an adult audience, it should not be an issue at all.May 2013 update It is now on Netflix streaming movies, with a rating of R, and comes across very well. "},{"Title":"Barbarella Crapadella","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Spoilers AheadFirst to people not from the 60's zeitgeist, hallucinogenics were common practice when watching films in the theaters during this period. I know a whole group of guys who kept going to 2001 dropping Acid during the Stargate sequence. Can you tell? Yes, Jane Fonda is so hot here but Klute comes with a plot, a director, a script and a point. Yes, I love all the aging hippies who see their old decadent philosophy of LOVE which did not include bathing for those of us living around them, by the way. Yes, no more war or weapons, one global world of endless libertinism, I'm sorry, sexual liberation. For people under forty, I advise drinking as an earlier reviewer warned you to. Please, I am sorry I turned into the guy from the Big Lebowski The revolution is over, condolences, the bums lost.For someone who grew up around these very odd, lazy, badly smelling losers I do not find their cultural products amusing. I found them as weird then as I do now. The revolution always seemed to revolve around others supporting them while they gave everyone the middle finger. The movie is not bad; the movie emptied out theaters when it was released. The first feature in a drive in was an action movie. It was packed side to side. Once this movie came on, the exodus began in earnest.Soon, two or three cars, at a time, started their engines. Open laughter and sarcastic remarks were heard throughout the lot. That reviewer was correct, the most often heard remark was WTF is this S? Forgive me, but to quote Cheech and Chong C'mon honey, don't just stand there airing it out let's get a little action going. Well, the whole movie is coitus interruptus; Basic Instinct, while crap also, at least gives you more than this if you know what I mean. If you were looking for a movie, you came to the wrong place. It is nothing but a glorified peep show; why do you think Fonda refused to discuss it in her interviews? I swear bad movies are become projective tests lately; people see their own values reflected back at them read some Freud, you are seeing yourself not the movie. After the opening strip tease, ooh! a breast, how exciting! It was when I was fifteen; I moved on. The ship appears to be in hair detergent of some kind complete with air bubbles and the ship is shag carpeted with the hideous decor of people on strong drugs. I had to live in that crap, how humiliating! She meets men and has sex off camera; the head woman has the hots for her but again nothing is shown on camera. The acting is the worst you will ever endure; the movie makes The Motionless Picture seem like The Matrix. The pacing mirrors symmetrically the acting; it moves at rock erosion speed. Law's Pygar makes Canoe in that Day The Earth Stood Still seem like Marlon Brando. For those of us, not on mushrooms or LSD, the movie puts the capital S in Sucks though a better term is synonymous with excremental. You think you have seen bad? This movie sets the standard. We, by the way, were the only car left out of 100 by the end of the movie. Horrible Steaming Pile Of Poop. "},{"Title":"Irredeemable. Lovable.","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Enjoyable while having absolutely no redeeming value whatsoever. Jane Fonda proves herself a worthy comic actress, and also manages to (as advertised!) strip on any occasion. Pygar is sufficiently vapid, the Black Queen is hot (and amusingly dubbed), what else do you need? The plot - Barbarella is sent to recover the scientist Duran Duran - is slightly meandering, and abandoned for the middle 60 minutes of the movie. The best comparison I've seen or heard was to 'Alice in Wonderland' - an innocent goes carelessly wandering through a psychedelic wonderland, populated entirely by misfits and lunatics. Which, frankly, is Barbarella in a nutshell.Some decent villains would help. I'm unsure if it's a result of the poor special effects, but Barbarella is consistently menaced by the un-menacing small birds. nibbling dolls. a giant space amoeba that looks like bath gel.Decent music, (intentionally?) atrocious special effects round this out perfectly. Definitely worth a viewing. "}{"Title":"Response to Stamper","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"40 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Stamper's assessment of Barbarella is accurate, but all the reasons he states is why I love this movie. The plot is cheesy, the dialogue ranges from goofy to corny, the special effects are pre-George Lucas, and the tag line of an angel IS love is testimony to the worst remnants of goof ball 1960's culture. However, the set and costume designs are unbelievable, and the opportunity to observe Jane Fonda and Anita Pallenberg gallivanting about attired in fabulously sexy outfits is worth the price of admission. Yes, Jane is a leftist wing-nut, but she was a stone fox in 1968, and I'm happy somebody made the effort to document this for posterity. And all Anita has to do is say pretty pretty in that low, sexy voice, and I understand why Brian, Keith, and Mick all lined up for a taste of this ultra hottie. "},{"Title":"Beyond imagination","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"32 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie you have to see, or you will not believe it. Categories like good or bad simply do not exist in the aesthetic limbo in which this film was made. I should mention I saw Barbarella in a movie theatre in Montreal, and there is no other city in the world where Barbarella's parlez-vous français? (uttered twice!) sounds more hilarious.  "},{"Title":"60s Extravaganza Viva Italia.","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The film-makers made two wise decisions when shooting Barbarella. The first was to spend as much time as possible filming Jane Fonda. I'd forgotten just how beautiful she was during the 1960s. At the time of shooting, Jane's at the height of her considerable powers, and breathtakingly gorgeous in every frame.The second wise decision amounts to casting Miss Fonda in the first place. The girl can act. Plenty of ability is required in light comic roles, so Jane's far from just window-dressing, despite the Italian penchant for stylistic excess.The production itself is lavish, exploring 60s Cinema's desire to demonstrate artistic originality. By today's standards, the special effects seem quaint, but I personally adored the non-CGI inventiveness of the wacky machines and unlikely objects Barbarella finds herself examining and using throughout 98 minutes of fun-packed enchantment.Box office takings suggest Barbarella was a commercial flop, but this hardly matters. With the right director and production team, such a wonderful film could be remade as a masterpiece of futuristic splendor. I'm sure modern audiences would agree... (But all film companies beware, you'll need an actress of Jane Fonda's quality to fill Barbarella's boots).Fabulous costumes, quirky settings and thought-inducing ideas are other features of this retro-delight. The rich contrast between Barbarella herself (as nice-girl-nextdoor) and The Great Tyrant played by equally stunning Anita Pallenberg (as a kind of leatherclad rock queen) make for unforgettable viewing.Oh, and remember guys Angels have no memory. "},{"Title":"Eurotrash","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is probably the most baffling and frustrating movie I have ever seen.It has all the elements to be a camp classic. The production design is bizarre and original. Terry Southern's screenplay is often witty. Jane Fonda and Anita Pallenberg are wonderful. I ought to love it. Instead, I find it almost intolerable.From the opening credits, which go on too long, and the first bars of that execrable music, you sense something is seriously amiss with this movie. The camera seems to be in the wrong place all the time and the wrong shots are held too long. It often seems as if that they simply shot footage with no idea how it was going to fit together. You suspect that weeks may have passed between shots so that nobody could remember what had come before or what would come after. Faced with this hopeless material, the editor was in despair and just gave up, so nothing cuts together properly. At best, the picture looks like the roughest of rough cuts. At worst, the editing seems to be almost completely random.As a result, there is no pace or rhythm, either in individual scenes, or in the movie as a whole. People wander about from scene to scene with no purpose or point. Soon, all the energy drains out of the picture and you find yourself stranded in a weird limbo in which nothing seems to be happening, even when it is, nothing connects with anything else and time stretches out endlessly before you. At times the boredom is so intense it makes your teeth ache.I have seen and commented on some of the most incompetent movies ever made (Fire Maidens, The Flying Saucer, Mesa of Lost Women) but this movie seems to be inept in ways that transcend even those notorious turkeys. Although Roger Vadim had made at least a dozen pictures before this one, it feels like it was assembled by people that had never even seen a movie before, let alone made one. Of one thing I am sure - it could never have been made in America. It is purest Eurotrash.I have finally posted my response to this unaccountable movie, but I know I will be coming back again and again to edit it, because I realise I haven't even come close to identifying what makes it such a uniquely stultifying experience. "},{"Title":"Just What Were They On?","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Just what were they on? Barbarella is one of those sixties films (the Beatles vehicle Help! is another) which, although it makes no explicit references to the decade's drug culture, nevertheless leaves the indelible impression that the director, the scriptwriter, the set designer, the costume designer, the cameramen and most of the cast were under the influence of mind-expanding drugs throughout the entire shooting period.I first saw the film at university in the early eighties when a student film society organised a screening. Interest in it at that time may have been aroused by the release in 1980 of Flash Gordon, another ultra-camp science fiction film which was undoubtedly influenced by it, and by the fact that one of the leading British pop groups of the era had called themselves Duran Duran in homage to their origins in a now-defunct Birmingham nightclub called Barbarella's.The film is based on a French series of comic books, which I must admit I have never read. (Unlike, say, the Asterix or Tintin series, the Barbarella comics have never had much of a following in Britain). The action takes place in the 40th century. Barbarella, a beautiful young female astronaut, is ordered by the President of Earth to travel to the planet Tau Ceti to find a scientist named Durand Durand, from whom the band took their misspelled name. Durand is the inventor of a weapon known as the Positronic Ray, which the President fears may fall into the wrong hands.The rest of the film is taken up with Barbarella's increasingly bizarre adventures on Tau Ceti. She goes ice-skiing across the planet's frozen surface, pulled along by an octopus-like creature, is menaced by flesh-eating dolls with razor-sharp teeth, seduces a blind angel (or ornithanthrope), meets the predatory lesbian Queen of a decadent city and survives an attempted execution by means of an orgasmatron, a machine designed to kill by an excess of sexual pleasure. (Barbarella's capacity for sexual pleasure is so great that she blows its circuits). We are not, of course, meant to take any of this seriously; the whole thing is intended as a sort of tongue-in-cheek exercise in high camp surrealism, Salvador Dali meets Edna Everage. The surreal nature of the film is emphasised by the use of psychedelic lighting effects. (The opening song even includes the rhyme Barbarella Psychedella).Barbarella is played by Jane Fonda, who at the time was married to the director Roger Vadim, clearly a man with the knack of attracting beautiful women. (He had previously been married to Brigitte Bardot and had been the lover of Catherine Deneuve). I wonder if, when Fonda was taking her wedding vows, she realised that Vadim's interpretation of for better or for worse included casting his wife in eccentric films like this one. Her devotion to her wifely duties seems to have been at the expense of her career; she later revealed that her commitment to Barbarella meant having to turn down the leading roles in two more serious films, Bonnie and Clyde and Rosemary's Baby. Moreover, many of the heroine's adventures seem to have been designed with the express purpose of showing off Fonda's figure in a series of provocative outfits, leaving her with a lasting sex kitten image. This was something she was never comfortable with, especially when she was trying to reinvent herself as a feminist and left-wing activist a few years later.This is far from being Fonda's best film, yet she is about the only cast member who emerges with any credit from it, playing the heroine as a sort of wide-eyed innocent abroad. John Phillip Law, who plays the ornithanthrope Pygar, is so wooden that I wondered if he was under instructions to play his role with a deliberately deadpan lack of emotion. David Hemmings as the resistance leader Dildano shows us just why his career never really took off in the way it was expected to after his early breakthrough in Blowup. (Hemmings's costume, looking like a pair of leather Y-fronts, is just as bizarre as anything worn by Fonda). Marcel Marceau shows that his talents as a mime did not extend to acting in spoken roles. Anita Pallenberg, better known for her relationships with several members of the Rolling Stones, was cast as the wicked Queen, but Vadim did not trust her to speak her own lines; the Queen speaks with the unmistakable contralto tones of Joan Greenwood.Barbarella was a failure on its release, both at the box office and with the critics, yet despite the dodgy acting and the nonsensical plot it has since 1968 acquired the status of a cult movie. (Even back in my student days it was regarded as sort of historic artifact). Cults, whether religious or cinematic, can be baffling to everyone except ardent devotees, yet I must confess that I have a soft spot for this surreal relic of the hippie era. It is an ideal film to watch when returning from the pub late at night. Particularly if one is drunk. 6/10 "},{"Title":"How Can I Reward You?","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In a distant future, there is no more war or weapons on Earth, just love. The astronavigator Barbarella (Jane Fonda) is assigned by the President of Earth (Claude Dauphin) to seek out the scientist Durand- Durand (Milo O'Shea), who has invented the powerful weapon Positronic Ray, and vanished in the Tau Ceti area. Barbarella crashes in an icy planet and is saved by the catchman Mark Hand (Ugo Tognazzi) from an attack of dangerous dolls with razor teeth. Barbarella rewards him with sex and Mark tells that Durand-Durand should be in the city of Sogo. Now Barbarella begins a dangerous journey to save Earth from the dangerous Durand-Durand.Barbarella is an erotic trash that is cult for people of my generation. Roger Vadim seems to be possessed by Ed Wood in this silly but funny movie, with Jane Fonda in the top of her beauty. Barbarella asking how she can reward those that help her is hilarious. The band Duran Duran was inspired by the villain Durand-Durand to give the name of the group. The last time I had seen Barbarella was on 01 May 2002 and today I have had lots of fun watching this movie again with my daughter. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Barbarella "},{"Title":"Campy, psychedelic SciFi treat.","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When she was still young and gorgeous, Jane Fonda got the starring role in Barbarella. Barbarella is the main character in this film, who's on a space mission to locate Durand-Durand, a villain who's trying to take over the world. Barbarella wears outrageously sexy outfits, travels in a wildly decorated spaceship, and meets many strange creatures along the way, that she has to do battle with. Barbarella's sex appeal is off-the-charts, and this film is oozing with a piping-hot erotic ambiance. Interestingly though, Barbarella has sex with other characters, in a most futuristic way. She takes a pill to 'tune-in' to her partner's psyche. And no bodily contact takes place during this sort of 'sex', except hand-clasping. Apparently, orgasm is achieved when the sex partners complete an ecstatic fusion, of their minds and souls. However, Barbarella does enjoy a sexual tryst via the 'old-fashioned way', with a man she meets during her travels.Jane Fonda was brilliantly cast as the heroic, buxom Barbarella. Her on-screen charisma, is vibrant and compelling. Milo O'Shea as the evil Durand-Durand, does a decent job in his role. So does John Phillip Law, as the pure and gentle angel, Pygar. His perfect body and square-jawed, handsome face, made him a devilishly attractive 'angel'. Anita Pallenberg played the Great Tyrant, with femme fatale relish. The lesbian sexual undertones between her and Barbarella, were absolutely sizzling.One of the best things about this movie, is the incredible special effects and gadgetry. Long before the flashy Star Wars series premiered, Barbarella contained some amazingly creative costumes, decorations, and scenery in general. The overall tone of this film, was deeply influenced by the uninhibited adventurous spirit, of the late 60s. Especially with regards to its bold, exciting sexual themes. For those who are Jane Fonda fans, and/or are devotees of 60s SciFi films, Barbarella is a fun-filled, juicy slice of 60s camp psychedelia. "},{"Title":"Classic erotic adventure is now dated and silly","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella was famous (or rather infamous) when it came out because Jane Fonda was naked, her husband directed the movie and it was therefore quite controversial. Now it's come out that she/her book/tabloid magazines claim Roger Vadim used to make her have threesomes with other women. Somehow, it seems appropriate given the nature of this movie.It's intended to be an erotic adventure and the opening credits depict Fonda cruising around floating through her space craft absolutely naked.That's really all the movie is. Fonda running around (or floating around) wearing little, if anything at all.If that's your sort of thing, you'll probably dig this. Otherwise, stay far, far away.2.5/5 "},{"Title":"Campy fun, but a bit tiresome by the end.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Based on the classic comic by Jean-Claude Forest, Barbarella is a benchmark of camp 60's weirdness.  It captures the flavor of the strip, which had a certain tongue-in-cheek sensibility.  It is probably the best of Dino De Laurentiis' comic adaptations.Jane Fonda is at her sexiest, and then-hubby Roger Vadim likes to show her assets off. Those who have only seen Serious Jane, Aerobics Jane, Mrs. Turner Jane, or Hanoi Jane, are really missing out.  Fonda had quite a talent for comedy.  The rest of the cast vary in quality.  John Philip Law is wooden as ever, but David Hemmings is great as the revolutionary Dildano.For those raised in the post-Star Wars special effects world, you'll probably cringe at the effects, but they are passable, given the era, and it adds to the campy charm.Dino De Laurentiis has been both a blessing and a curse to comics.  He has produced several films based on European and American comics; unfortunately, most of them are pretty bad.  Diabolik and Flash Gordon do nothing but injustice to their source material.  Conan was good, but Red Sonja definitely wasn't.  In fact European comics have fared rather poorly.  Aside from the aforementioned Diabolik, Modesty Blaise ruined what was a great action/adventure/spy strip and turned it into a campy mess.  Barbarella, on the other hand, holds up, since it was never really a serious strip.Yes, this is the film that would inspire the future Duran Duran and entice Drew Barrymore to pursue a remake.  And yes kiddies, Jane is nekkid in this one, so get that pause button ready.  I mean come one, who actually watches this for the acting? "},{"Title":"Interstellar Adventure Beyond Belief!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I LOVE this movie!  It's obviously not meant to be taken seriously and is a delicious, camp psychadelic space adventure that perfectly encapsulates all the things that make the 1960s look so fun. It's about FUN people and this movie has loads to throw around. Barbarella (Jane Fonda) is sent on a mission through space to find a missing scientist.  On the way she has many amazing adventures and tittilating encounters.  My favourite bits include 1. Barbarella and blind angel Pygar (John Philip Law who funnily enough doesn't have any wings in the re-release poster) flying toward the dark city and having to shoot down the Black Guard forces of the Queen (the guards are very sinister and are composed entirely of leather armour). 2. The creepy children and their eerie and deadly killer dolls which bite chunks out of our heroine with their metal jaws. 3. Anita Pallenberg (with the voice of Fenella Fielding) as the wicked Queen. 4. The orgasm machine which crazed scientist Duran Duran uses to torture Barbarella (except she's starts to enjoy it)Great cameos for Ugo Tognazzi as Mark Hand and David Hemmings (Blow Up, Eye Of The Devil) as the resistance leader Dildano.  Lots of colourful characters and set pieces.  Lots of great ideas (those poor earth suckers whose idea of sex is to take a pill, ha ha). Never a dull moment in a psychadelic space adventure for lovers of the offbeat and bizarre.  This is what cult movies are all about.  Of course alcohol or drugs can be ideal companions to the movie but if you're a cult movie fan you'll enjoy it just as well without them. "}{"Title":"Classic '60s sci-fi","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The film shows the campy freedom '60s had and how open minded people were in their views of the world. Harry Dent Jr. mentioned that radical and conservative generation alternates every 20 years. In contrast to the radical era of '60s and the '70s, its sad to see how predictable, conservative, and cagey the society has become. Barbarella is important culturally in that it's a testament that a society was open minded enough to allow cultural view to be expressed in a cinema to this degree, and it's done in an intellectual ( but not taking things too seriously ) and lavish style that supposedly more modern society of today hasn't been able to recapture. In terms of open mindedness probably the year 1968 when this picture was produced was the pinnacle of our civilization, and our minds have been moving towards structure and pragmatism since then. In that sense, this movie is worth a look by everyone. However you may form opinions about it, it's guaranteed to be a mind expanding experience. I'm with the opinion that they should have made part 2 and maybe part 3 in succession. The saga or trilogy would have made this an even more important landmark of the '60s culture. Costume designs are first class too. They are beautiful, and elegant. Jane Fonda is captured at the height of her beauty in this film by her then husband and director Roger Vadim. "},{"Title":"Meet Jane Fonda Space-Kitten","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When space-kitten, Barbarella (our astronaut-heroine of the 41st century) lands on the planet Lythion and earnestly sets out to track down the diabolically evil villain, Durand Durand, in the city of Sogo (where a new sin is invented every hour) here's what our beautiful space-angel encounters.....The Excessive Machine (a genuine sex organ on which an accomplished artist playing its keyboard can literally drive a victim to certain death by pleasure)....A lusting, lesbian queen, wearing an eye-patch, who, in her fantastic dream chamber, can will her most deliciously wicked fantasies to take form.Believe me, Barbarella is one wild, Sci-Fi, sex farce that seems to stand out (in all of its zany audacity) on its very own.One can't help but be tickled pink by the cheesiest special effects imaginable - As well as the various ways that were found to tear off what few clothes our heroine, Barbarella, already had on. "},{"Title":"Colorful Sci-Fi with psychedelic photography , bemusing situations and fun scenes","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Comic Strip brought appropriately to life . Tremendous fun, amusing scenes , psychedelic frames and many other things . In the far future, the year is 40,000. The protagonist is a highly sexual woman named Barbarella (Jane Fonda , Sophia Loren turned down the title role) is tasked with finding and stopping the evil Durand-Durand (character famously inspired the band name of 1980s pop stars Duran Duran), a missing scientist (Milo O'Shea). Along the quite sexy way she encounters various unusual people . As Barbarella (whose costume was inspired by designer Paco Rabanne) travels to the evil city called SoGo, it is a reference to Biblical cities Sodom and Gomorrah. On her dangerous trip she teams with blind angel Pygar (John Philip Law), and fights the Great Tyrant (Anita Pallenberg) along with numerous sexual torture devices , but she has to save the world .Naif Sci-Fi plenty of colors , thrills , brilliant cinematography by Claude Renoir and fantastic images ; surprisingly, for such a diverse melange, it actually works. Knowingly Camp version of comic-book sci-Fi classic written by Jean Claude Forest . In the original comic, Barbarella was not a secret agent but an outlaw, and the movie omits some of the adventures she had on Lythion, including an encounter with an earlier villainess called the Gorgon, whose face changed into a duplicate of the face of anyone who looked at her. Unlike the other space movies of the time, this film emphasized sets and costumes rather than visual effects, and as a result its overall look dates less than many space operas of the late seventies/early eighties .Jane Fonda is simply unbelievable as gorgeous heroine , she plays a feisty Barbarella , a futuristic girl from Earth . The scenes during the opening credits where Barbarella seems to float around her spaceship were filmed by having Jane Fonda lie on a huge piece of plexiglas with a picture of the spaceship underneath her. It was then filmed from above, creating the illusion that she is in zero gravity. Performance-wise, everyone seems to be camping it up like an end-of-term pantomime, though Milo O'Shea somehow seems to give his villain a deliciously style . Barbarella was the first science fiction hero from the comics to be adapted into a feature film as opposed to a serial , Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers, her male predecessors, had only appeared in serials up to this point. A bit later on , there was realized by Mike Hodges ¨Flash Gordon¨ (1980) in similar aesthetic and a TV series titled ¨Buck Rogers¨ . Jolly and catching musical score , including commercial songs , by Charles Fox, who co-wrote the songs for this film, also wrote the theme song for another Sci/Fi flick of 1968, The Green Slime, and future Pink Floyd guitarist David Gilmour was one of the session musicians who performed the film's original score. The motion picture was originally directed by Roger Vadim who married Brigitte Bardot , in fact , the original author Jean-Claude Forest based the character of Barbarella on Brigitte Bardot - who ironically was director Roger Vadim's previous wife ; Vadim subsequently married Jane Fonda . However this film is listed among The 100 Most Amusingly Bad Movies Ever Made in Golden Raspberry Award . "},{"Title":"Deeply silly, surprisingly imaginative, sometimes gorgeous","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The plot isn't very important it's a farcical sci-fi odyssey full of deus ex machina in which a ditzy Jane Fonda saves the universe. The acting, plot, and dialog are all cheesy and superficial, but behind that is something legitimately engaging, worthy, even wondrous. Barabarella *is* creative and has an abundance of striking images that--by virtue of weirdness, ridiculousness, creepiness, or sexiness--will stick with you if you are paying attention.The effects are massively low budget by today's standards it's more like you're watching a stage play than a film. But this stage play has scenery, costumes, and props that are often really gorgeous and interesting. You'll see hedonists smoking essence of man in the City of Night, the priests and architecture of that city, bizarre and disconcerting carnivorous dolls, the Excessive Machine and its hall scattered with the remains of ladies, and the psychedelic Chamber of Dreams.The movie has plenty of interesting concepts too, for which the comic is largely to thank. They are cheesily executed but still thought- provoking. The future has replaced physical sex with some weird psychic act. The galaxy is so peaceful that the only way to combat a terrorist is to dust off weapons found in an old museum. And we see a switcheroo on heaven and hell where the evil are exalted in the beautiful city and the good are exiled to wander around a bleary labyrinth.All of these things are wondrous to see. You just need a coping mechanism to deal with the fact that the dialogue is ridiculous and the acting is often lame--even Marcel Marceau. I found that I could just suspend judgement and go along for the ride. Maybe you can, zen-like, just ignore the embarrassment of it of it all. It's worth it.Did I mention that it's cheesy as hell? But this film is also sexy, fun, creepy, strange, gorgeous, and intriguing. Best watched horny and intoxicated on something or the other. You'll have a blast. "},{"Title":"The girl on the late, late, late show.","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Once upon a time there were humans who made movies like Barbarella. It's hard to believe (now) that they ever existed. But they did. I was little then--but I remember them. It was a glorious time, the epoch of civilized art and film. These people were free, the shackles of the Hays Code having been removed, to express themselves any way they wished. And, boy, did they ever. Jane Fonda (Could you please hand me a garment?) stripping, flipping, writhing and somersaulting in weightlessness. She was liberated. Forget the thinnest of plots--there really isn't one to speak of here. That is, unless you count Jane's thirsty libido. In the end, the film is one long acid trip, fused with catchy, but silly, music and married to Daliesque images of light and shade. You must see the hungry dolls, my pretty...pretty Black Queen and the biting birds in the torture cage. It's all very strange. I swear.Jane Fonda (I bet) loves to watch this one late at night. Alone. A guilty pleasure? Perhaps. But just a hunch on my part. No longer constrained by the social concerns and politics of the sixties, she gazes at her past-self flickering away in the story's future, 40,000A.D., a woman of youth and beauty, and says simply  God, you WERE a looker once. Perhaps I'm wrong about this scenario. I hedge. But maybe not. Maybe I'm soaring through velvet space toward infinity, with my good friend, Pygar (John Phillip Law), for wing support. Barbarella, on the other wing, is a wonder...wonder woman. I'll bet Miss Fonda's last stitch of clothing on that thought. Double swear. "},{"Title":"Ming the Merciless meets Little Annie Fannie on acid","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Take a Flash Gordon serial (earlier, the later tried to imitate this film) and throw in a horny, sexy innocent dumb bell female flash gordon, with a pinch of a gorgeous blind angel side kick, with about a ton of psychedelic/l.s.d. inspired fantasy and you get almost the opposite of 2001, a space odyssey.  This movie was just as much a sixties masterpiece as the aforementioned film as it not only extrapolated science, but sociology as well.See this picture stoned and/or stinking drunk and it makes as much or even more sense than just about any other science fiction classic.Trivia  the rock band duran, duran got its name from the character in the comic strip. "},{"Title":"Sexy and colourful","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is worth watching for the great (and regularly changed) costumes. It's also nice to know where Duran Duran got their name from. The story is not memorable...but the sets and costumes are out of this world. Be prepared for a fairly slow film...and don't expect to get emotionally involved...or attached to the costumes...which are often conveniently torn by evildoers. And don't see the director's cut because it includes moments that shouldn't have been there in the first place. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed this film every second of it.","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" According to my summary... you obviously tought that I have watched it in a porn-like manner. No! Actually, this lovely baby is one cool film! Based up comic book from 1962 and it's really faithful to it, and I am glad because of it. The plot is concentrated on adventures of young sexy heroine Barbarella (Jane Fonda) and her mission to planet Lythion, in the city of Sogo to find a dangerous scientist. I think that Roger Vadim is using a classic luxury from the space opera for those grotesque and travesty like situations (for example... cannibal dolls! Cool!) There's constantly this erotic charge in Jane Fonda, which is half-naked or in sexy clothes through entire film. But sometimes there's just too much grotesque on expense of SF components. I think that Vadim did it on purpose and he gave us one rare SF comedy in 60s. But, the entire stuff is too silly. Like you are watching Rocky Horror Show. Fonda is a great actress, not just sexy, John Philip Law as Pygar, he was great! Anita Pallenberg (Great Tyrant), an exotic sexy rival to Fonda, Milo O'Shea and Marcel Marceau were also great and to mention David Hemmings. A highly recommended must see film. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Flake takes us to Galaxies of pleasure...  (and you thought those chocolate ads were sexy!)","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I suppose we have the French to thank for Bridgitte Bardot and kicking into high-gear the early summer of love where promiscuity was positively hip, baby! Drugs helped too, of course, but it was the chic laissez-faire attitude to personal intimacy that really marked out the flower-child era and led everybody to try and hop on board, capitalising with their own cultural touchstones. Barbarella - as a cross country adaptation - was a part of that, and approached in an appropriately spaced-out mindset it can still provide lots in the way of groovy fun.Fonda was born to play a sex kitten, with her soulful eyes and lithe body, and the costume department is allowed to have fun on this film because the joyfully absurd story manipulates her into a series of revealing outfits. Rest assured she isn't alone in the silly attire stakes; there's even an 'angel' on hand for us to giggle at. Logic isn't heavily relied upon either when developing the narrative, so there are also plenty of bizarre set-pieces tenuously linked to the megalomaniacal villain of the piece - including the now famous chair... (I don't wish to spoil it, but you'll know it if you see it).Barbarella was a lot more fun for me than something like the po-faced Logan's Run, anyway. It works because it doesn't ask you to take seriously what the setting then renders ludicrous. Everything is intentionally camp fun from the outset. Go with it - surrender yourself to bliss! "},{"Title":"A gleefully silly and sexy psychedelic 60's sci-fi camp delight","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the year 40,000 delectable hottie space nymph Barbarella (flawlessly embodied by the beautiful Jane Fonda at her most cheerful, yummy and desirable) goes to the planet of Lythion in search of missing renegade Earth scientist Duran Duran (a marvelously hammy Milo O'Shea) and his lethal ray gun. During her search Barbarella encounters rugged hirsute primitive Mark Hand (the charming Ugo Tognazzi), kindly blind angel Pygar (the excellent John Phillip Law of Danger Diabolik), vicious fanged killer dolls, daffy Professor Ping (an amusingly quirky Marcel Marceau), cute, but deadly little birds, the predatory lesbian Black Queen (a deliciously wicked Anita Pallenberg), and inept revolutionary leader Dildano (an extremely funny David Hemmings). Director Roger Vadim, working from a witty script co-written by Terry Southern, concocts a delightfully silly, lightweight and playful piece of total sci-fi kitsch, maintaining a bubbly, carefree and infectiously sprightly tone of complete frivolity throughout. Jane Fonda portrays Barbarella with a fresh, dewy, wide-eyed naiveté and sweet innocence which makes the character that much more sensuous, alluring and irresistible. Claude Renoir's lavish, vibrant, strikingly garish cinematography, the wonderfully catchy'n'fizzy soundtrack of groovy 60's rock tunes, Fonda's eye-popping opening credits anti-gravity striptease, the outlandishly colorful sets (Barbarella's spaceship has plush shagrug carpeting!), and a fantastic sequence with Barbarella shorting out Duran Duran's pleasure organ machine all add immensely to the blithely inane merriment. A real hoot. "}{"Title":"Barbarella","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella is a cult classic, no doubt. The movie is based on Jean-Claude Forest's comics, and if you're familiar with French comics you surely know that they are far more artistic than most of the American ones, full of fantasy and wonder and some pleasing bizarre uniqueness. Produced by Dino De Laurentiis - even just this name is enough to attract my attention, since he's behind quite many of my favourite movies - Flash Gordon, Army of Darkness, Conan The Barbarian, Conan The Destroyer, King Kong... Not to mention the gorgeous Jane Fonda. I just love her in Cat Ballou. And here in Barbarella - oh, she's a real goddess! The perfect combination of innocence and seductiveness! Even after all these years she's still damn hot! We also have aggressive, domineering and voluptuous Black Queen. And for ladies - here goes the blind, nearly naked angel ;) The whole movie itself is full of quite erotic moments. The astronaut suit striptease in the beginning - hell yeah! And Duran Duran's machine... The sets and models are not so impressive from today's point of view, but with a little imagination you can deal with that. And I even find a kind of nostalgic sci-fi beauty in them. There are also scenes with masterfully shot psychedelic pictures of moving colors and fantastic forms - it is worth watching the whole movie even just to see them. The story itself is a little bit naive, but that's a part of the charm of this film - nothing like the good old times. That's why Barbarella really is a Queen of the Galaxy! "},{"Title":"Not a book, this is a lava lamp","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who has enjoyed a Bollywood film or traditional Japanese theatre will know that realism isn't everything. Having a stylised approach can produce something that's very entertaining and (dare I say it) quite beautiful.Some people seem to laugh at this film and call it dire because the effects aren't realistic and the plot isn't coherent. Well, I just think you're missing the point by a long way. The thing that makes something like an Ed Wood movie very funny is that it takes itself so so seriously and tries so so hard while failing so so completely. Barbarella doesn't even try to be serious, and most of the actors (regardless of what Fonda herself might have been thinking) have their tongues planted firmly in their cheeks.The nearest modern equivalents to Barbarella are (strangely!) Peter Greenaway's imagery-based films like The Pillow Book and The Cook, The Thief... which also have very fake looking sets and effects, apparently huge plot holes and bouts of overacting, none of which matter because Greenaway isn't trying to make a straightforward dramatic narrative. Of course Barbarella isn't at all serious or as intellectual, but it does have the same visual quality. It's possible that Barbarella's director intended to make a proper film and failed, in which case the brilliance of the film rests on the designers who came up with such inspired visuals as Barbarella's fur-lined rocket, the computer that flips cards to talk, the mercury tinted spacehelmet (and the entire opening sequence), the mathmos sleeping chamber, the sail-sledge, the essence of man bubble, Duran Duran's pleasure-torture device, the death sentence of birds, the post-coital perm, the blind angel etc.Not everyone will like this film, because not everyone likes 1960s psychedelia, but if that period is your bag then this film is for you. Barbarella consists of an amazing series of images that achieve what they set out to do, and that's why this is a genuinely good film, and definitely not a so bad it's good affair. I'm shocked to hear people say the film is some kind of failed b-movie. The triumph of Barbarella is that every single frame is so pretty or interesting it could be sold as a picture in its own right, and that's why it's been so influential and watched over the years.This film may not be a good yarn, and it might not be a faithful adaptation of the original comic books (Drew Barrymore is apparently to star in a more accurate version), but as a piece of sixties style this is an excellent album of striking and original visuals.(Incidentally, as a tribute to Barbarella's 60s credentials, the company that invented the original lava lamp was so impressed by this film that it renamed itself Mathmos in honour of the glowing gunk which lies under the city.) "},{"Title":"so bad it's good....almost","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is so visually kitsch and camp that it should really have been made in the 70s, though it only missed out by a couple of years. The main rationale behind the film seems to be to get Jane Fonda to not wear very much (which may not be an ignoble ambition in itself, but will only carry the movie for the sad and desperate). Spoiler yes, you get to see her breasts. Otherwise, this is notable mainly because the mad scientist she's hunting, Duran Duran, gave the English 80s pop band (who are still going I believe) their name, and because famous mime Marcel Marceau is in it. Spoiler he speaks. I think it's aiming at comedy, but I can't believe the script is by the same guy who wrote the peerless Dr. Strangelove, because the humour simply falls flat most of the time. There's the odd scene or line that raises a grin, as when Fonda causes the machine which is supposed to kill her with pleasure to explode because she can take more than it can dish out, but mostly, this is only worth watching to see just how nonsensical it can get. "},{"Title":"Sex appeal and steel-teethed dolls","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I know Jane Fonda is not proud of this film. She has become too politically correct with time. And if you are politically correct, you won't like it either.The film is the epitome of the mid 60s, psychedelic, sex-and-rock-and-roll era. It manages to be comedic, sexy, offensive, and have sort of a plot, although it's mostly an excuse to show Fonda in scanty costumes.A film like this can go seriously wrong (like the 5-star Casino Royale, which David Niven SHOULD better have forgotten). However, this romp never takes itself as seriously as Fonda, when she was forced to do so as an icon of the women's and exercise movements. So if you can handle a lot of tongue-in-cheek and tongue in various other places, this movie is weird and amusing. Just like the 60s. Why go see fake rehash like Goldmember when you can see the real thing?Where else can you get ideas like an army of steel-teethed dolls that chew the clothes off your body? Or a pipe organ that plays on (yes, you see this one coming) the other kind of pipe-shaped organ? On an angel, no less. Just for this odd collection of ideas, even if held together only tenuously by a plot-like stream of consciousness, this film deserves a 7. So if you want to get a taste of what seemed mildly outrageous in the 60s, and ironically is more outrageous in our prim and politically correct times, grab a few beers and rent it. If you take yourself and 1968 films very seriously, better skip it and see 2001 again. Admittedly a much better film. "},{"Title":"child 's game","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" it was courageous, provocative, strange, fascinating, maybe. it remains provocative, fascinating. and amusing. a cocktail of rock, nudity, psychedelic art, Sci. Fi., eroticism in large slices and bizarre dialogs, chaotic scenes and fake links between the characters. one of lovely films about nothing. like a game of children. not complicated, out of rules, charming for possibilities, eccentricity, for the strange manner to translate reality in original forms.a parody, off course. but, more important, a delight. that status does it a legend despite the insignificant script. and new occasion for discover a Jane Fonda as a flame of a complicated revolution. a film who gives all to the viewer. as a child's game. "},{"Title":"Fonda is the Best Thing","Date":"6 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella (1968) ** (out of 4) Campy sci-fi based on the French comics has Jane Fonda playing the title role, a futuristic superhero who is asked by the President of Earth to travel to a distant planet and rescue a doctor. I can understand why this film has gained a cult following over the past few decades but to me this thing is still a pretty big mess and it's somewhat shocking watching the film to day and looking back and wondering what the original producers were thinking. I mean, if you look at the story of this thing, it's a complete mess and it's all over the place. I'm not exactly sure what they were trying to do in regards to the story but it's a complete misfire. Not for a single second do you care about Barbarella's adventure nor do you care about anything she's doing in the film. The reason the film remains entertaining is because it's simply so strange and surreal. Visually the film is quite impressive as a bunch of pulp. The set design and costumes are certainly memorable and the now laughable special effects have a mild charm to them. What really keeps the film moving is seeing someone like Fonda doing a role like this. She's very good in the role, there's no doubt about it, as she can handle the campy moments as well as deliver on the sexuality of the character. Her nude striptease that starts the film is certainly the highlight but they needed more of these throughout. John Phillip Law isn't all that good in the film but there's no question that his angel character is quite memorable. Director Roger Vadim doesn't bring enough life, energy or fire to any of the scenes to really make them work and that's certainly not good when you're dealing with a film like this one. BARBARELLA certainly deserves its label as a camp classic but it's just not entertaining enough to be fully rewarding. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Jane","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Sometimes I really don't know what to make of Barbarella. I can't truthfully decide if it's a delirious camp classic or a shambolic mess. Even after umpteen viewings I still can't decide.I guess the last line might be something of a give away. As why would I return to something more than twice if it doesn't possess something I find attractive? Well, on the face of it, it does possess Jane Fonda in her physical prime. And in some respects that might well be enough. And sometimes I think that's all it actually has got going for it, give or take David Hemmings funny comedy cameo.To describe Barbarella as a trash classic would be neither disrespectful nor untrue. Its aesthetics are all cheap and tacky, and it has no hidden depths whatsoever. It revels in its superficiality. The story is about an intergalactic government agent called Barbarella who is sent to a distant planet to locate a character called Durand-Durand who has gone AWOL with plans for a destructive super-weapon. She is helped along the way by a series of men whom she rewards with sex. She doesn't really do much other than get captured, rip her clothes, have sex and get captured again.Jane Fonda plays the central vixen and she is smoking hot. The opening strip-tease is probably what the film is most famous for and it probably is, in fairness, the best moment in the whole movie. Throughout the story Fonda's clothes get ripped and she has to constantly slip into new revealing outfits. I'm obviously not going to complain about any of this, the playful erotica is the film's chief strength. Fonda isn't a natural at comedy and she definitely can't play dumb, but she was one of the top screen beauties of the 60's and she shines in this film. David Hemmings is the other impressive actor; he shows great comic acting in his portrayal of a revolutionary leader. While John Philip Law is well suited to his role of Pygar the angel &#x96; he is without emotion or character, which is kind of similar to how he always acts to be perfectly honest.The soundtrack to the film ranges from great lounge grooves such as the title track, to other truly horrible stuff elsewhere. As I mentioned earlier, the sets are cheap and ridiculous, and the special effects are of the lava lamp variety but overall there is at least a consistency of feel that means that it all works within itself. After all, like all sci-fi, Barbarella is only a version of the time it was made. It's really a version of the late 60's with its psychedelic leanings. Because of this it'll never really ever grow old, instead it'll always be of it's time. Despite it's flaws, it's great fun. "},{"Title":"Space Girls on Film","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The known galaxy has been peaceful for centuries. The word 'weapon' is an archaic expression referring to a time long ago when we still practiced war and neurotic irresponsibility. But of course, the potential to have great power over others still corrupts, and a mad-genius/scientist named Duran Duran develops a killer-ray, a Positronic ray to be precise, capable of great destruction, upsetting the ebb & flow of tranquility which prevails among our stars. Who can save us before Duran Duran and his immoral patron, The Great Tyrant, enslave the entire galaxy?&#x85; Barbarella, that's who. And she'll do it with love, and only love.Barbarella is the 5-Star Astro-Navigatrix assigned to demoralize the evil-doers, and she's determined not to let anything stop her. She's a space-age hippie version of Emma Peel, though unlike Emma, Barbarella has difficulty not losing part of her outfit all the time&#x85; oh well, all the better for us. Along with her blind, and amazingly useless companion, the Angel Pygar, she'll fight off lumbering, leather robots, nasty monsters, sex-crazed perverts, lecherous lesbians, homicidal children, and even briefly join a bumbling insurgency, all to save us from becoming a violent society once again. Oh, Barbarella&#x85; how can we ever thank you enough? (But what part of herself will Barbarella use to save us when the darkest hour is nigh? Hmmmm&#x85; I'll let you find out.)Produced and released in 1968, the film Barbarella was first an incredibly successful '60s French comic-strip written by Jean-Claude Forest. Like the Barbarella character in the movie, the Barbarella of print is equal parts resourceful and naïve, sexy and unaware, determined and self-doubting, which all make for a wonderful character. And even though Jane Fonda was a replacement for Italian sex-kitten Virna Lisi, she obviously relishes this colorful part. She didn't want to make another film with her then husband, Roger Vadim, having already made two, but she stepped in and saved the day&#x85; thank you Jane! Over the previous eight years, Jane had done her handful of body-centric performances, and some serious work too, but she wanted to start excluding the sexy stuff and concentrate on serious roles only. Thankfully she squeezed out one more camptastic film before getting all political&#x85; (her next film after Barbarella was the brilliant, Depression-era downer They Shoot Horses, Don't They?, for which she was awarded her first Oscar nod.)Some say that nakedness was just Jane's natural state though. For there exists a fabulous urban legend that while attending then-ultra-conservative Vassar College, Jane refused to follow the ages-old tradition of having to wear white gloves and pearls in the tearoom on campus. When asked to leave for not doing so, she obliged, but returned a short time later wearing the gloves and pearls, but nothing else. This behavior was said to be the beginning of 25 years of pushing buttons and challenging authority. Even if the story is untrue, you have to admit, it's fierce; it also sounds like something Barbarella would do under the influence of the Matmos&#x85;Roger Vadim, the Hugh Hefner of cinema if there ever was one, is a much under-appreciated filmmaker. He had been married to or at least romantically linked to not only Jane, but also Brigitte Bardot, and Catherine Denevue. He'd been directing films since 1956, writing films since even before that, and kept making movies up until his death 5 years ago, although his best work is from 1956-72. He followed Barbarella with Pretty Maids All in a Row, an unfortunately forgotten film that you should see, that is if you want to see Rock Hudson be a serial killer mutilating young girls, and I bet you do.Terry Southern, despite writing the immortal films Dr.Strangelove, The Loved One, The Cincinnati Kid, and Easy Rider, may have written some of his wittiest dialogue in Barbarella; the discourse between Barbarella and the President alone is worth your price of admission, as is every word uttered by Anita Pallenberg.How can I forget Miss Pallenberg? For those of you who aren't aware, Anita Pallenberg was the dark, feminine energy behind the chaos that was Swinging London. A then-practicing witch, and supposedly not always from the North, Anita Pallenberg was the muse for some of the most powerful songs and films of the whole last half of the Sixties. She was the lover of Brian Jones, Keith Richards, and for a short spell, Mick Jagger; many Stones songs are about her. She co-wrote Performance with Donald Cammell, and inspired Kenneth Anger to create his opus, Lucifer Rising.So all these people came together and helped to make the film you're about to see. This film truly belongs to Jane Fonda though, as it was meant to I'm sure. I wish there were more films about beautiful, lusty, and brainy dames from outer-space, saving the world from destruction by evil forces. And doing it not with muscle, guns, yelling & screaming, or having to be a man in a man's world, but instead using love, and her insatiable capacity for truly orgasmic sex.Barbarella wants to teach you the way of the future. She wants you to drop your weapons, get naked, roll around on faux-fur, and learn to embrace your mane of disheveled hair. Barbarella thinks war is stupid, and that lucite is the only thing ever worth fighting for, that and maybe a pair of green thigh-highs. "},{"Title":"Good charming camp, Fonda is hotter then the sun!","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Not nearly is sleazy as i had hoped for (i think i may have seen the nice version)& it still delivered plenty of fun with its campy plot and imaginative set designs.The effects have aged bad. But everyone watches this for Jane Fonda anyway, and she is in almost every scene. I was somewhat surprised to see her not only live up to every expectation, but by far exciting them. Stunningly beautiful and incredible sexy,playing her character with amazing freshness, she left me reeling.Plus, sometimes its not only a funny mess, but a visually arresting mess, take the scenes in the bubble for example. Beautiful. Psychedelic. Entertaining pulp with high charm-factor.A bit comparable to Flash Gordon actually, they've got the same unpretentios and playfull vibe, although offcourse, they are children of completely diffren deceniums. "},{"Title":"40 millenia ahead of its time","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the most profound visions of the future ever conceived, second only to that of H.G.Wells. Of course, Wells's Time Machine travelled 800,000 years into the future, whereas Barbarella is a mere 40,000 ahead of us, and still has a long way to go. But the important message signalled by both of these brilliant anticipations is that the future is terminally tacky. Mankind doesn't evolve, it devolves and the people populating Sogo and its cosmic neighbourhood are steadily devolving into what will eventually be known as the Eloi. Only 760,000 years away from their ultimately meaningless destiny! Already, however, there is little point to their existence, which is lived out in an atmosphere of almost total virtuality. The purpose and reality of anything surrounding them have nearly been banished, except for the minimal threat presented by Durand Durand, who plans to rule the universe by destroying it with the positronic weapon he has invented. Well, that's a very logical and sensible plan, and someone has to stop him, though the reasons are obscure, if the beautiful and less beautiful creatures are to continue devolving. The heavy task is assigned to Barbarella, and her methods fit right into the world she inhabits. The mind is boggled by this stunning masterpiece of creative thought, and the lucidity of its exposition makes an indelible impression. Thought-provoking isn't the word. This movie definitely knocks clunky old Kubrick's boring and clumsy 2001 into the nth dimension. "}{"Title":"Weird","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know how to rate this movie to tell you the truth but I wanted to see this film because my friend wouldn't shut up about about how beautiful Jane Fonda was in this movie. I never cared much for Fonda and all of the more recent things I've seen her do which are having fitness videos and sitting at Braves games with Ted Turner, but WOW! She is truly drop dead gorgeous in this film. The opening scene is just a gift. The whole movie is cheesy and campy but that's what this movie is. Don't expect something that's Oscar worthy. The movie was ahead of it's time in a way, and there are a lot of sexual jokes within this movie. It's just a different type movie and that's what I like about it. There's nothing quite like this. I don't care much about the other actors. Law is a stiff actor and no one else really catches my attention. For me this film is having Jane Fonda as eye candy and I loved it. She's gorgeous. The soundtrack is cheesy as well but it's OK. The only thing that is just totally left field about this movie is the doll scene. I just never thought I'd see something like that in this film and it gives me the creeps to remember that scene. I'm a horror fan myself and that scene is just as creepy as it gets. I liked it but I have to say it's one weird movie. "},{"Title":"Naughty Jane.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to worry when eight script writers are credited for this muddled and humorous story about the adventures of Barbarella - Queen of the Galaxy - out to save the universe from mass destruction. Jane Fonda hams it up as Barbarella but it's Vadim who blows it with his slack direction. I'm sure it was one big party during the making of this film. And I wish I was there. "},{"Title":"Jane's swan song to comedy","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"    Roger Vadim directed his then wife Jane Fonda in this dull cult dud about a sexy intergalactic space babe and her encounters with a various assortment of freaks -a hairy, Captain Nemo-like fur trader, a toned and always-freshly-oiled blind male angel, multicolored murderous children, a bisexual queen who sports a phallic-like horn on her head, etc.- while searching for the missing Duran Duran.  The film is pure sixties kitschy camp and designed for nothing more than to show off Fonda's beautiful figure by having her clothes ripped off in clumsily constructed set pieces. (It's based on the French comic book heroine of the same name and seems like a 60's La Blue Girl without the stomach churning sexual violence.) The saving grace and reason for satisfying one's curiosty about this film curio is Fonda she was stunningly beautiful and had strong comedic gifts that complemented her soon-to-be-discovered dramatic skills quite nicely.  She's definately a game gal here and goes all the way with it making Barbarella a sexy, funny, lively, and memorable film heroine.  (F.T.R. There's never been another female actor who's been able to make sex scenes look fun and enjoyable like Fonda does!)  The much talked about opening striptease set to a zippy pop ballad, a what-are-we-going-to-do-now? encounter with the fur trader, Barbarella's sexual meltdown of what appears to be a Batmobile knock-off, a sex scene with Blow Up's David Hemmings, and most of Fonda's vocal inflections are the only real highlights -not to mention signs of life- here.  See it in its full widescreen presentation to appreciate the silly sets and laughable special effects. "},{"Title":"Silly camp nonsense","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Hmmm. this movie is silliness incarnate. It's like some ridiculous episode of a cheap science-fiction series, camped up to the Nth degree. It's. an experience.Barabarella is a top agent from earth. She travels space in a stupidly designed space ship (which is covered in furs), making sure she doesn't ever wear too many clothes. She's given a mission - to rescue top scientist Duran Duran (yes the band got their name from this movie) - and stop him distributing a weapon (all of which are allowed). She lands on a planet in search of him and has weird adventure, meeting fantastical people and discovering pleasures of the flesh in a ultra-soft-15s-rated porn sense.How can you truly judge the merits of this movie? Acting? Hah! They're all camping it. Jane Fonda is the lead here, and she tries to look all innocent eyed about things, and making knowing remarks about how dumb her escapades are. Everyone else is dressed up alarmingly for the occasion, sneering and leering their lines all over the place. It's the fact that it's so done up that the acting, or lack of it, becomes somewhat irrelevant next to the sheer stupidity of the scenarios.Let's talk about the way the movie gels. It doesn't really. Barbarella runs around from bizarre encounter to bizarre encounter. The `science' had me in stitches (positive magnetic charge leading to evil? Heh). The events often make no sense (do not try to rationalise the movie). There's a great abundance of camp glamour however - look at all the plastic and strings and large, pointless, objects. Treat yourself to a psychedelic moment. Shake your head and grin at the `special effects'. My oh my, I presume there was a tongue firmly in the director's cheek as he made all this.It's hard to hate this movie. It's too ridiculous to loathe and it's got a kitsch fun thing going. It's nowhere near substantial enough to be labelled as a classic, or worthy of many viewings (unless drunk or on drugs). It is worth a laugh in the right frame of mind however for it's sheer irreverence when compared to the modern sci-fi flick. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Appreciate it for what it is","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's look first at what it is not1) It is not a science-fiction movie. It is a fantasy-comical-slightly naughty sex romp which happens to be set in space.2) It is not a special effects film, so why bother even commenting on that? In the late 60s, no one outside of Stanley Kubrick had the expertise or patience to do very good effects anyway.What it is, as others have mentioned, is a slice of its time. Psychedelic, free-love 60s, with plush, albeit cheap, looking sets, props, and dialogue. Its a B-movie, got it? And as such, its a pretty good one.Mainly, because it has Jane Fonda running around in near-naked conditions for most of the film.And, yes, that's the point. "},{"Title":"In Space, no one can hear you scream with pleasure...","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When you ask your mother why she named you or who she named you after - and she tells you she saw a film called Barbarella starring Jane Fonda not long before your birth, you obviously are curious.  Ms Fonda might not like the film any more, but all great actors even have some awful stuff in their closets.Aside from all that, it is a great space romp, totally indicative of its time - late 60's - peace and free love abounded, and special effects were in their infancy, especially on a Bollywood budget.  Who cares if you can fly a spaceship through the plot holes, and don't bother to assess the realities or physics or try to find any depth to the film.A true case of tune in and switch off for a good hour-half of plain old no brainer fun.  But don't watch it with the kiddies. Hop on the good foot and do the bad thing, and watch this with a loved one for inspiration. "},{"Title":"Silly, but unquestionably watchable","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who trashes this movie is taking, well probably everything to seriously. Disowned by it's star, featuring dialogue that would make George Lucas blush, and a series of increasingly silly special effects the film never the less floats along with a certain kistchy 60's charm, mostly fueled by bizarre set pieces, plot holes, and frequent costume changes. Good enough to make the U.K. Sci-fi channels top 10 sci-fi movies of all time (only just at no.10), it's more a film of memorable moments that anything else. "},{"Title":"A Psychedelic Future","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Science fiction is probably one of my least favorite genres,so perhaps thats why I actually liked this film.The psychedelic sets and the incredible shag carpeted spaceships turned me on more than any Star Wars set I've ever seen.This is camp,plain and simple.And of course,being this is Hollywood,there's a hidden agenda.According to the future,the one-world government is the greatest thing since sliced bread.No more wars.Peace on Earth.Frankly,I doubt it.Beam me up to that other planet where Ms. Fonda spends most of the movie,where everybody's still as decadent and psychedelic as they want to be.That's the ticket. "},{"Title":"nudie cum drag show masquerading as sci-fi","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  BARBARELLA must be the bane of Jane Fonda's existence, a blot on an otherwise strident, self-important career. Every actor should have such a skelton in their cinematic closet! Fonda comes the closest to being likable in this film, as the sexy space kitten commissioned to save the galaxy. It's hard to see how even the most casual viewer in 1967 could have taken this as a serious entry in the sci-fi genre; if this was real science fiction, so was NUDES ON THE MOON. Watching our heroine getting into various predicaments(and out of various parts of her already skimpy costumes)reminds one what a stunner Ms. Fonda was in her salad days. Another distraction is the campy sets and interiors--people in the year 40,000 hopefully will have progressed beyond shag-carpeted spacecraft and presidents who wear black feather boas. Was a team of drag queens conscripted to do set and costume design? Or maybe people in the future have embraced kitsch on an even greater level than we have now. At any rate, it's a fun film, with something for every persuasion. "},{"Title":"Psychedelic beauty abounds","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Barbarella is a bizarre, futuristic take on Alice in Wonderland full of beautiful people, beautiful images, and beautiful ideas. The plot is slim--Barbarella on a mission to find Duran Duran and encountering all sorts of weird and wild misadventures--but that's the idea. A dead-on spoof of all those rocket-jockey serials, it's SUPPOSED to be dumb, because so were they! It's not to be taken seriously, but it's played with a completely straight face--unlike the dopey, jokey comedies Hollywood cranks out today--that makes it all the funnier. Jane Fonda delivers all her lines with wide-eyed amazement, like a sexually liberated Judy Garland. Anita Pallenberg is impressive as the seductively sinister Great Tyrant (You're so good you made the Mathmos vomit!), and John Phillip Law is intentionally blank (to convey the otherworldly purity of the blind angel). With wild costumes and art direction, swirling lava-lamp projections, and catchy bubblegum pop tunes by the Glitterhouse. A pop-arty, sex-infused sensory banquet that should not be missed!Trivia Note how the Mathmos looks like the inside of a lava lamp. This is an inside joke, since Mathmos was the name of a lava-lamp company! "}{"Title":"Heavy Metal... 60's","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As I give Barbarella a first viewing, it reminds me of Heavy Metal mag; lots unique fantasy, pretty woman, and sex. The images from this movie look alot like the mag's cover art. Almost like that the story's purpose was to move Jane Fonda from one sexy costume to another.I found it enjoyable just for the unique realms of sets and designs that flavored this film. The cheese ball musical score with the lighthearted blaring trumpets added a few laughs as well as energy to the slower parts.Over all, it kept me amused through the entire film, and wishing that I had something to complement myself into the psychedelic mood of the movie. Very fun!  "},{"Title":"Easy science-fiction in a beatnik universe...","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  That's just what this movie is and luckily it just doesn't pretend to be anything else. Unfortunately it's gotten a little aged (not just the special effect, but also the `free love philosophy'). While viewing this movie one must keep in mind that it was created in 1968 and therefore has a lot of beatnik influences. The story is of course ridiculous and extremely over the top (take her spacecraft with luxurious carpet as an example). All of the characters have little psychological depth and are therefore so-called flat characters. For example Barbarella (Jane Fonda) is just a force of the good and never has any doubts about her mission. Her enemy Duran Duran(Milo O'Shea) is obviously completely evil with the usual intent to conquer the universe. In our time it does strike me as a little weird that Barbarella is from a part of the universe that doesn't know war and where weapons are relics that are kept in a museum. This is of course exactly the beatnik philosophy and this also explains why Barbarella sleeps with various men (including one with obviously fake chesthair, yeww!) during the movie. Conclusion The movie's setting, story and special effects have definitely gotten out of time, but this all set aside it is still a fun science-fiction movie.  "},{"Title":"Unseeable, yet somehow unmissable","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say this movie is bad, it has basically no plot, no continuity, no acting and most of all no directing. Once we have cleared this, I saw it about ten times! Which goes to say it has something. First, it has a sculptural Jane Fonda in a space bikini, a sight no man can withhold and ignore. Then, it has a terribly vieux look, which renders it just unmissable for anyone who loves a lavalamp to represent space. Yes, there is that, and much more. Tongue-in-cheek inuendos (she blew up the orgasmachine, a terrible torture apparel...), senseless scenes and young actors long since gone, this movie is an utter failing that must be seen and enjoyed. Talk about the magic of movies!  "},{"Title":"A flashy psychedelic romp through the galaxy...","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  For those of us growing up in a Sci-Fi culture, many can look back at Barbarella as a fun, wild psychedelic ride through the cosmos with that gorgeous flame-haired Barbarella at the helm!  This film is a cult classic, and one that remains on my favorites list.  It has impacted so many people (the famed rock group Duran Duran derived its name from this movie from one of the characters!), and many artistic styles of the particular era (late 60's early 70's) are evident in its production.  I rate it highly for fun factor, and if you haven't seen it, it is not to be missed - at least as an example of great fantasy for that time period.  The lack of today's modern special effects is more than compensated-for by a terrific storyline, well thought-out characters, and lush artwork and other artistic touches.  Barbarella is harder to find these days, especially on older videodisc formats (CED, LV), however, a resurgence in its popularity has caused a DVD pressing (remastered?).  Is it worth the purchase? Yes!  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Goofy and Sexy--the only time those words describe Jane Fonda","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  These days, if a woman makes a sexy sci-fi movie, her body looks like she spends every waking moment in the gym and she's always covered in misty sweat.Back in the sixties, when the Future Mrs. Turner made this movie, her beautiful body had not begun the workouts she's now so famous for. She was thin and curvy, but in a very clean, sweatless and soft sort of way.Keeping that in mind, when Duran Duran straps Jane Fonda to his sex machine (no, not that sex machine, I mean a real machine that's supposed to orgasm Fonda to death) and she begins to writhe around and make her pretty graphic animal sounds, she creates what is in my mind one of the sexiest scenes in all of film history.The movie is a great, creative, cheeseball, fashionfest of fun, and Fonda's transparent plastic spacesuits make it obvious why the whole galaxy wants to bed her. She is delightfully happy to oblige and we get to watch. Yowza. I wish she'd do a sequel. I bet she still looks good in plexiglass. "},{"Title":"So Bad it's Great!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Barbarella is the sort of movie that's unforgettable, if only for being so outrageous.  Forget any notion about common sense or rationality, it's time to dress in plastic, turn up the mood lights, and dance to pop rhythm in outer space.The movie knows it can't be taken seriously, and tries to inject humor on its own that falls flat, in addition to several slow spots.  But that's overcome by the sheer audacity of it all, with set design to cheap it looked like a five year old did it, and a young Jane Fonda as the queen of the galaxy.Don't bother trying to figure it out, just sit back and turn reto-sixties for a while.  This movie will probably always be a cult classic, and a bad memory for Jane Fonda.  (Well, Arnold Schwarzenneger did Hercules in New York.)  If nothing else, you get to find out where Duran Duran got their name from. "},{"Title":"Niche","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Very much a film of its age, this film is relentless, unmitigable shite from beginning to end, and yet it is a delight to watch.It will particularly appeal to anyone who thought the special effects in the original Flash Gordon TV series were over the top.The plot-holes are gargantuan, the continuity errors are abysmal, most of the story is absolute nonsense and yet this film is an absolute pleasure to watch. The fantastic excuses used to divest Jane Fonda of various pieces of her costume will have you choking into your popcorn.The seventies' view of a future of decadence is a breath of fresh air and the idea of absolute, insane evil is camped up to the max. You'll either love it, loathe it, or do both simultaneously. "},{"Title":"Campy, Trippy 60's Love-Cinema...or something","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I find it strange that the one thing people discuss on this site about Barbarella is its horrible special effects. Well, let's see...it was made in the 60's wasn't it?! Did you people really expect anything better than blue screen shots and fog machines? Honestly, there is so much more we could be talking about that makes this movie a hoot and a holler to watch. What about the room with about a thousand inflatable pillows that Barbarella has to walk through with a straight face? What about the Pleasure Organ, a device that any United States citizen would buy today if it were advertised on an early morning infomercial? Pygar is probably the character with the best line An angel doesn't make love, an angel is love. How hilarious is that? I also love the evil Queen lady who says pretty, pretty, pretty every few minutes and is always trying to jump poor Jane Fonda/Barbarella. This is one horny ruler! The Chamber of Dreams, the Mathmos monster, the sex scene that involves taking a pill and touching hands...the list never ends! Seriously, if you want a time capsule flick that will let you see how truly bizarre and freaky the 60's could get, WATCH BARBARELLA. Oh, and if none of the above stuff convinced you, how about the fact that this is rated PG!!! And with Jane Fonda stripping and getting it on with about every male character in the movie (and almost reluctantly with the evil Queen)! I love it! "},{"Title":"40,000 years are as a single day!","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When looking through the Jane Fonda's films in my collection I recently realized that I had a copy of Barbarella which, due to a period of illness, I had never viewed. Catching up at this late stage - long after the film has become a cult classic was quite intriguing. Barbarella is very unusual because it is a triple parody (of Jean-Claude Forest's 'adult' comic strip on which the story was based, early Sci-Fi films, and the soft core nudie films that were beginning to appear in 1968 when it was released - a time when even very simple parodies were seldom successful.) A French American production, it was a few years too early to achieve much success in North America where cinema audiences had still not got used to the idea of nudity re-emerging from its long period of post-1934 suppression. Barbarella was too unerotic for most critics to find fault with the nudity but instead many of them supported the protests of a few extreme feminists unwilling to accept a comic strip heroine who saves the world by exploiting her femininity. Its many very innovative features only achieved the recognition they deserved years after it was released when such parodies had become more familiar. Even today public taste for parody is very limited. The most closely comparable film to Barbarella is almost certainly Flesh Gordon released in 1974 and, despite many more recent attempts, it remains difficult to think of an effective parody of any of the modern hi-tech sci-fi space travel sagas - apart possibly from Lifeforce. Barbarella and Flesh Gordon still remain almost unique; the former is probably the preferred production but, because it parodied a straight film made from the original comic strip, the latter has the advantage that less of its humour will escape most audiences and it remains the choice of many film fans old enough to remember spending Saturday afternoons in the cinema watching Buster Crabbe portraying the ongoing adventures of Flash Gordon during the 1930's.It is reported that a French actress under contract to Hollywood was first asked to play the part of Barbarella, but rather than accept she tore up her contract and returned to Europe. It is not clear whether her concern was the indignities that were called for, or the possibility of becoming typecast in a series of parts which she did not feel would contribute to her long term career; but Roger Vadim who was to direct Barbarella had just married a young Jane Fonda and he encouraged her to accept the part instead. Barbarella opens with what became a quite famous sequence in which Jane Fonda takes off her space suit in a gravity free environment with other objects also floating around to help mask her resulting nudity. Throughout the remainder of the film Jane wore an incredible number of different and fairly sexy costumes. There must have been a whole caravan of space craft sent on this mission to accommodate her entire wardrobe but there was no further nudity on the NTSC tape version that I have - although perhaps PAL video tapes or DVD's for the European market include sequences not shown on my tape. Compared with these costumes, I felt most of the sets were extremely tacky. However my main concern with this film is the intended era of the mission - 40,000 years in the future. Neanderthal men of 40,000 years ago would have been completely unable to even fantasize about life today. We are equally incapable of visualising life so far into the future. To make it worse the rate of change is increasing exponentially. Just three hundred years ago roads as we know them, motor vehicles, aircraft, space travel, computers, electronic communication and modern health services would all have been inconceivable to even the most forward looking thinkers. If men still occupy this planet 40,000 years in the future we cannot even begin to imagine their appearance or capabilities. Yet the most dramatic development predicted by this 1968 film during this entire vast period is the replacement of old fashioned lovemaking by virtual sexual relationships. From many reports we are on the verge of achieving this already - after only one thousandth of these 40,000 years have passed. Throughout the film I was left too painfully aware that the quasi-modern costumes, grooming and behaviour which are depicted are simply laughable.Barbarella is a must see for any film fans with a particular interest in the Sci-fi genre, but only a minority of them will wish to have a copy in their own private collection. However it is a definite must have film for anyone interested in collecting films where Jane Fonda has played a major role, as it is the only one of this type in which she ever participated. Many would regard her as the most versatile actress that ever graced Hollywood, and by adding to the range of characterisations that Jane has shown she can undertake so masterfully, Barbarella remains an important part of her contribution to film making. It has been reported that she has expressed regret about ever having agreed to play this part. If true, I find this a little sad - after all her mastery of this part, has made an additional contribution, however trivial, to her reputation as a great actress "},{"Title":"So bad it had to be good.","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Sometimes Sci/Fi just has to be played as camp! Such is the case with Roger Vadim's Barbarella. It is so ludicrous that you can't help but laugh, and what makes it even more funny is that the actors try to take it all seriously, although I think without much success. Jane Fonda was roped into playing the lead by her then hubby Vadim, and she comes off as a clueless often naive, and consistently bewildered heroine of the story. John Phillip Law comes off best as the angel, Pygar. He does seem to be entirely dedicated to his character. Who knows about the rest of the cast, including a young David Hemmings that seems like he is just out of diapers. Forget great film making. Forget landmark science fiction cinema. This film, just skirting the edge of porn, is essentially meant to have fun. "}{"Title":"Jane Fonda's beauty is mesmerizing!","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I recently picked up this movie on DVD. I was born in the latter half of the sixties and don't know that much about Jane Fonda's career. I always thought she was a great dramatic actress and active on the political scene. So when I saw her on the front and back covers of Barbarella looking rather attractive, I was somewhat intrigued and curious.I have to say this film is rather strange and by today's standards the special effects seem rather funny, however it *is* interesting yet what kept me watching was Jane's exquisite beauty and the desire to see more of her. Sorry if that seems rather facile on my part. Hers is a very sophisticated and intelligent beauty. I think she looks absolutely gorgeous and her great presence carries the film and makes it far more than it would be without her.I was also surprised to see Marcel Marceau in the film. It was interesting to see him without his makeup and to hear him speak! Also, I had heard years ago that Duran Duran the rock group was named after a character in a film and at last I've found out which film and which character it was! Throughout the film I kept thinking that this was 1968 and the Beatles were popular and how wonderful that time must have been. If this film is anything to go by, they *were* a little strange in the late sixties -) Without wanting to sound like a male chauvinist pig I still get goosebumps at the sight of a really beautiful woman and in this film Jane Fonda really and truly is incredibly gorgeous, feminine, and intelligent and I for one am not worthy. "},{"Title":"Barbarella Psychedella!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Possibly one of the most original, goofy, wild movies ever to emanate from B-movie filmdom. From John Phillip Law's weird angel (An angel doesn't make love... an angel IS love) to Duran Duran (who inspired the 80's rock group) trying to play Barbarella on an electric sex organ to Jane Fonda's own wide-eyed innocent Barbarella. Have sex? But no one's done that for hundreds of centuries!)A must-see for late 60's shagadelicity. "},{"Title":"Still watchable unlike many of its contemporaries","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first thing to remember when viewing this film is that it is over 30 years old. Apart from some masterpieces like 2001, Planet of the Apes etc other 60s Scifi looks embarrassingly bad today. By not taking itself seriously it remains effective now as a spoof, and shows up a lot of terrible 80s films as well. The set design, acting, dialogue all are O.T.T. deliberately and should not be taken as indicating bad or cheap efforts! Jane Fonda is charming as the innocent, intrepid 'agent', David Hemmings is wonderfully funny as the bumbling but so-serious rebel 'leader'. Like the silent comedy classics of the 20s, this film will endure for decades to come, appreciated by audiences born long after it was made. And please, watch it on the BIG screen it was designed to be seen on.  "},{"Title":"Barbarella","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jane Fonda's transition from innocence to experience. Critics hated Barbarella. It is a must-see. It is a documentary of the anti-culture going its own way. It is Jane Fonda showing daddy and the Hollywood establishment that she is a big girl and will take pleasure where she finds it. As Queen of the Galaxy, she does just that. The guy playing Duran Duran is the same actor who plays Friar Lawrence in Romeo and Juliet. I saw Barbarella at a drive-in when it was out. I was drunk. I had to watch it again years later. It was directed by Roger Vadim. Vadim and Jane Fonda married and had a daughter. Vadim died from cancer in 2000. "},{"Title":"Your mission Barbarella find Durand-Durand.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jane Fonda stars in a title role of this famous cult sci-fi sex comedy as a space beauty in the variety of skimpy outfits. She looks great - all male (and female) creatures on a strange planet SoGo (Sodom and Gomorra?) drooled over her.Barbarella (1968) directed by then Fonda's husband, Roger Vadim may be the silliest, the cheesiest, the campiest movie ever made but it is certainly one of the most entertaining comedies I've seen and is Fun with the capital F. It is also very pretty &#150; pretty.So, what do we have here? In the year 40.000, Barbarella the Queen of the Galaxy is sent by the President of Earth in search of the disappeared scientist named Durand Durand (finally I learned how the band got its name.) While looking for him, her space ship crashes on the planet Sogo where she encounters Pygar the Blind Angel (yes the man with the wings), Professor Ping - kind scientist (the celebrated and the finest mime artist Marcel Marceau in the rare speaking role), Dildano (David Hemmings of Blowup) - the revolutionary who plots to overthrow the evil empire, Marcan - the barbarian who introduces Barbarella to an old fashioned love making (the advanced one is achieved by taking a pill and holding hands - welcome to the brave new world!) and The Great Tyrant - dangerous and very attractive ruler of Sogo (Anita Pallenberg, the object of Mick's, Brian's and Keith's desire and Mrs. Keith Richard at the time) who calls Barbarella pretty-pretty and invites her to come and play.Fonda is quite good as a naive Barbarella and sometimes there is such an ironic and intelligent smile on her face that it should not surprise you what a fine actress she would eventually become.My serious complain is that I had to watch a PG version but I guess I should be grateful for having watched it at all - thanks to my mom who saw the movie on AMC one day and asked my brother to tape it for me. "},{"Title":"Watch Jane Fonda get raped by a musical instrument!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The lovely Jane Fonda plays Barbarella in a big, campy adaptation of a French comic strip. Barbarella is a sexy and yet sexually naive and, in her own way, sexually inexperienced woman (possibly a 30 year old virgin) of the 41st century who is also an intergalactic spy. When a scientist named Duran Duran turns up missing and just happened to be working on a new weapon, Barbarella is sent to find him before he gets a war brewing a planet that's still living in a neurotic state of irresponsibility or whatever it is Barbarella says. Armed with a few hopelessly phony looking prop weapons and an unflatteringly scanty wardrobe, Barbarella goes out to find him and along the way, we see the 41st century version of safe sex (pills that simulate the act in your mind while you and your lover hold hands), Barbarella gets a taste of good old fashioned physical sex (first from a fur trapper, later from the blind angel played by John Philip Law) and enjoys it very much and is later raped by a giant organ thing that is supposed to kill her by subjecting her to a series of orgasms, but she enjoys it so much that she actually breaks the thing, to Duran Duran's horror.The film is never quite as funny as you want it to be, but Jane's a good sport about the whole thing and you do get to see her stripped of her clothing, and she had quite the 5'7 figure in her day. The rock band Duran Duran took its name from the Duran Duran character of this film.A gaudy, science fictional sex romp for the ages. Let's hope they don't remake it unless they've got a woman as pretty if not prettier than Jane was when she did this one. "},{"Title":"Very 60s","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see a brand new print of this on a wide screen in a revival theatre.  Well, it was colorful, Fonda was actually quite funny in the title role, and it's interesting to know this is where Duran Duran got its name from.  Also very interesting sets (to say the least).  However the film moves very slowly, it's not funny enough (there were a lot of dull stretches), the special effects were VERY 60s, and the music was bad enough to make you want to shoot the musicians.  Still, I'm not sorry I saw it.  Definitely an artifact of its time.  As another reviewer says on this db, see it on a big screen if possible.  No way will this work on video. "},{"Title":"My energy box is completely dead.","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Now that I've finally seen it I'm kind of embarrassed to admit it. This film along with One Million Years B.C with Raquel Welch were a couple of the more highly publicized films of the mid-Sixties, neither one relying on much of a story to showcase it's lead actress. Watching today, I now know what I missed by not dropping acid during my college years. For myself, the only redeeming factor in checking out this flick was in directing me to learn how the British new wave band Duran Duran came up with it's name. I looked it up so you can to. Otherwise, the picture is more or less an hour and a half of soft porn interrupted by not much else. I did get a kick out of the scene when Barbarella got overwhelmed by all those parakeets and finches, a subliminal way then husband and director Roger Vadim teased the male audience who might have wondered how she'd handle all those little peckers. "},{"Title":"It's trash I can see someone enjoying but it's not for me","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is going to be a simple review. The reason for it is that this movie aimed low, it was trying to be trash and it succeeded in maybe entertaining the kind of person who enjoys watching trash. The plot is that Barbarella is called for fan service... I mean an assignment by the President of Earth and current leader of the solar system that a scientist named Duran-Duran (That's how they pronounce it and yes that does make this movie hilarious whenever they say it) from creating a weapon, because in this future hippies and the counter-culture of the 60's is dominant across galaxies so she goes to a planet that doesn't have this and tries to find him. This movie is not for me, the entire movie is like a drug trip written on paper by someone who really hates war strung along by fan service of a 30 year old Jane Fonda. Oh and the fan service, if it's your thing to see women in extremely skimpy outfits of which she keeps changing them and doesn't put clothes on for 10 minutes, a character who for the first hour has sex every 20 minutes (including a WEIRD one where she joins hands with another person after taking pills until their hair flies everywhere... Did I mention this was like a drug trip?)... All this and more, if this is your thing then without judgement, you'll probably love this. The Visual effects are hokey but in all fairness I did like the creativity with some of the set design and this is probably the most 60's movie ever made, there is literally no other time period in which I can see this getting made. I know all I talked about is how drug-trippy this movie is and the fan service but, take that away - there isn't that much else to comment on. To sum up, this movie is trash - pure and simple. I didn't like it but I can see other people liking it so if trash is your thing then I'd recommend this. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not that bad either","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Not great, but not that bad either.Set sometime in the distant future, a young Earth woman, Barbarella (played by Jane Fonda), is sent on a mission to find and stop the evil Durand Durand, who has developed a weapon capable of destroying the world. In her quest to find him, she encounters some weird and wonderful people and creatures and has some interesting adventures...Has all the ingredients of a b-grade movie random, weird plot; haphazard direction; hammy acting. Yet somehow it is reasonably entertaining. The sheer energy and pace of the movie keep it from falling apart. Jane Fonda's looks and nonchalant-yet-effervescent performance help too.I imagine it worked even better when it was released. The movie was made at the height of psychedelia and it has the right ingredients to capture that zeitgeist bright-colour-filled, fantastical, trippy sets and plot and free love. I would think that being high would be useful when watching this movie..Probably its most enduring legacy is that it gave the English New Romantic-genre band Duran Duran its name. "}{"Title":"Cinematic purgatory","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Imagine Bring Your Son to Work Day in the Star Trek writer's room. While the adults are on lunch break after a fruitful morning of pounding out stories, their 14 year-old sons decide to make some changes. Poof Barbarella.Jane Fonda stars as the titular heroine, some sort of intergalactic ambassador for Earth. She's given a mission by the President of Earth--who insists getting dressed is wholly unnecessary--to collect a man by the name of Durand Durand--sounds familiar--who has built some sort of superweapon. The plot isn't important.The entire conception of the film seems to have been, how many strange, creative outfits can we get Jane Fonda to wear, and how many strange, creative ways can we get those outfits off? Her clothes are ripped to shreds by everything from metal-mouthed, porcelain dolls to an army of agitated parrots. I can get behind weirdness, and this film has plenty of it. In fact, it's a visual Chinese buffet--in that there's a little bit of everything and it's dirty. However, as goofy and bizarre as the film gets, it's insufferably lifeless--easily the most boring film ever made to include the line, De-crucify the angel or I'll melt your face!While not being the complete and total camp-fest I was hoping for, there's still a lot of smirk-inducing material. The interior of Barbarella's ship looks like the groovy inside of an inside-out buffalo. The climax to the film is, well, just that. And there's a blind angel who has the unique honor of delivering the most mundane last line in film history.Even some of the intentional humor works, including--but not limited to--such as the fact that Barbarella, whenever faced with an alien language, always tries her native English first, then--for some inexplicable reason--French. Barbarella isn't bad enough to be good or bad enough to be bad; it's trapped in the cinematic purgatory of is that the one with the thing? It does have one of the great opening credit sequences, I must say. "},{"Title":"B-Movie At It's Best","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Only in the 60's can a Soft-Core Porn movie could even get at 'PG' rating. In today's age this movie would have, at least, gotten an 'R' rating. This movie tried to be a movie of substance in it's day. In that way it does succeed very well. However, it follows a basic plot line of a very beautiful hero/heroine goes on a journey to save someone who they do not know. On her journey she meets many different type of aliens and people. A very well done B-Movie. Jane Fonda is very beautiful during the filming of this movie and is a perfect selection for the part, since it was released in 1968. I highly recommend this movie for those who want to see classic B-movie cinema. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda's only sci-fi flick, and a damn good one too!","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's kind of odd that despite being a lifelong cinephile, I've never got round to creating an account on here until now, nor have I talked in-depth about films I've truly enjoyed to the world at large (it was mostly in person to small groups of friends and/or family members). So what better place to start than a cult classic I've first heard of as a teenager but never saw until I became a twenty something...Barbarella!Based on the French comics by Jean-Claude Forest, Barbarella covers the many absurd adventures of an astronaut, many of which involve sex (sounds very French to me). Since it's syndication was short lived making a faithful film adaptation seemed easy, and the results are laughably bad, or should I say so-bad-its-good. Let's get into more detail about the flick itself...It's set sometime in the 41st century, and our eponymous heroine (Jane Fonda in the title role) is tasked with visiting the Tau Ceti's 16th planet to apprehend the scheming of Durand-Durand (the film's mad scientist, not my native Birmingham's new wave band!), who plans on levelling entire planets with his Positronic Ray. Once she's given some hilariously dated science-y technology (a Brain Wave Detector, making our iPhones laugh at it) and crash lands onto the 16th planet she's kidnapped by some feral children and left to perish by a mild annoyance, which in their case is slow-moving dolls who bite.Barbarella is then rescued by Mark Hand, a ranger/hairy tick who suggests sex. She explains that the people on Earth no longer have penetrative intercourse but instead consume exaltation transference pills and press their hands together to set off psychocardiograms in perfect harmony. After they choose good Ole' fashioned penetrative, Barbarella departs once Mark repairs the ship and burrows through the planet into a vast labyrinth outside SoGo, the City of Night.One pattern you'll quickly notice is that Barbarella gets captured a lot and requires other people to save her, a trope in fiction I cannot stand because it's not exactly a positive character trait. For instance when she's captured by the city's Black Guards, a blind angel named Pygar saves her; when she's captured by SoGo's residents, she's saved by a one-eyed wench; and when she's captured by Durand and caged to be pecked to death by canaries (either that was in the comic or director Roger Vadim REALLY liked The Birds), she's rescued by the subtly-named resistance leader, Dildano. You know you're a bad protagonist when even blind or partially-sighted people have to save you!In her last kidnapping and costume change, which Barbarella does a lot of (changing into a total of eight colourful costumes as if she's doing a Vogue shoot rather than a film), she's tortured in the Excessive Machine which backfires and locked away in the kaleidoscopic Chamber of Dreams. There she finds the one-eyed wench from earlier, named the Great Tyrant, Black Queen of SoGo. She then releases a silvery liquid essence named Mathmos, cleverly named after the company that manufactures lava lamps and even has some of it in the background, and it destroys all of SoGo; Barbarella, Tyrant and Pygar escape unharmed, though it's a bit of a downer ending for what's otherwise a campy, fun cult film.The other issue I had with it (the first one being the heroine existing purely as the damsel in distress), was the special effects which are really cheap and shoddy-looking. And it's not forgiven that this was released after 2001 A Space Odyssey and before Marooned, both of which have been praised for their realistic depictions of outer space and future technologies. Surprisingly though, Barbarella has the exact same budget as 2001, so I'm guessing that money went towards the elaborate sets and costumes!Everything about it was great; it had a lot of good actors in it like Anita Pallenberg, the former muse of Rolling Stone Keith Richards as the Great Tyrant; Irish character actor Milo O'Shea (who's done a lot of British TV and films) as Durand-Durand; mime artist Marcel Marceau as his first talking role Professor Ping; and cult actors David Hemmings and John Phillip Law as Dildano and Pygar respectively. The feel of the film was psychedelic at best, and even has a pop soundtrack! Oh yeah because when I think of science fiction, my first thought is always soul band the 5th Dimension! Oh and a couple of interesting tidbits...the password Dildano uses for his headquarters is a real-life village in Wales called Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch; and SoGo is abbreviated for the Biblical cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Whoever said films aren't educational?At first it went largely ignored but after a 1977 re-release it achieved the status of cult film, and a sequel and remake were both considered. The former never fell through, and the latter in my opinion would be impossible since it's purely a film of it's time...the Swinging Sixties. If you think about it, it was already remade; Flash Gordon! Seriously think...both are based on comics adapted by Dino De Laurentiis, both have a blonde good-looking hero, both travel to planets ruled by flamboyantly-dressed tyrants, both have a colourful yet schlocky look to them and the only thing that stops their quests is a black-clad antihero with questionable behaviour. They're the same film!Overall I'm glad I got to see it, and strongly recommend it to anyone looking for a great time riffing films together. "},{"Title":"A film that tries too hard to be a cult classic, and fails spectacularly","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'm usually a fan of dated, camp science fiction movies but only when the camp is unintentional and not put on. Unfortunately with BARBARELLA, loads of effort has gone into making the film a camp comedy, one of those films you just know that the producers hope will be termed a cult classic, and there's nothing I hate worse than a film which tries to be funny like that. This is the reason that BARBARELLA leaves me cold; it's a slow-paced, dated and extremely silly affair from beginning to end, more of a 60's fashion show than a real movie.I had been looking forward to watching this film for a while (Italian science fiction has always been an entertaining genre for me) but sadly the end result is a highly disappointing outing in '60s kitsch with little or no redeeming values for a modern audience. The best thing about the film are the imaginative and colourful sets, but these are countered by some appallingly dated special effects (the back projection in particular is awful) and a music score that really grates on the nerves with one or two dreadful songs.The plot is pushed so far into the background that it becomes non-existent, the film instead concentrating on the weird and wonderful characters that Barbarella (herself included) encounters on her journey. Most of the adventures are of the sexual variety, with Barbarella herself a highly sexual space creature - already in the opening credits we see her stripping naked from her spacesuit and then losing most of her clothes as the film gradually progresses along.Jane Fonda is plain annoying as Barbarella, although I'm positive that her style of acting was just what the doctor ordered, and her attempts at being sexy just do not work. Elsewhere, Euro-stalwart John Philip Law embarrasses himself as a blind angel - yes you heard me right. Meanwhile, we have French actors overacting, Milo O'Shea striving for the award for worst overacting as the baddie, and David Hemmings wasted as he stands around on the sidelines looking handsome. I had expected a lot more from director Roger Vadim than this silly, arty-farty look-at-me sci-fi comedy provides, and although I'm sure the film has an audience who enjoy this sort of thing, I know that I never can. "},{"Title":"One Simply Cannot Not See Barbarella","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One simply cannot comment on any of the following phenomena until they have first screened this tissue soft, searing fever dream of a romping film Hollywood science fiction, Roger Vadim, Marcel Marceau, the American reply to Brigitte Bardot, Return of the Jedi, George Lucas, the Austin Powers franchise, the Rolling Stones, or any ranking of all-time female American actors on a scale of hotness. Speaking of hotness, you cannot look away from Jane Fonda as she plays the lead role of Barbarella. I'm sorry to discuss the looks of Ms. Fonda, a two-time Oscar-winner and a Hollywood icon, in such cro- magnon terms. But look for yourself; one simply cannot look away from her in this role. Sexual magnetism of the highest strength. Separation is not possible. And because Ms. Fonda is such a powerful actor, her ability to gamely deliver the lines written for a 41st century space adventure protagonist whilst flying a starship lined in shag carpet, and sleeping on Reynolds Wrap beds, and being dragged by a stingray unicorn- powered sled, and facing off with the haute and hot likes of Anita Pallenberg, all while being exquisitely costumed in high late 1960's go-go inspired fashions, results in a display of all out megawatt starpower that would incinerate Darth Vader before he could even get his lightsaber up. I won't share details of the film's plot. The movie is crazy, silly, and cajoling, in the best possible way. Once you see it, you can't imagine the history of the American film industry without its 98 minutes of run time, you won't wan't to live in a parallel reality where the film never existed. And look, I'm not alone in understanding the fact that Barbarella was the first blistering postmodern commentary on the pop-influenced excesses of American gender roles and sexuality. Duran Duran named themselves after one of this film's characters. All manner of directors stole ideas from this film, wholesale. Barbarella is a minor pop cultural miracle. Think of it as an art film, and one that both stands up over time and remains more interesting than anything Matthew Barney has ever made. See Jane conquer all. Notes1. Not for watching with those under the age of 18. There is creative nudity.2. This film would be fairly easy to remake or update/reimagine. The producers just have to go all out, betting the house on the most extruded sets, costumes, and soundtracks that contemporary aesthetics will hold together. What about Sofia Vergara or Reese Witherspoon as Barbarella? "},{"Title":"One of the most peculiar scifi movies I've seen","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What do you get when you mix 60s bubble gum scifi with high budget soft porn? One of the weirdest science fiction movies I've ever had the pleasure of sitting through. Barbarella defies words. It starts out with full five minutes of Jane Fonda simply slithering out of her spacesuit as the opening credits roll. And it just goes from there as she lands on planet Lythion, in search of the evil Duran Duran.It's cute, it's sexy, it's definitely intriguing. It's also insane, awkward, full of cheesy special effects and purrrrfect dialogue. And no, that last point cannot be expressed any other way. In a word, it's a chore to sit through, but in a good way. It's constantly surprising, constantly changing gears and it definitely won't bore you.Yet I cannot in good conscience call it a good movie, because frankly it's just too random. And not in the good way that a Monty Python movie is random, for example, but in the sense that the film makers simply threw everything and their grandmothers at the screen to see what would stick. Sure, it's based on a comic, which might explain some of the weirder additions, but it's still too much.Barbarella is definitely worth a watch for all fans of science fiction. It's one of milestones of the genre, Jane Fonda looks amazing with or without clothes and it's definitely entertaining. Just don't expect to see anything resembling a cohesive narrative. "},{"Title":"Not a cheesy movie; it makes fun of cheesy movies","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" BARBARELLA is very campy satire which focuses mainly on making fun of the way fantasy sex (as well as science fiction, often) was (and often still is) depicted in the movies. BARBARELLA is not at all a cheesy movie; rather, its mission is to make fun of cheesy movies, and does so extremely well. Everybody connected with it was very good at their craft and looked like they knew exactly what they were trying to do and then did it extremely well. Once you realize that, you see why is has become a cult classic. The cult are the viewers who get the joke; unfortunately, and if the movie has any real weakness, it is that it seems to be too easy for all that to go over a lot of people's heads. (In fact, the first time or two I saw this movie it went over mine, but it turned out for once that the third time was a charm in every sense of the word.) While I have seen some reviews that try to explain in various ways why it is more popular today than it was when it was first released, it may simply be that in a world of Saturday Night Live, South Park, and the Family Guy (to hit but the pinnacle of the iceberg), current audiences are likely more attuned to edgy satire than any other audiences in film history.Having said that, Jane Fonda is brilliant in this movie. She totally gets it that her character is basically designed as an ideal fantasy girl for male audience members, and she plays it to the hilt with her then-characteristic naive innocence. The result is that at the same time this movie is basically one big continuous joke from the opening credits to the words The End, she is every bit as sexy as if they had been playing it straight. In this regard, there is a tendency to hyperbole with the descriptions of this many reviewers typically offer; in actual fact, her on-camera nudity is confined to just a couple of sequences toward the beginning, and the sex scenes are so highly euphemised pictorially to where they would likely not even be considered sex scenes by younger and less truly mature audience members. Her sex appeal derives more from her consummate skill in ACTING sexy (including acting with body language -- no pun intended -- in terms of her posing, as well as appropriate costuming) as from any amount of bare skin left showing. Moreover, the rest of departments rose equally to the occasion. The writing was pretty top notch both in dialog as well as overall story; the music was was likewise a campy parody of music in the 60s's you might find in real cheesy movies; and the sets and costumes were all kind of elegant versions of low-budget obvious sound-stage-set efforts. Watching BARBARELLA really makes you realize just how cleverly original people in the movie business can be.I would rate this movie at 7.5 stars on the IMDb system if they would allow fractional stars. I definitely recommend it to anybody with a good sense of humor who has seen sex portrayed in the movies of the period, or even since. "},{"Title":"I dunno what Fonda thinks of this movie now, but damn, did she sell it.","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Talk about enchanting beauties on the silver screen, those opening moments in Barbarella are almost enough to recommend this movie to just about anybody. Jane Fonda's zero gravity striptease is sublime, and if they could just make a movie out of that segment, we'd be onto something. Still, her sex-kitten naiveté is rather charming, and does provide mileage worth of amusement. But this is a movie whose high camp is best enjoyed with a group of like-minded people (ideally plied with beer); the midnight movie crowd, those who dig the swingin' otherworldly sets and shag-carpeted spaceships. Barbarella isn't a bad movie (ha, or a good one), and it loses something when you're watching it alone.But Ms. Fonda is something else.6/10 "},{"Title":"Zero gravitas throughout","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella was first shown on UK BBC1 on 26th November 1973, I watched it avidly; you may wonder what on or off Earth would a thoughtless 14 year old boy get out of this? I'd been interested in and buying sci fi books and stories for a few years of course, what else? After just seeing the cinema poster for it on the internet and being unaccountably unable to shift the image from my mind watched the film again maybe for the last time tonight.Spacegirl Jane Fonda pre-feminist and very feminine kicks the film off by kicking off all her clothes in zero gravity&#x85;and the film manages to maintain that exemplary level throughout. She's ordered by the voyeuristic President of the Republic of Earth to find Mr. Durand Durand and his naughty warlike positronic ray somewhere in the Universe and stop him. On the way through the gossamer plot gossamer reasons are found for her to lose her gossamer clothes on various gossamer sets, and to prove how sexy and sexed up she was. Even the killer budgies were on the side of red-blooded males and lesbians, although I was always surprised the Orgasmatron left so much to the imagination! Having recently seen Lucy I was amused by the many negative comments there were on IMDb about how scientifically unrealistic it was - so just for those who don't realise this was a entirely fiction film too.Well OK so far, I'm only a guy who can go for this kind of nonsensical exploitation sci fi once in a while &#x96; it's the third time in five decades I've sat through Barbarella, based on extrapolation I'll never see it again. So to be charitable it's very much of its time; to name but a few The Avengers, The Prisoner and Department S were all top draw British nonsense action series on TV at that time too. I can still watch them all, and maybe with a greater avidity because of the lack of nudity. The carefree attitude in 40000 reflected the 1960's, when Youth was King and Queen and lack of foresight obligatory; Milo O'Shea was an elderly 42 yo when he made this to Fonda's 30, the target cinema audience then must have been 18 to 22 and kids of 10 nowadays would probably deride it. That lets me out long ago.It should be harmless fun, accepted the social/sexual issues raised will only intensify as Man is further pulled out of the Cave by his hair by Woman. One fine day the human race will be apparently sexless and humourless but until that day comes the human race shouldn't really worry about debatably entertaining rubbish like this. "},{"Title":"sexy and campy","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the distant loving peaceful future, Earth astronaut Barbarella (Jane Fonda) is asked by the President to find Doctor Durand Durand who is lost in the Tau Ceti region. He is trying to create a weapon called the Positronic Ray. She cannot understand why anybody wants a weapon. She crashlands on a mysterious planet, taken by girls with sharp-teethed dolls and rescued by catchman Mark Hand (Ugo Tognazzi). He insists on having sex the old fashion way. Her ship malfunctions and burrows into the ground. She comes out next to a labyrinth and found by blind angel Pygar. His friend Professor Ping promises to repair her ship. Pygar tells her that Sogo is ruled by a tyrant. They have sex and he regains the will to fly. He flies her to Sogo. After some rough encounters with locals, they are captured by the Concierge who explains that the city is on top of a lake of Mathmos which runs on evil. She meets the Great Tyrant who actually saved her earlier. Resistant leader Dildano rescues her. She is captured by the Concierge who puts her into the Excessive Machine which drives victims to death by excessive sexual pleasure.This is a unique film of true deliberate campiness. It is over-the-top ridiculous. One cannot take this movie seriously. It can't be taken serious even as a comedy. It is filled with psychedelic silliness but the comedy is mostly done without good timing. This is simply a movie of pure sexual camp. The style is amazing. There is a heady mix of softcore porn and wacky psychedelic drug-induced fantasy. "}{"Title":"Barbarella - So Baaaad, Yet, So Gooood!","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Just the sight of the sweet, young, sex-kitten, Jane Fonda, doing a zero-gravity striptease during Barbarella's opening credits is surely enough for any hot-blooded male (providing he's not gay) to easily forgive anything else that later takes place in this weird, wacky, out-of-this-world Sex Farce from 1968.When space-kitten, Barbarella (our heroine-astronaut of the 41st Century) lands on the planet Lythion and earnestly sets out to track down the diabolically evil villain, Durand Durand, in the city of Sogo (where a new sin is invented every hour), here's what our loveliest, young space-angel encounters - - The Excessive Machine - A genuine sex organ on which an accomplished artist playing its keyboard can literally drive a victim to certain death by pleasure.- A lusting, lesbian queen, wearing an eye-patch, who, in her fantastic dream chamber, can will her most deliciously wicked fantasies to take form.- A semi-clad group of hot, young babes smoking a giant hookah pipe which, via a poor, male victim imprisoned inside its huge glass globe, dispenses, not opium smoke, but the pure essence of man.Believe me, Barbarella is one wild, Sci-Fi sex farce that really seems to be one of those films that stands out (in all of its zany audacity) on its very own.One can't help but be tickled pink, and even purple, by the cheesiest special effects imaginable - As well as by the various ways which were found to tear off what few clothes our heroine, Barbarella, already had on.Barbarella was directed by Fonda's then-husband, Roger Vadim, who had also been married previously to the sultry actress, Brigitte Bardot. "},{"Title":"BARBARELLA may have inspired more bad movies . . .","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" . . . than any other flick of the 1960s. The title character's shag-carpeted (walls and floors) spaceship was lovingly recaptured in the AUSTIN POWERS series. The attack on adolescent boys' credulity by cramming 90% of the female nudity for an advertised sex orgy (watch and listen to the original theatrical trailer of BARBARELLA) into the opening credits gave rise to one of the Cinemax channels' most prolific Sexploitation series, EMMANUELLE IN SPACE. The tacky other world special effects obviously inspired the art director and SF crew members cutting corners for the production of DUNE (not to mention the later HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY and countless other extra-Earthly Cheese Fests). All things considered, it's a cinematic tragedy BARBARELLA ever was made. "},{"Title":"Sexual and sad","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella has to be the most overtly sexual movie ever made and it was amazingly made in 1968! Jane Fonda's sexiness was the only reason 49% of the population watched it and aside from the Vadim/Fonda cinematic ambitions little reason why it should have been made. Art it was not! When I lived in a dormitory at the University of Missouri in the 1960s we called Jane Mighty Fine a Vagina. At the time of Barbarella and Cat Ballou she was considered the sexiest woman in Hollywood. In the most truthful terms it can be said that Roger was pimping her. Who does something like that to their loved one? Now to the sad part. Beautiful women in movies and beautiful women in real life live the dubious life of being sex objects. It's been going on for millions of years and it's still going on. Beautiful women with dark souls enjoy it and become Succubus and the decent women who would want to be loved, liked, appreciated, valued, or feel worth two cents just feel frustrated and disappointed. They feel conflict and filthiness when they sense some pig wants to jump their bones. The feminist movement sure didn't help the situation because deranged women always knew there is no power without sexuality. Woman's and men's intellects have little value in our culture.Several years ago Jane was interviewed on Oprah and they both talked about how meaningful her life was. If I had been there I would have asked her if she felt like she had been used by every man she knew and hated by every woman? To live the life of a pervert fantasy on your best days until you were too old? Did you find purpose elsewhere? "},{"Title":"Sexy, campy, silly, and entertaining.","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" You are so good that you made the Matmos vomit.I don't even really know where to begin with this one. The space adventures of Jane Fonda's sexy Barbarella are hard to review, because this has to be one of the most WTF movies that I've ever seen in my life. Every scene either had me laughing out loud or scratching my head and wondering what kind of powerful narcotics the writer/director/everyone involved with making this was OD'ing on. The story is ridiculous. Barbarella is some kind of space traveler/astronaut, and she's been charged with finding a missing scientist named Durand Durand. That's right Durand Durand. Along the way, she encounters ravenous dolls, a man in three-fourths of a Chewbacca outfit, a blind angel (one of the more inspired and hilarious parts of the movie), a rousing musical performance that she ends up participating in in a rather intimate fashion, an invisible key to an invisible wall, and about 10 different wardrobe changes. It has to be seen to be believed.The whole movie is campy, from the special effects, to the sets, to the costumes to the music. And the surreal plot and characters are just the icing on the cake. If you're fond of the particular brand of trippy 60's weirdness, then Barbarella is a must-see. It's like Star Wars mixed with Austin Powers, a hot blonde, and some LSD. "},{"Title":"What in...","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this film on the shelf at the library and it wasn't until the second time I saw it that I rented it. It has to be the most interesting and sexiest film I have seen. I say interesting because it is a mix of elements from B-movies and A-movies. The special effects look crummy but are very well done. The sci-fi back-story is cliché yet clearly thought out. Although the characters are simple excuses and probably unimportant to the film's overall purpose the acting is superb.I think the ultimate winner here is clearly Jane Fonda and the very suggestive content, like the opening credit sentence for example.Initially, I was confused on what made them think they could get away with doing this kind of movie until I found out the year of release. At this time Sean Connery was still James Bond and somebody clearly thought, why should the women get all the fun? Just to warn people who haven't seen it, this is a guy's film as I personally can't see any women, lesbian or otherwise, finding this film entertaining. Despite the PG rating, I wouldn't let the kids be in the same room when you are watching it or else be prepared to explain some of life's more awkward facts to them afterword. "},{"Title":"This Film Influenced a whole Lifestyle of the '70s","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" How do you think we ever desired Shag Carpeting???? Barbarella was way ahead of time compared to rest of the circa Why can't women be Masters of the Universe and Very Sexy at the Same time?????I first saw it as it should be in a Theater Coming of age then was really wonderful with all the James Bondage, along with Casino Royal, Penthouse just started up and took Playboy for a Ride. Nice Girls were taking the pill and their pick of Lovers.... Barbarella was the Icing on a Very Sweet Creamy Cake The music was kool and the Visuals were very intriguing.As a film maker, I did finally figure out how they shot the Opening Sequence Fonda Is Hot Hot Hot I sort of think it was or should be considered a more of an Externalized Chick Flick "},{"Title":"Crazy credits...","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First let me say to the three people who have waded through several hundred comments to reach this piece - this is one of my top ten films of all time. Now to those credits...First - Anita Pallenberg. It was obvious even to a 15 year old boy (as I was when first I viewed this masterpiece) that her voice had been dubbed. It sounded to me like Fenella Fielding (see Carry On Screaming) and according to IMDb's trivia, I was RIGHT.However, according to IMDb's cast & crew, it was Joan Greenwood. Now Joan certainly has the same plummy accent as Fenella - but which WAS it?Then there's the music. I have the original soundtrack album, which includes all the songs (although An Angel Is Love was re-recorded for the album with Bob allegedly taking lead vocals) and pretty much all the music - in pretty much chronological order.But the album cover attributes ALL the work to Bob Crewe, his Glitterhouse singers and Charles Fox. NO mention is made of Michel Magne. Yet the FILM'S credits ONLY mention M Magne.While IMDb's credits attribute ALL these people - plus some guy called James Campbell (who he? I'm not going to Google James Campbell - Scotland alone must have THOUSANDS of them).So WHY? Why does the album ignore the contribution of M Magne? And why does the film snub Mr Crewe? He was BIG at the time.By the by, some of the incidental music may now be (or was THEN?) in a music library - 'cause I've heard snatches of it in the background music on the recent BBC series, Hustle.And apparently, my soundtrack album may now be rare, since the album advertised on IMDb only lists the songs.Anyway, this brings me to the last crazy credit. Durand-Durand. All the above comments that I read (I didn't read them ALL - I have a LIFE!) spelled Milo O'Shea's character Duran-Duran.This is understandable, since the film was made BEFORE the customary TEN MINUTE credit sequence that lists everyone down to the honey-wagon driver - and does not even have a cast-list.Thus everyone (except IMDb) makes that mistake - including the '80s POP GROUP who appropriated the name! "},{"Title":"sexy space traveler","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella was ahead of its time,and one of the first movies to show nudity with no mpaa rating.Jane Fonda has a few frontal nude scenes as she strips out of her spacesuit during the beginning credits.its a psychedelic space trip based on the adult french comic about a sexy space traveler that is sent to find a renegade earthling that has gone bad.there's robots,evil children,biting attacking dolls,killer birds, and a good guy,a blind angel(john Phillip law)that aids Barbarella in her quest.its far out and very entertaining.produced by Dino DE laurentis(a few years later he would give us king Kong)Jane Fonda was very sexy in this movie and it became a cult classic.her outfits consisted of saran wrap and vinyl.i believe this is where Forrest j Ackerman got his inspiration for vampirella the comic book character he created in 1969 for warren publishing.the DVD version is in widescreen and looks very good.i remember hearing Howard stern talk about seeing this movie with his dad when he was a kid,and he was very embarrassed watching it with his dad.its a fun movie and very campy. the music is very late sixties.i recommend this movie,8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Silly","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The best thing in Barbarella is that you can't really expect what happens next. If you thought it was Sci-Fi it does not really look like that and if you though that it was some lousy soft-porn it ain't really that either. Don't let the misleading movie trailer to betray you, for this is a very unique film.'Barbarella' is really fun to watch, it does not have massive audiovisual effects and such but instead some very cool theatrical decorations and it certainly pleases somebody's eye who has had too much of sterile computer gimmicks. Barbarella is Pop-Art in the purest sense.'Barbarella' does not contain anything that's banal or straight. Nothing is normal in that universe. The film could be seen as some sort of social satire of its time and, either way, it works well as such. "},{"Title":"This is awful! but somehow fun!","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Since I had only heard of this movie I was off course happy to see it among Paramounts 2 for 99 deals (Around 990 Euro), and I thought why Not! I gave this movie 6 because of the humour and high camp, certainly not that it was a good movie! Unlike modern Sci-fi films that lives very high on the effects, but that it's acceptable of an Italian production of 1968-1969. the Fun is also that Jane Fonda hates this production much later! Jane Fonda is nude!!! Well not that nude!Claude Dauphin the President that says love thru a Screen! That's about it for that french actor! John Philip Law! was in curier of the Czar, och Hollywood films like The Russians are coming The Russians Are coming! and Love Maschine. And great Italian character actor Ugnattzo Totzzi (So much funnier in other productions of the Italian early 60s), Marcel Marceau! The famous french mime, here in a speaking role, Devid Hemmings, the swinging London Man, playing a clumsy rebel leader. Milo O'Shea some irish guy! playing the crook! As I said this is high camp, fun only if you take it for what it is, and Special effects was something different back then at the Carlo Ponti/Pasoline studious at Cinnécittá. "}{"Title":"Paying tribute to the late David Hemmings","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film as we English call a picture is a personal favourite. The late great David Hemmings gave a dashing performance.As Duran Duran which evidently inspired the group of the same name Milo O'Shea is wonderfully over the top. Jane Fonda is, well, in her prime in furs soo politically incorrect all over and so right for the part in a wonderfully silly film. At risk of being sexist she is enough reason to watch.The eccentric surreal quality of the scenic art embellishes and matches the odd wit of the whole project which is splendidly realised. It is not ruined in my opinion by the rather obvious studio sets and stagy visuals but enhanced thereby to compound the fantasy elements that I never fail to wallow in at every viewing. "},{"Title":"Fun for people who can enjoy not taking things too serious","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not an elegant writer or reviewer. So, I'll just ask a question or twoAre you a fan of 'B' movies?How about campy or farcical movies?If your answer to either of those questions is no, then rent, buy, or watch something else.This is not 'On Golden Pond' (which I own and love). This is just a 'sit back and enjoy' cult classic. Throw out any preconceived notions of Oscar winning performances. This is just a fun movie.People, this is not a movie to be taken serious, nor was it written with that intent. As far as one reviewers' comment about everyone having a skeleton in their closet, Fonda is not ashamed of this film. This film keeps her on a different level than her usual sometimes stuffy roles, not to say those roles are bad by any means. I'm just saying, this is just one of those 'let your hair down, go nuts, and don't give a d*mn' moments that hopefully everyone is lucky enough to have in their lives to look back on and say I'm glad I did that.Unlike some great stars, such asHarrison Ford, who doesn't like to recognize 'Star Wars' as his great launch into stardom.Or, how about...Tom Hanks, who doesn't like to recognize 'Bosom Buddies', or 'Bachelor Party' at all! Two entertaining moments in his career. Both of which helped propel him into the spotlight in which he enjoys today.Long story short (too late), this is just a campy, silly movie. It's not for everyone. But if you're not going to like it, at least dis-like it for the right reasons. This was not a ploy for an Oscar. So don't try and philosophy a movie like this. Dis-like it because of the bad acting, err, uhm, no. Dis-like it for the bad effects, uhhm, strike that. Hey, how 'bout the bad plot? No wait, these are the pros, not the cons. I don't know. Just take it at it's face value, a cheesy 60's movie, NOT written for Academy notice. "},{"Title":"incredible","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A perfectly brainless romp.  If you are expecting a sci fi movie, you're setting yourself up for a big let down.  If you are expecting a serious movie, don't bother. If you are expecting a well acted movie, again, don't bother.  Sit back, open your eyes, get dumb, and watch. Brilliantly bad.  No one can make something this bad knowingly.Which is quite likely why it's been heralded as such a triumph of really bad cinema and we still can talk about it 35 years after the fact.  Why then have so many people referenced it in song or as band names?  Certainly if visually this weren't such a stunning outrageous movie, sure Jane Fonda's innumerable custom changes andwillingness to have sex with nearly anything that walks helps a lot, but anyhoo.  If this movie weren't so lysergically vibrant, it certainly wouldn't have lasted this long even with Jane Fonda in various states of undress. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie ever","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Say what you will about it, but I think this movie has some amazing moments. The Excessive Machine scene is still one of the most erotic moments in cinema.  I saw this when I was 12 years old and over 15 years later I am still obsessed with this movie and Barbarella. I watch this movie at least once a month, every month.Love. "},{"Title":"Ultimately disappointing","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It is hard to know what to say about Barbarella as it's one of those films I found I desperately wanted to like due to its iconic cult status and the fact it stars the gorgeous Jane Fonda.From Fonda's sensuous, anti-grav strip during the opening and the way the titles come tumbling out of her suit and across the screen, you really think this is going to be a real classic and there are some great things about this movie.Fonda is super, her furry spaceship a camp dream and there's some nice set pieces and visuals.However, there some pretty naff acting and not much story. No twists, no surprises, no real laughs. Barbarella is a fairly inventive adventure romp and does, in some way, sum up the groovy, way-out time in which it was made but it is ultimately rather disappointing. On the plus side though, if it weren't for this movie we wouldn't have Duran Duran! "},{"Title":"This scared the pants on me as a kid.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't seen this one in a long time. I saw it once when my parents were watching it, oh, around 1986-7, and the part where the dolls bite people and there is blood involved scared the you-know-what out of me when I was little. I still have a vivid memory of the terrifying scene. Of course, I was also scared by the original Lon Cheney Phantom of the Opera, so maybe I was a bit of a weenie. I do remember that I was fascinated by the scenes, the carpet, and the neat ideas, like the computer.   "},{"Title":"Oh My God, Jane Fonda !","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I had no idea Jane Fonda was such a babe until I saw this flick! Call it what you will, sex or science fiction, Barbarella is a classic when it comes to the 60's perspective on what the future was going to be like. Not only does Jane Fonda make your heart skip a beat by just looking at her, but she does it in such a pure and innocent way. Forget the sex scenes, the wardrobe changes, and all the stuff in between. The opening credits of this film alone is worth buying this film for Christmas! "},{"Title":"Sexy comic book SF spins out of control","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This adaptation of the French 60s comic strip has its moments, and young Jane provides the best of them.  It has neat sets and costumes and that groovy sense of challenging conventions that characterizes so many films of the late 60s, but those things don't change the fact the movie is fundamentally stupid.  Characterization and plot are not really the point here, so it's hard to fault its failings in those areas, but when Vadim tries to express any kind of meaning, his ineptness becomes embarrassing. An angel is love, delivered like the most meaningful line in all of cinema, makes the viewer cringe.  Over-long and overblown, this film is best watched with a forgiving heart. "},{"Title":"Very seventies","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This HAS to be the most stereotypical 70's futuristic film EVER!  Characters walk around with huge 70's hair with long white plastic boots and mini-dresses, and this is set in the 41st Century!I LOVED this film, not only for it's content and story line, but the oddities, like having characters called Duran Duran and Barbarella, while the pop group Duran Duran has released a song called Electric Barbarella.  Coincidence?The opening scene is an eye-opener with Jane Fonda doing her patented anti-gravity strip-tease.  I just HAD to mention it...For it's time the film must have been quite brilliant, but as good as it is today, I'd class it as more of a satire than an adventure film.Give it a try, it's worth watching!  If not for the adventurous antics of a semi-nymphomaniac, then at least for a laugh! "},{"Title":"Great Camp Fun !","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the most camp films I have seen in a long time.  Jane Fonda is delicous as Barbarella, especially when she is rolling about in her spaceship as it descends to the surface of the planet.  Truly a film of its time, colourful characters and a cheesy storyline combined wonderfully. "}{"Title":"My name isn't Pretty-Pretty&#x85;It's Barbarella.","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Oh those Europeans, they are so Naughty. This French/Italian Production is a Post-Hays-Code Production that went with that New Found Artistic Freedom and never looked back. It looks Fantastic. No amount of Imagination or Color was spared and the Movie just Vibrates with Fun and Frolic.Jane Fonda became an International Icon with Her Role as a Sexy Aviatrix from Future Earth where War has been Eradicated and the Official Greeting from the Shapely Astronaut to the President of the Republic of Earth is, arm extended...palm out...Love. There is much to Love in this Psychedelic Picture and every Scene had an Artistic Aesthetic that is Founded in Mind Altering Drugs and Lava Lamps. The Costumes are so Bizarre that description Fails on just about any Level. There is Action and Violence, done with a Wink but there still remains a distinctive Bite.There are Flying Winged Angels that don't make Love, they ARE Love and have no memory. There is an Underground Revolutionary Group that Exists in a Secret Lair, with Secret Passages, Secret Radios, Secret Keys, Secret Codes, and most of all Secrets.It is just one Mind-Mesmerizing Scene after another and it is so Playfully Artistic that it cannot be anything but Gaudi, Trashy, and Tantalizing. The Movie is Funny and Sexy. A Cult Item to be sure. But that just means that most don't see what's at Play here and are Unfairly Harsh, but there are others who are just Laid-Back enough to just let the Film Massage their Senses with its Innocent and Curious Romp. "},{"Title":"A Very Bizarre 1960s Science Fiction Adventure","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the far future, a highly sexual woman (Jane Fonda) is tasked with finding and stopping the evil Durand-Durand. Along the way she encounters various unusual people.What to say about this film? The only thing it can really be compared to is the Flash Gordon movie that came out much later. So, I guess if you like that film you have to give some level of respect to this one.I hardly know what to say... it is camp, it is kitsch, it is all that made the 1960s what it was. Some of it is just strange or bordering on exploitation. Other parts are a bit more clever. The idea of the music massage machine is rather clever, even if it went in a strange direction of part-sexuality and part-torture. "},{"Title":"Psychedelic hippie dream","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella begins with the most famous scene of the whole film Jane Fonda's striptease in the weightless space. After that she gets her assignment from the president and she's off to find Duran Duran (Milo O'Shea). This leads in many sexual encounters (yes, I know, it sounds like a porn film, and if there would be more tits in it it would go as a soft core porn) with the inhabitants of Tau Ceti.Actually it could be argued, if Barbarella actually is an extremely sexist comedy or a movie about a strong female, who cleverly plays every male character in the film. But then again it would be pointless, as the film itself isn't serious by nature, it almost is a slapstick comedy in a sense.Barbarella was made in 1968 and it shows. Special effects are pretty out dated and sadly most of the locations clearly show, that the whole film was shot in a studio. Music is over all pretty horrible and a bit of distracting.I rarely say it, but this is one movie I would love to see remade. Sure, Jane Fonda is hot in this and the film is saved by the sheer campness of the jokes and the quality, but Barbarella really would deserve a lovingly done remake. "},{"Title":"Barbarella The Sci-Fi Camp Classic","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If there's one movie Jane Fonda will be remembered for, and perhaps she'd like to live down, it's Barbarella. She plays the title character, a sexy lady astronaut of the future. In this movie, she has adventures all over the galaxy, fending off killer dolls, being tormented by tiny birds, and experiencing old-fashioned sex. Compared to today's digital effects-laden space operas, Barbarella seems ridiculous with its psychedelic light shows and lackluster special effects. Also, the dialogue leaves much to be desired. But let's face it, this movie is all about Jane Fonda's body! The best thing to do is just enjoy the crazy images of this sci-fi acid trip. "},{"Title":"Why Pygar can fly again? ...","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I give for this movie 8/10.I find this movie a lot funny and very original. And even if this movie was create in 1968 (36 years since 2004) you can watch it again and find it very good.And what to think about the GORGEOUS Barbarella (alias Jane Fonda). Oh man ! You understand why Pygar can fly again when he meet her. They are lucky guy in life to make love with wonderful woman like Jane Fonda.Sure was not her better role but she is perfect to play Barberella. She is so sexy and so cute. mmmShe can wake-up dead man believe me !Even if the special effect have so age, I find them good for 1968 and again original. Music is good, other actor/actress are good too.A guy can sell his soul for The Great Tyrant (alias Anita Pallenberg) easily.The movie was create in Peace in Love time and people who know this time was lucky. So cute women there, so sexy. Any shy. No share to make love.This movie is a Classical for me and so give it 8/10 is not exaggerate. Even if it's not perfect, for the time, 1968, it was a lot Great and daring and I suppose it to make a kind of scandal.Oh man ! Jane your body is PERFECT ! mmmmSo lucky guy they have in this world... "},{"Title":"Unsurpassed in 'campyness'","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If only for the tagline 'see Barbarella do her thing'. This is one freaked out movie if you'd ask me.Jane Fonda is sexy, yet innocent, Barbarella, who is sent out to find scientist Duran Duran (yes, it is where the band took their name from) on a strange planet, full of blind angels and lusty tyrans. This Duran Duran guy has a powerful weapon which can destroy mankind (well, put them in the 4th dimension anyway) so he has to be stopped!But, nevermind that, as the movie's main purpose is to show Fonda as naked and sexy as possible in any way, and it succeeds. The opening credits, with her stripping on zero gravity in her spaceship is one of the most beautiful ever created.If you can overcome it's sillyness you might find yourself attracted to this movie in a lot of ways, although trash-classic is probably the best way to put it.5/10. "},{"Title":"Pure Camp","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  To criticize this film for its bad effects, lack of plot, or general cheesiness is to miss the point entirely. This film is an artifact of a time when films were allowed to be silly and outrageous. There is sheer campy delight in every frame. Savor it. For those viewers who can't understand the concept of camp, avoid this film and watch Alex and Emma instead.  "},{"Title":"Fun and sexy","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There is little or no plot to this film, but what does that matter when you get blind angels, orgasmatrons, the mathmos, a villain called Duran Duran and Jane Fonda radiating naivite while blithely sleeping around with half the galaxy.  And then there's that striptease opening sequence.  Pure pleasure from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Camp, non-cerebral 60's space romp.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A wonderfully dated, politically incorrect and camp romp though space and Jane Fonda's skimpy wardrobe. No brain power needed to enjoy this and don't bother trying to understand the plot.  If you have a lava lamp on the coffee table, you should have this title in your video collection! "},{"Title":"The director of this film was a tripper","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The is one of the best movies to watch when tripping. Everyone has their own trip movie, this one used to be mine. I've probably seen it about 30-40 times. Tripping brings out the cheesy cinematic visuals, and turns them into real delights, not to mention alerts you to things that you weren't away of before.Barbarella crashes on a planet and gets almost killed by kids, gets laid, finds a city that is a maze, gets laid, finds her way into the city, almost gets laid by a woman, finds the underground gorillas , gets laid, finds a scientist, and gets laid. The sex isn't very suttle and isn't crude in any way, but provides something to laugh at. This movie is crazy. It's a great wonderful thing to look at the styles of what was considered futuristic back then; the art direction of the psychedelic sixties, the attitudes of the actors, what was considered sexy, and the colors and visuals and textures and some wicked/demented looking places throughout the film. One of the Best nostalgic futuristic movies EVER!The last time I saw this movie was 4 years ago. I was tripping off of the visuals when suddenly Barbarella turned into Mariah Carey riding on an angel's back. That's what ended the movie for me. Since than, I haven't tripped or seen the movie; the experience of Jane Fonda turning into Mariah Carey isn't something to take nicely, especially it being Mariah Carey. I think that it should be mandatory for whole the culture that takes mind altering substances to watch this movie when tripping. ITS GREAT STUFF!!!This review has been a public service announcement. "}{"Title":"What film does Jane Fonda think she's in?","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Make no mistake, this is a dire film.  Fun costumes, but no plot to speak of, minimal dialogue, extras who clearly have no idea what they're supposed to be doing, and shoddy editing to top it all off.  And yet I found myself enjoying it.  Why?Jane Fonda.I don't know what film Jane thinks she's in, but it's a far better one than Barbarella.  She rises above the risible material, makes the most of every line (hear the rich relish and poetry in the simple phrase My mini missile projector) and just gives it absolutely everything.  It's the best Perky Innocent since Judy Garland in Wizard of Oz, and if you want to see where Sandra Bullock got the inspiration for her character Lenina Huxley in Demolition Man, look no further.As a point of interest, Drew Barrymore will be taking on the role of Barbarella in 2001; she has already shown herself capable of the same kind of spunky girl next door innocence that Jane possessed in 1968.  It'll be interesting to compare them. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie last Saturday. It was shown during a concert of a band who chose Space as theme for their yearly party-concert.Of course there are critics on this movie. The story is not that exciting (and the end plot is a bit sudden and open; the scenery is obviously made from plastic and paperboard). But I liked it a lot. There were some nice symbolic things (like the (blind) angel, who always forgives the people who did bad), and it's funny to see how Barbarelle (Jane Fonda) changes her outfit ten times and changes her boots about five times. It's a real fashion show! So I enjoyed the movie a lot, and that's why I give it a 10.LOVE and RESPECT, Sebastian. "},{"Title":"classic cult SF utterly beautiful movie","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As charming as you can imagine,if you see it with open heart, and openminded also.Jane is really gorgeous and if you ask me all the actors are perfect considering that this is,after all,such a silly movie-but such fantastic fun!I love the music and all the erotica in it,and those wonderful names,including BARBARELLA,not to mention DURAN DURAN.The opening scene is as good as any Bond intro-masterpiece.It is unbelievable ride from start to the very end,and even though only pure joy not the movie with brain,it will drain all your laughs-just sit back and enjoy in imaginative action,passion,and Love.I love this movie,and I just adore that lovely,naive,beautiful Barbarella... "},{"Title":"This was rated PG????","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella was an OK movie. It was definitely worth seeing, but I'm not wild about it. I take it that LSD and free love really fueled the set. The whole thing looks like Dr. Timothy Leary blew his brains out and spilled it on film. Jane Fonda seemed to kind of ham it up as the title character as she goes from place to place on some planet getting kidnapped and tortured (? she seemed to be enjoying it) while searching for the mad Dr. Duran Duran (no he's not hungry like the wolf).What really struck me is that this thing was rated PG. In the first two minutes of the film you get to see Jane Fonda's breasts and would see more if the credits didn't block it. Later, you see another woman's breasts as she's being tortured. Fonda has sex with multiple parties and Duran Duran tries to kill her with an orgasm machine. Overall, the entire thing has more innuendo and thinly veiled sexual references than a Playboy cartoon. Granted, there isn't much nudity, and no bad language, but still. How the hell could this get a PG rating? "},{"Title":"Cheesy, highly designed and titillating sci-fi that is rubbish in terms of acting, narrative and characters but worth seeing for being so unusual and of its time","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the future, highly sensual agent Barbarella is given a mission by the President of Earth to travel to a distant planet and investigate reports that a man called Durand Durand is amassing weapons and plotting a thing called a war, the likes of which has been mostly phased out in the civilised galaxy. Crashing on the new planet, Barbarella is captured by children (yes, you heard me correctly) who plan to feed her to their vampire dolls (yes, you heard me) but she is rescued by a man who then teaches her the joy of the old way of making love. This man is only one of many strange characters that the strangely dappy agent will meet as she works towards her mission.The opening scene tells you all you need to know about the film in that it is unmistakably 1960's, titillating, visually imaginative but lacking any substance at all. Indeed that it how it starts and that is how it continues and those who expect any sort of plot, characters of emotional depth to it will be sorely disappointed. Even those who are in the mood might struggle to make it to the end simply because it is difficult to keep caring about something that is so fragmented, empty and ultimately pointless. Style wise, the film is worth seeing simply because is so over-designed, of the period and imaginative from start to finish; the whole thing is rather cheesy and laced with a constant sexual theme that basically takes the place of a plot. Although this is maybe enough to make it worth seeing, it is no substitute for actual substance or entertainment at least.The cast cannot help this problem and instead just fit in with the weird style and sexual theme of the material. Fonda is suitably ditzy and hollow and, although she cannot make a person of her character, she does fit in with the mood of the film well enough. The support cast all pretty much do the same &#150; Pallenberg provides basic lesbian tension (although it is a bit strange hearing Fenella Fielding's voice come out of her mouth). Law is too stiff and uninteresting; Hemmings is comic and silly and the casting of people like Dauphin, Marceau and others add to the cult of the film if not actually adding value to the story. Of course, if you are not in the mood then almost all the performances will come across as inane and pretty poor but if you have managed to buy into the mood of the film then you'll find they work well enough.The cult of this film and the fame of some of its design and images have given it a greater reputation that it actually deserves because, by normal standards this is a pretty rubbish affair. Without a proper plot, characters or decent script it is hard to care about anything in it and this does make the short running time feel like it is dragging somewhat. However the film is stylish and imaginative with a design that is unmistakably of its time and it is just about worth seeing &#150; but be warned that it will be for this reason alone! A strangely sexual film that is bad by normal standards but yet somehow still manages to demand to be seen. "},{"Title":"Garish & hideously dated Sci-Fi adventure, not without a certain charm though.","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella starts with perhaps it's most well know scene. The scene where astronaut (it's actually never revealed what she is) Barbarella (Jane Fonda) performs a zero gravity strip tease in her fur lined spaceship. After this scene, which by todays standards seems very tame & unconvincing, Barbarella receives a call from the President of Earth (Claude Dauphin) who informs her that a scientist named Duran Duran (Milo O'Shea, really funny to hear a character called Duran Duran & apparently it's where the band got it's name from) has created a 'positronic ray' & that he has mysteriously disappeared, somewhere. The President enlists Barbarella to find Duran Duran & stop the 'positronic ray' from falling into the wrong hands. I should also point out at this point that Barbarella is set in the 40th century give or take a few years, sex has been abolished on Earth & replaced with pills & weaponry no longer exists. So, you see, because Duran Duran has created a gun he has put the entire universe in danger, or something like that. Barbarella is on the case & together with her talking spaceship sets off for 'Planet 16'. However Barbarella's spaceship is caught up in a magnetic storm & crashes, luckily on the correct planet. There she sees blue rabbits hopping around in snow & meets two twin sisters Stomoxys (Catherine Chevallier) & Glossina (Marie Therese Chevallier) who look about eight years old, one of the little monsters throws a loaded snowball at Barbarella's face which knocks her out. They tie Barbarella up & let their killer dolls with sharp metal teeth attack & bite her. Barbarella is saved by a guy named Mark Hand (Ugo Tognazzi) who teaches Barbarella how to make love the old fashioned way, he also helps her on her way & gives her a few useful bits of information. Next on her travels Barbarella meets a blind angel named Pygar (John Phillip Law) who lives in a nest in a place called the Labyrinth, there Barbarella also meets Professor Ping (Marcel Marceau) who says to find Duran Duran she has to speak with the 'Great Tyrant' (Anita Pallenberg) also known as the Black Queen who lives in the evil city of SoGo. As her journey nears it's conclusion Barbarella encounters all sorts of strange situations & people including becoming part of a revolutionary group lead by Dildano (David Hemmings), finding invisible keys & execution by being put in a cage with a load of vicious Budgies!Co-written & directed by Roger Vadim who was married to Fonda at the time, this French/Italian co-production hasn't stood the test of time that well & looks horribly dated. I'm not sure Vadim knows the meaning of the word subtle! The script had an amazing number of people credited as working on it, Vadim, Terry Southern, Vittorio Bonicelli, Clement Biddle Wood, Brian Degas, Tudor Gates & finally Jean Claude Forest, phew! That's seven screenwriters & Barbarella is in fact based on a French comic book. Maybe that's one of the reasons it's a bit of a mess, the comic elements more often than not fall flat on their face & don't work. The characters are sketchy at best, the dialogue is ridiculous at times & as a whole the story doesn't make a whole lot of sense. The required 'comedy relief' character is annoying. The film is an excuse for a scantily clad Jane Fonda to jump from one strange set piece to another. Having said that, Barbarella tells a somewhat simple story competently enough & provides a certain entertainment value. The production design credited to Mario Garbuglia needs to be seen to be believed, the sets, costumes & props are so garish, over-the-top & just plain hideous looking it's untrue. The special effects are among the worst I've ever seen & what makes it ten times worse is that virtually every scene has an effect in it, I don't mind bad effects usually but by the end it was extremely distracting & was getting on my nerves, a lot. Oh, & Budgies aren't scary or a particularly effective way to execute someone, you have to see this sequence to believe it! I hated the loud 60's music as well. The acting is nothing to shout about, frankly I'm surprised the actors involved were able to keep a straight face. Fonda looks pretty sexy in her ever changing outfits, don't expect a lot of nudity though. I can't quite decide weather I like it or not, on the one hand it looks terrible throughout & is extremely silly but on the other hand it's fairly entertaining to watch for those very reasons. At least it's not too boring or too long & it definitely has a certain camp charm about it, overall I'd say it's worth a watch as just a bit of mindless late 60's psychedelic fun! "},{"Title":"I can think of worse movies","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you are offended easily, skip this post. I give a strong opinion in comparing this film to some of the lousy stuff that comes out these days. I also go off (definitely not get off)on fake enhancements of today's starlets too.Barbarella won't make my list of top 250 movies, but if I happen to be watching TV and it is on I would still see it again. There are worse female exploit movies out there (Charlies Angels Full Throttle, Barb Wire, etc) and I will use Barb Wire as the dud I am going to use to give my support to Jane Fonda's film because of similarities in the name and star quality at their time. First I am going to get this off my chest and I know some (fools) may disagree but I think Jane Fonda is much sexier than Pam Anderson. First of all, fake breasts are lame. Big and abnormally round does not get it AT ALL for me. I'd rather see smaller and natural than obvious fake. Today's women who go plastic seem to overdo it most of the time. Tattoos and overdone piercing are also a turnoff for me. Give me a natural babe from the 60s with unmarked skin any day of the week. I think Pam was much sexier in the 80s photos with Chachi where she had less makeup and definitely less chest and lip enhancements. Looking at her today, I see she just won't leave herself alone. It would be sad to see what happened to Michael Jackson, Joan Rivers and Cher happen to her surgery overkill! In Barbarella some of the acting may appear wooden, though I think Fonda blows Anderson away in acting ability too. At least the males in the film attempt to act seriously. The biggest negative for me is in most of the female exploit movies I've seen, the directors seems to want men to act like silly idiots around the starlets (Barb Wire, Spice World, etc). This isn't the case in Barbarella. The angel may win the Star Wars Natalie Portman award, but at least he wasn't falling over himself like a moron in front of Fonda. And he was blind! Some old fogies out there may dislike Fonda for standing up against the Vietnam war. I will not use this card to diss this movie or Fonda.Anyway, this is one of those campy fun movies that won't pis$ you off (like many of the awful films of today) so sit back and enjoy. I'm giving it a generous 5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Quite wonderful, if you're into old sci-fi movies","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Looking besides that this movie is an old science fiction movie, and their typical low-budget special effects (with todays measures); my first impression of the movie was that it was some unsubtle attempt at soft core pornography featuring Jane Fonda, but as i kept watching it, it started coming to me that all the nudity and sex, the sex by the way is never actually depicted in the movie, was not intended for the viewer, but more as an aspect of the sexual liberty the movie seem to embrace. The movie has a wonderful hippie like love, peace and understanding undertone and a great soundtrack. The plot is quite interesting and is quite typical for the sci-fi productions at the time. "},{"Title":"A true classic, in every sense of the word","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Just marvelous, and the main reason for it's greatness is the fact that you never know what the next few minutes will bring. The characters are fantastic and the film is 100 % sixties in every good sense of the word. The women are beautiful beyon comprehension and the men are as flash as flash can be, the decor is marvelous and the film is quite genious in a somewhat bizarre fashion.I don't know if the plot is quite alright but it's original enough, and it truly reflects the fact that sci-fi's never been better then in the sixties! "},{"Title":"Swingin' Sixties Sci-Fi Satire","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The great european film stars of the Sixties team up in this medium-budget sci-fi satire Jane Fonda is the cutest superheroine ever to save the galaxy from evil! From the very first strip over her many amorous encounters right down to the cheesy finale With its psychedelic special effects, the incredibly sexy costumes and many downright weird visual ideas, Barbarella can only be classified as a must-have, cult sci-fi comedy. "}{"Title":"Spellbinding.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I don't care about the sixties, nor about drugs, nor even about Jane Fonda's very fine figure, as one can find much more explicit stuff on the net nowadays. But Barbarella is a cult movie. Things like the mathmos, the excessive machine, the essence of man, the blind angel, the voice of the on-board computer (again, in the Italian version), the villain named Durand Durand... things that won't be easy to forget.The rhythm is slow, but this isn't an action movie. The acting is appropriate I don't expect characters inspired by a comic strip to act differently. Deeper and more complex characters would have been completely out of place (and would have prevented some benevolent satire to emerge).The same goes for the atmosphere and the special effects. With age they become more evocative. Who cares about realism? By the way, is a fur lined spacecraft interior less realistic than people dueling with lightsabers?Come on, IMDb people, give this work of art the rating it deserves. "},{"Title":"Incredible fun scifi movie","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie make me laugh nearly whole time. Sarcastic future vision and self ironical future technology make this movie most excellent. Jane Fonda do so great blonde role in main role of the movie, that you should watch this movie for that if you don't found any other reason. "},{"Title":"Sixties enjoyable science-fiction movie","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most popular films play in Europe by Jane Fonda during her sixties love affair with French director Roger Vadim. The movie could be a pioneering work of science-fiction films that would came later. In fact, it was in some ways. The original story is based on a galactic Jean-Claude Forest comic, so the idea was really bright, the set was good and expensive -even a bite kitsch-, custume were designed by fashion men Paco Rabanne and the casting results very adequate. Fonda was by this time at her best moment with her body almost adolescent, her baby doll face, knavish model Anita Pallenberg and tall boy John Phillip Law. But Vadim work, pretentious and clumsy for many cinematographic critics, cut down the hope. Watched today this ´Barbarella´ is out of date even still enjoyable, candid and excessively puritan, and that is curious as they tried to got a erotic product as well.         "},{"Title":"But it's psychedelic, man","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 1967, this was the big one to go and catch because Jane Fonda got her boobs out. This was a really big deal to 15-year-old me, because naked boobs were in pretty short supply. Plus I wasn't old enough to get in, but I pretended and it turned out OK. Turns out I loved the film anyway. I wasn't familiar with Forest's comic (en Francais, n'est pas?) as the source material until later, and I've still not seen more of the original than the odd page here and there, although I understand that some of it is due into reprint sometime soon. What did I love? The damn silliness of the whole thing. The sinister biting dolls sequence. The fact that Professor Ping was a dialogue part for celebrated French mime artist Marcel Marceau who was otherwise famously mute, although I believe his dialogue was dubbed. The visual design - some great visual concepts in there. John Philip Law's blind Pygar. The Matmos - an excellent idea. Milo O'Shea's Duran Duran - not featured in the credits, and I've never known why. The vile labyrinth. The sex scene with David Hemmings' Dildano (a name I didn't fully appreciate at the time). Anita Pallenberg's wicked Queen (again, dubbed I suspect). Above everything else, the music. After I'd got over my delight at Jane Fonda's opening credits strip, I bought the album (Stateside records over in the UK). I played that record until I wore the grooves off it, and I was delighted to be able to replace it with a CD a year or so ago. Music by Charles Fox and Bob Crewe (backstage boys with the Four Seasons), it has a wonderfully eclectic and atmospheric collection of tracks, ranging from cod classic to jazz/rock, with some of the fastest sustained drumming I've ever heard in the Sex Machine piece. And two or three great songs, of which An Angel is Love is probably the best. Very much a product of its time, there is still a great deal in the movie to enjoy. Next time you watch it, just listen to the music. "},{"Title":"Stylish Sexy Trashy Fun Sci-fi Flick","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella is phenomenal--a stylish pulp comic book romp that constantly titilates and mesmerizes with its many Technicolor psychedelic visuals. Very hip this one is.Jane Fonda plays the titular heroine, a sexy space adventurer who goes from one wonderful tripped-out fantasy planet to the next as she fights warriors and handles her bidness. Every scene in this film was better than the last--pieced together with some irresistible cheesy 60s pop music and acid guitar licks thrown in for good measure.Obviously crafted with love, Barbarella is truly a beautiful piece of eye candy that has a syrupy sweet air of sex clinging to it. Not to be missed by any fans of trash, exploitation, or b-movies. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Hot Jane Fonda","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" For a Jane Fonda fan this was the best movie that ever was made. She get's naked right away in the opening credits. But, putting Jane aside, one should watch this movie and enjoy the overall fun of this movie. The special effects were very Flash Gorden. The over all comic book effect is fun. Deno De Lourentis produced it and Janes husband (at the time), Rodger Vidam directed it. This was a early film for a lot of great, directors,producers and actors. The special effect/background were very well done. It is quite campy in a lot of ways with a lot of sexual overtones, i.e. the (orgasmitron), a few flights, and other such topics which were not talked about at that time. Watch it and enjoy it as an Italian western done in 2045. "},{"Title":"All hail the queen of the Galaxy!!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella is quintessential cult-kitsch from cinema's finest decade &#150; the psychedelic 60's &#150; that still looks fresh and amusing, nearly forty years later. Roger Vadim's interpretation of the comic-book heroine's adventures is a feast for the eyes as the colorful designs and costumes still look splendid and exhilarating. Supposedly set around 40.000 years A.D., Barbarella is sent to the planet SoGo by no less then the President of the Republic Earth in order to bring back a brilliant (but naughty) astronaut, named Duran Duran. Before our lovely and minuscule dressed space-hottie gets there, she encounters many strange individuals and bizarre local traditions. She's assaulted by fiendish children who freak her out with vampire-dolls (by the way, this sequence gets my vote for the best part of the entire movie!), she re-discovers the act of physical love (and finds out how convenient it is when you need to get something done), falls in love with a blind angel, meets the underground revolutionary leader and eventually she's fancied by a lesbian Queen-Tyrant! Now I ask you how can you not love all this?!? This film is very comical and light-headed. The music is fantastic and no woman ever looked so sexy as Jane Fonda does here (except maybe for Raquel Welsh in One Million Years B.C. or Britt Ekland in The Wickerman). The opening sequence, in which Fonda carelessly floats around her spaceship while stripping, is one of my favorite moments in cinema ever....for obvious reasons. The supportive cast is excellent as well, with a very 'cherubic' John Philip Law and David Hemmings as the confused revolutionary leader. A special word of praise goes out to Anita Pallenberg because she manages to look equally as yummy as Jane Fonda. Alongside Mario Bava's Danger Diabolik, this is probably the coolest film of the sixties. So, in case you haven't seen it yet, don't hesitate any further. "},{"Title":"She's a five-star, double-rated Astronavigatrix whose specialty is love!","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Assigned to locate errant scientist Durand-Durand on the decadent planet SoGo, futuristic Earth girl Barbarella encounters sexual deviants and the Black Queen's army, all eager to do her in. Sexual psychedelia based on the French comic (later translated and brought to America), this adult fantasy is very much in keeping with its source material--right down to the dialogue and set-designs. Too bad director Roger Vadim has a lethargic sense of pacing and practically no sense of humor. Scenes that should work don't, such as the evil chomping dolls or Barbarella's first meeting with Dildano (David Hemmings). There's groovy beauty in the design of this thing however, and Jane Fonda's deadpan comic performance as Barbarella is very special; although too brainy for a featherweight farce, Fonda is incredibly game and she gets in some amusing lines. Ugo Tognazzi (as the hairy hunk Mark Hand) is obviously dubbed--he sounds like a robot at Disneyland--but John Phillip Law is rather sweet as the blind angel Pygar and his flying/battle sequence with Jane in his arms is wonderful. There are few (if any) movies that look or sound like Barbarella; it is truly one-of-a-kind, for better or worse. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Which Skin?","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There are only a few films that can be called roots. 1968 generated two of them, '2001' and this. '2001' is about the ambiguities of who is narrating. This is about the ambiguities of where the skin is. From the very beginning, the prurient peeling of the spacesuit, to the marvelous suits she wears (with translucency and fake breasts and tummies), even to the orgasmic organ, and the psychic sex. The feeling by the blind man, and the people lost in the labyrinth who either develop holes or merge with the rocks.Identity is all about skin, here depicted as sex. Because it is cinematic. This is Jane Fonda's first project in layered acting. She would never reach the level of Brando, Penn, and the three women we have now. But she wasn't the ding bat she portrays, something you can tell from the very odd controlled inflections.There's even an inkling of some 60's ideas at the end, where the two poles of woman are saved because the angel has no memory.Incidentally, this was a thirty year old woman, newly pregnant and bulimic. Pretty amazing to do this.If you wish to understand science fiction, this is one of the movies you must see.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"An Unbearably Mod Science Fiction Disaster","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I suppose my reaction to Barbarella is a simple What is this sh*t?, and whether you love it or you hate it, you'll be saying the same thing too. There are three kinds of ways to react to Barbarella (1) this is a masterpiece in horribleness, (2) this is horrible, and (3) wow, this is HORRIBLE. Or, you can be like me and feel all three things at completely different times, but never at once. No matter who you are, you'll always know that Barbarella is terrible, but it's bad in so, so, so many ways. See Atrocious acting. Unironically kitschy set design. Writing that tries too hard to be tongue-in-cheek (but eventually throws all caution into the wind and just stops trying). Awful special effects. Jane Fonda trying as hard as she can to climb out of the cloyingly psychedelic quicksand only to suffocate.But like all camp, there's a point where you have to stop retching in disgust and sit back and absorb the outright shabbiness, to settle down and understand that what you're watching isn't going to be Forbidden Planet or 2001 A Space Odyssey. Roger Vadim, the tawdry French director who has been married to Brigitte Bardot and Barbarella star Jane Fonda, aimed for high camp but got low camp, wanting to play it straight at times when everything else seems to be moving in an uncontrollably zigzag motion. The results are super bungled up (there truly uninspired moments but there are also moments that tickle the wilder parts of our imagination), but unlike other Z-rate sci-fi romps of the time, the film takes itself seriously when it shouldn't and laughs at itself when it shouldn't. The tone (delightfully shitty) never hits a stride; I still can't tell you if Barbarella is so bad it's good or if it's so bad it's just bad.In the distant future, (astronaut? Space-based James Bond? Warrior? Sex kitten put in the wrong place?) Barbarella (Fonda) is assigned by the Earth's president to locate and return Doctor Durand Durand from the uncharted Tau Ceti region. Durand Durand, you see, created a weapon known as the Positronic Ray, which is deadly enough to cause Earthly leaders to fear extinction if it were to fall into the wrong hands. Barbarella crashed lands onto Tau Ceti's 16th planet, and, from there, embarks on an adventure that could only be found in a film like this, romancing a blind angel (John Phillip Law) and facing foes such as razor- toothed dolls, one-eyed nymphos, bloodthirsty canaries, aqueous personifications of evil, and Orgasmitrons.Oddly enough, most of the weird-ass things I've listed are dealt with with a straight face; there's no hint of anyone on the set even realizing that people aren't just going to nod along when Barbarella is almost murdered by a crazed ~ pause ~ Orgasmitron. In one interview, Fonda spoke about her character as if like was going for a particularly thoughtful characterization. Yeah right. With her newscaster voice and famously sexy body, she's the odd man out. If anything, she is the campiest thing in the film. She falls over (I mention this because Barbarella, despite being some kind of warrior, loses her balance a lot) with a slow-motion, I've fallen and I can't get up! deliberation; when she hits the ground, it's like she's climaxing for the camera. She says her lines like she knows they're bad, and sometimes even seems to be pretending that she's Brigitte Bardot and not The Respected Actress Jane F**king Fonda. Who can blame her? What actress can really take things seriously when they have to perform a (not erotic, awkward) zero-gravity striptease in a shag carpeted spaceship (?) in the opening scene alone?I could give Barbarella an A for being awful, but what kind of critic would I be if I rewarded a film for failing at everything it tries? I'll settle for a D+, but it's not a D+ in the same category as other flops. It's an entertaining failure, like a train wreck that is in the process of being stopped by Tobey Maguire in his Spidey suit. And look on the positive side a very successful '80s band was named after its villain, so it can't all be bad. "}{"Title":"One of the cheesiest films ever made","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" To enjoy 'Barbarella' you probably better put the 'feminists' arguments' against this film to one side and simply enjoy it for what it is... something totally silly. Does it degrade and/or exploit women? I don't know. I can see both sides of the story; I just choose not to think of it.Basically, if you don't know, it's a science fiction film with more than a few shades of 'soft p*rn' added for... well, good measure? Our heroine is the scantily-clad titular Barbarella &#x96; a member of Earth's space police who is given the task of hunting down a rogue scientist on a desolate planet. Along the way she encounters all manner of weird and wonderful characters, all of which are dressed equally provocatively as our fair maiden.If you're going to be totally realistic then you have to admit that Barbarella is a pretty awful film. The dialogue is terrible, the plot is wafer-thin and the special effects aren't that special (not including the costumes &#x96; as most guys may consider the costumers pretty special). But then it knows it's not a great film. It doesn't try to be. And, the reason it's still talked about today is because there will always be an audience who can appreciate 'bad' films and take delight in them.Don't go into this expecting anything other than a daft, slightly saucy, space adventure (and I'm told that the real 'hard scenes' were left on the cutting room floor). As long as you know what you're in for you should enjoy this film. It's not meant to be viewed as a great, intellectual work of art.Also, kudos for the genuinely creepy 'doll scene' &#x96; it's pretty nasty. "},{"Title":"Cockashella?","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Everybody makes mistakes. Luckily most of us never have our mistakes turn into cult items. Jane Fonda on the other hand is the exception. In 1967, just before Ho Chi Min's favorite exercise guru started making a name for herself as a real actress, there was Barbarella. Yes Barbarella, a 60s French sex farce that has been a pain in the butt for dear Jane for over 35 years.She agreed to this mess at the insistence of her then husband, French director Roger Vadim whose body of work consisted mostly of parading his mistresses and wives on screen in very stages of nudity. The fact that Vadim was married six times only helps us understand how well this tactic played at home.I've seen the movie several times. Several times because you watch Barbarella in horrified fascination but have to return because you simply can't believe it the first time.How do I describe it? Hmmm that's tough. It is an extravagant exercise in bad taste, an attempt to graf a female James Bond onto the daffiest episode of Star Trek while throwing in killer dolls, angels, and a torture machine that orgasms its victim to death.Fonda plays the title character, a 41st century British agent/sex kitten who buzzes around the galaxy in a spaceship that made mostly of shag carpeting and run by a computer with a voice that sounds like a gay Big Brother. I'm not sure what has happened to the British government by this century but I have to say I like the required uniform, or should I say uniforms because she changes into a new one about every four minutes. NOT that I am complaining! Barb comes from a generation where sex is performed through the consumption of a drug and very limited physical contact. Their idea of sex simply involves staring blankly into space while holding hands. There's a joke to be inserted here but I'll let you make your own crude comments.The movie opens with one of the most legendary scenes in B-Movie history, Fonda stripping in an anti-gravity environment as the letters of the opening credits pour out of her spacesuit. One waits to see if the movie will fulfill it's promise only to find that the scene is more tease than strip because director Roger Vadim has three little stars bubble up from the sides of the frame and float strategically over Ms. Fonda's goodies. Rog, you're a real sadist.The story begins during her latest shagedlic outing when Barb gets a message that a famous scientist has disappeared and she must find him before his latest weapon brings death to a distant planet. When she locates the planet, we see first-hand the limit of her piloting skills because she doesn't so much land on the surface as crash into it.What happens after that has to be seen to be believed. Barb gets help from a grizzly chested man who insists on sexual favors (the old fashioned way) in return for saving her from a swarm iron toothed, cupie dolls. This is Barb's first physical contact (the sex, not the dolls) and she uses it to get what she needs for rest of the film until she gets to Duran Duran (the scientist, not the band). His plan for Babs is to strap her into a very odd device that looks like a water bed crossed with a pipe-organ. The intent is to orgasm our heroine to death and in a movie this bad, the scene comes as both embarrassing AND annoying. But I can't decide which is more irritating, that a line like A grave many dramatic situations begin with screaming. Um, yeah! Finding the true root of irritation is not easy when it comes to Barbarella, the movie is a grand headache from one psychedelic migraine to the other especially the opening song which contains a line like Barbarella psychedella, there's a kind of cockle shell about ya. Dear lord, I can't believe I just quoted that. BAD CRITIC!! BAD!! "},{"Title":"A  trip worth taking","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not really a big fan of Jane Fonda's personally, but my God I don't think a woman has ever been more beautiful than she is in this film. We toss around the term breathtaking quite a bit, but she literally did take my breath away here.Part of the appeal of 'Barbarella' (beyond the aforementioned Ms. Fonda) is kitsch, but it also never stops throwing oddities at you. When it's over, you feel as if you've been taken on a journey to far-flung (and far out) places.It's not really a good movie, but it's a trip worth taking, no pun intended. "},{"Title":"I Understand the Cult Following (sort of)","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella has a cult following,and to be fair I think there is some good in this film. It is a mixed bag, but I think it has a lot going for it.I do not even know how to explain the story of this film. Basically it is about this chick named Barbarella who travels across the universe and has sexual experiences (of different types) with various males.Jane Fonda I think does a good job for the type of role she is given. She looks pretty good,and definitely had sex appeal going for her at the time that this movie was made. Probably the part that stands out the most was the beginning sequence where she has her outfit gradually fall off until she is naked.The story is unusual but somewhere the meaning must be that sexual experiences with other people are better than other means of sex. Yeah..................The music and the visuals in this film are really good. I think that is another major strength of this film.Overall, I think this movie is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A rather dated camp classic","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you watched the 1980 version of Flash Gordon and thought it was a bit too camp then Barbarella is not the film for you as it makes Flash Gordon look positively restrained! Set in the far future our eponymous heroine is sent on a mission by the President of Earth to find the scientist Durand Durand. He has invented the positronic ray; a weapon that threatens the peace that now exists throughout most of the universe. She heads to the planet where he was last seen but crash-lands. She soon learns that this is a far from safe place although there are some people who are willing to help her on her mission including an angel! Her mission will take her to a city ruled over by an evil tyrant who would happily have Barbarella killed but if she wants to complete her mission she will have to confront her.While this film is a camp classic it has plenty of flaws; much of the acting isn't great, the story is okay at best and the special effects have dated badly. Luckily Jane Fonda is delightful in the title roll managing to bring the necessary innocence to her roll even though she is almost always wearing fairly revealing clothes&#x85; apart from in the famous opening sequence when she strips down from wearing a space suit to wearing nothing at all! Even that is fairly innocent by today's standards with the credits protecting her modesty most but not quite all of the time. If you like your sci-fi camp then this is a must see otherwise it is more of a curiosity from a more innocent age; sex is referred to but happens off camera, there is no swearing and nudity is limited to a very brief glimpse of Jane Fonda's breasts and backside so it shouldn't offend too many adult viewers. "},{"Title":"Psychedella!","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you are in the right mood, BARBARELLA can be viewed as an amusing piece of campy silliness. If you aren't in the right mood, in may come off as a stupefyingly insipid piece of soft-core almost-but-not-quite-porn. BARBARELLA was pretty hot stuff for it's time, with a broadly played comic book approach, mixed with a touch of the psychedelic, it rather boldly exploited sex in the spirit, if not the style, of Playboy magazine. Whether its low-budget tackiness is a result of its design or a result of actually having a low budget isn't clear, but certainly its amateurish quality gives it a distinctive style &#150; which is either part of its charm or part of its curse. Depending on your mood. An amusing distraction while watching it might be trying to determine what part of it is the cheesiest the sex, the special effects, the set design or it's cheerfully chirpy musical score. My vote would go to the costume design; no doubt created to make Barbarella look outrageously sexy, all of Jane Fonda's many changes in wardrobe look as though they had been borrowed from a particularly low-rent/high-tech strip club.The story takes place in the 40th century, where Barbarella is some sort of agent from the Republic of Earth. She is ordered to go to the planet SoGo to find Dr. Durand Durand and to stop him from using some sort of weapon he has invented. That's not much of a plot, but it is enough to get Barbarella started on her real agenda, having sex.Probably the key weakness with the film is the pivotal miscasting of Fonda as the title character. She is just fine with the central demands of the role, the numerous instances of gratuitous nudity; however Fonda has never excelled in comedy and is even less effective at playing wide-eyed innocents. Fonda just can't play dumb and being at least a bit spaced out is a basic characteristic of Barbarella. Other than a few moments here and there where it is clear that Fonda realizes just how ridiculous the material is, she otherwise plays it straight, which is not to the film's benefit. Fonda's star was on the rise at the time, a starlet winning acceptance as a serious actress, and she was just on the verge of becoming a political activist. Having such a prominent star take a role in such a, well... sleazy production must have been quite a coup &#150; though at the time being the wife of the director, Roger Vadim, no doubt, had a great influence on her taking the part. Even so, you get the feeling that Vadim is exploiting his wife to promote his career, rather than showing much concern for hers.BARBARELLA isn't without it's nice touches. For one, there is David Hemmings as a would-be revolutionary who can't hide his embarrassment when his technological gadgets don't work right. And John Phillip Law is blissfully serene as a blind, but rather hunky, angel who captures the sense of innocence that escapes Fonda. On the whole, however, (unlike Miss Fonda herself) BARBARELLA hasn't aged well. It's trippy attitude and wishful views of intergalactic politics was naïve then and just dopey now. Yet BARBARELLA is one of those films that wasn't appreciated in its day (and still isn't very good) but has nonetheless achieved cult status. And admittedly making a film so off beat, that blends fairy tales and politics and sex, even if it fails, does take a certain boldness (and possibly certain illegal substances). "},{"Title":"Vadim's giant celluloid erection for low-grade sci-fi comics and Jane Fonda","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella is a movie so stuck in its times that a little man ala Mortal Kombat should've popped out in the lower right hand corner of the screen from time to time yelling SIXTIES! While it partially is like the father to the kind of far-out, crazy sci-fi that one would see in Heavy Metal comics, it's overall an article in bad moviedom that is by turns eye-catching, outrageous, fun, and f***ing weird. Roger Vadim, along with his cadre of screenwriters (one of them, who from time to time shows his imprint on the material, Terry Southern), has a giant starring vehicle for Jane Fonda to play as the title character, who's only motivation in the movie is to get aroused by different men and look for a madman named Duran Duran (no, not the band, that was later).Everything else involving a story is as shallow as a kiddie pool during a heatwave. There's some adventure with Pygar, an angel who's reminiscent of one of the boy-toys from Fellini's Satyricon, and some peril that Barbarella gets into, be it from walking dolls with metal shark teeth or from colorful birds ala Hitchcock in a cage, not to mention various scenes meant to titillate anyone who finds Fonda remotely attractive (and let it be said, she is absolutely stunning here, maybe too much so as she goes between various more-or-less revealing clothes and gets aroused either the old-fashioned way or through hand-to-hand touch with David Hemmings). For Fonda, it's a gay old time with her husband-cum-director coaching her on to be bigger-than-life, but always with a twinkle in her eye and a leg to spare.As for the film itself... damn if it isn't usually bad or dull or a combination of both. Yet it's a kind of absorbing, strange and 'did-they-just-do-that' badness that is somewhat reminiscent of the later 70s Zardoz, yet at least here nowhere near incoherent or muddled. Vadim does have some sort of vision, though it's surrounded by loads of very dated special effects that end up being a lot more enjoyable than they should be. An exuberance is put into the production, as well as the freaky production design, and certain visuals that make one wonder if Tim Leary visited the set as a consult (by the way, check for David Gilmour as guitarist in the score). It's a true product of its time, wacky and stupid and like a big wad of acid-flavored jolly ranchers found in a lighthearted porno shop hence, of course, its cult status. "},{"Title":"Campy but so much fun.","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the far reach of the galaxy in the year 40,0000, Barberella (Jane Fonda) whom is a sexy space explorer from Earth has been called to find Dr. Durand-Durand as she explores the planet Sogo. While on her mission she encounters deadly kids, a bad bisexual queen, friendly alien angels, sexual torture devices and must save the world from a mad scientist.Exciting French/Italian Sci-fi fantasy comedy based on an adult comic book. Dino De Laurentiis produced this offbeat, silly and quite sexy romp features Jane Fonda at her best being the sex symbol of her time. The theme song with the steamy striptease in the beginning is quite groovy, i know the acting is not attractive and the dialog being stiff as hell but this is a fun movie for anyone who likes sexy Sci-fi flicks and leave your brain at the door flicks.Also recommended Heavy Metal, The Fifth Element, Star Wars Saga, Flash Gordon, Austin Powers Trilogy, 2001A Space Odyssey, Pitch Black, Chronicles of Riddick, Dune (1984 and 2000), Children of Dune, Starchaser Legend of Orin, Killer Klowns from Outer Space, Serenity, Nausicca Valley of the Wind, The Black Hole, Zathura, Starship Troopers, Titan A.E, and Transformers (1986 and 2007). "},{"Title":"droll, sexy science fiction","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Droll science-fiction from a French comic strip by Jean-Claude Forest (I remember reading it, I think, in the Evergreen Review). The young Jane Fonda is very nice to look at, and at the same time her dry, matter-of-fact voice works (as the cage in the City of Night fills with brightly coloured birds, she says impatiently, This is too poetic a way to die). The special effects are primitive. Milo O'Shea plays the evil genius Durand-Durand, and sultry Anita Pallenberg the Great Tyrant, and John Philip Law the angel Pygar. There's a little more nudity in this uncut version. Barbarella is so primally innocent the evil miasma over which the Tyrant's terrible city is built spits her out; she is so sexy she destroys Durand-Durand's fatal pleasure machine; she pats the armrest with regret before moving on to the next adventure... "},{"Title":"Cheesy, campy, stupid, but I loved it...","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'd always heard about this film since I was a kid and I finally had the chance to watch this after taping it from a cable movie channel. Jane Fonda stars in this psychedelic sci-fi flick as Barbarella an astronaut from Earth who is sent to Sogo to look for the missing scientist Duran Duran. That's right, not the band, but an actual man. Let the innuendos and softcore porn fly! Watch Jane Fonda flirt, watch Jane Fonda strip, Watch Jane Fonda be pleasured by a music machine as Duran Duran strums it along. This surely is softcore porn at its finest with phallic symbols galore and names like Dildano, not to mention suggestive sexual content featuring a blind angel, a hot black queen, and Barbarella of course.Sure, it's bait for the fellas at MST 3K, but keep in mind that it's a blast solely for its camp value. This is such a fun film with cheesy special effects, terrible acting, horrible villains, and terrible special effects.BUT the main reason to watch, the ultimate reason the luscious and curvaceous Jane Fonda.Fonda is simply and utterly the definition of sexuality in this film and will make any man's head explode. Skimpy outfits, lusty looks, and curves curves curves make her any male movie goers fantasy.So, give this a chance and pop in Plan 9, Reefer Madness, and this and have yourself a cheesy film festival!This is one of the most fun, pleasant, and hilarious films I've ever seen, and it's highly suggested.(*** out of ****) "}{"Title":"Pure and innocent adventure","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was born in 1975, so I don't know why this film was made the way it was. I mean all this adventure and science-fiction elements and all this innocence. Yes, it's innocent and pure...or almost.Barbarella is a (very) beautiful lady who must find a guy called Duran Duran. He's a scientist who invented a weapon that can destroy the whole universe. During the journey in search of this man, Barbarella meets many weird places and people. To get the information she wants, she has sex with some of the men she finds. But no sex scene is seen in the film. Actually, the only time we see Jane Fonda without clothes is in the opening of the film. It's during the credits. She's inside her spaceship, a place with no gravity, floating in the air while she undresses and sways to the music. Arts in its entire beauty. The film itself, however, doesn't please me too much. I like the idea of having a good and beautiful actress in an adventure movie, but I think Barbarella could have a more interesting plot and better elaborated situations. During the film we have a clear sensation we are watching a child story! Pity, with Jane Fonda it could be better, but I still think Barbarella is worth watching!My rate 6/10     "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda nude? YES! All Else? NO!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is good for one thing and one thing only, Jane Fonda nude! The plot, the special effects, the acting, the editing all stink. this movie gets a 5 from more for one reason, Jane Fonda nude!  "},{"Title":"Yes it's trash - but... GREAT!!!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  if you expect this movie to be an high tech sci fi action event. go for star wars. but if you like trash like flash gordon (1980) and the 60ies this is a must! barbarella is a beautifully naive and one dimensional character. forget the plot. it is worse than a bad star trek episode. this move has different qualities. the visual effects are great. a soap bubble and lava lamp universe. great 60-style sci fi costumes. fantastic stage settings. not to mention the soundtrack!this is a classic!!!  "},{"Title":"BwaaaaaHaaaHaaaa!!!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, I rented this little stinker when I was in high school. I had a serious high-school preoccupation with Duran Duran and wanted to see the film that they had gotten their name from. My father let me rent it, (despite the fact that he is a vet.). I'm sure ms. Fonda would like to dismiss this film from memory. That won't happen. She can make serious movies till the cows come home (and they won't). But this one will linger on and on and on. "},{"Title":"Flash Gordon, in drag, on LSD !","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When I watch a film, I try and gauge my reaction with a sense of how it must've been a product of its time. Example, King Kong 1933 will always be a masterpiece for the sheer ingenuity involved in its making. However, any way I look at it, and I've just seen it for the first time in a decade and a half, Barbarella seems to me to be one of those films that just amazes me with its ineptitude. If it's a comedy, it's just not funny. The constant and repeated penile shaping of various vehicles gets tedious really, really quickly. If it's sci-fantasy, it's practically an insult to the genre. It's amazing to me that it was made at the same time as 2001. That became a high watermark for f/x. This lamentable waste of celluloid actually tries to get away with back projection of lava lamps as a representation of space.If watching Jane Fonda's lowest career ebb as a bargain basement soft porn Flash Gordonette is your thing, fine.....to me, it's a horribly dated, horribly executed mis-step.  "},{"Title":"good, for its time","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While this movie isn't up to the standard Star Trek and special effects fare.  It is a good movie to represent its era.  There is nothing particularly fancy about it, but funny writing, good acting, and an amusing story make it somewhat enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Psychadella.","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jane Fonda is the title character, a 41st century secret agent who must go to a mysterious planet to find scientist Durand Durand, who has a secret weapon that threatens the galaxy. Or some such thing. Barbarella must also contend with the bizarre inhabitants of this world as she undergoes a series of stimulating and frightening adventures.Bizarre is the word to describe this idiotic and incoherent satire(?) that isn't funny or insightful in any way, just an incredibly tacky and dated comic strip brought to life.Famous for two notable scenes with Jane Fonda...and we all know what they are! "},{"Title":"De-crucify the angel!","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Roger Vadim's film adaptation of Barbarella couldn't match Jean-Claude Forest's source sci-fi comic for pure perviness, being a cheeky tease and empty come-on, compared to the original's Gallic slap and tickle. But it did seduce audiences into imagining all sorts of pleasures awaited, after watching Jane Fonda's zero-gravity strip-tease in the opening credits.Conversely, 1974 soft porn comedy Flesh Gordon, featuring the likes of Emperor Wang and Dr Flexi Jerkoff, isn't nearly as kinky as Mike Hodges' S&M-riddled family favourite Flash Gordon, which practically squirts alien pheromone from every pore.Both Barbarella and Flash Gordon share the same kind of trash aesthetic (see also John Waters and Russ Meyer) that would find favour among punk's new wave sex as pop art - cartoonish, larger than life, and louder than hell. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Although Barbarella contains some iconic images and has great sets and costumes, the film itself is rather disappointing and shows Vadim's limitations as a filmmaker. Visually the film does not really work because Vadim produces two-dimensional flat images imitating the panels of a comic. Film and comic book however are different media which cannot be adapted 11 because of different underlying principles. That's why from my point of view the film is partly an artistic failure- as opposed to Bava's Diabolik which is a much more visual film. The original comic book is very much a product of it's time and certainly not one to enter the Comic Book Hall of Fame. The drawings are minimalistic and the stories (although at the time they had a certain shock value which is hard to believe today) are tedious and confused at best. That certainly comes across in the film. All in all the stills from the film look better than the film itself. "},{"Title":"Decrucify the angel!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Takes place in the year 4000. Barbarella (Jane Fonda) goes to a distant planet to find a scientist named Duran Duran and his ultimate weapon--the Positronic Ray. There she meets the blind, VERY hunky flying angel Pygar (John Phillip Law) and fights with the evil Black Queen (Anita Pallenburg) and her helper (Milo O'Shea).VERY much a movie of its time. Full of psychedelic special effects, mod clothes and truly astounding set designs. The plot here is not critical--it's just used as an excuse to see Fonda wandering into all these strange situations and people. The dialogue is (to put it mildly) pretty campy. Also Fonda is nude quite a lot (how this has a PG rating is beyond me) and there's a strong emphasis on sex. Her character is sexually active and she's not punished and doesn't apologize for it--that's a pretty refreshing attitude. Fonda still says to this day that she's proud of this and thinks it's a fun movie. Also Law is GREAT as the angel--all pumped up and just beautiful to look at. Gotta give the guy credit for pulling off a role where he has giant wings attached to him! There's some really lousy songs here too and the special effects are quite amusing.Is this a good movie? Not really, but it's just fun to look at and the dialogue has plenty of just hysterical lines. Turn off your mind and enjoy. A 6. By the way, the band Duran Duran got their name from this movie! "}{"Title":"Jane in her sex-kitten phase.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a very silly movie, less science fiction than cheesy fantasy erotica. A youthful and lovely Jane Fonda (long before her Anti-War Activist and Oscar-Winning Actress phases) stars as the title heroine, dispatched by the President of Earth to find a renegade scientist in the distant star system of Tau Ceti.It's an enjoyably campy romp if you're into that sort of thing. The new DVD release features a pristine print of vivid primary colors that showcases the imaginatively bizarre sets and costumes. Unfortunately there are also some poor opticals and inferior mattework and rear-projection, particularly in the unconvincing depiction of an 'Angel' (played by John Phillip Law of GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD) in flight.But even as a movie you can laugh at, there are some undeniable pleasures. Fonda is quite fetching in a somewhat exploitative role, Milo O'Shea is properly deranged as the scientist turned evil, and Law stays dignified despite wearing a sort of floppy diaper.The score is typical 1960's pop, with some catchy brass lines and dopey lyrics sung by Bob Crewe and his singers. Best of all is the opening scene, when Fonda does a zero-g striptease while removing her spacesuit. It's technically beautifully done, with no visible wires, Fonda gyrating slowly while she peels off the suit, her hair floating around her face as she smiles beatifically. I watched it four times in a row. That scene, not the whole movie; once was enough. "},{"Title":"besides sensual shots of Jane Fonda the film is filled so much with philosophy, you might just miss them, although being mesmerised by Barbarella's beauty might help","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When I first read about this movie, I was interested in it because it had John Philip Law, who played Sinbad(1974) and also because it looked very visually entertaining, especially because of Jane Fonda. It was much different back-round-wise than I thought in that it was basically filmed on some sets, but philosophically wise it blew my mind, with so many little, subtle comments on humanity that I was really overwhelmed. There was a lot of imagery, as well as Jane Fonda, to spark some creative, 60's style thinking within me. The different things in it, like the pills (with the silly hand thing), the 'but the universe has been pacified for centuries!' the greeting 'love' and such really conveyed a sense of the 60's, with sex, love, and such, really coming through. The author Jena-Claude Forest, is like a lot of French authors known in America, grant the knowing may be small, in that he has a layered work of fiction that besides having a storyline, like all stories do, has so much philosophy intertwined that it could take a while analyse the movie's different philosophies, views on life, social commentary etc. And even though there wasn't much real-world footage in the movie, it served its purpose as a visually entertaining erotic sci-fi, even though its mild compared to a lot of modern stuff. It has lots of commentary in it, that would be better understood by one who watched it for the visuals. The idea that the old fashioned way is better, is quite humanistic and central to the idea that no matter how technologically advanced humans become, sex will always be there, as an everlasting part of human character. The different kinds of people are portrayed literally though the myriad of characters, who convey different lifestyles, views, etc on life through what they are doing, how they look and dress, etc. Barbarella is the perfect, sexy, innocent, good, and wholesome woman, who is a balanced individual, who is seen to be the most adaptable, which would explain why she is the heroine, while the Ice Man is the simple, good, wholesome, manly, guy, who prefers the old fashioned way. Pygar seems to be this pure being, (as he is an angel), who was de-masculinated in that he lost the will to fly even though he is still helps Barbarella. Anita Pallenburg is the at heart truthful, but lesbian like woman who wants meaning and companionship, even though she is outwardly corrupt and seemingly full of debauchery, although by the end, she seems much more normal. Dildano, is the thoughtful, yet innocent rebel, who to me, seems to represent those unsure, or afraid of sex, in that he prefers to do it with the pill after 'waiting five years' for the chance.The scientist Duran Duran to me is the kind of man who seeks the meaning of life and is dissatisfied, leading him to seek more, and devote his life to research and learning for personal philosophical advancement. There is a lot more that could be analysed, but we wouldn't want to die from excessiveness, now would we! This film, like a lot of great films I have watched, left me feeling nostalgic for the beginning of the movie and wanting more. A good movie in my opinion, often is one that is very touching philosophically and maybe in other ways (visually) that leaves the viewer wanting more, wanting a sequel that tragically would be, as the viewer would know, worthless and not as good as the same. Bittersweet and all ending is how Barbarella felt from the light, innocent, breezy, sexy opening to the deep, nostalgic yearning for more, and thought inducing end. -George "},{"Title":"Genius is mysterious","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Sexy and fun, featuring the lovely Jane Fonda who performs a sweet sweet striptease with the opening credits. Barbarella is a picture that declines to take itself seriously, and thereby succeeds in generating a great time watching it. In the distant future, Barbarella is blissfully unaware of her sexual nature, until she meets the blind winged angel, Pygar. But the pair must fight for their right to love, against the power of the Black Queen who wants Barbarella for her own purposes. Barbarella is put through such tortures as the 'Excessive Machine' designed to overload it's victims with sexual pleasure. Barbarella however turns out to be too much for the boxful of circuits and the device dies of the ultimate orgasm. Eventually Barbarella and her consort defeat the Queen and live happily ever after. The director here deserves the credit for his imaginative handling of sets, gadgets, and characters; they are all imminently memorable. This a product of the hippy generation at it's peak. You know what i'm saying? And oh yes pop sensation Duran Duran got their name and their style after the strange children in this film. "},{"Title":"Barbarella - Queen of Campiness","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I want to start by saying You either love Barbarella or you hate it. This movie is definitely not for everyone. IT IS PURE 1960s CAMP! I first saw this gem by looking out of my upstairs bedroom window, which was adjacent to a drive-in theater, when I was 12 years old. Although I couldn't hear the sound, the visual impression stayed with me ever since. When this movie was released on DVD, I purchased it right away. Adding sound and dialog to my visual memories of Barbarella propelled me into psychedelic bliss. This movie is the epitome of the 1960s social atmosphere. Unabated guilt free sex, psychedelic imagery (ala lava lamp special effects), and mind altering pill popping. Jane Fonda, prior to becoming a pariah in this country, delivers the essence of Barbarella in perfect fashion. A sex kitten with childlike innocence, questionable intelligence, and a body that won't stop pleasing the eye. The opening track from Bob Crewe and Charles Fox is an amazing piece of silliness, complete with goofy lyrics, and seems to take itself all too serious, although I am sure Crewe was laughing as he penned it. It reminds me of the kiddies Fireball XL-5 theme song. Barbarella's terribly aerodynamic deficient spaceship rivals that of 1930s Flash Gordon in hokeyness (sans sparks), and looks like it is made out of plywood. I can go on and on, but I won't. Bottom line is this movie is great in a very very bad way. In closing, this is must see for anyone who loved the 1960s, and are of the opinion that Ed Wood was a genius. "},{"Title":"Bold, trashy and psychedelic entertainment!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the year 40,000 a beautiful young astronaut named Barbarella is given a mission from the president of earth to find a young scientist called Duran Duran who has created a dangerous weapon and to use all her talents to bring him back and stop the weapon falling into wrong hands. This means by getting the job done by any type of means. She crash lands on the planet Lythion and comes across strange beings, some good and others evil.A real Cult Classic!!!! This guilty pleasure of mine is a real campy, charming and outlandish Sci-fi adventure that's based from a comic strip. It truly reminisces the spirited era of the 60's with kitsch, eroticism and psychedelic overload. It might be rather tame and dated by today's standards, but the premise is clearly charged with zest, beauty, humour and an awe of imagination that somehow draws you into this marvellously vivid fantasy. The mellow film is nothing incredibly grand or special, but the campy feel of it seems to work on so many levels. The stunning opening sequence captures the essences of the film beautifully and shows what we are going to see throughout the running time. It simply flows with originality.There are some creative designs and gizmo's that pop up in the film. From weird sexual pleasure devices, her spaceship with fur interior and inventive technology. Cheap and hokey special effects are potent in the mood and charm of it, as the unusual backdrop and story probably comes across as one big LSD trip. Good imagination went into set designs and props. It's terrifically shot and colourful to the extreme, with sequences of swirling colours just like in a lava lamp. The planet where the film takes place on is atmospherically glossy and visually impressive, from the ice fields, the Labyrinth and the City. Each time the scenario changed so did the backdrop of the world, ranging from vibrantly fresh and richly layered scenery that was fairly eye catching. The groovy soundtrack goes well with the set up. The score when in effect was upbeat and very psychedelic in depicting the mood and flair of the situation. The costume designs had a lot of weird and rather out their fashion statements, where a lot of skin is shown, especially Fonda's wardrobe as she basically changes into many different skimpy outfits.The performances from the cast were adequate enough, because the hammy and rather mundane performances went in hand to hand with the context of the film. The ludicrous characters were interesting from their distinguishing personalities and features. Now the luscious Jane Fonda was perfect in the role and was rather fetching eye candy as Barbarella. Her character oozes with sex appeal and beauty. The supporting roles were solid enough. John Phillip Law is good as the blind angel Pygar. Anita Pallenberg shines as The Great Tryant. Milo O'Shea is impressive as the earth scientist Duran Duran. David hemming is amusing as Dildano and Marcel Marceau as the helpful Professor Ping. Cheesy, witty and quotable dialogue fills every scene. Sometimes is does come across as a lot of mumbo jumbo or pointless dribble. But still it has strong appeal to it all. Barbarella gets all the best lines.While there is a lot of style, there is no real substance behind the story. The flawed plot is nothing much, as there is not much of one. The film moves from one sequence to another without any real cohesion or urgency and that achieves some tedious spots of too much talk and dwelling on nothing of importance. Some of these moments were favoured over the sorely underused and eye catching background features. You can say there was more talk than lively action. There were only small patches of it and some action towards the end, but for me that didn't take away from the film. It was hardly repetitious and rather unforeseeable storytelling. Add in some fun and amusing scenes involving malevolent kids with evil dolls, bizarre space beings, an angel, killer budgies and a lot of erotic pleasure and fixations. How could you not have fun watching this camp? Well, what can I say it's so bad that it's good cheesy and sleazy fun that will raise a smirk here and there. Just don't expect any logic to it all. "},{"Title":"Strange but superb! Jane Fonda is great in Barbarella!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw this film on DVD, and I loved it!Yes, it is bad in some ways i guess but it is so, well, beautiful! quite a few comments say that it has a bad plot, bad acting, bad effects, bad everything. they are WRONG! the sets are all great, the costumes also. Ok, the plot is very simple (save the world from the bad guy) but come on! What's wrong with that? how many movies doesn't have that basic plot anyway??!Jane Fonda is fantastic in this film! She plays the role of the innocent hero excellent, and her acting fits the character & the film perfect. She also looks her absolute best!After seeing Barbarella I searched the net, and I read somewhere that the film has been censored a lot. Strange, I mean Fonda is naked in the opening sequence so what has been cut out? Does anyone know? and is there an 'uncut' version out? usually I find uncut versions to be less good than the original release (there's a reason why a specific scene was left out) but since I really liked this movie it might just be worth watching anyway. if it exists of course!Anyhow, this is a must see movie. it's great and I'm even prepared to call it a cult movie. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda at her best","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This may be the greatest movie of all time. It's as campy as Batman and twice as sexy. The 60's never looked better. From the shag carpeted interior of a friggin' space ship to the lava lamp exterior of space, this movie has all the charm of the Ladies' Man's houseboat and the nostalgia value of the Alka-Seltzer jingle. See it or be square.  "},{"Title":"Erotic Adventure Classic From 1968","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella (1968) Jane Fonda, John Phillip Law, Anita Pallenberg, Claude Dauphin, Marcel Marceau, Milo O'Shea, Giancarlo Cobelli, Veronique Vendell, Serge Marquand, Nino Musco, Franco Gula, Catherine Chevalier, Umberto Di Grazia, David Hemmings, Honey Autumn, Diane Bond, Tania De Paolis, Joan Greenwood.....Director Roger Vadim, Screenplay Claude Brule from the French comic book by Jean-Claude Forest.An angel is love.....Barbarella became a cult classic not after its initial theatrical release (the hype then was Jane Fonda's nudity on film) but when it was re-issued as a video cassette, joining such midnight B movie classics as The Rocky Horror Picture Show. Loosely based on the French science fiction comic book by Jean-Claude Forest, it was director by French director Roger Vadim, at the time married to American actress Jane Fonda. Why she did this role we'll never know; it appears to have been made to please her husband, whose views of American and French/European sexuality is clearly stamped into the film while at the same time selling out to American 1960's pop culture. But free love and pop art aren't things that really form part of Barbarella which is ultimately a silly erotic adventure that classifies as soft-core pornography. Barbarella (Fonda) is an American government agent in the far-out future as only the wild 1960's could conjure up. War has become a thing of the past, and the planets are aligned in peace. Free love reigns. But the ambitious and demented scientist Dr. Durand Durand has left earth with a newly invented planet and escaped into another planet. The French Earth President (Claude Dauphine) assigns Barbarella to find the missing scientist. Off she goes on her adventure. Throughout the film, she encounters a variety of bizarre, mysterious and exotic characters from a blind angel (John Phillip Law) who, after a sexual encounter, inspires him to fly once more, a Catch-Man who makes love the old-fashioned way, lost souls entrapped in a labyrinth, leather-made, souless soldiers and the Black Queen, a bisexual and wicked tyrant who rules the decadent Soddom-and-Gomorrah type City of Night. Upon her arrival into the city, the angel is crucified and taken prisoner of the Black Queen who uses him for sex, and Barbarella is subject to Durand Durand's orgasm machine, whose powerful keys can trigger a fatal orgasm.If all these elements sound like the plot to a 1970's porno-theater movie, this is exactly what Barbarella is like, only without the graphic sex scenes. While there is nudity (such as the opening scene in which Barbarella strips in zero gravity) it's done in the softest of soft-core manner, worthy of the images in 1960's Playboy magazines. The sex is implied but never shown, but while Barbarella engages in sex with men to thank them for assisting a government agent, the sex is worthy of soft-core porn set to really good music. The script is as lousy as a porno and attempts to be very comical. The problem is the British, French and Italian actors in the movie are not trained in comedy (neither is Fonda who mostly spews one-liners like I'm not tube kind of girl) so the result is mostly dry comedy without any real ha-ha-ha moments. But the best parts of the film the 1960's signature. It's a time capsule of late 60's pop culture, from references to the pill to the easy sexuality and free love to the total irreverence (i.e. an angel, always associated with holy love and God/religion, succumbs to sex by both Barbarella and the evil Black Queen). The Matmos, a primal force of nature looks like the inside of a lava lamp waiting to break through the glass. While there is not much drug use, there is a scene in which men and women are getting high on essence of man and resembles smoking pot or weed. It's also a very campy, kitschy, surreal film designed to look like some hippie's drug trip. The colorful sets and imagery is unlike anything audiences had seen before, like some sprawling work of graphic novel art. The music by Michel Magne and James Campbell is absolutely wonderful, dramatic and yet fun, loose, light jazzy melodies, a terrific composition of film music. The cinematography by Claude Renoir is a combination of Flash Gordon type of sci-fi imagery (bizarre spaceships, rock formations, planets) and the costumes by Jacques Fonteray and Paco Rabane are delicious 1960's camp and very sexy. The film is meant to be a lot of fun, despite the slight longeur and slow pace. Be warned this film is hardly feminist, despite the female heroine looking like a space warrior. She is the figure of Roger Vadim's fantasies about seductive women using sex as their only form of power over men. Barbarella never once really uses her brains or brawns. It's all sex. The movie influenced space warrior girl movies found in pornography of later years like the 1980's and 1990's as well as comedies like Austin Powers (Duran Duran and Dr. Evil are very similar). Barbarella is a movie of it's era. "},{"Title":"Fun film  nearly destroyed by lame ending","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" BARBARELLA is often cited by many as being one of the worst films ever made. There are as many fans of this film as there are haters. The divide is evenly split in the middle you either love this film or you just hate. Though I sometimes gravitated on the haters side I've always enjoyed watching it for the sheer psychedelic nonsense of it all. Aside from films by Fellini, there's nothing quite like it out there. After seeing it recently, I finally realized why BARBARELLA feels like a complete failure when in fact it's often brilliant and original the ending is bad. Really bad. It's so bad that it negates all the kookie brilliance that happened just before it.What's so bad about the ending is that it makes Barbarella the most ineffective hero of all time Barbarella is sent from earth to find Duran Duran. In her long and eventful quest, she goes through a series of crazy moments which always seems to surpass the one that just occurred before. The film carefully builds-up a myriad of sequences, funny or sexy, which culminates with Barbarella finally meeting Duran Duran and experiencing the Excessive Machine. After this brilliant scene, the film basically ends then and there. What happens after this is bad. The momentum of the rest of the film is quickly dissipated when Barbarella is placed in the room of Dreams with that evil woman. Instead of coming up with a glorious ending to end all of the fun psychedelic action, Barbarella is shown to be completely ineffective. Her role during the climax is hopelessly passive. She just watches on the evil woman's monitor what's taking place when Duran Duran becomes crazy and destroys the world around them. That's it. Barbarella just doesn't do anything at all. I'm aware that most writers have a hard time writing stories with female action heroes but the ending in BARBARELLA is a complete letdown.Instead of tying up everything with a clever and spirited ending, the story goes nowhere and the film ends abruptly. Without a strong and memorable ending, BARBARELLA ends up feeling like a collection of scenes haphazardly stitched together with no satisfying conclusion to tie them all up. And it's a shame because there's so much amazing stuff in this movie. Jane Fonda gives her most memorable performance. She's sexy, believable in the role and funny. The cast is excellent. The 1960s production design is amazing and eye catching (love those robot/soldiers with whips) with lotsa skin on display. The music is perfectly bombastic. Yes, the effects are dated but it gives the movie a certain charm. I give BARBARELLA a 8 stars from the opening credit up to the Excessive Machine scene. But because of the lame ending, I can only give it 5 stars. "},{"Title":"They filmed it...they really filmed it.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" By 5/10, I mean 10/10 if you like trashy, psychedelic skin flicks, 0/10 if you don't. As far as I can tell, Barbarella has no purpose other than to show off Jane Fonda's body. It's hard to believe that they filmed this, but somehow they did. She and John Philip Law had co-starred in Hurry Sundown the previous year; it's anyone's guess whether they want to be remembered for co-starring in that one or this one. But I think that it's pretty obvious that Milo O'Shea would prefer to be remembered for playing Friar Laurence in Romeo and Juliet, and not for playing Duran Duran here. I'm sure that overall, Jane Fonda is embarrassed by this movie, especially since she became one of America's prime political activists over the next few years. Weird. "}{"Title":"Surprising many user comments do not get it.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  BARBARELLA is cheaply laid out and stacked with plenty of unimportant and wasteful segments which happily zap your time. But the movie is importantly funny with all of the sex, drugs and rock n' roll as it is what the sixties were about. This movie captured more of its time than timeless other movies released around BARBARELLA (BULLITT, COOL HAND LUKE, GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER, 2001, GRADUATE, etc).It's the 41st century, and BARBARELLA is sent by loving Earth to find one Duran Duran in a war-torn section of space.The movie is all about tripping out. You have to watch the movie again as a tripper because it's trip-inducing (electro-magnetic storm). The 'Essence of Man' segment was pretty wild. But beyond the opening credit scene (which was an excellent strip), the movie gets really boring, especially because next to none of the segments tie in to the climax. This was pop culture living itself out for the sixties. "},{"Title":"one scene movie","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film registers on the must see list for it's famous Jane Fonda weightless scene...the rest of the movie is all 60's and pretty hokie. Still it is a trip back in time for the drive-in style and music. "},{"Title":"Not so innocent","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella is a victim of the decade it was produced shag carpets, hairy men, drug-induced events, free love, political undertone, and unusual characters. By unusual characters, I am talking about the mindless people who live outside the city and those that live inside the city, the children with the living dolls, and the winged man who becomes Barbarella's friend and lover. Although this is a science fiction film, it goes as far as to exploring sexuality and innocence. In fact, this film is a little bit odd. I found it to be more slow-moving than enjoyable. I suppose it has a cult-following, which usually means that the film is different and probably will not be enjoyed by many. "},{"Title":"Visually striking film ruined by a dumb script","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film made Jane Fonda notorious (she briefly appears topless), and it remains notorious today for different reasons. Fonda's career was going through its sex kitten phase, guided by her then-husband, director Roger Vadim. She plays some kind of female Buck Rogers type, only that many of her adventures are of a sexual nature. Aside from being embarrassing to Fonda now, its best features are its sets and photography. The colors are striking and the design and gadgets have a psychedelic look that's fascinating to see. Also, it features one of the most improbable group of actors ever collected into a single movie. But this is undermined by a stupid story, and it seems that nobody involved knew how to handle the material (science fiction sex comedy). The result is lame-brained for the most part. And to add insult to injury, the music is so noisy and off-key, it can induce headaches. It certainly distracts from the story, and it's almost always present. Too bad. "},{"Title":"really funny sci-fi comedy","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarela a beautiful movie with a beautiful actress. The plot is extremely naive which makes the movie really funny. The set is extremely cute with it's Plexiglas chutes and ingenuous torturing machines such as a cage full of bloodthirsty budgerigars or organ of pleasure which pleases you to death. Another very charming thing about this movie is it's soundtrack full of very sweet and funny slightly psychedelic rock tunes. The funniest song is at the beginning of the movie where Barbarela undress her space suit until she is completely naked. Actually she is not completely naked because the credits cover her most vulnerable parts the whole time which makes it even better to watch . Barbarela is a comedy and a good one. If you accept it's apparent and complete silliness (in the best sense) you will love it. Just relax and laugh. Just to ensure you that this movie is really loved I want to point out a movie by Roman Coppola called CQ which pays tribute to Barbarela and if you like Barbarela and are at least a little bit romantic person you should see CQ as well. "},{"Title":"One movie that Jane Fonda probably wishes she had not participated.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a really, really cheesy movie. Jane Fonda looks completely clueless throughout the whole movie and probably wishes she never accepted this role in the first place. The strip-tease and the various scenes where she looks like she struggles to keep her clothes on are laughable. The torture devices looked insanely tortureless. Except for Milo O'Shea's role as Duran Duran, everyone else looked like waking mannequins that might talk. Mr. Law's role as Pygar is really badly acted, especially at the end where he looks like he had just gone down from a bad high. Barbarella is one of those movie where everything doesn't quite come off like it should, and perhaps that's the best thing I could say about this movie. C- (4 * stars).  "},{"Title":"Va Va Voom...& Two Three Four & One","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you could put someone in a time capsule, I'd have put this 31 year old Jane in one & kept her there, only to come out when we need her again.With all the films Jane Fonda has done, this film is easily the worst piece of trash she ever made. It is ironically her best performance. She has been in better movies & been less effective, but in this movie Jane is the entire special effects department. Without her, no one would have watched this movie.I would safely say at this point, when looking at her entire career, she will never match the body of work her dad did. This is too bad as this film proves she has talent enough to carry a poor film, which means if she had gotten the right role in her career, she could have done something fantastic.Unfortunately, that role never came along. She became too busy after this with something besides acting. She has lived her real life to an extreme, but never did find a complete role for herself in a film. At least we can all watch her sweat in those old exercise videos. "},{"Title":"not a keeper","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Didn't age well. This may be in the running for stupidest cult film. I realize that the special effects et cetera were supposed to be hoakie but they are actually way beyond hoakie now. It's a good video to have running in the background while you play Yahtzee. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, another 60s film lost in space.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film, if nothing else- is dumb. It's like a really cheap and tacky soft-porn flick that you'd find in a Soho shop's bargain basement. I would tell you the plot, but I wouldn't want to waste your time. Just know that at the beginning, after the opening credits and Jane Fonda's strip have finished, you can turn it off. "},{"Title":"My hat is off to anyone who can sit through this space junk","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This turkey bombed right after the opening credits closed. I couldn't sit through more than 15 minutes of this insubstantial celluloid silliness. Boring, and I mean deadly dull, dialogue, though spoken in English for the most part, made no real sense at all. Yes, Jane looked great but how long can one be expected to stare at her before that glossy figure becomes commonplace? Before I exited all I saw the woman do was repeatedly take tumbles and do glamorous close-ups for the camera. Don't bother is my advice. "}{"Title":"Ehhh, not all impressive....","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It is indeed a cult classic, but a cult classic that has aged badly. The concept of a sexy space babe and her eroticesque adventures seems old, because it's been done better over the years. If your a fan of Jane Fonda , who does a great job being eye candy, thats about all you can look forward to. The FX seem pretty solid for the era, Pre ILM, and is a typical De Laurentiis fop. De Laurentiis is of course well known for killing science fiction films with his insistence on not taking Sci Fi seriously, like the 1980 Flash Gordon. This is no different,Barbarella, is a typical space heroine whom must contend with forces beyond her control.Fonda may play the original space vixen, but she leaves much to be desired. If you want a great, sexy lady, fighting off aliens and flying through space movie or show, let me suggest Galaxina. Or even watch the great, although little weird, German/Canadian Sci Fi show Lexx. Only watch Barbarella if you are researching the history of women in science fiction, Don't watch it for fun. "},{"Title":"Roger Vadim does Jane","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)For decades I had been meaning to watch this to see if Jane Fonda was as gorgeously displayed by Roger Vadim as advertised (and as reported by my horny friends). Well, yes. But the rest of the movie--high camp? Interesting sci-fi spoof? Satire on the genre? Well, no, but there are some eyebrow-raising and rather bizarre flights of fancy by Vadim including some creepy children in an icy landscape who bean Fonda with a rock, knock her out and tie her up. They have little dolls with piranha teeth that they sic on her luscious tied-up bod, drawing some very red blood to contrast with her white skin. You get the picture.Another interesting idea is that of the labyrinth containing the good people outside the city of all sins. Vadim reverses Dante's Inferno and puts the angels and other people in hell while the evil doers live in their decadence in the not so fair city. Fonda rides on the back of an angel with wings (John Phillip Law) while shooting down the leather storm troopers from the city in their flying machines. Ka-boom! Jane doesn't miss but of course she does get captured and&#x85;well, scantily clad Jane in chains or rather ropes in the city of evil... You get the picture.Roger Vadim gained international fame as the director of Et Dieu... créa la femme (1956) starring the amazingly beautiful Bridget Bardot. He seemed to have a way with actresses, especially young, beautiful and aspiring ones. It was quite a coup to somehow capture the heart or perhaps it was the ambition of the young and beautiful Jane Fonda. One can see that part of his technique was to really put the lady on display. Here in Barbarella, Fonda more or less undresses for the camera as the opening credits roll. It's a kind of you gotta have a gimmick strip tease as she is turned upside down and sideways by the seemingly lack of gravity in her spaceship as she dodges behind the text of the opening credits. This peek-a-boo would be quite titillating were I still 19 years old (or what the heck, 50). Regardless the point is the full (as much as possible) display of Fonda who does indeed look gorgeous. But that would not be enough, not nearly enough for the actress that Jane would become. She exclusively holds the camera for much of the first part of the movie in her space ship as she re-robes, talks with the President of Earth, and moves about and begins her space faring mission looking for Duran Duran (yes, they got their name from this flick). Her skin is flawless, her limbs elegant, her eyes beautifully made up in the dark sixties style. The camera loves her, Vadim loves her, the audience loves her, Jane loves her.To be candid I did not watch the entire movie. But that is more a problem of age (mine) than it is of the movie which was at least as good as most sci-fi spoofs and a bit more creative. However if you don't find Jane Fonda attractive, you won't even be able to watch as much as I did. "},{"Title":"The problem with Barbarella is...","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ...she doesn't really do anything. Rather than create the ground breaking heroine they could have, Vadim and his all-too-male crew go for the easy option by portraying the character as not much more than a deceptively dull Barbie-doll figure. She moves from one situation to the next like a wide-eyed tourist, barely taking part in the proceedings, let alone actually causing things to happen. I don't think she solves a single problem in the entire movie. Not with her mind anyway.This is a cardinal sin in film making creating a lead character who is NOT proactive.Female viewers might be disappointed that the promise of a feisty, sexually confident, independently minded action heroine is only partly fulfilled. Yes, the character is sexually confident, but even that is at the service of the male characters in the film. As for the rest, forget it. Pity. The film makers should have looked to Emma Peel/Kathy Gale from The Avengers for a model of how Barbarella could have worked.On the upside, the movie looks great - terrific psychedelic designs and sets. Good fun for the eye. However, while individual static shots are well composed, Vadim doesn't do much with camera movement, so the film isn't as graceful as it could be. He doesn't seem to know much about pacing either - the internal rhythm of the movie is a little bit off which adds to the unsatisfying feel of the whole thing.The cast is fine. Fonda, an otherwise superb actress, does her best with a non-character. She hints at the intelligent, resourceful character Barbarella might have been if the script had been on her side. Milo Oshea is great as the mad scientist, and David Hemmings is fun, if a little wasted, in what amounts to an extended cameo.In summary, a hoot for fans of super-camp kitsch cinema, and a bit of a male sex-fantasy for undiscerning 14 year old boys of all ages, but otherwise, and from the viewpoint of modern grown-up audiences, just an hour and a half of tiresomely sexist trash. Ironically, if Vadim and Co. had retained the sexiness of Barbarella's character but boosted her IQ and resourcefulness then the film might be enjoying a far greater reputation than it currently does. It wouldn't have taken much effort, but they blew it. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 with soft porn!  What more could you want?","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is an extremely silly movie with terrible acting (hard to imagine Jane Fonda acting that poorly) and an equally terrible script. The effects are cheesy and sometimes unnecessarily long (the dream room sequence comes to mind how long is Jane going to walk in front of psychedelic displays before something happens?). The story line is ridiculous. The space ship looks like something made by a third grader. I could go on&#x85; Oh yes, don't forget the music! Personally, I feel the 60s was an era of both tremendously creative and embarrassingly bad music; I'll let you guess which category Barbarella's soundtrack falls into&#x85; Why did I give this movie three stars? (update this movie really is terrible so it should get a 1. I bow to local peer pressure). It's so bad it's really great. This isn't your grandmother's Santa Claus Conquers the Martians when was the last time you saw a dumb sci-fi flick with a really hot actress who just can't seem to keep those skin tight space suits on her body? If you get bored between breast shots (which could easily happen), try counting the phallic symbols.Have a few beers (better yet, a smoke), get together with your male buddies, and watch a movie Ed Wood would be proud of. "},{"Title":"So bad, that's funny","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw film yesterday (2002) on TV, after seeing on cinema Attack of the clones. Barbarella a 34 years old film is so bad made that's really funny (just the opposite to Lucas one. Too well made that's boring). All special effects are hand made, one can see the background screen used on some scenes (i.e. when the angel flights), the gravitation effect at the beginning is filmed over a glass (reflection can be seen easily), the starship is made in porexpan and paper. If you like serious sci-fic films (i.e. Blade Runner) just forget about Barbarella, but if you want to laugh and enjoy for the standard 94 minutes, just rent the film and open your mind. Sexuality is a main key part of the film. Some images are quite surprising for a 1968 film, even for today (see when some women are smoking man scent). Highly funny is also see the sex machine playing against Barbarella (guess who wins...) "},{"Title":"boring soft porn","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  this film is utterly boring. it has horrible acting, special effects, and has the pace of a tortoise on valium.  it was almost as tedious as The Blair Witch Project.  the only thing that was remotely interesting was the set design and the female nudity.  aside from that, this is a chore to watch - it took me 2 days.if you want to watch it, i suggest altering your lucidity before hand. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to its cult status","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Scouring the video store shelves in search of something interesting I feel like I should see often yields surprising results, but I wasn't quite prepared for the surprise I got from BARBARELLA QUEEN OF THE GALAXY. I had a vague idea of what it was (kitschy sci-fi cult classic was my understanding), but, to my initial delight (but eventual disappointment), I had more in store, but perhaps also much, much less.BARBARELLA is a bizarre, psychedelic tale of the sexual awakening of the titular (no pun intended) character, played by an startlingly young and alluring Jane Fonda, a woman sent by the Government of the Republic of Earth to search for scientist Durand Durand. Durand, whose spacecraft disappeared somewhere near mysterious planet Tau Ceti, is the creator of the Positronic Ray, a weapon of unspeakable power which the Earth government wish to retrieve before it falls into unfriendly hands. After crash landing on the planet, Barbarella encounters various odd people and creatures, all of whom seem to exist in a primitive world of sexual liberation. 41st century society has moved on from archaic penetrative intercourse it seems, opting instead for a meditative melding of 'psychocardiograms' (think the virtual sex from DEMOLITION MAN, but less exciting), and Barbarella is initially appalled at the idea, yet after around 20 seconds of coercion from a creep in a bear suit, experiences the pleasures of the flesh for the first time. And so begins the erotic adventures of Barbarella, which include making love to a blind angel, being propositioned by a one-eyed dominatrix who may not be what she seems, and having her body literally played like an organ by the nefarious Durand Durand.Unfortunately, it all sounds a little racier than it is. There's plenty of innuendo and double entendre (one of the characters is named Dildano!), but really it's not pushed far enough, and the film is a little tame. There are laughs to be had, and Fonda is fully committed to the campy lunacy of the script but BARBARELLA doesn't really live up to its cult status. The spectacularly low-budget sets and effects, Fonda's ever-changing and increasingly revealing outfits, and the fun and funky psychedelic lounge music throughout stand out as highlight, but it's far from a good movie. Amazingly Fonda turned down both BONNIE AND CLYDE and ROSEMARY'S BABY to make this, so I guess you have to give her credit for the effort, and perhaps some chemical accompaniment would work in BARBARELLA's favour (as I'm certain there was plenty on set). It's the sort of film which you know you're going to like or hate before even starting it, and I'm not surprised that it has its fans. Unfortunately, I'm not one of them.tinribs27.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Genius is mysterious so says a character at one point; Vadim's 1968 film is most certainly mysterious, but it is a long way from being anything better than plain awful.","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Director Roger Vadim's disastrous; quite agonising and really rather terrible on several different levels 1968 film Barbarella is a shaggy, pathetic and wholly bad in ways one must see to believe piece; a piece exploring that of a lead whom is about as much use as a secret agent as a chocolate orange is to somebody on a diet of fruit. The film is stuck between being a cheap, scuzzy, sleazy, nudey picture with sadomasochistic overtones wanting to go down the exploitation route and a space adventure romp in the vein of, with hindsight, something like Star Wars or whatnot arriving with collections of fruitful beings; creative characters not of this world and that extensive sense of adventure and risk. To say it fails on both fronts is to do it a service by holding back the criticisms; Vadim's film a quite shocking, inept display of everything at once combining to form nothing &#x96; a film whose greatest sin you might say is just how dreadfully dull it is given its premise as well as the sorts of content that transpire throughout.We begin with what is effectively a striptease, the titular character disrobing several garments whilst floating nice and neatly in a small space craft up somewhere in the atmosphere. The music quite literally sighs as this person removes what she no longer needs to wear, the titles that come up on the screen in this, the opening credits sequence, appear to stumble and float about as if themselves aware of this beautiful creature before them and as a result react awestruck. The character is that of Jane Fonda's titular, and it does not take Vadim much time to establish what it is we're dealing with in the form of Fonda; the providing us with shots of practically every part of her body ranging from feet to hands to hair during this opening firmly establishing a sense fetishism at work. At the time of shooting, Fonda was Vadim's wife; that rather grotesque sensation of men shooting their wives on film in that objectified and rather arrogant manner, essentially advertising what it is they have that nobody else does, whilst in the process playing up to the actresses' off screen star power in their beauty. The whole practise calls to mind some more contemporary instances; principally in the form of Len Wiseman's enfettering of his wife Kate Beckinsale in the Underworld movies, or, judging by the promotional shots of a few years ago, Alex De Rakoff's inclusion of wife Monet Mazur in 2009 film Dead Man Running.The opening credits end and the film kicks into gear; we're in an ugly little space ship locale grossly juxtaposed with the photogenic individual we have on screen, mess and nonsense all over the walls of this, a set with minimal effort put into it to mask the surroundings making it difficult to know what to focus on amidst the disparate array of predominantly orange hues and woolly sheets going with what looks like tin foil. On a large screen in this pod appears The President of Earth, no less; the film wasting no time in getting to the crux of the matter in delivering a terrible process of exposition detailing that in this, the era of no weaponry and no wars, somebody has been clever enough to go out and invent one - one powerful enough to do some serious damage but has consequently crashed landed and gone missing with it on their person we wouldn't want the weapon falling into the wrong hands now, would we? Info in mind, Barbarella zooms off to the planet of Tau Ceti to try and track the weapon's inventor and foil any nastiness that might arise.At the heart of this pretty standard adventure story, where all one needs is a pretty standard but strong protagonist to drive things onward and reassure us in their ability; what we get is a mere buffoon. Barbarella's first job, upon landing on Tau Ceti, is to essentially be overwhelmed and then tricked by some mere infants before being near-enough killed by them death by dollies with razor teeth! A later instance with a rather hairy man initially there to help out sees her easily seduced and then bedded, neither doing much to assure us in her overall ability to essentially save the known universe. Her adventures eventually come to see the film agonisingly weave her into situations that, on occasion, demand she change her entire wardrobe; the film compensating to allow Fonda to practically step into each new scene, and each time a poorly trussed up set, wearing a fresh outfit designed to extenuate her figure and looks. It is ironic that, for all the beauty on show, the film is one of those deeply crass and wholly ugly examples of women allowed to drive a project but must suffer punishment in the process by way of wearing attire that brings the study of female empowerment right back down to its pseudo roots see the aforementioned Underworld as another example.Things unfold, the odd instance leads onto something else and none of it at all particularly interesting, the film's overall palette mixing it up to create an ugly aesthetic of primary colours whereas Fonda does what she has to do in merely standing there playing dress up and allowing the chaos to unfold around her, some of her more complicated lines occurring whilst she's off screen and then clearly dubbed back onto cutaways to mask an inability to deliver sentences. Scenes go on and on and on and depart again with absolutely nothing achieved, as characters spout woeful dialogue amidst people being tied up; wrapped up in nets and tormented by leathermen whom come with arms looking suspiciously like cat-of-nine-tails whips. The film is a shallow, inept and catastrophic attempt on mostly every front; a morbidly boring effort with some questionable core politics, that I deeply detested. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I don't care if you are into cult movies, this is one of the worst films ever made. Shag carpeting in space? I don't think so. The story is ridiculous even for a fantasy space movie and the acting is God awful. Now I know why nobody takes Jane Fonda seriously. I would love to know what the budget was for this, considering the special effects are terrible, even for the time at which this was made. The original King Kong looked better than this trash, and the writing was far better too. Even George Lucas can write better than this and he's one of the worst screenwriters ever. It came as no surprise to me when I found out that this never got off the ground when it was released. Even hippies on drugs would find this moronic. I hate this movie. "},{"Title":"Hanoi Jane in Spaaaaaace","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Which is where a lot of Americans would like to send her.This was one of Dino DeLaurentis' first attempts to do a space movie, by butchering someone else's material, in this case, the French Science Fiction comic of the same name. This was during the all-too brief period when Hollywood could do nudity and sex before the prudes at the MPAA put a stop to that stuff.We'd see him butcher Flash Gordon and Dune with such over the top nonsense later, but this movie comes off like a huge acid trip, and I don't mean that in a nice way.Fonda later got the reputation in America as a great actress who was unfairly blackballed for her political views. Which is not really born out by this turkey at all. "}{"Title":"Almost worth the watch for the orgasmatron scene alone.","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This was not a great science fiction epic by any stretch of the imagination. It was kind of goofy, the story kind of preachy at times, but some scenes worked rather well and they did a rather good job on set designs and such too. The end result a movie that borders on soft core porn at times. From the opening sequence of Jane Fonda flying around weightless and naked, to the encounter with the fur guy and angel, and finally her wonderful scene as she must face down the machine of pleasure it is rather interesting to watch this film try to pass itself as anything other than a soft core porn film that does not show much in the way of skin after the first scene. The plot is some inane drivel that has Barberella going after a scientist named Duran, whose name would later be used by the British rock band twice. She must traverse a lot of obstacles with the machine the oragasmatron being the most memorable. Though there is a rather good scene where she runs into some creepy children that set their dolls with nasty teeth on her and this scene is better than most horror movies where dolls are the culprit as these things look sufficiently creepy. The movie could have been a bit more risqué, I mean as far as they went you might as well had more nudity and just went all out. The plot goes here and there at times too. Still, it has some good scenes within. I see they are making a remake, but watch them make a PG-13 yawn fest that does not excite and titillate, but instead bores us and makes for good insomnia medicine. "},{"Title":"Like what you'd expect if you had a group of teenage nerds make a sci-fi sex film.","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Barbarella is clearly not a very good film. The dialog and writing are dumb and much of the acting is dopey. However, I am sure it has a group of loyal followers, as there is a cheesy badness and sexiness that is pretty infectious. It looks in many ways like a sci-fi sex film made by a group of 13 year-olds--13 year-olds with an incredible sense of set design! It's so strange and silly that it's worth seeing at least once--but you might not want others to know you watched it, as their opinions about your taste might be seriously compromised! The film begins with the opening credits--and A LOT of Barbarella, as she appears to float naked in her space ship. For 2012, it's relatively tame but for 1968, it was a VERY hot scene--as are many throughout the film. Today, it might not even be seen as mild porn--more like a mild R-rated film. But, in 1968, it was mega-hot--but still quite silly!Barbarella is instructed by the President of Earth to look for Duran-Duran (also called 'Durand-Durand') and return him to Earth. Along the way, Barbarella has lots of adventures--most of which result in her losing her clothes and/or having sex. Some of the adventures do not--such as the group of crazed kids with flesh-eating dolls--but most everyone (men and women) else seems to want Barbarella and her body. A few of the weird things to look for are the blue bunnies, seeing Marcel Marceau in a SPEAKING role, killer budgies and a killer sex machine! As I said...the sort of stuff teenagers would probably find funny and stimulating! The ending is pretty dumb, but the way--and very anti-climactic. Overall, it's an amazingly stupid film that you can't help but watch because it's so silly and has such super-awesome bizarre sets and costumes (sort of like the products of the top designers of the day if they were on LSD). You just have to see this to believe it...and you still probably won't! "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, and...uh...bad","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, if you really must see this movie then see it. I rented it just to see how stupid it really was. Some of the sets look kind of cool, but the story, acting, and special effects are extremely cheesy, especially for 1968. Compared with effects in films like the Forbidden Planet and 2001, these are sub-par at best. Again, watch it if you must, but be warned! "},{"Title":"Barbarella","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I had seen a few clips of this film that made the leading actress an instant star, so I had to see the full thing, from producer Dino De Laurentiis (Flash Gordon, Hannibal) and director Roger Vadim (And God Created Woman). Basically it is the 41st Century, the year is 40,000, and after an in-flight anti-gravity striptease, astronaut Barbarella (Jane Fonda) is assigned by the President of Earth (Claude Dauphin) to find Doctor Durand-Durand (Milo O'Shea). The Doctor is the inventor of the Positronic Ray weapon which could threaten Earth and universal peace, so she goes to Tau Ceti and the city of Sogo, where sins are invented every hour. Over time and changing outfit after outfit, Barbarella encounters cannibalistic dolls, has penetrative sex with men instead of with Exaultation Transference Pills as a thank you for saving her life, and meets and starts falling for blind angel Pygar (John Phillip Law). There is a point when she meets the mysterious Concierge, not realising that he is Durand-Durand, who is in cahoots with The Great Tyrant, the Black Queen (Anita Pallenberg, dubbed by Joan Greenwood), a lesbian ruler who can make her fantasies come to life. After escaping both the Excessive Machine (sometimes mistakenly called the Orgasmatron), an organ instrument machine that kills you by giving you the pleasure of an orgasm, and a dream chamber, Barbarella still has to save the world. In the end, Barbarella activates a machine that destroys both Durand-Durand and the world they are standing on, but not without being saved by Pygar, along with the Tyrant, turned good. Also starring Blowup's David Hemmings as Dildano, Marcel Marceau as Professor Ping, Catherine Chevallier as Stomoxys, Serge Marquand as Captain Sun and Véronique Vendell as Captain Moon. It should be mentioned, in case you didn't already know, that this is indeed the film that inspired the name for the successful British New Wave band, Duran Duran. Fonda is pretty much the only reason to see this, she looks sexy in her skimpy costumes, and she is good at being the bimbo but you can't help but feel sorry that she turned down Bonnie and Clyde and Rosemary's Baby to be in it, it could have been Raquel Welch. It is a silly film that will appeal to space nerds and fans of the comic book, but on the other hand, it is gloriously psychedelic with its naff special effects, bizarre set pieces, and overall it an alright camp pantomime style cult science-fiction fantasy. Jane Fonda was number 98 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, the film was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Some People Are Missing The Point","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  People who hate this movie seem to be missing the point . BARBARELLA is very much a product of the fantasy genre of the late 1960s . STAR TREK was still being produced while the most successful British import show THE AVENGERS  was being shown on prime time American networks , to date the only British TV show to hold this distinction . Colourful fantasy was the order of the day .BARBARELLA is the personification of 60s content over style . The screenplay isn`t much to write home about as it`s just a series of cliff hangers strung together of the title heroine being menaced , a sort of PERILS OF PAULINE  set in space . Yeah okay the acting isn`t Oscar winning material and the Euro-pap soundtrack can be slightly irritating but both the set design and costumes are memorable and what sort of red blooded man can resist a scantily dressed Jane Fonda ?Let`s just enjoy this movie as a piece of 1960s pop culture  "},{"Title":"What a huge, enormous, preposterous piece of crap","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The beginning of Barbarella, is, to be honest quite strange. A girl in a Space - suit flying around in her room. What comes next is the best part of the movie I saw. She (Barbarella (Jane Fonda)) gets out of the suit and is completely naked. We see her well formed body and are shown a few glimpses of her breasts. Then the president calls her with a picture phone (he can see her and she can see him). She then says something like 'Hold on a minute I'll put some clothes on.' To which the president reply's (as all men would have done I guess) 'Don't this is urgent.' Barbarella falls for it (no wonder, for she is Blonde) and speaks with the president wearing nothing but pubes I guess. The President informs her that some guy has apparently brought a weapon to some tribe on earth or something and they fear war (note that their greeting is not 'hello' but 'LOVE' which reminded me a bit of the 'be well' in Demolition Man). But war is something that did not occur in the universe for centuries (this movie plays in the year 40.000). Well Barbarella takes the job to safe the world and is off. She goes to a backwards room and changes very rapidly to my wonder or better said not to my wonder, because poor editing shows me the scene was cut. Then Barbarella takes course to those savage people with the arms but she encounters trouble in the solar system (some kind of field or turbulence) which looks like those psychedelic colorful water displays we all know so well from Austin Powers and old 60's clips. The onboard computer then informs hour beautiful heroine that there is something on the gyros - radar (I don't know something with gyros) and I wonder what the hell does Greek food have to do with problems and how the hell do they kill animals for that radar thing if they don't have any sort of weapons. Anyway, the ship starts rocking (the platform starts going upwards and downwards) which seems to be the clue for Fonda to throw herself to the ground in a stupid manner and scream something like 'ouch' which is all done in a poor and cheap way. That was it for me I took the remote and turned off the TV, cause I was not going to waste more than 5/42048000 (which is 5 minutes of my life) on this movie (given the hope that I will live to be 80 years old). Despite that I'm right here, right now, wasting 10/42048000 of my life to advise you, not to see this movie. I advise you to do the same thing after seeing Fonda 'strip' as I did. Be well if you stop the movie after 5 minutes or if you decide to watch it the 60's way but if you are prepared to sit through this movie with your brains turned on and no mind altering drugs, well BE FU..ED.I'd give this a 1 out of 10 but regarding standards back then and the fact that no film can be worse than Mission to Mars I'll be mild with a final 3 out of 10. "}]