[{"Title":"Guess you didn't hear the lady....did you boy?","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"39 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Coogan's Bluff ranks as one of my favorite Eastwood films. Partly because of the time period & location which the story takes place. It's an excellent period piece. Late 1960's New York city in all it's Glory. I live in NYC and it's was nice to see the Pan Am Building in the backdrop. It's now the Met Life building. The Pan Am building was also the location of the final scene where the helicopter takes off. The other reason I like this movie is that Eastwood is essentially playing Dirty Harry before Dirty Harry. Coogan is just like Harry Calahan without the 44. magnum. The story is solid but it's the locales and the  situations that Coogan finds himself in that sell the movie. Who cares of it's dated? Of course it's dated but that's part of the experience. Actually most movies made more than 20 years ago (or less) are dated. If you look at it in the context of the time it was made then you'll enjoy it. Ignore the negative reviews and check it out.  "},{"Title":"A smart career move for Clint","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood has always been one of the most career-savvy superstars of all time.  Looking over his filmography, since his career breakthrough it is obvious he has never done a film strictly for the money and has solid reasons behind every film he has made.  Even his worst films have a purpose  The Rookie, for instance, which most people would agree is a career low, was obviously made to satisfy the brass at Warner Bros. by delivering a modern-day Dirty Harry clone so he would be left alone to work on his Academy Award-winning classic Unforgiven, which came out two years later.  So it is with Coogan's Bluff, which most viewers would probably dismiss as second-rate Eastwood, but in reality served as a savvy bridge from Westerns (the type of genre he was primarily known for at the time) into more modern day roles.As directed by his mentor Don Siegel, Coogan's Bluff actually opens in the Arizona desert, which strongly resembles the background of his spaghetti westerns.  Indeed, the first character we see is a loincloth-attired man, who appears to be Indian, so the audience is tricked into thinking they're watching a western.  Then, we see a jeep driving down a dirt road, with a stetson-wearing Clint at the wheel.  He is Dept. Sheriff Coogan, and there we see our first view of Clint as a modern lawman.  It isn't long before he's in New York City, chasing down an escaped extradited criminal (Don Stroud), romancing a beautiful parole officer (Susan Clark) and butting heads with a strong-willed police captain (Lee J.Cobb, a terrific, yet sadly forgotten character actor of the day).  Therefore, in a matter of fifteen minutes, Siegel cleverly introduces Eastwood as a contemporary figure, a transition that will be complete when he returns to modern times three years later in his most famous role, Dirty Harry Callahan.But Coogan's Bluff is an enjoyable film on its own terms.  Eastwood at times is very funny here--his retort to an unethical cab driver is priceless--and the film moves along at a brisk pace.  Just don't expect action galore or a high body count.  Clint doesn't kill anybody here; there's no broad conspiracy or mystery to solve; his job is simply to find the prisoner and take him home.  In fact, the film is at its best when its dealing with Coogan as a fish-out-of-water, dealing with various New York thieves, crooks, drug dealers, hippies, and the aforementioned cab driver.  There is, however, a well-choreographed fight scene in a bar and an exciting motorcycle chase for a climax, but that's as much action as there is.  It's also pretty short for an Eastwood film  where most of his films run over two hours, this one clocks in at a brisk 94 minutes, next to Joe Kidd and The Dead Pool, one of his shortest adventures.So there you have it, a minor effort that served a major purpose in what has become an important Hollywood career.  *** (out of *****) "},{"Title":"Terrific thriller classic","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Even though not among his best-known thrillers, Coogan's bluff from 1968 is definitely a rather important and noteworthy movie in Clint Eastwood's long and esteemed career. It was his first cooperation with legendary Don Siegel who was stylishly working behind the camera. Eastwood was altogether the star of five movies Don Siegel directed and Siegel turned out to be one of the biggest mentors of him as a director.Secondly Clint was a very popular and noted western star back in the late 60's. He had just played the leading character, the nameless cowboy in Sergio Leone's praised and beloved Dollars trilogy but his career in a cop thriller genre and the splendid Dirty Harry series was still ahead. Coogan's bluff was an extremely interesting changing over from one genre to another.Eastwood played Sheriff Coogan and it was clearly a cowboy role, no doubt, but everything else around him, the big city with big city criminals, sleazy taxi drivers, hippies, prostitutes and so on weren't no longer from Coogan's world but rather from Harry Callahan's normal working day. Coogan's bluff is a terrific pre-Dirty Harry thriller classic and every Eastwood fan should watch it couple of hundred times. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Perfect Action Movie","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" From the opening scenes to the end it's never boring, and often hilarious. Lee J. Cobb turns in a wonderfully wry performance, the young Susan Clark is hot as Julie the probation officer, and Tom Tully is perfect as the tough, no-nonsense Sheriff McCrea. Add to that the sights and sounds of the city in the late 1960's and the feel for the atmosphere of the times, and it's a wonderful way to spend an afternoon. I define the quality of a movie by how it makes me feel. And this one always makes me feel good. Watching Eastwood work as Deputy Sheriff Walt Coogan, with that cool Eastwood demeanor makes you realize just how hokey Dennis Weaver played the McCloud character in the TV series - while 'Coogan' inspired the series, the series certainly didn't outshine it. This one is a fun romp, and like all in the genre, not to be taken too seriously. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Before Dirty Harry...","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  With less violence and the addition of a comical bent, Coogan's Bluff became the inspiration for the long running TV series McCloud starring Dennis Weaver.   For director Don Siegal, it was, like the same year's Madigan, another early examination of the maverick police officer that would reach its zenith with 1971's Dirty Harry.  For Eastwood, it's an interesting blend of the genre for which he was best known at the time--the western--and of the urban crime thrillers with which he would achieve superstardom.  This one isn't as exciting as Dirty Harry, and the fish out of water theme (ala Mr. Deeds Goes to Town) helps to excuse some of the more unpleasant aspects of the character's law and order at any cost mentality, but Coogan's Bluff has an abundance of smart-a** humor to make it memorable.  Eastwood is very effectively cast, and it is to his credit that he was willing to play such an unlikable and offensive SOB at this relatively early stage of his big-screen career.  (Can you imagine Gregory Peck in this role?)    "},{"Title":"It took me by surprise!","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Walt Coogan (Clint Eastwood) an Arizona deputy sheriff is sent to New York to collect a prisoner (Don Stroud). After learning that it might take a while before he can get his prisoner he decides to take it in own hands to bring him back, but while doing so he is jumped at the airport and the prisoner escapes. So now it's personal and he uses his western methods to recapture his man, but the city cops don't share his ways.Before they teamed up for the classic cop film Dirty Harry (1971) - Don Siegel directed Clint Eastwood in an earlier and under-appreciated cop drama Coogen's Bluff. I came across this film only knowing that it starred Eastwood and that's about it. But to my surprise it had more to it than Eastwood's strong persona, but it was engaging and clever entertainment by director Don Siegel. What it generates is a violent and hard-hitting police story that has superb attention to detail and is particularly well crafted. There's so many things going for it that you may or may not notice all the small hints that the film possesses on the clash of two different cultures (city vs. western) and the protagonist being dragged into the wicked and dirty side of the hippie drug circuit. This is when he learns that he is out of his league and that he has to adapt to this city way off life to get his man, sometimes with dire consequences because he grows slowly attached to it. Add in some psychedelic overtones and a spaced out feel to evoke the carefree era. The whole setup is naturally staged and doesn't feel forced. Siegel seems to have a knack of creating a gritty mood, but also capturing the life of the unique surroundings, from the Arizona deserts (excellent opening sequence) to the harsh city life. This was helped by fluid camera-work with its high shots and smooth pans that are well staged. The location photography and dashing settings are two of the strong points of this production. Another is the rousing score that mixes some western tang into the equation. Throw in edgy and sharp dialogue, with also scathing humour and an abundance of Texas gags against our protagonist. Siegel's paces the film perfectly and generates tension in some well-designed action scenes, one being the bike chase scene through the park. Though, this film isn't overtly filled with just action and violence. It's an amusing watch with a set-up that has more to it! Eastwood gives an iconic cool-as-ice performance as the Texas, ah I mean Arizona deputy sheriff who adapts his hunting techniques for the big city and who's quick with a sharp reply. Lee J. Cobb is good as the arrogant Det. Lt. McElroy, NYPD who has no time for Coogan or his antics. Susan Clark plays Julie Roth a probation officer and possibly Coogan's love interest. A superb Don Stroud weaselly plays James Ringerman the criminal who Coogan's after and Tisha Sterling plays Ringerman's hippie girlfriend. There's also a small role by a feisty Betty Field as Mrs. Ellen Ringerman.Actually, it's hard to find one thing that I didn't actually like about the film. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Nobody Calls Me Mister With My Boots Off","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Coogan's Bluff marked the first of six films that Clint Eastwood was to do with director Don Siegel, the most famous of them being of course Dirty Harry. The film will also contain no shots of the former location of the legendary Polo Grounds which were at that spot on Manhattan island. Clint Eastwood's charisma is what carries this film through because he's playing one of the most dislikeable characters he ever essayed on the right side of the law. He's a deputy sheriff from Piute County, Arizona who has his own way of doing things. When we first meet him instead of following sheriff Tom Tully's orders and staying at a roadblock, Eastwood follows a hunch and captures fugitive Indian Rudy Diaz in the inimitable Clint fashion.That he got the man doesn't cut it with Tully. He sends Clint on assignment to New York to extradite Don Stroud wanted in Arizona. When he gets to New York, Stroud is in Bellevue Psych Ward. There are procedures to get him out says Police Lieutenant Lee J. Cobb, but Clint cuts through them and while Stroud's in custody, he effects an escape.Seduce them for clues is Eastwood's investigative technique as he works on parole officer Susan Clark and Stroud's girlfriend Tisha Sterling. Tisha proves to be a formidable adversary and bed partner, yes she's both. Tisha's pretty unforgettable as the amoral hippie chick from the era.Also unforgettable is Betty Field in what proved to be her final big screen role as Stroud's tramp of a mother. Clint doesn't quite have to get down and dirty with her, but I think he would have been up to it if needed.A lot of attitudes that were later exhibited in Dirty Harry are in Coogan's Bluff. Walt Coogan has the same attitude towards criminals and the rules that prevent him from dealing with them as he'd like.Some nice location shots of New York, including an unforgettable chase scene through Fort Tryon Park in the upper reaches of Manhattan. Not as good as some of Clint Eastwood's other films, still Coogan's Bluff is a must for his fans. "},{"Title":"The Arizonan in Manhattan","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" As the story begins, Coogan, an Arizona policeman, goes after a murderer that is wanted. The man is found on top of a rocky hill trying to shoot the cop that has come for him. Coogan, a no-nonsense laconic man, out smarts the bandit and goes back with the fugitive, but before that he makes a stop to visit a woman whose man is away from home. That sets the tone for the story, Coogan is one of those men that are secure in themselves with no attitude to speak of.The police chief in charge of Coogan, meanwhile, wants to send him on a mission to New York. He must pick up an escaped man now living in the Big Apple. Coogan, who is still sporting his western attire, sticks out like a sore thumb among the crowds of Manhattan. One thing for sure, he takes no bull crap from anyone, including the taxi driver that thinks he is so smart by going around in circles thinking his out of town passenger will not notice the way he is jacking up the price for the ride.What Coogan finds is a hostile police environment. Little does he know that to do things in New York, he must rethink what he is accustomed to do in Arizona. His meeting with Chief McElroy doesn't go too well. For starters, the man he has come to get, Ringerman, has been sent to Bellevue for observation. There he finds his man in the company of a girlfriend, Linny Raven, who will prove to be more dangerous than Coogan bargained for. He also finds a kindred soul in Julie, a woman who works with tough cases within the police department. Coogan's stay in New York will be marked by violence, but he is smart enough to deal with the situation and get what he came for.Don Siegel, a director who worked extensively in B pictures, is in charge of this production. Mr. Siegel, was an astute artist who always delivered, as he does with this 1968 film. He captures the essence of that generation like no one. Mr. Siegel was a master in these types of movies, as he clearly shows here.Clint Eastwood shows the making of the persona that he will later transfer to most of his work that followed. His Coogan was a man of a few words who believed in getting a job done, as quickly, and as neatly, as possible. His take on this character is what he did best. Lee J. Cobb, one of the great actors of stage, and screen, is at hand to portray Lt. McElroy, a man who knows how things worked in his territory. Also in minor roles, Susan Clark, the great Betty Field who appears as Ringerman's mother in one of the best sequences of the film. Tisha Sterling, Don Stroud and a young Seymour Cassel have some interesting moments.Lalo Schiffrin jazzy musical score worked well with the film as did the fine cinematography of Bud Thackery that photographed the Manhattan of those years with excellent flair. Don Siegel did a good job with his direction and made a film that is fun and packs some action as well. "},{"Title":"A good, exciting action picture that mixes the western and the city crime drama.","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The film borrows from the older city crime dramas adding a new twist, Eastwood's character, a police lieutenant from Arizona who will use any means to apprehend his prey. This film, shot on a relativley tight budget in New York City, captures the dark side of New York City in the late 60's, amidst the free love atmosphere. Particularly notable are the sharp fight sequences, the amazing sequence at the Pidgeon Toed Orange Peel dance club, and the chase sequence at the Cloisters. This film inspired the Dirty Harry series, and also paved the way for cowboy in the big city flicks such as Midnight Cowboy (and there are a few interesting resemblances). An overall exciting picture that should keep your interest. "},{"Title":"A film highly recommended, essential for the followers of Eastwood.","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" At New York reaches Walt Coogan (Clint Eastwood), a sheriff of Arizona who pursues a dangerous murderer who has escaped his jurisdiction. Coogan used to using methods of his own a cowboy not of a policeman, collides with the methods used by agents of the big city. We are facing a urban western.This film marks a turning point in the race of Clint Eastwood to put in contact, for the first time, with Don Siegel, Here Eastwood starts to perform his figure of gallant, interpreting perfectly the role of seductive whenever the occasion required to achieve his ends other than the kind of character that starred in films of Sergio Leone.It is one of the most important moments in the life of a giant of cinema, Clint Eastwood. The meeting between the Eastwood and Don Siegel mark a before and after the artistic career of Clint Eastwood, both as an actor as in his subsequent race director. They shared a large amount of hobbies and passions. Among them their love for the film from director Sergio Leone, which Siegel had enjoyed through the screen and Eastwood had starred with great success. Perhaps that is why the film is a work of transition It has a delicious soundtrack for the maestro Lalo Schifrin that help at any time the narrative rhythm of the tape. We should also emphasize the good work as secondary to Lee J. Cobb giving life to the serious and quiet lieutenant McElroy, and Susan Clark. It is not the best film of the five that both agreed but if served to the beginning of a great time to develop during the 1970 with Harry the dirty as a success and with the police cinema in the height of its history. "}{"Title":"'McCloud' With Some Sleaze","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In this breakout year when films could dump most of their restrictions, this inspiration for the hit television series McCloud, dumped a couple and went the low road on a few things.The language still was pretty tame but it had a big-time sleazy atmosphere with a bunch of unlikeable characters. Susan Clark played a lot of these kind of roles in the late '60s to about 1980. Clint Eastwood and Don Stroud are the male leads and Eastwood fits the mold as a tough Arizona lawman going to New York City to bring back an escaped convict. This kind of set of the stage, I think, for his Dirty Harry series which began a couple of years after this.The story moves well and has some good action scenes, but, man, you can tell it is the late '60s and no longer the classic era in Hollywood with the nudity and no one with any moral standards. "},{"Title":"Utterly boring and shockingly liked...the hardest review I've ever written","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I've said it before and I'll say it again...I adore Clint Eastwood. I am more than a fan of all his work, I idolize the man. This love came late in my life when I stumbled on The Good, The Bad and The Ugly so I am just now watching all of his classic and not so classic films. As much as I love him there is no doubt he has had downs with his ups. I've also disagreed with fellow reviewers before...I thought the so called 'classic' Where Eagles Dare was one of the most boring films I ever sat through. Some of the things said about Coogan's Bluff literally blew my mind. Any comparison to Dirty Harry is just about obscure as they come. This film doesn't even touch Dirty Harry. Eastwood's Coogan is nothing short of a near 'wussy' compared to Harry. Calling this a 'solid action thriller' is the most ludicrous three words I can think of for a film that I very nearly turned off, let alone stayed awake through. Action in tiny implements finally breaks out in the last half hour but even that isn't interesting enough because you've become so bored by the story and characters. Some reviewers did say the 'fish out of water' jokes get old quick but I didn't even see enough of that. The concept of the typical cowboy coming to big city is completely lost on this story.Clint Eastwood has had one of the most diverse and remarkable careers in Hollywood. His screen presence is legendary and his westerns are without a doubt the finest pieces of genre ever made. His character 'Coogan' is determined and full of spunk, there is no doubt about that. But the womanizing is ridiculous and done in such a campy and silly way. When he finally gets down to truly catching his bad guy he already seems so soft and the last thing in the universe Eastwood should ever be is soft. Coogan is probably his worst character ever created. Susan Clark gives one of the more redeemable performances as tough on the outside cop Julie and the main object of Eastwood's desire. She is a strong female character until Coogan opens up the sexual can of worms and then she swoons like a 12 year old at a Justin Beiber concert. Tisha Sterling plays another Coogan conquest only this time he seduces her to find his man. Sterling is good in her role however I think she really pushes the envelope of over acting. The one big comparison I can make from Coogan's Bluff to Dirty Harry is that Coogan's criminal played by Don Stroud reminds me in many ways of Dirty Harry's Scorpio (played later by Andrew Robinson.) Only Stroud's criminal is not nearly as maniacal or interesting and has zero chemistry between him and Eastwood.I don't watch a ton of pre-80's films so maybe expectations are far lower for older films. I mean one reviewer called this A good, exciting action picture and my jaw literally hit the floor. I was so near bored during this picture it blows my mind. Yes there is one well done motorcycle chase scene and it did nothing to raise the merit of this film. I have to say now and probably again before this review is over how shocked I was by how boring this film truly was. I'm not someone who needs constant action by any means but the characters were so poorly done and the story was so thin that it could have been over in fifteen minutes and there lies the problem. There is so much silly filler in this film when there is just no reason for it. Legendary director and Clint Eastwood's mentor Don Siegel helms the film and I'm just amazed at how little he does with the plot. And considering you've got a Cowboy deputy coming to the most famous big city in the world (New York) there is little to no using the backdrop of New York like he did with San Francisco in Dirty Harry. I have to shun Coogan's Bluff from my Eastwood collection and go watch some true Eastwood classics to get my love for him back because this one simply bored me to death. I encourage every one of you reading this to go watch it right now...and try and tell me what a rip roaring action thriller this is. Sorry Mr. Eastwood...I love you deeply but Coogan's Bluff stinks. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Great Fun! and a whole lot more.","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It would be easy to dismiss this movie as lightweight entertainment however this is a much more interesting film if for no other reason than it is the first pairing of Siegel and Eastwood one of the most interesting partnerships in cinema that between 1968 and 1971 produced four good movies and at least one classic, Dirty Harry. In this film Clint forged a bridge between his cowboy persona and the contemporary characters that he went on to play. While it was released to theatres the frame compositions look better in 4;3 TV ratio suggesting that like another Siegel film, The Killers this was produced with TV in mind and released to cinemas when the quality of the piece became apparent. I think this might explain why it has taken so long for a 1.85 transfer to be released and why the quality of the DVD is so poor, full frame prints look fine. Also the use of what looks like pre-standing sets gives it a low budget TV feel. With Play Misty for me Clint became a director and Siegel appeared as an actor thus the partnership was ended, the pupil became the master. Clints style as a director owes much to Siegel and he still has the economy which was a hallmark of Siegels work. Another partnership that began in this film was with actor Albert Popwell who went on to appear with Clint in the first four Dirty Harry movies,portraying a different role in each film. So as an Eastwood or a Siegel fan this is a must see pivotal movie and contains much of their trade mark craft even on a low budget. Don Stroud is as ever a bonus as is Susan Clark. "},{"Title":"Good start to a celebrated collaboration","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" COOGAN'S BLUFF was the first major US film to star Clint Eastwood after his famous trio of Spaghetti westerns with Sergio Leone.Here Eastwood began another productive actor/director partnership with Don Siegel,one of Hollywood's best action directors.The film is predictably at it's strongest when it concentrates on that said action rather than dialogue or plot,which both seem undernourished and slightly mundane.Eastwood's acting style at this stage of his career was often described by some critics as wooden;an unfair description as his portrayal here (and in other vehicles around this period) of a taciturn,monosyllabic tough guy had considerable style and believability,and was usually nothing less than convincing.The best performance though comes from the splendid Lee J.Cobb as a wry,world weary New York Police Lieutentant reluctantly obeying the rules in contrast to the rebellious,no-nonsense style of the Arizona-based Coogan (Eastwood),who wants to return to the open plains without delay with a fugitive prisoner (Don Stroud).This is basically the main crux of the plot,a rather routine and over-familiar story which is not helped by a romantic sub-plot involving probation officer Susan Clark which lacks credibility.Her changes of mood with Coogan are far too sudden (hating him one moment,then virtually adoring him the next) to be plausible,and our belief is further strained in having the cuddly David Doyle (Bosley in CHARLIE'S ANGELS) miscast as a vicious gangster. But Siegel's location and studio work in New York is well observed,all seedy-looking offices and apartments,a contrast to the desert vistas of the opening scenes.There is a dated but edifying look at hippie culture which began to take over the world at this time,with a gloriously kitsch sequence in an outrageously named nightspot (The Pigeon-Toed Orange Peel) with a rather catchy song being played with the same moniker;a stetson-topped Clint walks his way through the revellers decidedly unimpressed!The film's highlights are two very well-staged action sequences; one a ferocious brawl in the most run-down of pool rooms,and a motorcycle chase through a Park where Eastwood eventually captures Stroud.There is a spectacular final shot of a helicopter taking off from the PANAM building,with Miss Clark again rather curiously bidding a loving farewell to Eastwood,now firmly in control of his desired prey Stroud.COOGAN'S BLUFF somewhat lacks in the depth of later Siegel-Eastwood collaborations,particularly DIRTY HARRY.It later inspired the TV series MCCLOUD,starring Dennis Weaver,though the reworking was only superficial as Weaver's character was rather more affable and mature than Eastwood's depiction here;in this sense,COOGAN'S BLUFF does not suffer in comparison and works as a very watchable and well made action drama.RATING6 and a half out of 10. "},{"Title":"You better drop that blade, or you won't believe what happens next, even while it's happening.","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" While Dirty Harry watches over the streets of San Francisco, Coogan watches over Texas...I mean Arizona.Clint Eastwood plays Coogan, a man who is sent to New York to bring back prisoner James Ringerman (Don Stroud) to Arizona, his jurisdiction (although many assume at first he is from Texas due to the fact he nearly dresses like a cowboy). However, after confronting Lt. McElroy, Coogan finds out that he can't just take Ringerman as is, that he must go through a long process. Coogan, being a no-nonsense cop with his own rules, decides to make his own way to get Ringerman. Along the way he must get through Linny (James' girl; played by Susan Clark), Julie (Linny's probation officer; played by Tisha Sterling), Pushie (Ringerman's buddy; played by David Doyle), McElroy, and even Ringerman's mom (played by Betty Field).There were numerous chase/fight/confrontation scenes, however even with all that and Clint Eastwood and the expert directing of Don Siegel, the movie still falls slightly short. That doesn't mean it isn't entertaining however.7/10 "},{"Title":"Groovy baby!","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Coogans Bluff, though widely forgotten when compared to the 'dollars' trilogy or the Dirty Harry movies, is one of Clint Eastwoods best projects and boasts what I feel is his best on-screen performance.Arizona Deputy Sheriff Coogan is dispatched to New York to extradite a New York Junkie to face trial for his Crimes in the West. As soon as he touches down atop of the Pan-Am building, he realises the alien environment he finds himself in and in stark contrast to the bleak and desolate Arizona desert in which we first meet him. Coogan on the other hand is just as alien to the native New Yorkers he encounters. He arrives at the district Police Station to pick up his fugitive and take him home, but His task is not as cut and dried as he had hoped when he meets bad tempered but good natured veteran Cop McElroy (Lee J Cobb) who tells Coogan that his prisoner James Ringerman (played menacingly by Don Stroud), has already taken a 'trip' of a different nature and is in the Prison Ward at Belview Hospital.Coogan's set back means that he has to stay in New York longer than he had planned (or hoped). but compensation takes the form of parole officer Julie Roth (Susan Clark). After Wining & Dining her, goes back to her place. His intended night of passion never gets off the ground as she is interrupted by a business call. After his first night in New York, Coogan is determined that it is to be his last and 'Bluffs' his way in to the Prison Ward at Belview in the hopes of engineering Ringerman's release into his custody. he not only encounters Ringerman but also his spaced out girlfriend Linny Raven. His impulsive ruse pays off, and he and his prisoner head off to the Pan-Am building and their awaiting Arizona bound flight. However, Raven has arranged a welcoming party for Coogan and after the 'oldest trick in the book' type of ambush, Coogan is lying unconscious on the airport floor, and Ringerman is once again at large.Ringerman now has the upper hand, knowing that Coogan's desert tracking skills are useless in the Concrete Jungle of 1968 New York but undeterred, Coogan sets about making his enquiries despite a stern warning not to interfere by McElroy. He is arrested for impersonating a police officer and McElroy takes the liberty of arranging Coogan's prompt and immediate return to Arizona. Coogan's plans remain unchanged and he will not leave New York alone. He resumes his relationship with Roth, and while she's out of the room takes a snoop at her parole files and finds the parole record of Raven. His nosiness reaps rewards, and his leg-work takes him to the physcodelic Pigeon Toed Orange Peel Club, where he once again encounters Raven. He ruthlessly seduces her in the hopes that his lovemaking will make her betray Ringermans whereabouts, but Raven is as manipulative as she is beautiful and she leads Coogan to a pool hall and yet another ambush. This time Coogan gives his attackers as good as he gets, yet still manages to get the ass whippin' of a lifetime. He escapes the pool hall just in time before McElroy and his squad break down the door. Coogan returns to Raven's Apartment only this time he persuades her by using 'less romantic' methods.Fearing for her life, she finally leads Coogan straight to Ringerman and the final confrontation.Eastwood's performance as the fish out of water cop is magnificent and is a great bridge between Clint the cowboy and Clint the modern day action hero as it is essentially an amalgamation of the two. The script calls for Clint to be ruthless, violent and menacing as all his previous roles had, but this movie showed a different side to Eastwood, hitherto unseen since his rise to stardom half a decade before. Coogans Bluff required Eastwood to be Romantic, and charming and witty, in fact the character of Coogan is blessed with a wry almost dead-pan dark sense of humour displayed in some of his classic one liners.Taxi Driver that'll be $2.95 including the luggage. Coogan Here's 3 dollars including the tip.or reprising this encounter with a hotel owner.Hotel Owner That'll be £7 Coogan The sign says 5 Hotel Owner 7 without luggage (Coogan shows his briefcase) That ain't luggage. Coogan There's a cab drive in this town that'll give you an argument.Siegel's Direction is as always impeccable and the fight at Pushy's Pool Hall, is one of the best choreographed action sequences ever put to film.Eastwood is also seen performing (some) of his own stunts as is evident during the motorcycle chase when you see his face in close-up. Lalo Schifrin, (a very busy man in 1968), gives us one of his best scores and his 'pidgeon toed orange peel' song epitomised the period perfectly.This film also gives us a good look at New York and to use a Clint Cliché, shows us the good, the bad and the darn right ugly of what the Big Apple has (or in many cases did) have to offer. and shows us New York when it was an evolving city, when the 50's and Early 60's style of Car design, clothing fashions and moral attitudes were slowly being replaced by their more basic and simple counterparts of the 70's.10 out of 10 if not for Clint's witty dialogue alone "},{"Title":"Dedication beyond belief","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Caught this movie on cable the other night, was a bit tired, but let's see if I got this right. James Ringerman committed some kind of crime in Arizona where Coogan (Clint Eastwood) was a deputy sheriff, James gets caught in New York City and Coogan's boss after a good chewing out sends Coogan to bring him back.  Well Coogan fouls things up and looses James.  Coogan gets a telegram from his boss back in Arizona taking him off the case and a hardened cop, a Detective Lieutenant McElroy  played by Lee J. Cobb swears if Coogan even attempts to go after James he will toss Coogan in jail.Coogan is suppose to be on a flight back to Arizona, but has met Julie Roth (Susan Clark), a probation officer that added great beauty to this film, and has a love interest.  Julie is making spaghetti for supper that will give them three hours to do whatever while the sauce simmers.Coogan instead stands her up to go after James after getting some information from her filing cabinets, such dedication, and how can anyone leave Susan Clark?  Incredible?Things I learned from this movie are Fort Tyron's Park is a very beautiful place to visit and not a soul in sight, Arizonians, not just Texans wear cowboy hats, if you ever escort a prisoner, offer him a cigarette, and if you stand Susan Clark up, she will still come to the top of the PanAM building and wave goodbye.   Things I wondered about are is it okay of an out of jurisdiction cop to steal a motorcycle,  is it okay to rod a bike in the park, how did McElroy know where to find Coogan and at the exact correct instant, and is it considered normal therapy to touch Susan Clark's breast if you are a parolee?  Maybe I should catch this film again to see exactly what James did, an unpaid parking ticket? "},{"Title":"Cool it cowboy there's plenty here for both of us","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** After running down escaped from the reservation, for murdering his wife, convict Running Bear, Rudy Diaz, and then having a romp in the bathtub with his girlfriend the buxom Millie, Melodie Johnson, Shefiff's Detuty Coogen, Clint Eastwood, gets the bad news from his boss Sheriff McCrea, Tom Tully, that he's to travel to the Big Apple-New York City-to pick up and bring back to Arizona fugitive drug dealer Jim Jimbo Ringerman, Don Stroud,to stand trial in Phoenix for jumping bail and dealing drugs. And that all happens before the real action in the movie starts!When Coogen arrives in NYC to pick up and expiated Ringerman back to Arizona he's told by the two three, or 23rd, police precincts though talking Let McElroy, Lee J. Cobb, that Jimbo is unavailable and in Beleuve Hospital suffering from withdrawals from a bad LSD trip. Having to wait for Ringerman to be realest into his custody Coogen soon gets to know pretty police psychiatrist Julie, Susan Clark, who's just crazy about his straight forward attitude, in telling it like it is, as well as Coogen's cowboy boots and hat. It's when Coogen got a bit restless in waiting for Jimbo Ringerman to be released from Beleuve that he made a very serious mistake. Coogen tried to illegally check Ringerman out, on a bluff attempt, without proper papers. That lead Coogen to get clobbered and his gun taken away from him by Ringermen's New York fiends lead by the pot smoking hippie Linny Raven, Tislda Sterling.Now in trouble from all sides from his boss Sheriff McCrea back in Arizona and the NYPD in New York City Coogen is determined to track down, cowboy style, and bring to justice Ringerman even if he has to tear down the entire city of New York to do it! Checking out Ringerman's old stomping grounds in the East Village Coogen finds Raven who instead of leading him to her boyfriend, and drug supplier, Jimbo Ringerman lead him straight into an ambush at a pool-hall where Jimbo's friends are waiting for him and ready to use Coogen's head as batting practice for their cue sticks. Realizing that he's been set up by Raven Coogen, after dispatching Ringermen's hoods, takes off for her in the village and persuades Raven, by threatening to punch her pretty face in, to lead him to her boyfriend Jimbo who's hiding out somewhere in upper Manhattan.***SPOILERS*** It's when Ringerman sees that the jig is up and he's about to be arrested by a hot and angry Coogen is when the long awaited action starts in the movie A series of exciting chase scenes, on foot and on motorcycles, Ringerman getting caught and punched out by Coogen and finally, in him having no authority as a law enforcer in NYC, Coogen performing his civic duty by turning over to the NYPD a battered and barley conscious Ringerman via a citizens arrest! In the end Coogen not only got to get his man, Jimbo Ringerman, but also see the breathtaking sights of the Big Apple as well which included fresh faced blue eyed and sexy police psychiatrist Julie, no last name given in the film credits, who just couldn't let go of the big guy no matter how shabbily he, by checking out of her apartment after she slaved for over three hours cooking him her famous spaghetti dinner, treated her! "},{"Title":"An Arizonan cop in New York","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" While this early Clint Eastwood cop drama has been overshadowed by the later Dirty Harry it is worth watching as it literally shows his transition from a cowboy to a cop.In the opening scene he is pursuing a fugitive through the Arizona desert in a scene that could be from a Western if he'd been on a horse rather than in a Jeep. We soon learn that he isn't the sort of police officer who believe the rules apply to him when he stops off for an assignation with a married woman while leaving his prisoner handcuffed to the porch. His boss is less than impressed and promises to give Coogan every boring job that comes along.In the next scene we see Coogan on a helicopter flying in to New York; he has been sent there to extradite Ringerman, a murderer, back to Arizona. Unfortunately for him he is told that he can't have his prisoner till he has been released from the prison hospital. Coogan isn't so keen to wait so bluffs his way into the hospital to avoid waiting. This wasn't a good idea as his prisoner's girlfriend arranges his escape which leads to Coogan ending up in hospital being threatened with arrest if he continues looking for Ringerman. Of course he ignores these instructions and continues to search for him in a fairly unconventional manner.This film is quite fun, having much more humour than the later Dirty Harry films. He is constantly having to correct people who assume he is from Texas just because he wears a cowboy hat and boots. While there is a bit of violence it isn't too gory, some people might find the way he interrogates Ringerman's girlfriend by throwing her around the room then sleeping with her a bit chauvinistic for this day and age... although I suspect it was for many people back then, certainly the police psychologist he gets involved with doesn't approve of his more physical approach to law enforcement. That is the main thing some viewers might be offended by, there is little or possibly no swearing and the sex scenes are very tame, in fact the only nudity is a few topless hippie chicks in a night club.Although this is obviously a Clint Eastwood film the rest of the cast aren't bad either, in particular Lee J. Cobb as a New York police lieutenant. We also get to see some parts of New York not used that much in films. I'd definitely recommend this to anybody who is a fan of Clint Eastwood or of '60s/'70s cop films. "},{"Title":"Warming up for Dirty Harry with style.","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The transition is pretty obvious - the film starts out in the sagebrush before landing in the big apple. Clint Eastwood is ready to ease off the spurs and try crunching some pavement.Playing the same general role under the same director just a few years apart, comparisons between Coogan's Bluff and the subsequent masterpiece Dirty Harry are unavoidable. Though closely related and crucial to the development of the latter, this movie is quite different. It reeks of the '60s (in a groovy, sometimes psychedelic way), and it's our last glimpse at a younger, less world-weary Clint. The pacing is more laid-back and the stakes are lower. Undeniably tough and smart, it's still plain to see that our protagonist hasn't quite come into his own in an urban setting. (That's part of the intended charm of this picture. But just you wait!)If not a monumental work, Coogan's Bluff is still perfectly enjoyable. The characters are all fun and the action unfolds quickly enough. There are some good fights and a rather exciting chase. Overall, it's a fitting beginning to a very fruitful collaboration between Clint Eastwood and director Don Siegel. "}{"Title":"Urban wild west movie; a male fantasy of the 1960s","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  (minor spoilers)While Coogan's Bluff is a solid action movie that won't leave you bored for a second, it's amazing how dated and aged this 1968 movie feels some 30 years later. Coogan seems more like a character from some Western movie in the way he deals with criminals or women. Shot around the time when Women's Lib took off, it surprising how full of male chauvinist coolness it is (remember treat a woman real bad and she'll come to the top of a skyscraper and wave goodbye as you leave - probably because she's so happy she won't ever see you again).Similarly, in all its simple straightforwardness the plot is also like taken from a Western - no plot twists or anything, Coogan just gets the right clues at the right time to lead him to the criminal, and help is there just when he needs it.Still, all this simplicity *is* kind of stunning and refreshing given how twisted and similarly unrealistic today's action movies are. So if you can shake off how dated this film is and simply watch it as a prime example of 1960s male coolness, go for this one. "},{"Title":"Eastwood breaks out from cowboy roles...sort of","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This of course is the film that inspired the television show McCloud with Dennis Weaver and is the first of five films that Clint Eastwood made with director Don Seigel who along with Sergio Leone he would credit as his mentors when Eastwood himself became a director. Eastwood had spent the 1960's being famous for his western roles in TV's Rawhide as Rowdy Yates and in the films Fistful of Dollars, For a Few Dollars More, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly and Hang Em High. Here Eastwood breaks out into a cop role but he still isn't shedding the cowboy image entirely as he plays an Arizona cop complete with western stetson and boots who comes to New York City to return a criminal wanted in Arizona. Among the cast are Lee J. Cobb, Susan Clark, Don Stroud and Conrad Bain. Bud Thackery, who had a long career photographing B-movie westerns before going into television is the cinematographer but one of his camera operators is Bruce Surtees early in his career who would become a respected cinematographer doing such films as Play Misty For Me, Dirty Harry, High Plains Drifter, Lenny, The Outlaw Josey Whales, and Escape From Alcatraz. Lalo Shifrin provides the music score. Director Siegel himself has a walk-on scene along with his son Kristofer Tabori who is my fifth cousin. This film falls a little short of being a great film but it is good. I would give it a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What a ride, but watch out for the bumps","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What a ride! I just finished watching this one after a rancid day at work and it was a quick pick me up, that's for sure.As many have undoubtedly mentioned and as many undoubtedly will, this film is a precursor for that classic Dirty Harry character - tough, individualistic and as authority-bucking as they come - better not try that approach at your work though! There were several rather cool scenes that I found memorable as a child of the sixties (well, toddler actually) I was impressed with the freaked-out freakiness of the scene in the New York club with the unlikely name of the Pidgeon Toed Orange Peel not to mention the pool room bar brawl and the rather exciting motorcycle chase scene.On the bad side, there was the disturbing undercurrent of chauvinism in his relationship with women - especially with the main character, Julie that I was not too comfortable with (it was a bit hard to believe that such an accomplished person would have such advanced self-esteem issues and accept such terrible treatment and keep coming back for more). There was also the hokeyness of the Dirty Harry character that sometimes made me chuckle because it was just a little too much sometimes but it's all part of the fun.Overall, a film worth seeing as much for its entertainment value as for its museum-piece quality of capturing the spirit of the sixties as we would like to remember it. "},{"Title":"Clint's non-western mannerisms were on the way!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  COOGAN'S BLUFF is relatively enjoyable and there are certainly DIRTY HARRY moments (as a result of Siegel). The movie is probably the best example of obvious chauvinism that Clint has offered.Coogan, a police officer/cowboy from the mid-west, is sent to the Big Apple in order to expedite a criminal back to his desert state. Most of the movie deals with his antipathy towards the different breed of criminal, justicial expectations/methods and fast-paced life. The film has dated but not inordinately. Pauling Kael would certainly have a field day over the male chauvinism which permiates the entire film (Coogan won't take no for an answer and practically smothers his romantic interest into submission).There is some pleasant photography, music and direction though the sets look plastic. The superficial and piecemeal presentation of the counter-culture (at the rave and the girl's apartment) like most mainstream flicks pre 1969 is quite amusing. Is this the movie where Siegal and Eastwood wrote plot/character points, cut them up, shuffled them arbitrarily, and stuck them back together? It shows but I think the choppiness adds to its charm; which COOGAN's BLUFF certainly has a lot of. "},{"Title":"Snore.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I had high hopes for this flick, seeing how Don Siegel directed three of my all-time faves (...Body Snatchers, Charley Varrick, and Dirty Harry.) Coogan's Bluff turned out to be a real disapointment, with a mediocre, lazy script (the fish out of water jokes grew lame very quickly), a washed-out, ugly look,  and a really unconvincing romance (Clint mixes it up with Webster mom Susan Clark.) The awesome motorcycle chase at the end of the flick around the Cloisters did little to redeem the film. 4/10. (P.S. I'm not a big fan of hippies, either.) "},{"Title":"Coogan Is No Harry.","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays an Arizona(not Texas!) police officer named Coogan who goes to New York to collect a wanted prisoner for extradition. Unfortunately, the prisoner(Don Stroud) escapes, and Coogan is ordered home. Defiant, Coogan resolves to ignore the recall, and find the suspect himself, no matter who he has to stomp on in the process.Don Siegel directed this misfire police/action yarn, which, aside from being dated(tacky nightclubs are a real eyesore here!) is simply not credible, and Coogan himself is not likable or appealing, so viewer cannot root for him, since he is also irresponsible and reckless. Clint tries his best, but was far better served as Harry Callahan... "},{"Title":"Coogan's Bluff Surprisingly Effective and Entertaining","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Widely seen as the foundation for the titular character of the Dirty Harry series created three years later by star Eastwood and director Siegel, Coogan's Bluff is the first collaboration between the pair.Arizona deputy sheriff Coogan is well used to hunting down criminals and bringing them to justice, his wild west style of law enforcement reinforced by his cowboy hat and boots. When he is told, upon arriving in New York to extradite a fleeing murderer, that he must wait whilst the bureaucratic elements are sorted through, he decides to take matters into his own hands.Prior to Coogan's Bluff, I had never encountered Eastwood pre-1992's Unforgiven. My familiarity with, and affection for, Clint's modern directorial work combined with the release of a 35 film box set to inspire me to investigate the entirety of his legendary career. That being my original motivation, I found something far more interesting in this film. Having recently explored the history and evolution of the western genre in Hollywood cinema, Coogan's Bluff provided an interesting bridge in the aforementioned history. Eastwood's Coogan is the classic westerner, the archetypal frontier hero his stiff opposition to established authority; his overtly western appearance; the regular reference to him by all else as cowboy. The film takes this character and dumps him in the urban landscape of New York city, the massive contrast between the barren desert of the opening shots and the steel and glass of the city not the only obvious difference between the locations. Coogan's inability to subscribe to the systematic law enforcement of the city is the catalyst to the film's action, and one which poses the questions the film attempts to answer. His brand of law, proved in westerns of the past to succeed where conventional East American law has failed, is on trial here, explored and analysed by Siegel. The contrast between Coogan and Lee J. Cobb's McElroy, the by-the-book New York police lieutenant, is crucial to this analysis. Fortunately both actors are perfect in their roles, Clint's charm, charisma, and willingness to employ both seduction and force as necessary alluding to the darker side of his character. After ninety minutes of a perfectly entertaining film, the ending perfectly sums up what the film is all about. Well constructed, articulated, and delivered, surprisingly entertaining and effective, and an interesting insight into the jump from the western to the urban cop thriller to the action films of the 80s. Worth a very brief mention is the scene in the delightfully named The Pigeon Toed Orange Peel nightclub, in which Siegel employs Eisensteinian intellectual montage to present&#x97;or maybe this is just me&#x97;a homophobic agenda, along with an overall condemnation of hippie culture (spectacularly executed by a series of high/low angle shots of the already tall Clint standing some steps above a woman). The apparent homophobia is just bizarre, and leaves you wondering where it's come from.The missing link between the classic western and the Dirty Harry style of urban cop drama, Coogan's Bluff gives an interesting glimpse into the evolution of genre. An entertaining plot throughout, the film gives us a memorable character, as well as many classic hilarious lines (Nobody calls me mister with my boots off). "},{"Title":"Coogan... is basis for Dennis Weaver's McCloud","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The 1968 film Coogan's Bluff is a template for the later television series McCloud with Dennis Weaver. In the film version, Clint Eastwood plays the title role (Coogan) under the direction of his soon-to-be mentor, Don Siegel. As an Arizona sheriff who ends up searching for an escaped prisoner in New York City, Coogan is the ultimate fish out of water but that fact barely hinders his relentless pursuit. Along the way he encounters a no-nonsense by-the-book New York police captain (Lee J. Cobb), an attractive criminal psychologist (Susan Clark), and all sorts of stock characters and sticky situations. Coogan's prey is a young hippie/hoodlum named Ringerman (Don Stroud) who knows the city like the back of his hand. But it doesn't take long for Coogan to figure out where Ringerman's hiding after he bumps into his nitwit girlfriend (Tisha Sterling). She thinks she's leading Clint around by the nose, but it turns out to be the other way around.Today's audiences will view Coogan's Bluff as somewhat dated in style and execution. The music and disco scene will bring back some fading memories for Baby Boomers and appear rather foreign to everyone else. The good news is that Clint doesn't have to waste any time advising anyone of their rights, so he's able to cut corners and get fast results. That's something he had a lot of trouble doing in the later Dirty Harry movies. Director Siegel moves the action and story along at a brisk pace and the film certainly aided its star in making the switch from westerns to more modern roles. Look for David Doyle (Bosley from Charlie's Angels) in a small but effective role as a pool hall thug. Unfortunately for him, he ends up behind the eight ball after Clint gets done with him. "},{"Title":"Arizona Lawman In The Big Bad Apple Early Eastwood Crime Thriller","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Coogan is a country sheriff from Arizona sent to New York City to escort a bail-jumper back home. The suspect escapes however, and Coogan is forced to track him down in wildly unfamiliar territory, with the local cops breathing down his neck ...The first of Eastwood and Siegel's five films together (if you don't count Play Misty For Me) is a solid thriller, with an interesting fish-out-of-water premise, good characterisation and flashy action scenes. It's also the only film I can think of in quintessential California Man Eastwood's large filmography which takes place in New York, and the locations are all interesting, notably Fort Tryon Park in Upper Manhattan for the memorable chase finale on Triumph motorbikes. The cast are all good; Eastwood looks perfectly out of place as a modern cowboy with old-fashioned sensibilities in a hip'n'trendy urban jungle and isn't afraid to shock us, as in the scene where he beats up Sterling (who is two feet smaller than him, not to mention a girl). Clark - who's not that well known but was in a whole bunch of interesting seventies flicks - is the refreshingly normal centre of the film, and looks amazing with her dark brown hair and bright green eyes. And Cobb steals the show as the world-weary Lieutenant McElroy, somehow loud and prickly but also subtle and amusing at the same time. Like their subsequent masterpiece, Dirty Harry, this movie is also an engaging time-capsule of pothead days, particularly in the Pigeon-Toed Orange Peel nightclub happening sequence, which is aided by Lalo Schifrin's terrific jazzy score, his first of eight for Eastwood. This is perhaps a minor picture in Clint's excellent back catalogue, but it's well-made throughout and solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"The Man With No Name goes to the big city","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The raw violence in this film wasn't anything spectacular, but it was a foreshadowing of what was to come in the future.This film started a 10 year relationship between Eastwood and director Don Siegel. They would go on to do four more films, including Dirty Harry.You can contrast Eastwood's cool Coogan with the hokey McCloud that followed with Dennis Weaver.It's Harry Callhan with out a gun, so it is interesting from a historical perspective in the Eastwood acting career.It is also interesting to see the culture of the time being the Woodstock era. "}{"Title":"NYC cop shows his western roots...good Clinton eastern...","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What's not to like about this CLINT EASTWOOD tale about an Arizona lawman who shows the city slickers a thing or two about tracking down a wanted man for extradition? Clint is excellent in this precursor to the Dirty Harry films as the kind of bounty hunter who likes to do away with bureaucratic red tape and get right to the heart of the matter, taking things into his own capable hands when the law is too fussy about details. This, of course, doesn't sit well with LEE J. COBB, as the NYPD detective irritated by Eastwood's disregard for the law.Stylishly directed by Don Siegel, it's beautifully photographed in crisp Autumn colors in New York City locales with a pleasing background score by Lalo Schifrin.It's one of those fast-moving stories full of wisecracks and chases as the unorthodox procedures are set aside and Eastwood pursues his prey with reckless abandon--a factor that his male fans will no doubt appreciate most of all, particularly the motorcycle chase. As sheer entertainment, it passes the time pleasurably and Eastwood is assured and totally at ease in his action hero role. "},{"Title":"starts brilliant , but decays towards the end","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" the film wastes no time,with a short explosion of character from Clint, who then dives strait into the plot, which started out to be extremely promising and had great potential. Coogan goes to new york to transport a fugitive back to Arizona. it is interesting to see coogan so out of place in new york, as he is mocked for looking like a cowboy. The simple task gets messy, as the criminal escapes. the films tempo continues to rise with the bickering arguments between coogan and the new york police department.Coogan's character is like dirty harry but with an attitude and with a hint of James bond, as he finds himself bumping into several women during his efforts to find the escaped fugitive. coogan's smooth playful attitude towards women is a very entertaining addition to the plot and his character, but then everything starts to go mindlessly down hill.coogans initially clever character implications are thrown out the window, as he decides to fall for the woman who but him in hospital and who is the criminals girlfriend, for puzzling reasons, and then he is led blatantly into a trap by the girl, who for some stupid reason he trusted???? I guess this can be vaguely explained by how coogan trusted people back in Arizona, and therefore thinks he can in new york.The rest of the film is quite absurd, but entertaining, with a motorbike chase scene but the what should have been relaxed ending as the coogan and the criminal share a cigarette's after their battle together was ruined by a stupid woman's eccentric waving to coogan. "},{"Title":"Does Not Age Like Fine Wine","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood was a pretty busy guy in the late 60's and early 70's. In 1968 he starred in 3 films, Hang 'Em High, Where Eagles Dare and Coogan's Bluff. Of the three Coogan's is weakest film. It was directed by Don Siegel who would later go on to direct Eastwood in the first Dirty Harry movie. You can tell that Coogan's Bluff is setting the ground work for that film.Eastwood plays Coogan, a misogynistic sheriff from Arizona who has to travel to New York City to extradite a prisoner named Ringerman (John Stroud) back to Arizona for trial. When he arrives in the city he discovers that his Ringerman is not ready to transport because he is in a mental ward after taking some LSD.Determined to get his prisoner and head back to Arizona, Coogan convinces the hospital to release Ringerman to his care. On their way to the airport Coogan is jumped by some of Ringerman's gang and and Ringerman escapes. Coogan now needs to track down Ringerman and bring him to justice.Coogan's Bluff is really just a classic fish out of water story. Picture Paul Hogan in Crocodile Dundee or Johnny Weissmuller in Tarzan's New York Adventure and you have an idea what is going in this movie.Eastwood's play's his usual stoic self in this one. He does a nice job keeping you interested in a character that is truthfully difficult to like. I thought Tisha Sterling was interesting in this movie as well as the drugged out hippie girlfriend of Ringerman.Coogan's Bluff has not aged well. There are a lot of scenes of the late 60's hippie counter culture and they seem pretty ridiculous by today's standards. This isn't really the biggest problem with the movie however. For me the biggest issue was there wasn't really anything going on in this movie. Ringerman isn't really a true villain he pretty much just hides out taking drugs until Eastwood tracks him down. The action scenes are few and far between and most of the movie seems to be about Coogan trying to get women in bed.Coogan's Bluff is interesting in that the character is pretty obviously the basis for the Dirty Harry role and that they went on to make a TV show based on the movie called McCloud. It is available to stream on Netflix if you want to check it out, but there are much better Eastwood films out there. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry before he was Dirty Harry","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" in this film Clint Eastwood plays the title character,an Arizona cop who plays by his own rules.sounds familiar,doesn't it?it's basically Dirty Harry before Dirty Harry,although not quite as aggressive or violent.the Dirty Harry template is definitely there though.anyway,Coogan disobeys his superiors once to often ,and gets assigned a job he doesn't want.from there things go from bad to worse,as the job turns out to be more than just boring and routine.i liked the movie for the most part.there were a few slow parts,but not enough kill the movie.the acting was aces by all.i especially like Susan Clark (TV's Webster)and Lee J. Cobb.Don Siegel directed(and produced) the film,his first collaboration with Eastwood.all in all,i liked the film and would recommend it.for me,Coogan's Bluff is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Eastwood's transition","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is a good example of a transition film. Clint Eastwood, known primarily for westerns at this point in his career took a step towards one of his most recognizable characters Inspector Dirty Harry Calahan. Coogan's Bluff starts with a wide shot of a desert in the American Southwest. Dust is being kicked up as the protagonist rides... in a jeep! He has a holstered rifle, classic western hat and boots, and lights a cigarette all in the first scene. At thus point the terrain could have been from the 1860s, but then were are shown a modern home and cars and then finally the vast urban expanse of New York City as a helicopter lands on a huge skyscraper. This opening sequence is really nothing more within the film itself, but taken from an outside perspective, it's actually a landmark in Clint Eastwood's career; it foreshadows Dirty Harry and signals a waning of the western genre. 1968 was also the year Steve McQueen made the classic Bullitt, which takes place in San Francisco, which also makes it another prelude to Dirty Harry and the archetype of the tough city cop.Coogan's Bluff is potentially more enjoyable for some in that Walt Coogan is much less violent. Dirty Harry is a very cool character, but the end of even the second movie, he was just good escapism. Walt Coogan is actually convincing as a real character and his trek through New York is comparable, once again, to Bullitt. The film is more about the driving force of the character to get to the bottom of the problem, which here involves tracking down a criminal who escaped Coogan's custody. Out of his jurisdiction and much to annoyance of a New York inspector Coogan starts to conduct the search by himself. He's a stranger in a strange land, so to speak.The film may be a bit slow by today's action standards, but this is more of an investigation cop movie more akin to a Sherlock Holmes story mystery throughout and a climatic set piece at the end; here in the form of a terrific motorcycle chase. Coogan's Bluff came out in 1968 and was overshadowed by Bullitt with it's spectacular chase scene and Clint Eastwood's much bigger action hit of that year, Where Eagles Dare, but this film is essential for Clint fans if they haven't seen it. --- 8/10BsCDb Classification PG --- violence "},{"Title":"A man's gotta do what a man's gotta do!.","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Arizona cop Walt Coogan is sent to New York to pick up an extradited prisoner. After losing him in the city he vows to bring him in anyway he can, he may be out of his jurisdiction, he may be patronised by the big city cops, but Coogan has his own way of doing things.Often thought of as the precursor to Dirty Harry, Coogan's Bluff is a crucial entry in the genre pantheon of tough cop pictures. The fish out of water routine will forever be done to death it would seem, but back here in 1968 it still holds its salt and delivers an admirably tight fusion of the big city meeting the Western. In the more than capable hands of director Don Siegel, and starring Clint Eastwood in the lead, Coogan's Bluff is fully aware of it's time frame and the changes occurring in late 60s America, witness a marvellous scene as Coogan trawls thru a day glow orange psychedelia club. Meeting pimps, crooks and hippies are all par for the course for Coogan, and of course the women find the cowboy dapper Coogan worthy of further inspection, all that and a cigar chomping Lee J. Cobb as tough Det. Lt. McElroy help to make Coogan's Bluff a very enjoyable picture.Now about those boots Walt......7/10. "},{"Title":"Fair entry for Eastwood.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone who talks about COOGAN'S BLUFF likes to talk about Dan Siegel and the comparisons to MADIGAN. A young Eastwood straight out of the spaghetti westerns is a great bonus as well. COOGAN'S BLUFF is far from spectacular. Actually it's goofy. And unfortunately with age, it has become grainy as well. Nevertheless, the movie is enjoyable and has an excellent chase scene at the end.An Arizona deputy flies to New York to extradite a prisoner. All he gets are problems.COOGAN'S BLUFF is actually more about the east versus west and the city versus country. The fact that everyone calls the Arizona man a Texan is one small but good example. It adds to the humor but it also shows what Eastwood is good at for an actor. And although some parts are unnecessary, COOGAN'S BLUFF is still a fairly good movie, even if it is only watched in schools.  "},{"Title":"YOU COULD TELL HE WAS BLUFFING","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  i'm a big fan of Clint Eastwood and Don Seigel and somehow this movie has always alluded me.  well last night i finally got the chance to check it out and man do i wish it had been a little more slippery.  The movie starts off promising enough with eastwood tracking a crazy indian sharpshooter in the desert, but once he goes to new york and the fish out of water story begins nothing can really save the tedium (not even the great Lee J. Cobb).  Now back in the day i'm sure this was a huge hit and a great movie.  but it just doesn't hold up anymore, which is surprising coming from this duo.  for a real treat check out their far superior work on Beguiled "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood is hard, innit?","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Serving as a bridge between his spaghetti western roles in Leone's films that turned him into a star overnight and the subsequent Dirty Harry series, Coogan's Bluff is not only entertaining, I'd say it's a minor triumph in Eastwood's career as an actor.Clint Eastwood is Dpt. Sheriff Coogan, dispatched to NYC to escort a prisoner he helped bring to justice, back to Arizona for trial. The first half of the movie is more light-hearted and funny as we see Coogan going around New York being called a cowboy and a Texan (on account of his cowboy hat and boots) and him delivering with a stoic look the kind of snappy comebacks and cool one-liners that later came to be expected from him and are deeply interwoven with his actor persona. Coogan is also a man's man; no scratch that. Coogan is a man's man's man.The second half deals with Coogan hunting down the prisoner after he escapes from his own hands. All the staples of a solid crime flick are here. Lots of fisticuffs, a bike chase, some gunplay, a sleazy hippie party. There's also the great Lee J. Cobb playing the New York lieutenant and Susan Clark as the love interest. Good acting all around with Eastwood of course owning every scene without much effort. Just a wry smile and a one-liner will do. "},{"Title":"Great early Eastwood!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS! While this is a period piece, that is one thing that makes it GREAT! It saves the 1968 New York hip scene on film!Great supporting cast, Lee; J. Cobb, Don Stroud, and Susan Clark is HAWT! Tisha Sterling, the hippie chick, is PERFECT! While this movie inspired the Dennis Weaver as McCloud on TV, I wonder if this movie inspired Crocodile Dundee as well?Great poolroom fight! And how do you like that crazy song in the dance club, Pigeon-Toed Orange Peel?At July, 2006, this is only rated 6.5 I think that some of the lower ratings may be due to the fact that it may offend some feminist sensibilities. And it is not particularly politically correct to chain an American Indian to a post while you go inside enjoy a lady.Hard to believe that this film is almost forty years old! "}{"Title":"Forgettable Eastwood","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Though I give this film a '5', take Clint out of the lead role and this it drops to a turkey with a rating of '3' (if I'm feeling charitable that day).What's going on here? Deputy Coogan leaves Arizona for New York to bring home a wanted felon. He pisses off the local police while getting involved in a few conflicts highlighted by really crappy fight sequences. He meets a laughably clueless woman whose part was clearly written by someone who saw June Cleaver as dangerously progressive. Naive caricatures of the Sixties Drug Culture abound. Coogan eventually gets his man, the locals forgive Coogan his meddling, the airhead sees Coogan off despite the way he cruelly used her, and Coogan happily shares a smoke with the perp who tried to kill him. You'll strain yourself looking for the plot herein.Ugh ... this is a waste of celluloid. Why on Earth this is available on DVD in the U.S., but neither Reds nor A Fistful Of Dynamite are, boggles the mind.On the other hand, it's Clint, and he does redeem it to an extent. And it's not as bad as Bronco Billy or Space Cowboys.Viewers familiar with Dirty Harry will note the familiar action-sequence and sky-view fadaway techniques of director Don Seigel. "},{"Title":"Eastwood & Siegel-Dated? Of Course! but it's still great fun","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Coogan's Bluff (1968) (Universal Pictures) Dir- Donald Siegel Theatrical Rating R/15Clint Eastwood (Coogan) is a Deputy Sheriff from Arizona who arrives in New York City to extradite a Prisoner back home, but things don't go according to plan when the criminal goes on the run.Great movie that's wonderfully dated- great 1960's feeling with Hippies and Junkies and ridiculous hairstyles and bars complete with go-go dancers and fantastic names like 'The Pigeon footed orange peel' I like Clint Eastwood and here he plays a cross between the man with no name and Dirty Harry to great effect wonderful actor J.lee Cobb has a really pleasing role as the New York lieutenant trying to curb Eastwood's Anticsco-starring Don Stroud,Susan Clark and Tisha SterlingFinal Verdict- Just as good as 'Dirty Harry' and Highly RecommendedRating- 8/10 or **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Not a top tier Eastwood vehicle, but still pretty enjoyable.","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Here Clint Eastwood gets to bring a little of the Western into an urban jungle, playing the title character, an Arizona deputy with his own way of doing things. His sheriff (Tom Tully) is tired of him, but assigns him the task of extraditing a criminal named Ringerman (Don Stroud), who's being held in NYC. Disgusted with the amount of red tape that he's obliged to wade through, Coogan obtains Ringerman through false pretenses - and then the young mans' associates get the drop on him, and Ringerman escapes. However, Coogan isn't about to let a little wounded pride get to him, as he continues to frustrate police lieutenant McElroy (Lee J. Cobb) with his methods of tracking a wanted man.Clint is a lot of fun to watch, showing off that natural screen presence that made him a star. He makes the most out of what many people agree to be a predecessor to his iconic screen role of Dirty Harry. The movie itself, produced & directed by Clints' frequent collaborator Don Siegel, works as a fish out of water type of story in which different approaches to law enforcement clash, and where the environment has a pivotal part to play. Use of various NYC locations is great, and Lalo Schifrins' music score is excellent. The climactic motorcycle chase is reasonably exciting, but the most striking scene of all has to be when Coogan tails Ringermans' lady friend Linny Raven (Tisha Sterling) to a nightclub. Among the images on the big screen there is a shot from Tarantula, in which Clint had a small uncredited role.There's a great sexual chemistry between Clint and well-meaning probation officer Julie Roth (sexy Susan Clark); he also works well with Sterling, who's a delight as a cheery hippie chick. Stroud unfortunately doesn't get a lot to do, the way that the story is written, but the supporting cast, led by the always solid Cobb, includes familiar faces such as Betty Field, James Edwards, David Doyle, Louis Zorich, Seymour Cassel, Albert Popwell (who would go on to appear in four of the Dirty Harry movies), and Conrad Bain.A well paced and consistently entertaining movie, Coogan's Bluff later evolved into the 'McCloud' TV series with Dennis Weaver.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eastwood Does the 1960's","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Eastwood certainly fits easily into the role of an arrogant Arizona sheriff. Of course, Coogan's supposed to be a pitiless master of all situations, which is why Julie (Clark) has trouble falling for his straight-arrow hunk of a man. It's impressive watching him stride obliviously through New York crowds, towering over them in his ten-gallon cowboy hat. This is one of the flicks that established Eastwood's flinty film persona, and a perfect tune-up for the Dirty Harry series.Then too, it didn't hurt Eastwood's politically conservative image to show him elbowing his way through a hedonistic crowd of hippies at a New York nightclub; at the same time, it's the hippie Linny (Sterling) who betrays him twice despite her sweet smile. Add to that his showing the rogue Indian who's boss by making him change into white man's garments, and you've got one of the few anti-counterculture movies to come out of rebellious 1968.The film itself is entertaining enough, the premise being a pregnant one of a western sheriff tangling with big city police bureaucracy (Cobb) over remanding a fugitive (Stroud) back to Arizona. It's all directed smoothly enough by Eastwood's friend and mentor Don Siegel, but doesn't show his characteristic stamp, being an all-Eastwood showcase instead. Clark, Cobb, and Tully, all give first-rate support, along with a heckuva motorcycle chase, which I suppose is an imaginative substitute for the horseback chase from a thousand western matinees. All in all, it's a colorful exercise, if you can take 90-minutes of Coogan's deadpan ego.(In passing&#x97;note the suddenly brief appearance of a huge black & white tarantula in the midst of the psychedelic light show. It seems a strange intrusion unless you recall one of Eastwood's first films was Tarantula (1955) from which the insert was taken&#x97;an inside joke by Siegel, I'll wager.) "},{"Title":"Eastwood rocks, Siegel disappoints","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Eastwood is a sheriff's deputy from Arizona who is sent to New York to bring back a fugitive from law. Now this story line conjures up the vision of dramatic chases and action sequences, just like a typical Clint movie. However, this is different as the stress is more on the romantic side of Eastwood and his relation with Susan Clark, who works in the NYPD. Clint is pretty good in his role as the well mannered deputy. Lee J. Cobb as the lieutenant of the state police is cast perfectly. It is the script which actually proves to be the Achilles heel. Right from the name of the movie which is taken from one of the minor events in the flick to the resolution, the viewer feels disappointed. This was Don Siegel's first collaboration with Eastwood before the Dirty Harry series and the result is far from satisfying. However, it is Eastwood who really keeps you glued to the screen. 3 out of 5 for this. Recommended only for die hard Eastwood fans. "},{"Title":"Need a bigger target?","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The raw violence in this film wasn't anything spectacular, but it was a foreshadowing of what was to come in the future.This film started a 10 year relationship between Eastwood and director Don Siegel. They would go on to do four more films, including Dirty Harry.You can contrast Eastwood's cool Coogan with the hokey McCloud that followed with Dennis Weaver.It's Harry Callhan with out a gun, so it is interesting from a historical perspective in the Eastwood acting career.It is also interesting to see the culture of the time being the Woodstock era. "},{"Title":"Clint's cowboy visits New York in this comic thriller","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A fish-out-of-water comic action film in which Eastwood's cop cowboy is sent to New York to track down an escaped criminal. Once there, his Stetson-wearing character causes chaos in the local police department, while taking time out to romance a beautiful flame-haired woman.COOGAN'S BLUFF is very much a slight and lightweight piece of filmmaking that can't hold a candle to the star's more serious police thrillers and westerns. That's not to say it's unwatchable, though; in fact it's fairly appealing, trading in on the star's youthful charm and giving him more of a chance to experiment with comedy than he usually gets. As the film progresses, he finds himself caught up in the era's counter-culture movement with some memorable results.Don Siegel shot the film, so it looks great. There isn't a great deal of action, but it does close off with a rousing motorbike chase which is one of the most inventive I've seen on film; playing things simple always works out for the best in the end. Lee J. Cobb delivers an amusing turn as the exasperated lieutenant and Susan Clark (best known as 'Cherry Forever' in PORKY'S) is fine as the would-be love interest. Eastwood's character, a forerunner of Dirty Harry, is understated but also deliciously amoral and his visit to a liberal club makes for an amusing highlight. "},{"Title":"Poor man's Dirty Harry","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was the first collaboration between Don Siegel and Clint Eastwood and it foreshadows many of the elements that would comprise the appeal of Dirty Harry. In this movie, Eastwood is Deputy Sheriff Coogan, an Arizona cop tasked with bringing home a fugitive from New York City. Coogan bristles at authority, relishing antagonizing all authority figures he encounters. It is almost a compulsive behavior. At the start of the film, he has angered his boss by leaving his post for a romp with a woman and when this becomes clear, Sheriff McRea (a no-nonsense Tom Tully) learns this, he dispatches Coogan to New York to bring back escaped fugitive Ringerman (Don Stroud). On reaching New York City though, Coogan learns that Ringerman has been sent to Bellevue Pscyhiatric Hospital, and so in order to bring him back will first require a judge to certify that Ringerman is eligible for release before Coogan will even be allowed to institute extradition proceedings. He tries to shortcut his way around these restrictions but finds himself stifled at every turn. His efforts to get to Ringerman involve ignoring NY police protocol, romancing Ringerman's friend Linny Raven (Tisha Sterling) and social worker Julie (Susan Clark).Coogan is very easy to dislike. He's chauvinistic, contemptuous of authority to the point of parody, and a bit of a bully. His character in this film has many of the elements (though lots more chauvinism) than Dirty Harry would have three years later. It's an interesting film because, as other commenters have noted, it takes Eastwood from the milieu of the West where he had gained fame and success during the '60s, into the city, where he would gain huge fame and success with the Dirty Harry films. The interaction of the cowboy Coogan, trundling through a psychedelic club in his authoritarian cowboy hat, while hippies ingest all manner of consciousness-altering drugs, was for me a very powerful contrast of a strait-laced character contrasted against the counterculture.There is some good acting in this film, from Stroud as a madman in a limited role, to Gingerman's mother (Betty Field), a protective woman who fences with Coogan and will not concede any ground to him in his effort to ascertain Gingerman's location, to Susan Clark as the competent, sensitive parole officer who Coogan seduces and then manipulates to Lee Cobb as Lt. McElroy as the by-the-books cop Coogan butts heads with in trying to secure Gingerman's release into his custody.All that said, this does not have the tension and edge of Dirty Harry. It all seems like a bit of a lark, it is. Obviously Siegel was trying to find his groove here, the formula which would ultimately yield Dirty Harry. This film thrives on the tenacity of Coogan and his status as a westerner in New York City. The jazzy score is the perfect choice for this lark and the sights of the Pan-Am building, massive cars, and Coogan's acerbic responses are nice touches in this poor man's Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"Before Dirty Harry there was Coogan","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie is about an Arizona sheriff (EASTWOOD) who accompanies his extradited prisoner and loses him in Manhattan. Coogan (EASTWOOD) must find his prisoner during this film Eastwood meets pimps,crooks,hippies and cops along the way. This film featured Clint Eastwood, Susan Clark, Don Stroud & lee.J.Cobb and was directed by Don Siegal.In my opinion this was a smart career move by Eastwood to take on the role of Coogan i can't see another person who would have played the role as well as Eastwood. A very good film with very good actors and a great director 90 minutes well spent watching this film, I highly recommend this film ****/***** "},{"Title":"Classic ACTION Cinema","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I believe Clint Eastwood started to emerge as the 1970's lead action star with his starring role in Coogan's Bluff. Don Siegel directed this absolute action movie which is a great representation of what action movies were about for the next decade or so. Clint Eastwood starred in a few of director Don Siegel's action movies, and I am sure Clint absorbed a lot of his talents as a director from watching Mr Siegel's work behind the camera. Clint plays an Arizona deputy sheriff sent to the big apple to pick up and return to Arizona a very dangerous murderer. The opening scenes of this movie have Clint chasing another on the run criminal in the mountains of Arizona and reflect Clint's unorthodox methods of hunting and capturing dangerous criminals.The Toronto, Ontario born actress Susan Clark was not only exceptionally attractive playing opposite to Clint Eastwood as his main love interest, but as a result of her complimenting the camera, she starred opposite many lead actors in the years to follow. After starring opposite NFL football star Alex Karras in the biography Babe, she married Mr. Karras in 1980 and remained with him until his death in October 2012. Don Stroud as the escaped murderer on the run, and Lee J Cobb as the lead New York investigator added depth to their characters and helped round out a strong castThis movie contains a good musical score, lot's of action, and lots of Clint Eastwood at his bad ass best. It is a classic action movie that helped Clint Eastwood and Susan Clark sustain long and endearing movie careers. "}{"Title":"A bit too vulgar for my tastes; the dull nature certainly didn't help matters, either","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I saw this a couple years back. I'm a huge Clint Eastwood fan. He's responsible for some of the greatest Western movies ever made, and is absolutely iconic in my books, but he did have some duds like any good actor along the way. Coogan's Bluff I'm sad to say was one of them. I was really taken aback by how ruthless this was, arguably a bit too ruthless for its own good. It's not the vulgarity that sinks it though, but the bad pacing. It was really mundane to watch most of the time. This was the inspiration for the T.V series McCloud, but I've never seen that show either. If it's anything like this movie, maybe that is a good thing. Clint Eastwood is great and perhaps served as a precursor to Dirty Harry, but he isn't able to contend with this movie's shortcomings. Final Thoughts Die hard Clint fans will wanna check this out, but it doesn't offer a whole lot in my opinion. Clint would correct this failed attempt with Dirty Harry. 4/10 "},{"Title":"best motorcycle chase scene ever","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  As Bullitt is known for its famous outdoor automobile car chase scene, this motion picture offers exceptional scenes of a motorcycle chase, all shot outdoors on Fort Tyron's park (near the Cloisters, on the upper tip of Manhattan).  "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry It Ain't","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The late sixties and early seventies were the last golden age of the cinema Western. Many of the best-known Westerns from that period, however, were what has become known as revisionist- that is to say they attempted to portray life in the West either as banal (Will Penny, McCabe and Mrs Miller) or as brutal and savage (The Wild Bunch, Soldier Blue) rather than heroic. Even the legend of the brave and incorruptible sheriff, made famous by the likes of High Noon and Gunfight at the OK Corral, was subjected to the revisionist treatment in Michael Winner's Lawman, in which the main character's inflexible determination to apply the letter of the law at all costs leads to bloodshed and tragedy. It is, therefore, perhaps no coincidence that this period also saw the rise of a new genre of film which attempted to keep alive the heroic legend of the Old West in a new setting. This was the tough cop thriller, which effectively took the Western lawman and set him down in the American city of the late twentieth century. The contemporary police officers who are the heroes of these films are just as brave as their Western predecessors and just as determined when it comes to fighting crime and protecting the citizen against evildoers. In order to achieve this end, they are often impatient with legal niceties. Coogan's Bluff is perhaps the tough cop film which pays the most direct homage to the Western roots of the genre. The central character, Walt Coogan, is an Arizona sheriff who always wears a cowboy hat and boots. He travels to New York to extradite James Ringerman, a fugitive who is wanted in Arizona for murder. Upon arrival, however, he is informed that the man is currently in a psychiatric hospital and cannot be extradited until his discharge. Even then, he cannot be committed to Coogan's custody until a formal order has been obtained from a judge. Unwilling to wait, Coogan bluffs his way into the hospital and persuades the staff to hand Ringerman over to him. At the airport, however, Coogan is ambushed by Ringerman's associates and the criminal is freed. Stung by this blow to his pride, Coogan determines to recapture the fugitive, even though he has no power to act as a police officer in New York and has been warned to stay away from the case both by the New York police and by his superiors in Arizona. The film has some similarities in plot to a later police thriller, the John Wayne vehicle Brannigan. Both films deal with a tough, uncompromising cop who travels out of his jurisdiction in order to oversee the extradition of a suspect, and in both cases a difference in policing styles brings the hero into conflict with the local force. (Brannigan was about a Chicago policeman in Britain). The film with which Coogan's Bluff is most often compared, however, is Clint Eastwood's second police movie, Dirty Harry. Both films had the same director, Don Siegel, and Harry, like Coogan, is ready to bend and even break the rules when he thinks it necessary. There is, however, an important difference between the two films. Dirty Harry is much more than a cop thriller; it is a film that asks some important questions about the conflict between two different moral imperatives, the need to obey the law and the need to follow one's conscience. Harry goes outside the law while pursuing a criminal, but he does so as a matter of conscience; he believes that a young girl's life is at stake and that she cannot be saved by a strictly-by-the-book approach. Coogan's Bluff, however, is a lightweight film by comparison, with no such important matters at stake. Eastwood here makes a rather annoying hero who likes to cut corners simply because he cannot be bothered to go through the proper channels. My sympathies are with McElroy, the old-school New York cop who is irritated beyond measure by Coogan's impatience and cowboy brashness. Coogan is a dashing bachelor, and much (possibly too much) of the film is taken up with his romancing of an attractive female probation officer and even of Ringerman's hippie-chick girlfriend, Linny. Harry, by contrast, is a widower with no female interest in his life; his wife's death at the hands of a hit-and-run driver may be the reason why he despises the criminal fraternity so much. There are some good things about this film. Although this is not Eastwood's best performance, I was impressed by Lee J. Cobb as the long-suffering McElroy. There is Lalo Schiffrin's attractive musical score and some dry humour, particularly the exchanges between Coogan and the taxi driver who tries to take him for a ride in both senses of the word, and that running joke about how everyone assumes that Coogan is from Texas rather than Arizona. Finally, there is that thrilling motor-bike chase through the grounds of the convent. In all, however, this film is no Dirty Harry. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting and underrated.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Coogan's Bluff has gotten mostly negative reviews. I understand that most of them expected to see a western, and focused too much on the crime/chase aspect of it, however there's more beneath the surface.It is perhaps one of the few movies of its time to show the dark side of the 60's hippie/drug scene. The idea of Coogan being gradually attracted by the very worst parts of inner-city subculture, and it finally turning out destructive to both his mission and his newfound friends is pure genius, and couldn't be done better.Clint Eastwood's understated acting is not my thing, but it makes sense for this particular role-he's in a different culture than where he's raised, he obviously has little to say but gets the point across.One more fact. When i first saw the movie, i thought that it was made as a ripoff of Midnight Cowboy, which it resembles in many ways-especially in the general structure and mood of the film, but later i realized that it was put out one year earlier! So i guess you can see it as preceding MC, which is a good movie too of course.  "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry meets McCloud","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  First of all this seems to be to movie that the TV show McCloud is based. Eastwood's character is a deputy sheriff from Arizona instead of McCloud's New Mexico. Also Eastwood's is not as nice a guy as McCloud. He is an early version of Dirty Harry. He is a determined deputy who is out to get his man. He is also a fish out of water. He has to go through the darkside of New York's counter-culture to his man. He also has to deal with the NYPD, who do not think too much of him. This is a good movie. It is tight crime drama. Eastwood really acts here, and he has a strong supporting cast that includes character actor Lee J. Cobb. Cobb, who is well known for playing Willie Loman in 'Death of Salesman,' plays a tough New York police detective who has to deal with Eastwood. Susan Clark plays a tough liberated New York woman interested in Eastwood dispite his 'politically incorrect' approach civil liberties.   "},{"Title":"Coogan's fluff.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Before DIRTY HARRY there was Walt Coogan, the boy from Arizona with an attitude problem against the City authorities. Whereas Harry did it the dirty way, Coogan does it the cowboy way. Not much difference in approach but at least Harry had more conviction and style to his madness. After a while Coogan gets on your nerves with his sexist and male-chauvinistic look on life. Apart from that, the script lacked any real conviction.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Enough for the Time Spent","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Having incurred the wrath of his boss, Deputy Sheriff Coogan (Clint Eastwood) is sent from Arizona to New York to bring back a fugitive by the name of James Ringerman (Don Stroud). When he gets there he is told by Lt. McElroy (Lee J. Cobb) that he will have to wait a few days before the NYPD can hand the prisoner over to him. Not wanting to wait around Coogan goes to the hospital where Ringerman is being held and manages to get the prisoner released to him under false pretenses. Unfortunately, on the way to the heliport Coogan is knocked unconscious and Ringerman escapes. Now Coogan is faced with tracking the fugitive in a totally different environment than what he is used to. Anyway, rather than spoiling the movie for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this was a decent movie for the most part. I especially liked the performances of Clint Eastwood and the young woman named Linny Raven (Tisha Sterling). Along with that Susan Clark (as Julie Roth) was rather nice on the eyes as well. Be that as it may, while this movie might not be the best Clint Eastwood film ever made it's entertaining enough for the time spent. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood perfect fish out of water","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Arizona deputy sheriff Coogan is punished and ordered to New York City to escort a fugitive prisoner back. Everybody treats him as a cowboy bumpkin from Texas. He is a fish out of water, and Clint is perfect for the role.But Coogan's problems is just starting as he finds his prisoner is still locked up in Belleville, and can't be transfered. When Coogan takes matters into his own hands, and the prisoner escapes. Coogan can't help but try to recapture his prisoner.Clint Eastwood cuts a fine character. He clashes with every aspect of NY. There're a few funny moments. It could do with a few more action scenes especially in the middle, and the action isn't done that well. It got a bit slow there. And the 60s hippie stereotypes is just too silly. But you watch this for Clint, and he's his superb self. "},{"Title":"Decent film, definitely worth a watch.","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of Clint Eastwood and have really enjoyed watching some of his films like the Dirty Harry series, Joe Kidd and of course Where Eagles Dare. Anyway, I was thoroughly entertained while watching Coogan's Bluff. The films starts off with a typically defiant Eastwood who as result is sent to New York City as a result. The film offers a fairly unique story that involves some good actions scenes and a very well written story. It also gives the audience a chance to see New York in the 1960's which is a great setting for this film.Overall, I would recommend anyone to watch this film as it's only an hour and a half long, it doesn't drag on at all. It's not one of the greatest by a long way, however as like film with Clint Eastwood it is certainly worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Before Dirty Harry, there was Coogan's Bluff.","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The first in a series of films that starred Clint Eastwood and directed by Don Siegel, they both worked together again for the films Two Mules for Sister Sara, The Beguiled, Dirty Harry and Escape from Alcatraz (might count Play Misty for Me as Clint gave Don a cameo role).Coogan's Bluff stars Clint as Sheriff Coogan who gets sent to New York City from Arizona to pick up a fugitive who is wanted for murder.The character Coogan is definitely a lot like the more iconic character Harry Callahan which came along a few years later in Dirty Harry. This is from a time though when Clint was just best known for the Dollars trilogy and the TV series Rawhide which makes it interesting to watch as it's Clint's first successful attempt to step outside the western and war genres.The film itself is pretty much a western but set in modern times and it works well. If you love the Dirty Harry films or a fan of Clint Eastwood or Don Siegel (or both), you'll love this one. "}{"Title":"A very human Eastwood","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What struck me about Coogan's Bluff is Clint Eastwood's performance. Here, he plays a cocky Arizona deputy who has little regard for his prisoner, as well as for acting on the directive of his superior in his home area.As a result, he gets sent to New York to retrieve a prisoner.And the fish out of water gets an education and then some.This film may have been a prototype of the McCloud television series, for sure. While there are elements I see from the Dirty Harry series of films, his character here is more the Arizona cowboy who has a sense of propriety than the San Francisco detective he portrays later on. For example, he reacts badly toward a parolee who is fondling Susan Clark's breast, early in the movie.The film is an education both for Coogan, and for his New York counterparts By the end of the movie, he treats his prisoner (Don Stroud) with respect, offering him a cigarette (obviously something WAYYY dated), Lee J. Cobb learns to respect the Arizona deputy and Susan Clark clearly cares for the Arizona deputy.Its flaws notwithstanding (not all of the New York scenes were filmed there; some were done on a back lot in Hollywood), I consider this one of Clint Eastwood's best performances, playing an Arizona deputy, warts and all. And you gotta love the vintage footage of New York in late 1967, when this was filmed!! "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood scowling since 1964","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The precursor to Dirty Harry, Coogan's Bluff sees actor Clint Eastwood playing Walt Coogan, a deputy sheriff from Arizona sent to New York City to extradite a small time criminal. Made at the height of the Vietnam War, the film tapped into a growing disdain for authority figures and bureaucracy by, ironically, serving up an ultra authoritative figure who bulldozes his way past all rules and regulations in search for violent, frontier justice (ie &#x96; to get rid of fascism, you need a good fascist). A wave of similarly themed films - True Grit, Death Wish, Dirty Harry etc &#x96; would soon follow.Coogan's Bluff marked Eastwood's first collaboration with Don Siegel, a director with whom Clint made a number of his better films (Escape from Alcatraz, Two Mules for Sister Sara, The Beguiled). The film also marked, not only the point at with Clint began ordering rewrites on his scripts in order to include more psycho-sexual, somewhat misogynistic material, but the point at which he began his transition away from Westerns. From here Eastwood's screen image would change from a monosyllabic tough guy on a horse to a monosyllabic tough guy with a car. Acknowleding Eastwood's roles in Sergio Leone's films, Siegel has Coogan's Bluff open with Clint dressed in cowboy apparel and seemingly lost in the Wild West, before segueing into a more modern, urban setting.Epitomizing Clint's strange relationship with his audience, whom perpetually view him as a rebellious, anti authoritarian figure, the film's first villain is a Navajo Indian and Coogan himself hates hippies and bullies women. Richard Nixon was sworn in months after the film's premiere. Once in power he proceeded to swat hippies and kill brown skins.7.9/10 &#x96; Clint's perpetual scowl, relaxed gait, one liners and laconic mannerisms elevate a conventional plot. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"You are so enigmatic.","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" For a pre-Dirty Harry tune-up, this one didn't really get the job done to my mind. Clint Eastwood is one of my favorites, but he didn't have much personality here, meaning he was pretty one dimensional in his approach to the title character. Not even that signature scowl of his that made the Man With No Name so much fun to watch. If I didn't know better, I would have thought he was still developing his craft at this point in his career, but he already had the spaghetti Western films to his credit by this time. Maybe it was the switch in genre that derailed his concentration; I just didn't find a lot to like about Coogan.Not to mention that the film is severely dated. Back in the Sixties, folks like Tom Wolfe OD'd on book titles like 'The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby', while Tommy James and the Shondells were belting out stuff like 'Crimson and Clover'. So when Coogan and Linny Raven (Tisha Sterling) walked into The Pigeon Toed Orange Peel, it was all I could do to suppress a long groan. Could we possibly have endured an era like that and survived? Don't worry, a decade from now I'll have something similar to say about the Lady Gaga generation.Story wise, this one was on a level with your basic TV cop movie, and they're a dime a dozen. The pool room brawl dealt a couple minutes of energy, but did you notice - for all the beating Coogan took to the head and face, he didn't have a mark on him the next day. There was also a fairly big disconnect for me whenever the transition was made from the bright lights of the big city to the Hudson River countryside in a matter of seconds, as in the motorcycle chase scene near the end. That just wouldn't have been realistic for anyone starting out in mid-town, no matter how fast you can gear up your bike.The most impressive thing in the whole movie for me, seriously, was the final scene when the helicopter took off from the top of the Pan-Am building and you had that dizzying panoramic sweep of the city below. It's too bad it took an hour and a half to get there, as an opener that scene might have given the flick an entirely different flavor. "},{"Title":"Not Dirty Harry, But Good","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" With less violence and the addition of a comical bent, Coogan's Bluff became the inspiration for the long running TV series McCloud starring Dennis Weaver. For director Don Siegal, it was, like the same year's Madigan, another early examination of the maverick police officer that would reach its zenith with 1971's Dirty Harry. For Eastwood, it's an interesting blend of the genre for which he was best known at the time--the western--and of the urban crime thrillers with which he would achieve superstardom. This one isn't as exciting as Dirty Harry, and the fish out of water theme (ala Mr. Deeds Goes to Town) helps to excuse some of the more unpleasant aspects of the character's law and order at any cost mentality, but Coogan's Bluff has an abundance of smart-a** humor to make it memorable. Eastwood is very effectively cast, and it is to his credit that he was willing to play such an unlikable and offensive SOB at this relatively early stage of his big-screen career. (Can you imagine Gregory Peck in this role?) "},{"Title":"Hugely entertaining Clint Eastwood vehicle","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Laconic and straightforward Arizona lawman Walt Coogan (the one and only Clint Eastwood, very much the supremely lanky and languid essence of charismatic laid-back cool) gets sent to New York City to extradite dangerous captured criminal James Ringerman (Don Stroud in fine loopy form). After Ringerman manages to escape due to a slip up, Coogan butts heads with no-nonsense Big Apple superior Lt. McElroy (a terrifically robust and sarcastic portrayal by Lee J. Cobb) as he uses decidedly unorthodox methods to track down and apprehend the fugitive. Director Don Siegel, working from a sly script by Herman Miller, Dean Riesner, and Howard Rodman, relates the absorbing story at a brisk pace, stages a few exciting action set pieces with real skill and aplomb, and makes neat use of gritty New York City locations, with an especially flavorsome evocation of the funky and decadent 1960's hippie scene. Moreover, a key source of amusement and enjoyment stems from the crafty way this movie wrings plenty of amusing and inspired dry humor from the fish out of water premise, with a pointed emphasis on the culture clash between Coogan's rough'n'ready country ways and the more by-the-book conventional approach to enforcing the law preferred by the New York police. The tip-top cast keeps this film humming Susan Clark exudes pure class as tart parole officer Julie Roth, Tisha Sterling provides a winning blend of spice and sexiness as groovy and kooky hippie gal Linny Raven, and Betty Field has a stand-out sharp cameo as Ringerman's brassy mom Ellen. Popping up in nifty small roles are Seymour Cassel, Conrad Bain, and David Doyle. Both Bud Thackery's fluid cinematography and Lalo Schifrin's lively harmonic score are up to par. Recommended viewing for Eastwood fans. "},{"Title":"What?!  That's David Doyle!!!  That can't be David Doyle!","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays a tough cop from Arizona who's been sent to New York City to bring a prisoner (Don Stroud) back to face charges. However, when he arrives, the prisoner is in the infirmary and he must wait a short time to get him. When he finally does take the guy to the airport, he's jumped and beaten by David Doyle!!! Yes, THAT David Doyle!! The one from Bridget Loves Bernie, Charlie's Angels and Rugrats (he played the voice of Grandpa). Of all the actors who you could imagine pummeling Clint Eastwood, about the only one LESS likely might be Paul Rubens or Billy Barty!! This alone is reason to see the film! Well, Eastwood is not about to just return to Arizona empty handed and spends the rest of the movie searching throughout New York for the escaped scum-bag. And so, the cowboy-hatted Eastwood does the whole 'fish out of water' thing until he ultimately gets his man. Does it all seem a bit familiar? Well, apparently this film was the inspiration for the series McCloud just a couple years later.While it's fun watching Eastwood, I really felt the whole 'New York is crazy' aspect of the movie was WAY overdone. Sure, New York City of 1968 wasn't exactly Heaven on Earth, but come on! The worst example is the insane probation officer (Susan Clark) who allows a degenerate to fondle her breast repeatedly--right there in the police station!! I wonder how many OTHER probation officers do this sort of thing? How about ZERO--especially since this is happening right in front of everyone AND she then scolds Eastwood when he stops this probationer!!! This entire scene made no sense whatsoever and apparently it was to illustrate what a sick place this city is. Yeah, right!! I think it just illustrated bad writing. And then, following this, Eastwood and Clark then become very chummy--perhaps he's assuming she'll let him do what the probationer was doing! Later, Clint walks into a super-freaky dance club--full of naked painted ladies, gay men, a FLYING naked lady and drugs. Once again, it all just seems way, way overdone. We GET that New York is a strange place--stop with the sledgehammer symbolism! I did not particularly like this film. I wanted to...but the writing was just dumb. It's not that I don't like Eastwood--he was great in almost all his other films and actually was fine here. But here, he's just saddled with cartoony supporting characters. No one in New York City makes any sense--none! How can you take a Dirty Harry-like character and STILL screw up the film?! Too much emphasis on the weird and confusing--particularly Clark's character who only gets more strange and confusing as the film progresses. In fact, I might be willing to nominate her for the worst supporting female character of the 1960s for this performance (this isn't hyperbole--I'm serious. She was THAT bad). Cool action, a neat character and a decent basic story idea just aren't enough to overcome bad writing and dumb characters.Extremely overrated. My advice is to skip this one and go right to Dirty Harry. Your brain will thank you for this. "},{"Title":"Seventh Inning Stretch","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" How soon we forget! A scant ten years before this movie was made Coogan's Bluff was best known as the site of the Polo Grounds, home of the New York Giants at a time when New York boasted three baseball teams. The rot set in in 1957 when Walter O'Malley moved the Brooklyn Dodgers to Los Angeles, clearly planting a seed because the following year the Giants relocated to Frisco. All this, of course, has nothing to do with the film except that nowhere is the connection even touched upon and clearly several generations of young Americans have grown up in ignorance of the fact. Anyhow enough social history - especially from an Englishman - and on to the film. It still retains interest after 40 years not least because Lee J. Cobb acts everyone off the screen and another heavyweight Betty Field weighs in with a nice cameo. Clint Eastwood is his usual self and if that's what you like you'll automatically like this. Arguably today his male chauvinism would be reined in a tad but the violence is doled out sparingly and Sigel's direction is sure-footed. Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"in part a prototype for Dirty Harry, and in other ways not, a good if not great Siegel/Eastwood collaboration","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Coogan's just got into New York from Arizona- not Texas, mind you, as it's the running gag of sorts- and is out to get a prisoner to transfer. He captured him once before, and it took him eight days to do so. He doesn't have time for bureaucratic resistance, and goes right to Bellevue to hoist him out via a clever bluff. But he gets double-crossed by the prisoner's fellow hippie-cronies, who knock him out right at the heliport. Now he's on a one-track mind catch him at any cost. This is the premise of Don Siegel's first directed film featuring his five-time star Clint Eastwood, and it's a film of the moment and one that speaks to what's to come Eastwood as a tough-as-nails vigilante who won't take crap from the local brass and wont be nice in trying to round up his subject via questioning or getting in fights with nefarious Manhattanites. But it's a little odder still to see Eastwood as Coogan play a ladies man, who is charming if only in the 'hey baby, my look will melt you like butter' way. There's even a sub-plot, definitely the least interesting and only necessary as a bit of means to get to the rest of the story, where Coogan gets emotionally (though not at all physically) involved with Julie Roth (Susan Clark), a probation officer with a good conscience and slightly skewed views on relationships.The story itself is strongest not when Coogan is straying from the central goal, to get his man at any cost. Unlike future Siegel/Eastwood endeavors, this one doesn't have much by way of Eastwood in personality terms. He's sort of two-note, either lean and gritty, either dealing with cops or criminals, or a smooth-talking guy who spends his time off the case trying to get some tail. So when he does stick to the main goal, Siegel is able to get some strong and fun scenes out of the script. I liked when he went to visit the criminals mother, to get any leads, and is careful not to step over the lines and still had to deal with this hard-bitten woman who will stand up for her wicked son no matter what. Or, as cheesy as it is- though not in the careful and deductive Siegel style- the scene where Coogan has to maneuver his way through a hippie club, with strobe lights et all, hardly the thing one would ever think of seeing Eastwood (in a cowboy hat and boots no less) walking through.And as it is meant to be a cool action thriller, there's a tight fight scene in a billiards, and a very excitingly executed motorcycle chase through the polo-grounds. It's not anything I'd rank as being great, as it's repetitive as a means to cover up some more inventive ideas at the screenwriters' disposal (yes, he's from Arizona, not Texas, the exception being Coogan's ability to be sneaky when apprehending a suspect as it pops up late in the film after an intriguing beginning), plus with the dull romantic side-bar. But there's enough scenes where it's quintessential Eastwood, of him being simple and direct and to-the-point as a cop on a mission can be, and even Lee J Cobb turning in a good turn as an even hard-ass NY cop who plays totally by the books (with the exception of the end, which is a little unclear). A good Eastwood vehicle with some impressive locations and very good Schifrin score, though don't expect it to be a ground-breaker like a Dirty Harry or as unconventional as the Beguiled. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry, the Prequel","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It's kind of likable, this hick from Arizona going through 1968 New York hippie locations.  Don Segal is a good director.  If there's a problem it's that Dirty Harry, who despises the system, doesn't really run into any trouble.  He makes out okay.How does he make out?  KABOOM.  Whenever there is aome systemic taboo he violates it.  It's that simple.  It's stupid, but still, the tour of New York City in 1968 is kind of fun.  A Tarantula on the screen of the decadent music hall.  (In Philadelphia it was called Da Place.)Acting?  What actint. "},{"Title":"What a Waste","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Considering the talent involved, there is no excuse for a movie this bad. Great director, but did nothing worth talking about on this movie. Lalo doing the music, yet nothing memorable. Clint as a lecherous, slimy, rule-breaking deputy sheriff was PAINFUL to watch. Susan Clark has zero sex appeal and is given the most inane role to work with. I guess the bulk of the problem, however, lies with the script. The story is boring and pointless, the attempts at humor are beyond lame (good actors might have been able to make them work, but this cast fails miserably), and the majority of the characters are one-dimensional cardboard cutouts. Dreadful movie. The one bright, shining aspect of the movie, though, has got to be veteran screen legend, Lee J. Cobb. What a pleasure he is in this movie. Pay attention to the lines he has to deliver, then pay close attention to the WAY he delivers them. What sets mediocre actors apart from the great ones has much to do with interpretation of the lines. Mr. Cobb's line readings are the only interesting thing about this movie. His performance alone is the sole reason I give this movie a 3 rating. There are far superior Eastwood movies, so I would strongly suggest not wasting valuable time on this garbage. But, if it is on TV for free, then enjoy the sparkling bits of screen time Mr. Cobb provides. "}{"Title":"Saw it on TBS","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is Mc Cloud before the TV show aired.  I remember Mc Cloud when I was a little boy, and saw this movie last year on TBS, and bingo this is where they got the idea from.  Not one of Eastwoods better films, on that how many hours of Eastwood, where they show all his movies.  He does beat up the dad from Happy Days in this movie.  Either a movie with age gets better like wine, or turns into vinegar.  This one turns into vinegar "},{"Title":"Coogan's Bluff","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" From director Don Siegel (Riot in Cell Block 11, Dirty Harry, The Shootist) after success in four or five westerns the leading actor famous for being The Man With No Name needed another genre, while wearing a cowboy hat he gave us this one. Basically Arizona deputy sheriff Walt Coogan (Clint Eastwood) is a cop who doesn't always do things by the book, and he doesn't get on with his boss Det. Lt. Sheriff McElroy (The Exorcist's Lee J. Cobb), who is sending him to New York. In the big city he is collecting prisoner James Ringerman (Don Stroud) who is to be extradited (sent to another prison), and after arriving with his stetson cowboy hate and pointy brown boots everyone thinks that Coogan is from Texas. The prisoner is recovering in hospital from an LSD overdose so he naturally is not ready for transportation, so the cop tries a little flirting with probation officer Julie Roth (Susan Clark). But he is impatient, so Coogan tricks the attendants to release him, leaving way for Ringerman's hippie girlfriend Linny Raven (Tisha Sterling) and some thugs to break him free at the airport. McElroy is really glad he has screwed so bad and is ordering him to go back to Arizona, but Coogan ignores this and feels his ego has caused this problem and sets to finding the criminal and recapturing him. Coogan, claimed to have no authority in the city, follows all the clues of people who have been in contact with Ringerman, and after a chase he does catch him before the end, and McElroy does let him off. Also starring Betty Field as Mrs. Ringerman, Tom Tully as Sheriff McCrea, Melodie Johnson as Millie, James Edwards as Sgt. Jackson, Rudy Diaz as Running Bear and David Doyle as Pushie. Eastwood is obviously cool and aggressive when he needs to be, you could argue that he is is just another cowboy, but in the big city, but it isn't a western, there are some good fights and chase sequences, it isn't a bad crime drama. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Not Dirty Harry. This was the basis for McCloud","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This was the basis for McCloud, one of the staples of the NBC Sunday Night Mystery Movie. The TV shows comprising the Sunday Night Mystery Movie1 includedMcCloud Columbo McMillan & WifeBanacek's pilot aired during the timeslot of the SMM but was moved to Wednesday night, creating a three-hour slot of drama in Lucas Tanner (David Hartman), Banacek, and Petrocelli.Later, in an attempt to add some new chemistry, and something most people don't (and these aren't in the Epguides.com, largely because they didn't have long runs)Hec Ramsey The Snoop SistersThe Peacemakers, which was shown on USA Channel Summer Fall 2003, was similar to Hec Ramsey in the sense it was turn of the century, learning to use some of the new crime-fighting techniques; e.g., fingerprints. In The Peacemakers, however, it's an assistant promoting the new methods.1 The opening had a camera shot in the dark, and as though the viewer was looking up from the ground - a man was walking closer with a flashlight slowly waving from side-to-side.  "},{"Title":"Pilot film for the Dirty Harry series?","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Fairly good show about an Arizona Ranger extraditing a prisoner from NYC back to Arizona. The guy escapes and Clint spent the rest of the movie chasing after him. Nothing special. "},{"Title":"Coogan stays at least one or two nights with only clothes he has on","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Coogan arrives in NYC just with a small leather case in hand, obviously containing official documents needed to get clearance from authorities to take over that prisoner and bring him back to Arizona. It made sense because Coogan had expected to return to Arizona on the same day. Due to administrative problems and lack of cooperation by the NYC police he couldn't get his prisoner and had to stay 1 or 2 nights minimum. He checks into a hotel and during the movie he makes love to that girl, runs around and chases his prisoner who had fled - always in the same outfit which he had on upon arrival. Did he sleep in his underwear or did he buy a sleeping suit and all other items one needs to stay overnight? Fighting, running and shooting and sweating goes on, Coogan falls to the ground but every time throughout the movie his clothes appear spotless and clean. Same applies to his stetson. Same shirt, same suit, all fresh just as bought at Macy's. That is not possible in real life. I wonder that nobody during shooting the movie took care of that impossible fact. I'm surprised that this major goof wasn't listed already. "},{"Title":"For Eastwood Fans Only","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Eastwood fans will want to see this movie as it marks Clint's transition from a purely Western star (i.e. TV's Rawhide and the no-name spaghetti westerns) to a star able to carry other action roles such as soldiers (Kelley's Heroes, Where Eagles Dare) and, especially, cops (Dirty Harry). And as a transition from star of the old West to cop, Coogan's Bluff does it beautifully it starts as a Western with a wide panorama shot of the Arizona desert and ends with Clint taking off from the Pan Am building in NYC on a helicopter. Can't get more urban than that. Coogan's Bluff is also Eastwood's first pairing with Don Siegal so there are reasons for Eastwood fans to watch just to fill in the man's history. Plus, if you're a New Yorker of a certain age, you'll enjoy the NYC location shots. BUT . . . as a movie this doesn't cut it principally because none of the characters here is worth caring about. Most importantly, Deputy Sheriff Coogan is no Harry Callaghan. Dirty Harry was a tough cop but he had a moral code and no patience with those who didn't measure up. Coogan, on the other hand, is wholly self-centered. His pursuit of Ringerman is principally motivated by his desire to get the assignment over with and, after he loses the prisoner, to redeem his self-image. He uses (or abuses) every other character for his own purposes. He's no gentleman though I suspect Harry is. One thing for sure -- if Clint weren't in this film it would merit a rating of 2. As it is, even Clint's undeniable charm can't save his character and the story, for what it's worth, is implausible and at times silly. One minor point how hard up for cash was Lee J. Cobb to play a stereotyped detective in this clunker? "},{"Title":"Good, but We all like Dirty Harry More....Don't We?","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Had Eastwood not appeared in this flick, he may well not of been cast in the end for Dirty Harry.However, this films runs along at a slow pace, and even for the avid Eastwood fan such as myself, was hard to watch.At times it's funny, sadly poor co-actors in this film, also make it lame at times.Very good motor bike chase, almost as good as the car chase from the French Connection, but that's about it to be honest.6/10(purely for Eastwood being in it) "},{"Title":"DVD disappointment","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The DVD I recently saw cut one of the best, most memorable, funniest scenes in the movie - where Coogan is approached in the cafe by a couple of Velvet Underground/Factory/Warhol types who give him a flyer for The Pigeon Toed Orange Peel Club. What idiot cut this scene from the DVD?? I had been looking forward to seeing that scene all day, and then find it's been cut! I hope you read this, whoever you are - if you are responsible for cutting this scene - you are an idiot! I hope you no longer work in the film industry!Otherwise, the movie is an entertaining and interesting idea - the hick in the city theme. "},{"Title":"Flatlining in the Big Apple","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" For sadists and women-haters, there's a foul feast in Don Siegel's 1968 Coogan's Bluff. Clint Eastwood looks and acts (if you can call it acting) stoned on sleeping pills and Viagra. He's almost catatonic, loping about as an Arizona lawman sent to New York to pick up a murder suspect, played well by character actor Don Stroud. But watch out when he gets within a mile of Susan Clark or Tisha Sterling! They both find him irresistible. Lee J. Cobb has a thankless role as the obligatory New York cop who keeps trying to resist Coogan's invasion of the Big Apple, to no avail.By the end of a truly wretched 90 plus minutes, you'll have sat through a miasmic and oh-so-topical stew of breast jokes and gropings, naked Indians, crooked cabbies, drunks, whores, heartless NYPD patrolmen, perverted parolees, druggies, simpering homosexuals and nasty lesbians, bare breasts and bottoms covered with hippie slogans, a criminal waste of the talents of the entire supporting cast, and possibly the worst performance Eastwood has ever given.After being slobbered over and taken advantage of by Clint, Clark calls him a bastard, then shows up, all smiles and mini-skirt, to wave him off as he flies back to Arizona.Irresistible this ain't. "},{"Title":"Avoid it","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I am as big a Clint Eastwood fan as the next guy, having thoroughly enjoyed Dirty Harry in all his screen incarnations. But this effort - evidently a transition between Clint's man with no name persona and his arrival as Dirty Harry - is simply ridiculous. Too many of the events in the film are simply not credible, and the dialogue is laughable. And though I am hardly a fan of the moral relativism that has infected Hollywood, the good guys versus bad guys tone is something right out of the worst of the Dragnet TV series. I am tempted to say some critical words about the over-the-top portrayal of a mid-70's psychedelic club, but to my memory that portrayal is, unbelievable as it seems nowadays, fairly dead-on. As has been mentioned in this space, Lee J. Cobb's performance is the only redeeming feature of the flick. And as far as makeup trends, the film is a reminder that we can thank whatever gods may be that false eyelashes have gone down the fashion toilet!! "}{"Title":"Movie was horribly cut","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The complete movie is one of my favorites and I looked forward to a clear copy on DVD; however, my first viewing of the DVD was a tremendous disappointment. I naturally thought that a commercial DVD would be of the highest quality and would be the complete movie without the omitted scenes so common with television presentations that are cut to accommodate time constraints. This DVD by Universal Studios Home Videos had some of the most definitive scenes missing that the movie was no longer enjoyable. The selling of movies with scenes edited out should be judged a mortal sin unless potential customers are warned in advance. Now I will be skeptical every time I contemplate ordering one of my favorite movies on DVD. "}]