[{"Title":"When a person's a stranger...they should act a little strange.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"39 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tour-de-force for Barbra Streisand, reprising her Broadway triumph and taking over the screen as 1930s Ziegfeld singer/comedienne Fanny Brice. Streisand's incredible self-assurance and clowning poise was enough to win her the Best Actress Oscar AND tick off most of Hollywood (few in the business were prepared for someone like Streisand in 1968, except maybe those familiar with her TV work, but the results here show she didn't care what anyone thought of her). The sets look phony, the script is contrived, and Omar Sharif is somewhat miscast as husband Nick Arnstein (Sharif is wonderful in the early stages, but his wet, red eyes and mincing baby-talk grow incredibly weary); however most of the song numbers are fabulous, and Barbra is at her best when delivering a high-powered number. She's tough and unyielding even while doing a comedic bit, but during an emotional song she lets her guard drop a little (not enough to become truly vulnerable, just enough to let us share her pain). The film doesn't exhaust one the way some musical extravaganzas can; the camera-work is uneven and some sequences are overlit, but it has lots of spirit and dazzle. Most importantly, it's a film that remembers it is about a woman and a man, and never allows the show-biz glitter to suffocate the characters. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A Funny Girl Happened on the Way to the Follies.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"41 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are not enough superlatives in the world to bestow on Barbra Streisand for her rags-to-riches portrayal of 20s Ziegfeld Follies star Fanny Brice.  To say she gives the single most triumphant musical performance ever showcased on the silver screen could be close.  I am constantly bowled over with each viewing at how the 26-year-old Brooklyn novice ever pulled off this incredible stunt.  Cinderella playing Cinderella.  Even the finicky Hollywood powers-that-be, who NEVER use untried screen talent for such a weighty role (Julie Andrews and My Fair Lady come to mind), knew that nobody but Barbra could inhabit this part.  She won the Oscar, naturally, and it was befitting that the newcomer should share this honor with perhaps the greatest screen legend ever, Katharine Hepburn.Barbra's Fanny Brice first conquered Broadway where she lost the Tony award to another irrepressible talent, Carol Channing, for Hello Dolly!  She got her revenge of sorts years later when she won the coveted screen role of Dolly due strictly to her auspicious debut in Funny Girl.  Transferred to celluloid, the movie loosens its bustles quite a bit and grants more breathing room for Barbra to expand her natural comic and dramatic talents both keenly and intimately amid the elaborate sets and costumes. The timing of this film couldn't have been better for Streisand.  The late 60s ushered in a new legion of stars.  The rash of talent coming to the forefront purposely lacked the super-model good looks and incredibly-sculpted physiques of their predecessors.  Audiences now clamored for realism...human imperfection.  What less attractive guys like Dustin Hoffman and Al Pacino did for the men, Barbra did for the distaff side.  She dragged out her own Cinderella version, making a virtue of her odd looks and gawky gait while laying out her two big trump cards -- she was a supreme song stylist and a gifted, self-deprecating cut-up. Hardly ever off screen, Streisand totally immerses herself in the role of chorus clown-turned-Ziegfeld headliner, weaving a spell around each and every song she touches.  From the stubbornly optimistic I'm the Greatest Star to the profoundly touching My Man, the actress matures Brice into the glowing swan of her own dreams, while exposing a deep, personal vulnerability she never recaptured (or allowed) again on screen -- to her detriment.Despite heavy critical lambasting, I still say exotically handsome Omar Sharif was indeed the consummate choice to play wanderlust husband and card shark Nicky Arnstein.  Polished, prideful and totally in his element as the global-gambling playboy, one can believe the ungainly Fanny (or Streisand, for that matter) placing this glossy god on a pedestal.  It may not appear to be much of a stretch (in real life, Sharif was a world-class bridge player), but he owns the part as much as delightful Kay Medford does as Brice's droll Jewish mama.  Everyone else, however, is pretty expendable.  It's been said that Anne Francis blamed Streisand for her supposedly top featured role being butchered.  If it's true, she has an open-and-shut case.  Francis was left with a nothing part.Highly fictionalized and weak as biography, Streisand champions above the sometimes grandiose material from the moment she utters her first classic words Hello, gorgeous!  And so she is. "},{"Title":"Bad Biography...Great Musical","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every time a film is made about a real-life figure, particularly a show business figure, people love to complain that the movie is not accurate regarding the facts of that person's life. If the truth be told, if movie biographies were strictly about the facts, no one would go to see them, because for the most part, the facts don't make for great entertainment and Fanny Brice is no exception. The 1968 musical FUNNY GIRL has been maligned for years because it is not a very accurate representation of the facts of Fanny Brice's life. If you want to learn about Fanny Brice's life, read a biography or go on the internet, but if you want to see an amazing movie musical spotlighting a legendary performer at the beginning of her amazing career, then you can't beat FUNNY GIRL, the 1968 musical based on the 1964 Broadway musical that made Barbra Streisand a star. Streisand tied with Katharine Hepburn for the Best Actress Oscar for this charismatic star turn as the young girl from Henry Street who becomes a big star of the Ziegfeld Follies and has a heartbreaking romance with a charming gambler named Nick Arnstein, played by Omar Sharif. Streisand is in practically every frame of this film and never makes you wish otherwise...one of the great performances in the history of cinema...whether she is defying Florenz Ziegfeld by refusing to appear in the finale or chasing an ocean liner to be with Nick, Streisand gives the one-woman performance of a lifetime here. Directed by Oscar-winner William Wyler, Streisand is lovingly photographed and effectively showcases the Jule Styne-Bob Merrill score, which includes classics like People and Don't Rain On My Parade. Some changes have been made in the score from the stage musical but Streisand makes it all work and the finale My Man is just devastating. It's not an accurate biography of the vaudeville legend, but as a dazzling and entertaining movie musical, it's hard to top this one. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Quite simply, Barbra Streisand's extraordinary, scintillating Oscar-winning debut in this classic is one of the finest musical-comedy performances ever committed to celluloid. Better than that...I'd venture to say that alongside Vivien Leigh's masterful performance in Gone With The Wind, Barbra's portrayal of vaudeville icon Fanny Brice may be one of the most ambitious, captivating turns by a lead actress ever captured on film. Even Barbra-phobes would have to concede that the woman completely knocked herself out with Funny Girl and her renditions of I'm The Greatest Star, My Man, People and especially the pulse-jolting Don't Rain On My Parade rank right up there with the best of Judy Garland (Over The Rainbow, The Trolley Song and The Man That Got Away.). Because Streisand has been an exalted Hollywood legend for many decades, people tend to almost take her remarkable talents - both as an actress and as a singer - for granted now but this opulent musical, sparkling score and her thrilling, take-no-prisoners performance will endure as a testament to what pure show business, high octane theatricality and legitimate talent are all about. Sing Proud, Barbra! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Barbra","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Barbra Streisand made one the biggest debuts in the history of films playing Fanny Brice in Funny Girl. She also won an Oscar as best actress of 1967 for her efforts. Although this musical bogs down a bit in the second half, Streisand keeps the viewer glued to the screen with her brilliant portrayal of this great star. Terrific musical numbers come one after another, and Streisand shifts gears effortlessly between comic gems like I'm the Greatest Star and The Roller Skate Rag and signature tunes like People and Don't Rain on My Parade. Her closing rendition of My Man is very effective (and was copied by Diana Ross in Lady Sings the Blues). Big and bright and splashy, Funny Girl is one of the last great, old-style musicals produced in Hollywood. Omar Sharif, Walter Pidgeon, Anne Francis, Kay Medford, Mae Questel, Frank Faylen, and Lee Allen co-star. Meford won a supporting Oscar nomination as the mother. Pidgeon should have been nominated for his role as Flo Ziegfeld. And I think Questel is a scream as the local yenta. But the center of this film is Streisand. Every number is a gem, and she looks great. There may be better musicals, but you'd be hard pressed to name a better performance in a musical than Barbra Streisand playing Fanny Brice in Funny Girl.Others in the cast include Gertrude Flynn and Penny Santon as the card players, Tommy Rall as the prince in the ballet sequence, Mittie Lawrence as the maid, Gerald Mohr as the gangster, Inga Neilsen and Bettina Brenna as show girls, and Elaine Joyce in the roller skating number. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star?...","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...Perhaps not. But for nearly 2 1/2 hours in Funny Girl, Barbra Streisand at least makes a convincing case for herself.Forget about the television airings you've seen. Throw away your old video cassette copy. Instead, see the restored, widescreen, road show version now in limited theatrical release. It is the ONLY way to truly appreciate the talents of Ms. Streisand and, more notably, the film's brilliant director, William Wyler.Movies today no longer look like movies. The highest compliment one can pay Funny Girl is that it is a grand, glorious MOVIE in the truest sense. Wyler's brilliance is never more evident than in his glorious treatment of the Don't Rain on My Parade sequence, the stunning camerawork of The Swan, and the incredibly effective set-up of the My Man finale.Ms. Streisand doesn't really give a performance; she simply is Barbra. Every Barbra-ism that we have come to know, love and hate over the years is already crystallized at this point. Her brashness can be off-putting, but by the end of the movie, one is completely won over by the sheer enormity of her talent and presence. Yes, you can see the beginnings of the blind egomania that has marred her performances for the last 20-odd years (to be generous); but you cannot deny her brilliance, either. And to see her extraordinary face in full-screen close up is breathtaking. Kudos to the director, lighting director, and make-up artist for making Streisand appear so wonderful in this.From the sweepingly orchestrated titles to the high-drama impact of the showstopping finale, this is Entertainment with a capital E. About 20 minutes could have been trimmed, and exactly why Omar Sharif was cast remains a mystery; but at the end of the picture, these quibbles are trivial. Did I laugh? Yes. Did I cry? Yes. Was I thrilled, excited, entertained? You betcha. "},{"Title":"Fanny's Marital Problems Aren't Minor","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this film many times,and I've always thought it was one of Barbra Streisand's best films because it allowed her to use her strengths as a comedian, singer, and dramatic actor. It's clear that her presence dominates the movie; however, there are some excellent supporting players, including Kay Medford as Fanny Brice's mother Rose and Walter Pigeon as Florenz Ziegfeld, two very fine character actors. Rose is particularly likable because, unlike her daughter Fanny, she sees things as they are and not the way they should be. This applies to her comment about Nick Arnstein, the handsome gambler that Fanny marries, despite the fact that Rose perceives him to be a sponge.Fanny, as shown in this film, is also very likable not only because of her humor but for her generosity and thoughtfulness. Her ambition, of course, is to conquer the stage and she does so fairly quickly after making a great mess of a roller skate number at the local dance hall. Before long, Fanny is auditioning for Ziegfeld, the famous impressario and she wins him over with her talent and charm. Nick Arnstein, a man about town, always seems to be around Fanny when she triumphs on the stage and this time is no different. He buys her a beautiful bouquet of roses with a note, Dear Star, I told you so. Very soon, Fanny and Nick become involved in a relationship which is often on and off until Fanny literally proposes to him. What follows is a heartbreaking story of a young woman whose desire to be loved for herself alone and her passion for a happy domestic life is thwarted by fate and some wrong choices. After a montage of the first year of their marriage together, problems start affecting the Arnstein marriage. It is true that they are wealthy people; however, their problems aren't minor. Nick begins to lose heavily at the gaming table and everything he tries ends in failure. Fanny, on the other hand, continues to be successful on the stage and Nick starts to resent her. Suddenly, all of his gentlemanly charm and good manners disappear as if by magic; he's rude to Fanny, making her upset over things that a truly married couple would find a way to resolve. Indeed, he starts ignoring her deliberately and places his interests and needs above hers. After a while, the marriage collapses not because of Fanny's career but the way in which Nick looks at their relationship (we discover this near the end of the film.) He also conceals his financial problems from her, shutting Fanny out of his life as though she didn't exist. All of this culminates in Nick's unfortunate involvement in a shady bond scheme which sends him to prison for two years. I would say that these problems are rather huge. I don't want to give more away because I feel others should have the opportunity to see the film and judge for themselves. But I have to say that the ending of the movie, is, in my opinion, one of the most heartfelt, dignified, and classiest moments ever put on film. And Barbra Streisand makes the most of it, touching us not only with her excellent performance of the song My Man but also by the way her Fanny carries herself, taking responsibility for her choice and showing that she will go on with her life, despite what's happened to her. "},{"Title":"Great early Streisand...a reminder of how Babs was before egomania set in...","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mention the name BARBRA STREISAND to me today and I can only think of the insane utterances she's made about President Bush and all Republicans and the war in Iraq and her stance as a Democratic activist. But back in '68, I was justly impressed with her work under William Wyler's firm direction in FUNNY GIRL.Watching it again, I haven't changed my opinion. Her Fanny Brice is indeed as perfectly in character as any musical star performer in memory and she carries the film to heights it never would have reached with a less gifted actress/singer. Sad to say, this can't be said of her later characterizations.I don't understand criticism leveled at OMAR SHARIF as Nicky Arnstein. He looks magnificent, even if his singing voice leaves something to be desired, and plays his role extremely well. The chemistry between him and Streisand is evident, giving credence to the rumor of an affair while filming. Their duet in You Are Woman, I Am Man is deliciously staged in a fancy restaurant setting. In fact, all of the settings glow under the technicolor lights.The score is riddled with fascinating show tunes, all of them sung and staged in the best manner possible. I particularly enjoyed the early Roller Skate Rag where Streisand's comic abilities are shown off to such advantage. The supporting players do outstanding jobs, including Kay Medford as her Jewish mother and Walter Pigeon as Flo Ziegfeld whose first encounter with Streisand is played for laughs while establishing the boundaries between them. Poor Anne Francis is given only limited screen time, but even she is worth watching in a role that must have suffered from too much editing. And Streisand's first big scene in a Ziegfeld musical is hilarious, hiding a pillow beneath her wedding gown to the extreme shock of Mr. Ziegfeld while the chorus girls can hardly stifle their laughter.Highly recommended as a film musical that put Streisand on the map. She even looks beautiful in certain close-ups and camera angles, glowing under the artistry of cameramen skilled in photographing her imperfect face in the most flattering manner. As noted by others, the hairdos and styling do not always suggest the 1920s period, but in a musical where so much talent is on display, it hardly matters.What is really striking is that Streisand is so confident and assured in every phase of her performance that it is hard to believe this was her first chore before the cameras. How much of this is due to the craftsmanship of William Wyler, I don't know. Her work here has to be ranked as one of the greatest acting firsts ever for a musical star performer. Streisand fully deserved the Oscar and should not have been in a tie with the much over awarded Katharine Hepburn's LION IN WINTER--as annoyingly false as any of Hepburn's later performances were bound to be. "},{"Title":"A Lot Of Fanny, But All Barbra","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are two important things to remember about Funny Girl when writing about it or discussing it. The first is Nicky Arnstein was still alive in 1964 when it debuted on Broadway, he died the following year. The second is that Ray Stark, the producer of Funny Girl on stage and on the screen is the son-in-law of Fanny Brice and Nicky Arnstein. So off the bat you know you're going to get a sanitized version.Not that what they created was bad, how could it be for giving Barbra Streisand the role that made her a star on both stage and screen. Fanny Brice didn't do too bad out of it either, unlike a lot of her contemporaries she lives on through the artistry and interpretation of an icon in a future age.But was Fanny's story ever given the literary dry process cleaning. Eliminated was her brief marriage to a first husband. Changed is the fact that she knew exactly who at what Arnstein was before she married him. Arnstein was a big time con artist who had no shame whatsoever in using his famous wife's name as a come on. Fanny herself though was never involved in any of his schemes. Arnstein did in fact take the fall and never squealed on any of the ones behind him who certainly were more than capable of reprisals against him and possibly against Fanny Brice.Jule Styne and Bob Merrill wrote the original songs for the Broadway score and added one song, Funny Girl, for the film. But still the two standouts are Barbra Streisand's classic People and Don't Rain On My Parade, a couple of standards she's made almost exclusively her own. I don't think anyone else would attempt to sing them.Added to the film are a couple of contemporary songs that Fanny Brice made famous that Barbra reinterpreted, the classic My Man, a song she sang before Nicky Arnstein went to the joint, but still is identified as her lament for her husband in stir. She also sang Second Hand Rose, a really great comedy song, emphasizing Brice's Jewish heritage. I wish a couple of others had gotten in there. I've got Brice recordings of Cooking Breakfast For The One I Love and I'm An Indian. That last one is especially hysterical, Brice did it one of the Ziegfeld Follies dressed as an indigenous person to this continent with the last line being I'm a Yiddishe Squaw. It's great to hear and must have been fabulous to see.Funny Girl got seven nominations which included Best Picture, Best Sound, Best Song, Best Musical Scoring, Best Editing, Best Cinematography and a Best Supporting Actress nomination for Kay Medford, the only other player from Broadway besides Streisand to be in the film. But the only Oscar it got was a shared one when Barbra Streisand tied for Best Actress with Katharine Hepburn. One of the very few times someone got an Oscar for their very first big screen effort.Of course two things helped Barbra greatly. One was a role she had made her own and the second was direction by William Wyler who has won Best Director three times in his career and directed more players to Academy Awards than any other. Barbra was his last. Oddly enough he wasn't nominated for Best Director.Those who are interested in seeing Fanny Brice as she really was can see her in The Great Ziegfeld, The Ziegfeld Follies, and Everybody Sing all of which are out on DVD and/or VHS. I think Barbra channeled more of Fanny into Funny Girl than the sequel Funny Lady, but I'll let you the viewer be the judge of that.You can't go wrong seeing and hearing Barbra Streisand do some of the best material ever written for her in both films. "},{"Title":"A memorable Musical Bio","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny Girl, first released in 1968, remains, a very enjoyable and most entertaining musical biography.  Beautifully performed by Streisand, its possibly her best film, (some will argue that The Way We Were is her best performance,as an actress)/  Its is  magnificently staged and photographed. Streisand's talents are emphasized, and displayed to perfection.   This role (Fanny Brice) will forever be associated with her!! IT is to her credit that @38 years have passed and they have not revived this great musical on Broadway ...  A recent revival at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn , N.J. was very successful, and there's talk of taking that production to NY, and Leslie Kritzer (new,unknown) was excellent, but more like Merman,than Streisand!! William Wyler, an underrated film director, handles the production  like the true master he was. This ranks with one of his great films (Ben Hur, Mrs. Miniver, The Little Foxes etc). The score ,by the immortal, Jule Styne is and remains beautiful & memorable. People, Dont Rain on My Parade, The Greatest Star are standards. My Man,(not by Styne) a true tour de force conclusion, is a beautiful addition to the film, though ,in the original production, The Music That Makes Me Dance, worked very well also.. Ths supporting cast is excellent, especially, Omar Shariff, looking absolutetly gorgeous as Nicky Arnstein, and plays this role well. Kay Medford, as Mama, is terrific, and provides, many memorable moments. A Film to see again and again, makes you laugh and cry, beautiful to look at, and Barbra, is and will always be a treasure!!I rate this film a 10!! and feel it should rank higher on memorable film lists. The Musical film is a lost genre today (Moulin Rouge,is not a true musical in the classic sense) Its too bad!!Young audiences should be exposed to musicals, and Funny Girl should be seen by all !  "}{"Title":"a (hello) gorgeous debut for Barbra Streisand","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one sense, Funny Girl is a little hokey, but it's really good nonetheless. In an Oscar-winning role, Barbra Streisand makes her film debut as Fanny Brice, who wanted dearly to be a Ziegfield Folly. Brice wasn't particularly good-looking, but she was sassy enough to have what it took (as certain scenes show). Accompanying her was gambler Nick Arnstein (Omar Sharif), whose habits eventually went too far for his own good.Both Streisand and Sharif do a great job, as does director William Wyler. As someone who doesn't usually like musicals, I have to speak positively of this one. It's a real treat in every sense. This is what classics are all about. "},{"Title":"I Was Right The First Time","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Once upon a time I worshiped Barbra Streisand. There, I said it. That's over. For that matter, so is my love affair with Streisand. What happened to the heat and abandon she had in her first few albums, the ones with the fantastic versions of Harold Arlen ballads? Listening to her on the Broadway cast album of Funny Girl only makes us painfully aware of how much we lost when she decided to act the songs for us in the movie.The night it opened in Cincinnati I sat with my best buddy vibrating with excitement (I can even tell you the color of the curtain that hung over the screen). By the end of the night I was actually depressed. Where were my favorite songs from the show? I was really looking forward to seeing her singCornet Man and it made me sick to see they replaced that great tune with something lame called The Roller Skate Rag that went Thud! (You're supposed to find it hysterically funny that Fanny messed up a line of third-rate singers and dancers by falling all over them because she couldn't skate.)Because the star, herself, and the producers were sure no one wanted to see anyone but Barbra Streisand (and they had a point . . . sort of), they cut everyone else's numbers until the movie of Funny Girl was pretty much another Streisand TV special. After I saw the movie I wanted to do some cutting of my own, especially on the embarrassing Swan Lake number that replaced the satirical Private Schwartz from Rockaway. I also wanted to cut everything but about 15 minutes of the second half of the film.The Ziegfeld Follies numbers look like bad 1960's television, there is no chemistry in the love scenes between the wooden Omar Sharif and Streisand, Kay Medford is wasted, and whatever kept Fanny Brice growing as a legendary comedienne is dropped after the pleasantly silly His Love Makes Me Beautiful. We get a quick flash of her in Baby Snooks drag when she takes on the reporters but that's all. (And, anyway, Fanny Brice didn't take up the Baby Snooks routine until years later.)Instead of the rueful tune Who Are You Now? we got another mediocre replacement song, the title song Funny Girl, which takes the focus of Fanny's heartbreak away from what she might be doing to her husband (out of love, albeit) and puts it on what all the suffering is doing to her. I suppose this should have told us in what direction Barbara Streisand was going like a runaway train.Oh, there's no denying there are parts of the movie that show her off at her best, and that best can be very fine. Over forty years have gone by and she never again touched the bravado and power of her final number My Man, even if that business about it being done in one take with her singing perfectly while crying is pure bull. For one thing, it is physiologically impossible. They took her vocal of My Man from off the My Name is Barbra album and dubbed it in with a new orchestral arrangement. The effect is great so it doesn't really matter except for the Star's dishonesty in perpetuating that story.And when Streisand stops jumping all over the place and stands still to sing the last stanza of I'm the Greatest Star she's amazing, even if the post dubbing is terribly obvious.I'm a sport, though. When Funny Girl was restored ten years ago I let a couple of friends talk me into seeing it again. I forgot it would mean nearly three hours of my life, but, as I said, I'm a sport. But, thirty-six years later, Funny Girl redux only made me painfully aware that I was right the first time. "},{"Title":"Streisand was made for Fanny Brice!","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay I don't know much about Fanny Brice's life. This movie is quite a tribute to the Funny Lady that had a funny face. In this film, Barbra Streisand earned her Academy Award for playing Fanny Brice from aspiring singer to comedienne and singer on stage. Fanny's brash talent for singing and comedy go hand in hand at a local stage hall before she makes it big with the Ziegfield Follies. The numbers are big splashy musical numbers with lots of dancing, costumes, and scenery. This film has a first rate cast with Omar Sharif playing Fanny's love interest, Nick Arnstein; Walter Pidgeon as Florenz Ziegfield; Lee Allen as her friend, Eddie Ryan; and others to mention. This film has great sets, costumes, and art direction but I felt it was missing something and that was the script. The script was weak without the singing and it could have been better. Anyway, it's a great classic film. "},{"Title":"Splacing The Mainbrice","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even as late as 1968 Hollywood couldn't help buying Broadway musical hit shows and tampering with them. In this case they inexplicably jettisoned what was arguably the best ballad in the score, The Music That Makes Me Dance as well as several lesser numbers. That said the film itself delivers from the two leads down to the support and on to production values. Barbra Streisand is assured in her movie debut and Kay Medford is outstanding as the epitome of the Jewish mother and if Frank Faylen is 1) wasted and 2) barely recognizable he is at least competent leaving Walter Pigeon to complete the main casting and compete for acting honours. Virtually the only jarring note is the truncated (for a major musical) score and it's as good an example as any of the Hollywood late-blooming musical. "},{"Title":"Streisand is the greatest star","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The ultimate showcase for an actress, Barbra Streisand's highly publicized film debut in FUNNY GIRL met every single expectation and then some. The film was the highest-grossing film of 1968, and it's very easy to see why. The film has many great qualities It's expertly directed by three-time Academy Award winner William Wyler (the finale of the Don't Rain On My Parade number is just as astonishing as the chariot race in Wyler's BEN HUR), the storyline is extremely compelling, Omar Sharif is an incredibly suave and charismatic leading man, the supporting players are perfectly cast (particularly Kay Medford, Lee Allen, and Walter Pigeon), and the song score (primarily by Jule Styne and Bob Merrill) is first-rate.However, virtually everything that FUNNY GIRL has working for it would be worthless without Barbra Streisand's absolutely phenomenal performance. I honestly cannot think of enough good descriptive adjectives to do justice to her amazing performance in this film. She handles drama, comedy, music numbers, and tearjerking sentiment with equal aplomb, and she does it all better than any actress before or since. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences had no choice but to honor her with the Oscar for Best Actress (in an extremely rare tie with academy favorite Katherine Hepburn; only the second tie in Oscar history to date), it is a performance that is nothing less than perfect.Fittingly, one of FUNNY GIRL's major asset is it's phenomenal song score, which ranks among the all-time best of any play or film. The songs I'm The Greatest Star, the Top 5 hit People, You Are Woman, Sadie, Sadie, and especially Don't Rain on My Parade have justifiably become instantly recognizable standards, and the lovely I'd Rather Be Blue Over You and the stunning My Man (two of Fanny Brice's standard numbers) are worked into the score and prove to be highlights. This is quite an impressive list of 24 Karat-standards, and each number is vividly brought to life by Streisand's incomparable voice. It is truly acting when Streisand sings, and it is no surprise that she received the Academy Award for best actress for her work in this film. "},{"Title":"Sensational Oscar winning performance by Barbra Streisand in her first film role","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The young Fanny Brice (Barbra Streisand) desperately wants to be a success in show business and after a shaky start thinks she has made it when she lands a part in a big Ziegfeld show. Ziegfeld (Walter Pidgeon) and Fanny clash over various matters due to her strong personality but her talent shines through and she does eventually become a major star. She meets gambler Nicky Arnstein (Omar Sharif) and falls madly in love with him. Unfortunately his gambling habits get him in trouble with the police causing Fanny much sadness and anguish. However, she overcomes these problems to concentrate on her career and manages to realise her ambition to become a big Broadway star.The film of Funny Girl was awaited with much anticipation after all the tremendous publicity given to Barbra Streisand following her stunning portrayal of Fanny Brice in the hit Broadway show. An unauthorised version of the Fanny Brice story had been filmed once before as Rose of Washington Square (1939) starring Alice Faye, Tyrone Power and Al Jolson but Fanny Brice was not happy about the film and sued 20th Century Fox for invasion of privacy.Funny Girl received a total of eight Oscar nominations but only picked up the one (for Best Actress) which Streisand had to share with Katharine Hepburn for The Lion in Winter. Personally, I thought this was a real shame as Hepburn had just picked up the Best Actress Award the previous year for Guess Who's Coming to Dinner and had also won back in 1932 for Morning Glory. In my opinion Streisand (in her first film) had worked tremendously hard on Funny Girl and given an excellent portrayal of Fanny Brice and her singing at the time was sensational. To have to share the award with Hepburn was bad luck for Streisand and must have taken away some of the pleasure of winning.The film was directed by the legendary William Wyler and produced by Ray Stark (who was in fact Fanny Brice's son-in-law!). The film had a superior supporting cast including Kay Medford (recreating her Broadway role as Rose Brice), Anne Francis (Georgia James), Lee Allen (Eddie Ryan), Gerald Mohr (Branca), and with Frank Faylen as Keeney.What a marvellous collection of songs this film contained People, Second Hand Rose, Don't Rain on My Parade, My Man and I'm the Greatest Star are just five gems from a really  wonderful score.Some favourite lines from the filmBarbra Streisand (to her reflection in theatre mirror) Hello gorgeous.Lee Allen (to Streisand) Are you sure you can rollerskate?. Streisand Can I rollerskate??.Streisand I'm a Ziegfeld girl!.Streisand (to Walter Pidgeon) O.K. you win. You don't win fair but you win!.Funny Girl was one of those rare occasions when the perfect part came along with the perfect star to play it. One of the last of the great Hollywood musicals. 10/10.  Clive Roberts. "},{"Title":"Funny Girl","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow. That best describes this movie. I don't tend to be a big fan of musicals but this one defies the pattern. I absolutely LOVE Barbra and almost anything she is in I love (excluding Hello, Dolly and its sad attempt to recapture the classic, yet horrid, musicals of the 1950's). This movie is just another time for Barbra to shine. The scenes are cute and the dance numbers will charm any audience, young or old, and provide a laughter and tears.All the vocals are fantastic (specifically the last number, which Barbra insisted not be a voice-over.) This movie will satisfy the any lover of musicals and anyone who can appreciate quality acting. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Few have been able to wake up one day and discover they are famous overnight. Lord Byron was one - he discovered that his poetry opened the floodgates to fame that his title had never opened (Byron's family was prominent, but not of the aristocratic elite of the early 19th Century). For our purposes it was Barbara Streisand. She had worked hard in productions, most notably in I CAN GET IT FOR YOU WHOLESALE, where she sang Miss Marblestein. Then she got the role of Fanny Brice, the great Ziegfeld Follies comedienne and star of the turn of the century, and she was a star on Broadway. She got the role in the movies, and won (in the only tie vote for Best Actress in Academy Award History) the Best Actress Oscar with the same role. I may add, although she has won another Oscar for Love Soft as an Easy Chair in her version of A STAR IS BORN, she has never been the recipient of another Oscar for an acting award since then, nor has she been nominated for her three directing jobs (YENTL, THE PRINCE OF TIDES, and THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES). Despite that she did become the greatest star.Streisand's insistence on doing her films her way has become legendary, and has built up a negative image legend of egomania gone amok. That her ideas have worked out to be successful more frequently than not is overlooked. It shouldn't be.FUNNY GIRL was directed by William Wyler, and Wyler was notorious for doing his films his way until they were gotten right. He would do and redo a scene for the closest thing to perfection he could get. It is notable that he and Streisand did not end up at loggerheads on the set but worked pretty nicely together. It is as though they understood precisely what would work for the film in the same way.Streisand is quite gifted in comedy as well as singing, so that her performance as Fanny is quite on target (such as the sudden dropping into Yiddish sch tick - like referring to her schwans instead of swans in the mock ballet in the Follies). She happens to be better looking than Fanny, but that is not unexpected in any movie. For that matter the handsome Omar Shariff is far better looking than Nicky Arnstein was. Shariff, by the way, is given sufficient time on screen to fill out his character - a good natured man driven by humiliation and desperation to commit fraud. Kay Medford (as Fanny's mother) and Walter Pigeon (as Flo Ziegfeld) give very effective performances in the film as well.Not all the songs from the show are in the movie. Cornet Man is replaced by I Want to be Blue. The song Find Yourself A Man is reduced to a dance tune at Mrs. Brice's saloon. A song sung by Fanny's mother and her friend Eddie, Who Taught Her Everything She Knows was dropped (one wonders if it was ever shot). And (as pointed out on this thread) The Swan replaced the World War I spoof Rat-a-tat-tat (I'm Private Schwartz bin Rockavay!).I only have one little comment to make. Nicky Arnstein was a professional gambler, and had worked closely with Arnold Rothstein on several jobs. Rothstein (renamed Peterman here) was responsible for the fraud that snared Nicky. But Nicky was fully aware of the fraud in the sale of the bonds. He was also aware that the powerful Rothstein was someone you did not threaten in a law court by blaming for a fraud. Rothstein would have retaliated - against Fanny and their daughter Frances. So it makes plenty of sense that Nicky took the blame for the fraud. Two years in prison versus potential physical danger to his loved ones - well I can fully appreciate why he made his choice in court. "},{"Title":"This is terrible","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hate this movie. It's entirely a one-woman show, completely centered around Barbra Streisand. The relationship between Fanny Brice and Nicky Arnstein has no passion behind it at all. They truly made me simply not care at all. I like From Justin to Kelly more than this, and that's a really bad movie. And what's up with Barbra Streisand's hair? Long, short, poofy, not poofy, I mean what the heck? Also, what in the world kinda accent is Nicky supposed to have? I understand Omar Sharif is from Egypt, but he sure doesn't sound like it. In addition, Omar Sharif simply looks scary! I mean, I'd run away from him, not fall in love and have a kid with him. By the way what happened to their kid? Yeah, this really is a bad movie. I want this movie to end, it's just so annoying. Please, lower its rating so no one else will rent it. I'm just glad I got this on my birthday discount, so I didn't have to pay for it.  "},{"Title":"Barbra Streisand Being Barbra Streisand","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" That Funny Girl was considered a hit, in 1968, was probably due more to the appeal of Omar Sharif, who was super-hot at the time, and fresh off his star turn in Doctor Zhivago, than to the presence of Barbra Streisand (in her first film). There are a few good tunes, and Barbra even manages to be somewhat appealing in the first third of the film; but Funny Girl, eventually looses its charm. When it does, we're left with mind-numbingly bad acting, and a plot development that not even Fanny Brice herself would care about. Striesand is so bad in the emotional moments of the film that, unless you are a dyed-in-the-wool fan (who just love Barbra being Barbra), you'll be hitting the off button on your remote. Streisand actually won an Academy Award for her horrid portrayal of Brice. She's never funny (she keeps doing a bad Jerry Lewis impersonation, and it's NOT FUNNY), and whether she is in love or pain, or happy or sad, you really can't tell the difference. She basically makes the same goofy face, for all emotions. Every over-the-top facial expression, hand gesture, and line delivery from Striesand, forces you to notice her. That what she's doing is totally inappropriate for what is happening within the context of the story, doesn't seem to matter to her. She wants your attention and she gets it, at any cost. The cost, however, is entertainment.This is a loud, obnoxious, star-fest. None of the musical numbers are executed very well (see every other musical from the same time period for really good staging of musical numbers), and it has a who cares?, paper-thin plot. It is recommended for true-blue (she can do no wrong) Streisand fans, only. Virtually every other 1960's musical is better. Not Recommended. "}{"Title":"The Beginning of a Lustrous Career","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Show me an actress who isn't a personality and you'll show me a woman who isn't a star, declared Katharine Hepburn when asked about her smashing screen persona. Humble, no. Correct, yes. Take any legendary performer &#x97; Humphrey Bogart, Joan Crawford, Cary Grant, Marilyn Monroe &#x97; and you will not only find a terrific actor but also a presence that could interrupt the breathing patterns of an entire room just by walking through a door. And if you don't inspire that same breathless room to immediately bow down in a we're-not-worthy Wayne's World dramatization, then you probably aren't a star.Fortunately for us, fortunately for Funny Girl, but unfortunately for the self-proclaimed icon herself, Katharine Hepburn, Barbra Streisand just so happens to be a star &#x97; a star that, incidentally, matched Hepburn's explosive performance in The Lion in Winter so well that the two ended up tying for the Oscar win. Now that Funny Girl and The Lion in Winter are nearly a half-century old, it's probably safe to say that Hepburn and Streisand are unofficial gods of the entertainment industry; but Funny Girl is the more important film, introducing the world to a new voice, a new actress, and yes, a new personality.In the years since Funny Girl, Streisand hasn't lost her bewitching zeal, but only a few of her following films have captured the same sort of youthful gusto of her debut. The early days of Babs, with roles in What's Up, Doc? and The Owl and the Pussycat, bring lasting joy. Like many actresses that appeal to the Broadway inclined crowd, she is more fun to watch in quickly-paced adventures in comedy than sappy behemoths like The Mirror Has Two Faces. Funny Girl is a snapshot of everything we've come to admire about Streisand &#x97; that immediate likability, that one-million- miles-an-hour comedic timing, those dramatic chops, and that voice. You can bet that the film itself is given the standard Hollywood musical treatment &#x97; but what isn't standard is the girl from New Yawk with charisma the size of Alaska and Texas put together.Funny Girl is technically a true story its leading character, Fanny Brice was, in fact, a famed Ziegfeld girl, and she was, in fact, married to Nicky Arnstein. But Streisand is such a ball-of-fire that we aren't paying much attention to Brice's accomplished (and melodramatic) life. Streisand demolishes every confine a characterization can bring. She's not so much playing Fanny Brice as she much as she is Fanny Brice. She doesn't act out a scene; she is the scene.I suppose for the sake of a plot summary I should cover the basics so you know what you're getting into. The film travels across the life of Brice from the early 1900s to the beginnings of the 1920s, detailing her whirlwind (and lasting) relationship with show business and stormy marriage to gambler Nicky Arnstein (Omar Sharif). There's comedy and music and tear-jerking and romance and overtures and more hoohas that come along with the big-budgeted movie musical genre; Funny Girl has all the makings to become an epic production of the Sound of Music class. But Streisand keeps the film from getting whisked away into unremarkable giganticness. The film is about her, not its supporting characters, photography, or set design. Roger Ebert noted that everything other than Streisand is mostly flat. While this is partially true, I think, on the other hand, that if Streisand wasn't the star, suddenly the supporting characters, photography, and set design would seem bigger-than-life, extraordinary even. But she's like a blinding light from outer space running around a soundstage; you can only wonder why the items surrounding her don't spontaneously combust.I'm not a part of the devoted fan base that refers to Streisand exclusively as Babs and lists Evergreen as their theme song, but I am a part of the fan base that recognizes her as one of cinema's most unique and versatile actresses. Funny Girl is a loud and proud musical, and Streisand is the microphone. Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Streisand's bold and rangy performance elevates Funny Girl","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The '60s was the decade of the movie musical with West Side Story, The Sound of Music, My Fair Lady, and Oliver! all taking home Best PIcture. It's fair to say Funny Girl might've been on that list had it not came out the same year as Oliver! But the Academy had it right in giving this musical romantic comedy's one Oscar to its best attribute and greatest asset Barbara Streisand.Only in her mid-20s and in her big-screen debut, Streisand plays like a veteran. She brings the film to its highest points, makes it bearable through its lowest, is responsible for all of the laughs as well as all the touching moments and she does it while defying the standards of beauty in Hollywood.Streisand's nose might be the most famous body part in movie history, yet she holds her head high confidently and gives the mirror a smile as she utters the film's first line hello, gorgeous. She's an average Jewish girl from Brooklyn but here she is -- and that's what makes her perfect as Fanny Brice, the famous Zigfield Follies comedienne.Funny Girl is a typical musical love story only its main character is a famous (and wealthy) musical performer and there's a bit more attention on the dramatic aspect of her relationship with Nick Arnstein (Omar Sharif). As she sings about people who need people being the luckiest in the world, the story becomes less about her rise to fame and more about finding the right man and making him part of her life. Keeping the focus on Fanny is legendary director William Wyler in one of his last pictures. Wyler keeps us focused on the talented Streisand and together they keep our attention on Fanny's story -- what's going on in her head. The love story can get awfully bland at times, but its Fanny that keeps our interests and brings the film its few poignant moments.Streisand has many faces in this film and that's why she's so good. She's not necessarily deeply moving or able to give a truly affecting performance, but she's believable and she's honest with the part while also giving it some comedic zing with the over-the-top Jewish New Yorker routine. There might not be any notable epiphanies in her performance, but she clearly guides us through Fanny's emotions and realization of her own flaws.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"A True Classic!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There has never been another Hollywood debut quite like Barbra Streisand's in FUNNY GIRL, and there probably never will be.  Everyone knew she could sing beautifully, but this film proved that she was an actress, and an excellent one at that!  Streisand showed the world once and for all that she is a true star capable of enormous talent.  She is hilarious in the film's uproarious opening and is absolutely heart-breaking in the dramatic end, just watch her sensational performance of My Man in the film's finale. She picked up a well-deserved Oscar for her work here.The rest of the cast is also very good, Omar Sharif is especially suave in the role of Nicky Arntein.  The production values are high, the music is great, William Wyler's direction is lively, and the story, though predictable, is very touching.  But above all else, it is Streisand's versatile and extremely likeable performance that holds the whole film together.  Watch to laugh, watch to cry, watch to be entertained.On a scale of 10, I'd rate this classic a 10! "},{"Title":"Hello Gorgeous !  Hello Barbra !!","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie countless times, and yet each time I do Iam simply blown away by it.   It's hard to imagine anybody butBarbra Streisand playing Fanny Brice - she lives and breathesthe character until it's hard to know where Barbra begins andFanny ends.   Although funny is not a word that sums up thismovie in it's entirety, there is plenty of funny to be had inthe first half.   The Roller Skate Rag is hilarious, as isFanny's first nervous foray into the world of theatre.Throughout the piece we see Fanny's self deprecating humourdisguising her lack of confidence.   When she wins Nick, sheblossoms and gains confidence, and her career soars.  This iswhere we enter the sadness of Fanny's life, and for me this iswhere Barbra displays her versatility as an actress. With simplegestures, and a much darker humour, she conveys the pain she isstruggling to overcome.  Overcome it she does, but it is not avictory by any means - because she has lost a part of herself.The acting throughout is wonderful, but I find Omar Sharif isoverwhelmed by Miss Streisand in full flight. Let's face it, wasit really fair to expect him to sing a duet with one of the mostperfect voices in popular music, when he can barely carry atune?  The music is powerful and used to great comedic anddramatic effect - what more could a musical hope to achieve.The Ziegfeld number is a real stunner - and makes me wish I hadbeen around to see the real thing. It's a shame that this moviewas the last great success in traditional movie musicals, but atleast the genre w "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star By Far?...Still True","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When Barbra Streisand hit the big screen in this expensive 1968 musical biopic of Ziegfeld star Fanny Brice, she became an instant movie legend and understandably so as master filmmaker William Wyler tailored a launching pad so accommodating to her personality and drive that it becomes apparent only later that the film itself is not terribly exceptional. The first half of the film, by far the best part, is about Brice's fast climb to stardom and her blind infatuation of gambler Nick Arnstein, played with a bit too much continental charm by an overshadowed Omar Sharif. The comparatively dramatic second half is really about the inevitable fate of their relationship. The energy that drives the first half seems to sputter in the second half, and Streisand is left to carry the whole thing to the finish line.The fact that the story has anything to do with Brice seems purely circumstantial in deference to Streisand's phenomenal talent especially as a first-rank comedienne and the pre-eminent song stylist of her generation. For the latter aspect alone, Funny Girl is essential viewing, especially for three solo numbers penned by the legendary team of Jule Styne and Bob Merrill (who co-wrote Gypsy). First, as a young wannabe trying to convince Mr. Keeney at the local burlesque house to hire her, Streisand sings I'm the Greatest Star with an appropriately persistent brassiness that suddenly turns into a dramatic clarion call picking up the percussive momentum of Don't Rain on My Parade until the song title truly becomes fact and not a boast. The second song is her anthem, People, sung to an unsurprisingly awestruck Sharif on the darkened Hollywood-phony backlit set of Henry Street, first as an expression of her unrequited love for Arnstein and then more effectively as a solo plea bordering on desperation as she leans against a lamppost. The third number is made breathtaking by the ingenious way that Wyler films her performance of Don't Rain on My Parade as a montage of fast cuts that leads an Arnstein-chasing Brice to the amazing tugboat finish. The fact that they all occur in the first half makes the second half all the more desultory saved at the end by Streisand's memorably triumphant take on Brice's My Man. These are all indisputably classic movie musical moments.The remaining numbers are good and mostly a vehicle to show off Streisand's considerable comedy skills - maneuvering roller skates on I'd Rather Be Blue (Over You), flouncing her dress in front of a nonplussed Ziegfeld on Second Hand Rose, waddling around as a pregnant bride in the Ziegfeld extravaganza His Love Makes Me Beautiful, accommodating Arnstein's aggressive parlor advances in You Are Woman, and chronicling her happily married state in Sadie, Sadie. That's not to say she is not a fine dramatic actress, just a sometimes rather theatrical one at least in her first film here, as she expresses her heartbreak in a variety of overdone hairstyles and clothes until her seeming vindication at the end. No other actress can express as dexterously the concurrent insecurity, egotism and humor that Streisand in her prime could. The other elements in this movie seem incidental, even the supporting performances which include Kay Medford's sarcastically tender turn as Brice's mother Rose and Walter Pigeon elegantly tyrannical and savvy as Ziegfeld. This turned out to be Wyler's penultimate film, and it's not really one of his best as the humanistic values that permeate his earlier classics seem missing here in favor of mounting a star vehicle for Streisand. But the logic is understandable as a Barbra Streisand does not come along very often. Even for those who have seen it numerous times before, the 2001 restoration contained on the DVD completely revitalizes the film. "},{"Title":"Great, and Barbra is gorgeous, magnificent, like buttah!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, was Barbra ever great in this one!  The delivery of the songs, in which she often gets so intoxicated with the great music and lyrics that she starts swaying.  The acting, which certainly is none too bad, either.  The sheer beauty of her performance is indescribable.  Really, I am not exaggerating.  She is radiant in just about every frame of the film that she appears in; she practically glows!  She is gorgeous, she really is!  You cannot help but love this kid from the moment she steps onto the screen.  She is funny, she is touching, she is electric, she is wonderful, and she is so many other things.Omar Sharif certainly is suave as her leading man (And you know exactly how he feels, because you love her, too!), and Kay Medford is also good as her mother.  William Wyler's direction is right on the money.  And those costumes and sets!  But, of course, the film belongs to Barbra.  It may drag quite a bit near the end, but she pulls it through.  This was her first film, before the egomania, (evident in only her second film, Hello, Dolly!), before the sappy stuff.  This was made when she was a fresh young talent who had so much to offer.  And boy, did she deliver the goods in this one!  If you see this, you can certainly consider yourself one of the luckiest people in the world. "},{"Title":"WARNING SUPERLATIVES UP AHEAD","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've decided to purchase all of Omar Sharif's movies of the 60s and have myself an Omar Sharif film festival, thanks mainly to this movie! Sure, Barbra has always been my favorite songbird, and without a doubt, after seeing her here, hello--she deserved that Oscar, hands down. But it boy of the 1960s Omar Sharif was just achingly splendid as suave, cultured gentleman and card shark Nick Arnstein. No big stretch for the guy though, who was schooled in French and English schools, in addition to being a professional bridge player and, like Nick Arnstein, also owns racehorses (much later in life, he too almost lost his shirt to gambling). The chemistry between both stars work very well, and the seduction scene was quite funny (what nonchalance indeed, putting beds in restaurants) and and Mr. Sharif could have, should have pursued a singing career with that wonderful voice and patented accent! Rumors were rife that both were having an affair while filming. Barbra, you certainly were on a roll. Note to Omar I am woman...and YOU'RE THE MAN!  "},{"Title":"How I Feel About Funny Girl","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So many people have written in and bad mouthed this movie. I saw it in 1973 in school on film,in one of my classes in junior high.  I fell so in love with Barbra then.(You know all we gay people do love her so) I have always loved her music,which has gotten me through all the rough times in my life-and although I am not a professional movie critic-(like alot of the comment people assume they are)- I will simply say that this movie was very good.I didnot find anything wrong with it. I have seen it over and over again. Barbra displays an innocence and star quality about her. She well deserved her Oscar. I will challenge anyone to this. I have all her music, I have all her movies, and she is wonderful.Shame on anyone for ever saying anything bad about Barbra.  "},{"Title":"A Streisand Time Capsule","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie version of the Bob Merrill/ Jule Styne musical FUNNY GIRL is notable for only one reason  Barbra Streisand. For anyone fortunate enough to have seen the young singing actress in her signature role as comedienne Fanny Brice, the experience must have been electric. The nearest experience to that event is listening to the original cast album on Capitol/ Broadway Angel which conveys the immediacy of a live stage performance and the power of Streisand's characterization .The film is definitely a horse of a different color. The entire production is geared to showcasing Streisand ( no big surprise there! ) but she seems to be wandering through the movie as if she were starring in one of her early television specials - all supporting performances in the film are just that ; every one else's role seems to have been truncated to give more screen time to the star . William Wyler, one of Hollywood''s greatest directors, leaves no personal stamp on this picture, very odd indeed as he directed such classics as WUTHERING HEIGHTS and BEN HUR. The marvelous music score is pretty much intact, but two of the stage production's greatest songs are missing, THE MUSIC THAT MAKES ME DANCE and the haunting WHO ARE YOU NOW, supplanted by the pedestrian title song (ironically nominated for an Oscar!) and the standard that dramatically closes the movie, MY MAN . As with Rex Harrison's performance in the film of MY FAIR LADY, FUNNY GIRL preserves Streisand's performance for the ages, which makes this film a notable one but not a classic on the order of A STAR IS BORN. "},{"Title":"Nobody needs this movie","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not a musical but an extended personal appearance by Barbra Streisand, grinding away at her aren't-I-cute routine so relentlessly that it seems only natural one of her comedy skits has her playing a four-year-old. Omar Sharif has no more charm--or activity--than a store dummy, with his prissy little features and his simpering that's supposed to represent understated class. There's no texture in this movie, no ambiance, no sense of period of even much of a sense that there are any other people around besides Fanny and Nick, and much laundered versions of both (they lived together for six years before getting married, while he was married to someone else, and before the bond robbery he had already done two years in Sing Sing for illegal wiretapping). The script is leaden and clumsy, without a single laugh. The tone matches Streisand's phony self-deprecation--the movie presents her to us as if she's a favourite grandchild, smugly saying, oh, look, isn't she marvelous.While all this is tedious, what is really offensive is the hammering on the point that beauty is all, and that Fanny is quite right to crawl to a man who does her the big favour of sleeping with her and marrying her. Streisand may not win any Liz Taylor look-alike contest, but she's a good-looking, vivacious woman, so the constant put-downs are as phony as they are distasteful, especially given what a bum Nick is. Though he is greatly cleaned up(in real life, unlike the movie, he had no compunction about spending as much of his wife's money as he could get his hands on), he is still portrayed as a man who gambles for a living. He even complains in one scene that his wife's fame is interfering with his work! And yet he is someone we're supposed to sympathise with, and sympathise with Fanny for loving him. At a time when women were starting to take up real careers of their own? Please! I always thought People was a ridiculous song--you're lucky if you need people? Who doesn't need other people? It's not luck, it's necessity. This peculiar sentiment ties in with Fanny needing Nick so much that she overlooks his aversion to real work and his involvement with gangsters. In other words, the more needy you are, the better, because that means you'll ignore what is wrong with your man. It's an all too appropriate song for a movie that says a woman should be a doormat. "}{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The life of Fanny Brice, famed comedienne and entertainer of the early-1900s. We see her rise to fame as a Ziegfield girl, subsequent career and her personal life, particularly her relationship with Nick Arnstein.Entertaining, especially the stage performance scenes. Barbara Streisand absolutely shines during these scenes. Funny, and with some impressive singing too. The remainder is reasonably good and engaging. Does get fairly schmaltzy at times though, and the mid- to-late section is quite dry as it concentrates on the Brice- Arnstein relationship.As mentioned, Barbara Streisand is great during the live show scenes. She is fine during the other scenes too, especially as there are some musical numbers thrown in every now and again (it is a semi- musical). Streisand won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar in 1969 for her performance (shared with Katharine Hepburn for The Lion in Winter).Good work too from Omar Sharif as Nick Arnstein. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Epic","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird-faced Fanny Brice (Barbra Streisand) rises to stardom on the New York Vaudeville Stage and maintains a turbulent marriage with suave gambler Nick Arnstein (Omar Sharif).So maybe this is supposed to be one of the classics. I appreciate the attempt to tell the story of Fanny Brice... but geez, this is just bad. I am sorry that everyone in the world disagrees, but wow. First of all, way too long. I don't mind overtures and intermissions... but for this? And Streisand... just awful. Who thinks she's a good actress? Wow.I feel bad rating this so low, but it just was not enjoyable... it was almost unbearable to watch. I would not recommend this to anyone, even my worst enemies. "},{"Title":"A Star is Born","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny Girl is the screen adaptation of the stage musical, based on the life and career of Fanny Brice. And it is a vehicle for the talents--acting and singing--of Barbra Streisand. She embodies the role, defines it, and carries it to heights of perfection.The other actors in the film are, I'm afraid, part of the scenery. It's not their fault. Streisand acting dominates the screen. Streisand singing brands the song. Her facility with comedy is both unique and classic. Her ability to portray tragedy--sometimes through comedy--is heartbreaking.In Funny Girl, we love her spirit, rejoice in her triumphs, and suffer with her when she realizes she has no control over the one thing she truly wants. She wants an impossibly attractive man, finds love with him, then fails to hold him. It's a theme she later explored in The Way We Were.Funny Girl showed that Streisand had the screen presence that could draw an audience. In fact, it even realigned common definitions of beauty as the camera lingered on her profile. She also wears some wonderful fashions.This is the film that launched a career that had only existed on vinyl (or on stage if you were luck enough to see Streisand on Broadway). It is film history in the making. I only wish she had made more films, but I can settle for The Way We Were, A Star is Born, Hello Dolly, and Yentl. "},{"Title":"She is indeed the nonpareil Barbra Streisand!","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A film adaption of a successful stage musical loosely based on the inspiring life of Fanny Brice (1891-1951), a popular vaudeville performer belongs to a bygone era, one of girls of Zeigfeld Follies, and her tempestuous marriage with Nick Arnstein (Sharif), a notorious gambler and debonair con artist.Barbra Streisand reprises her role on the big screen as her tailor-made debut and star-making vehicle, helmed by Wyler as the sole musical in his illustrious filmography and the penultimate feature of his glorious career, in addition to music and lyrics of Jule Styne and Bob Merrill, the film would be a major contender in the Oscar game and would eminently wins Streisand a BEST LEADING ACTRESS honour and the one-and-the-only time, in a tie with Katharine Hepburn in THE LION IN WINTER (1968). FUNNY GIRL ambitiously amalgamates an unconventional passage-to-fame of an ugly duckling with a mellifluous voice and an attitude of self-mockery, with a rote romance follows by the matrimonial turbulence, which mordantly bears out why it is so difficult for a successful woman to find a suitable hubby under the chauvinistic macro-milieu, especially when a husband's ego is too proud to accept the succour from his own wife even the situation is completely owing to his own defects.At a length of 150 minutes, including an overture and intermission, FUNNY GIRL is wholly focused on Streisand's Fanny and her affair of the heart. A not-so-attractive girl with a lowbrow upbringing, dreams of being a star on stage thanks to her singing talent, breezily challenges the customary but fluffy images of a Ziegfeld's girl (against the will of Mr. Florenz Ziegfeld, played by a stern-looking Pidgeon) and meets her deserved success. The first half of the movie is a high-octane studio-bound musical, Streisand's vocal prowess is impeccably affecting and puissant, you don't have to be her fan to acknowledge that (PEOPLE is such an empowering ballad, whereas the first half bookends with an exhilarating DON'T RAIN ON MY PARADE and the film crowns with her heart-rending delivery of MY MAN). Meanwhile she is quite effective as a comedienne too, the romantic chemistry between her and Sharif (if we can overlook his foreign accent and exotic looks to believe he is a Caucasian) is palpable since in real life there was a thing between them.The second half is more about Fanny and Nick's relationship than her career orbit, so a more melodramatic mood shift infuses gradually (although Fanny's Swan Lake spoof is a tension diffuser), but luckily Streisand and Sharif retain in their composure most of the time without hamming up the ugly confrontation, rarely, a celebrity's marriage can disintegrate with such dignity and mutual understanding, love is still there, but marriage just doesn't function for them. Omar Sharif, slums it cautiously for fear of stealing the diva's thunders in his most charming appearance, thus it is almost like a miracle that the veteran Kay Medford, who also reprises her role from the stage, can usurp an Oscar-nomination as Fanny's unpretentious and level-headed mother Rose, as far as we know, her scenes could all have been left on the floor of the editing room.Maybe Streisand is a prima-donna during the film's making and production process, but standing in the view of a showbiz outsider and a pure spectator, viewing this picture for the first-time, one thing I must admit, she shines in it magnificently, there is no shame to be nitpicking of one's own passion project, after all it is her own reputation and future are at stake, plus being a woman, it does take guts to effectuate the take-no-prisoners modus operandi in this profession, what's why even under a global scale, no other female star hitherto can inherit her mantle, she is indeed the nonpareil Barbra Streisand. "},{"Title":"A really memorable film but one that plays fast and loose with the facts.","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Broadway and Hollywood have a long history of creating stories about real life characters that play fast and loose with the truth and Funny Girl is no exception. If you are looking for the history of Fanny Brice or, particularly, Nick Arnstein*, then you should read a book! And, since I am just in the mood to sound like a retired history teacher....I'll just skip my complaints about the accuracy of the film! But, if you don't mind that the details are often just plain wrong, the film is exceptionally entertaining. Barbra Streisand was apparently NOT a pleasant person to work with if you read through the IMDb trivia. However, considering she'd been doing the show on Broadway for years and won the Oscar, perhaps in hindsight her diva-like demands were for the best. The film is filled with wonderful songs by her as well as a nice comedic touch. In fact, pretty much all of the film was excellent except for one odd thing--why Omar Sharif?! His singing was passable but to be playing a sophisticated Jewish con-man and gambler, Sharif just seems all wrong. Perhaps Streisand insisted because she thought his being in the film wouldn't overshadow her or would complement her character. I dunno...but it did seem odd. Aside from that, a lovely film--even with its historical lapses (for one, by the way, Streisand was just too pretty to be playing Ms. Brice).*Okay, I will go on a BIT of a rant. The real life Arnstein was from all reports a thoroughly despicable jerk. A crook, a cheat and a man who horribly used his wife. This is nothing like the likable rogue in the film who almost by accident got into trouble with the law! But, having the main character in love with scum wouldn't have been romantic, so I guess I can understand why they so thoroughly sanitized the guy. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching to see one of the greatest film debut performances ever","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny Girl for me did drag in the second half and fairly badly and some of the script is contrived with some lines in the second half that may make one cringe. However, Funny Girl is a beautifully done film and without a doubt one of Barbra Streisand's best films. And Fanny Brice gets my vote as her best performance, it's a fantastic performance that was fully worthy of the joint Oscar and it is from personal view one of the greatest film debut performances ever. Her singing cannot be faulted, a big, well-supported and beautiful voice that was capable of much emotion as can be heard in My Man, and acting-wise she does do funny and poignant brilliantly, just love her facial expressions as well. Omar Shariff is handsome and ultra-smooth in his role, and the two do show some passionate chemistry together, while Mae Questel is hilarious, Kay Medford has sincere fun in her small role and Walter Pidgeon is endearingly curmudgeon. Anne Francis doesn't have a whole lot to do but is very charming. Other than Streisand the other high points are the score and songs. The score is lushly orchestrated with lots of bombastic energy and pathos without ever being syrupy. The songs are equally marvellous, the rousing Don't Rain On My Parade and the truly emotional My Man being the highlights. The way the numbers are staged are not static nor are they overblown, an achievement seeing as there are a few lengthy ones in there, People is particularly well-done in this regard. The story has pacing issues but still manages to be fun(with some very cute jokes from Streisand), charming and touching, and there are some very good production values particularly in the opulent costumes though the colourful sets and fluid cinematography are notable too. This may be the first and only musical William Wyler made but as far as directors-who-only-directed-one-musical Funny Girl does stand out as one of the better ones by quite some way, never pedestrian or heavy and there is at least a sense that he knew what he was doing. All in all, not perfect with the pacing and scripting issues but it is well worth seeing for Streisand, whose performance alone is worth two stars already. Adding the music, supporting cast, production values and how to me emotionally investing the story was Funny Girl for all its comparatively small imperfections is a great film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A terrific classic that truly shows how Streisand became a star","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For years I have heard of Barbra Streisand as an iconic and brilliant singer and actress but I can't honestly say that I've seen her in much. I have had very little Streisand experience. Cineplex running the classic movies has been such a great experience for me. I am finally seeing these amazing iconic films that I keep saying I will see but never do. Funny Girl was...simply put...fantastic. Its a moving, often funny, sweet and touching romantic musical that absolutely showcases why it is such an iconic classic. The film is very long, much longer than I think it really needs to be. Its pretty stupid of me to even say something negative about a film that has withstood 40+ years and is loved by nearly everyone but I think the movie could have easily been edited to a much tidier 2 hours or less. There were a few scenes in the film (perhaps carried over from the Broadway play) that were simply unnecessary and felt that way. I definitely enjoyed the first part of the film more than the second but it also has many different tones throughout the movie as well. The start of the movie is more comedic, the songs are more upbeat and there are more of them. The latter half of the film is emotional, even sad at times and has less songs. Regardless this was a stunning romantic film that shows you just about every part of a passionate romance from beginning to end.The person who impressed me most in the film was Barbra Streisand. Her comedic timing was amazing and her performance was absolutely worthy of her Oscar. Fanny Brice is a down to earth girl raised in meagre surroundings with a low opinion of herself. She is also insanely talented and her brash, strong personality rockets her to stardom. She is riveting on screen and her charisma is absolutely undeniable. Not to be outdone Omar Sharif is also excellent. He is suave and cool and also lights up the screen. While it would seem that Streisand and Sharif are not a good match, their chemistry is terrific. Sharif is perfect for the role and his character is so flawed and goes through so much in the course of the film. There isn't a large supporting cast but there are definitely some performances worth mentioning. Kay Medford as Streisand's mother is a lot of fun in a small but noticeable role, Walter Pidgeon as the curmudgeonly theatre producer and Mae Questel as the hilarious and sly Mrs. Strakosh.Director William Wyler is a legend. He has so many classics under his belt that its clear he knows how to create a near masterpiece. I still think the film could have been edited better but Wyler tells his story without holding back any details. This is obviously a musical but at the same time, the songs aren't the driving force behind the story. They have a distinctive place in the film (most cases are while Fanny Brice is performing) and they don't overwhelm the film so even if you're not a huge fan of musicals but love classics then you can still enjoy this!! That being said I loved most of the songs and was perhaps only underwhelmed by that iconic People who need people song but maybe perhaps it was only because I was so amped to hear it for the first time in its original content. No matter how you look at it, I loved Funny Girl and loved seeing it on the big screen. If you are like me and had no experience with the Streisand of her day then do yourself a favour and watch this because you will understand a little about why she is such a legend. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Acting more like children than children....","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whenever has there been a more profound lyric in a Broadway musical? O.K., there probably is (or at least close), but I find myself quoting this lyric all the time in reference to the actions of mature adults when comparing them to children. This is what makes musical theater so profound, and in this musical biography of the incomparable Fanny Brice, an equally incomparable newcomer (Barbra Streisand) found stage stardom, then four years later, film stardom, an Oscar, and eventually living immortality. The story was done once before with fictional names (Rose of Washington Square) but this was approved by the family estate, and produced both on Broadway and on film by her own son-in-law, Ray Stark. With the music of Jule Style (Gypsy) and lyrics of Bob Merrill (Carnival), Funny Girl doesn't profess to be a true-to-life biography where Streisand looks exactly like Ms. Brice or lives life exactly like her. The facts are a bit obscured, but it's close enough to the truth and extremely entertaining so you get an idea of where Ziegfeld's funniest star got her start and the suffering she went to after reaching the top.The actual book of the stage musical is quite different than the film, and many of the songs were dropped including a few that have gone onto fame in their own right. Replacing them with a few of the standards of the time (particularly Brice's own smash hit, My Man) was a wise choice. But the deletion of The Music That Makes Me Dance is a decision that has always puzzled me, with its title song replacement far from perfect and obviously stuck in there with the intention of getting Oscar attention. Worthy of that attention, though, is its star, Barbra Streisand, and love her or hate her, you can't help but admire her moxie. She is one of those odd looking characters, so perfect in evening gowns yet all of a sudden so funny in odd poses and facial contortions, you think you're looking at something from a circus. When Streisand breaks out in I'm the Greatest Star!, you know you're seeing one of the greatest musical stars on film since Judy Garland, and even if the song wreaks of ego, it is perfect for the set-up of the film. Her big solo number, Don't Rain on My Parade, makes excellent use of the New York City river ways, and there are still views of tug boats on the East or Hudson that will have you staring in hopeful sight of some glamorous diva aboard singing. The legendary Walter Pidgeon, who played one of the Shuberts in Deep in My Heart (with Paul Henreid as Ziegfeld) switches to play the rival producer of the fabulous Follies. Miss Brice, you are in my theater!, he barks at her, to which she gloriously responds, So nobody argues with the landlord? He isn't at all amused by her addition to her costume in the outrageous His Love Makes Me Beautiful number, but the audience surely is, especially when the demure Streisand turns and reacts to a very tall Ziegfeld girl sauntering by her.The leading man is the very handsome Omar Sharif, probably far too good looking to have played the rumoredly unattractive Nicky Arnstein, but his romantic pairing with Ms. Streisand is one for the history books that wouldn't be surpassed for her until she got Robert Redford in The Way We Were. He has a pleasant singing voice and is a total match for her in You Are Woman, I Am Man.Lovable Kay Medford gets to repeat her Broadway role of Rose Brice and gets some great lines, but unfortunately, most of her musical moments from the original stage production are out. Mae Questel takes on the role of the squeaky voiced Mrs. Strakosh (from Jean Stapleton) and leads the Jewish party ladies in the cut short If a Girl Isn't Pretty which was fully recorded for the original soundtrack recording. Brice's on- stage numbers go from the blooper-filled Roller Skate Rag to I'd Rather Be Blue at Kenney's, and the Swan Lake ballet spoof that also seems abruptly cut. When Streisand breaks into My Man for the climax of the film after having her heart once again broken, you will want to stand up in your living room and applaud her even though you are watching a copy of a now 45 year old movie. "},{"Title":"What a feeling","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As the screen musical has evolved, so too has the screen musical star. Back in the 30s and 40s we got singers and dancers whose ability to act was only coincidental, if they could act at all. In the 50s, as musicals became more dramatic the roles would mostly be filled by established lead players who would then be dubbed by a professional singer. This practice came to be frowned upon (probably the main reason Audrey Hepburn was not acclaimed for her excellent performance in My Fair Lady), and by the mid-1960s a new generation of musical stars had arrived, a rare breed whose acting talents matched their ability to sing. Julie Andrews became an overnight success with Mary Poppins and The Sound of Music, and was followed in the late-60s by Liza Minnelli and of course Barbra Streisand who makes her screen debut here with Funny Girl.The advantage you have with someone like Streisand is that they can carry a dramatic performance over into the musical numbers. When Streisand sings, she is very much still acting. There is of course the force she puts into her movements and the emotion in her face, but she also exhibits breathtaking control over the dynamics of the music, her voice swelling mid-line to bring out the power in a song. It's one of the finest musical performances ever, up there with Judy Garland in A Star is Born and Liza Minnelli in Cabaret. Streisand is ably supported by Omar Shariff, here establishing himself as a kind of Arabic Sean Connery. Like Connery he has played people of a lot of different nationalities, and rarely with any authenticity, but this doesn't matter too much because he was such an everyman of desirable masculinity. He is also a somewhat better actor than Connery, and this is one of his better roles.Funny Girl was the penultimate movie directed by classic-era veteran William Wyler. Although he had taken on some ostentatious projects in the preceding fifteen years, he was still known as a director who focused on bringing out the best in his cast. This was the only musical he ever made. He does not direct the songs with a rhythmic touch as most directors would, but instead seems to view them as an extension of the ordinary narrative. He simply selects the angle and the distance that shows off the necessary facet of the musical performance, long shots for dancing, mid shots for the standing still stuff, and close-ups for those emotive money shots. It doesn't make this the most lyrical or aesthetic of musical pictures, especially when compared to the work of Vincente Minnelli or Robert Wise, but it does show off Ms Streisand at her best.The songs themselves are by Jules Styne, an old-time composer who had been doing stuff for Broadway since the 1920s. As such he's able to give the music an authentic early-twentieth century feel, especially on songs I'm the Greatest Star, You Are Woman, I Am Man and Sadie Sadie which remind me a little of the work of Jerome Kern. The score is also augmented by such genuine period numbers as I'd Rather Be Blue over You and My Man, which are actually better than Styne's own work, but still segue nicely into his score. The main arc of the storyline is Fanny Brice's heady but tumultuous relationship with first husband Nicky Arnstein, to which her showbiz career is only the backdrop. This focus gives an accessibility that many similar musicals (such as Star! with Julie Andrews) lack. And at the heart of it all is the performance of Streisand, which does the songs justice and gives the picture its stature as a musical romantic drama. "},{"Title":"Barbara Streissand's Oscar Performance","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny Girl (1968) Barbara Streissand, Omar Sharif, Anne Francis, Walter Pidgeon, Kay Medford, Lee Allen, Gerald Mohr, Frank Faylen, Mae Questel, Mittie Lawrence, Gertrude Flynn, John Harmon, Thoris Brandt, Bettina Brenna, Alena Johnston, Virginia Ann Ford, Mary Jane Mangler, Inga Nielsen, Sharon Vaughn, Paul Bradley, George DeNormand, Lloyd Gough, Lester Mack, Tommy Rall, John Warburton, Dick Winslow, Enid Yousen...Director William Wyler...Screenplay Isobel Lennart.Even in the late 60's, Broadway held a special place in the hearts of movie-goers. The musical Oliver won Best Picture in 1968 and several successful musicals had appeared in films since the beginning of the decade including My Fair Lady, The Sound of Music and Camelot. It was no surprise to see a film version of Isobel Lennart's award-winning Broadway play about Fanny Brice, star of the famed 1920's revue The Ziegfeld Follies. Barbara Streissand was at this time an emerging new star, showing off her fantastic singing voice and acting talent mostly in Broadway shows. Although she lost the coveted role of Dolly in Hello Dolly to Carol Channing on the stage, she got to play Dolly in the film version. Here she portrays Fanny Brice, the poor, Brooklyn-raised New York girl who climbs up the ladder of success from sassy chorus-girl to star. She charms the worldly gambler and patron of the show Nick Arnstein (Omar Sharif) becoming his lover. Anne Francis delivers a fine performance and she was herself a figure of Old Hollywood. Walter Pidgeon impresses as well and Kay Medford as Fanny's stereotypical Jewish mother. But Omar Sharif appears oddly out of place in this comedy at first. Gradually, he becomes part of the loveliness of this movie, especially in his scene with Streissand. Sharif had never done anything like this before and his greatest role had always been that of Doctor Zhivago (1965) which was even Oscar stuff. The film is not to be taken as a realistic account of the life of Fanny Brice. Although Brice did come out of obscurity into the spotlight and fame, this film is pure fiction and pure camp in a sense. It's yet another A Star Is Born, rags-to-riches, Cinderella story. It is different in that Streissand, with her long nose, Jewish/New York attitude and modern mind, boldly steps up to every challenge. She is delivering an entirely new kind of acting. Just why Babs won the Oscar is a no-brainer. She had it. The voice, the charm, the comedienne quality. Throughout the movie, she belts out many fine songs and showcases her comic abilities, especially through dialog and inner dialog. Because this is a film version shot inside theaters and out in the streets, there is more room for Barbara to breathe and be natural. This is a well-written and well-directed film, owing to William Wyler's usual magic. By '68, Wyler was an Old Hollywood figure, having directed Oscar-winning movies and Oscar-winning women such as Bette Davis for Jezebel in '39, Olivia De Havilland in The Heiress in '49 and Audrey Hepburn in Roman Holiday in '53. Barbara Streissand was bound to win the Oscar for appearing in Wyler's terrific film. The cinematography was by another veteran, Harry Stradling Jr, and he gives this film a sort of 1950's Deluxe/Technicolor glossy, dreamy looks. The costumes and sets are authentic to the period of the early 20's. But frankly, this film would bore audiences who are not familiar with Streissand's work or music. This is one of the many films she is very proud of and one which centers around herself. So, if you don't like the star, who appears in almost every scene, this film is not for you. But fans of Streissand will be in Heaven, seeing her in her prime, delivering beautiful music at a time when Hollywood was doing much better than it is today. "}{"Title":"One shot, one gun shot and bam!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hadn't seen Funny Girl for years, so I was eager to catch it when it was reissued in a restored print a couple of years ago.  While everyone seems to go on and on about Barbra, what I discovered was that the movie is as much about old fashioned solid Hollywood craftsmanship.  Led by director William Wyler, the movies is just a pleasure to watch.  You can see all the care that he, cinematographer Harry Stradling and the rest of the team took to make sure that the movie came off as the work of professionals.  (There are a couple of interesting close ups where the camera appears to zoom in on Barbra and the background sort of shimmers.  The story goes that these came about not out of any creativity as much as they lost the close ups and this was the only way they had to process the close ups out of the master shots.)  I even appreciated Omar Shariff. It was no accident that this guy was such a sensation in the 60's. Along wiht Lawrence of Arabia and Dr Zhivago, this guy had a hell of a decade.  My major gripe is that the movie does slow down in the second act as a lot of musicals (and movies) tend to do.  There are fewer musical numbers and except for My Man, they are not as exciting as the first act's.  And what numbers there are in that first act including The Greatest Star and the thrilling Don't Rain On My Parade which has to rank as one of the 10 best musical numbers in movies (one of my others is Catherine O'Hara and Fred Willard's Midnight at the Oasis in Waiting for Guffman). No wonder Streisand has such a big ego.  If you were only 25 and had already been told by Sinatra, Garland and Armstrong that you were great and then had Wyler direct this movie just to work with you, how could you not be affected! At least she hasn't gone Michael Jackson weird.  "},{"Title":"One shot, one gun shot and bam!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hadn't seen Funny Girl for years, so I was eager to catch it when it was reissued in a restored print a couple of years ago.  While everyone seems to go on and on about Barbra, what I discovered was that the movie is as much about old fashioned solid Hollywood craftsmanship.  Led by director William Wyler, the movies is just a pleasure to watch.  You can see all the care that he, cinematographer Harry Stradling and the rest of the team took to make sure that the movie came off as the work of professionals.  (There are a couple of interesting close ups where the camera appears to zoom in on Barbra and the background sort of shimmers.  The story goes that these came about not out of any creativity as much as they lost the close ups and this was the only way they had to process the close ups out of the master shots.)  I even appreciated Omar Shariff. It was no accident that this guy was such a sensation in the 60's. Along wiht Lawrence of Arabia and Dr Zhivago, this guy had a hell of a decade.  My major gripe is that the movie does slow down in the second act as a lot of musicals (and movies) tend to do.  There are fewer musical numbers and except for My Man, they are not as exciting as the first act's.  And what numbers there are in that first act including The Greatest Star and the thrilling Don't Rain On My Parade which has to rank as one of the 10 best musical numbers in movies (one of my others is Catherine O'Hara and Fred Willard's Midnight at the Oasis in Waiting for Guffman). No wonder Streisand has such a big ego.  If you were only 25 and had already been told by Sinatra, Garland and Armstrong that you were great and then had Wyler direct this movie just to work with you, how could you not be affected! At least she hasn't gone Michael Jackson weird.  "},{"Title":"Bio of Fannie Brice","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Barbra is my alltime favorite singer!  She is great, gorgeous, and magnificent is this bio of Fanny Brice, from her earliest days in the Jewish slums of NY Lower East Side to her big career in Ziegfield Follies.  Her clumsy antics are so funny, and her singing is so beautiful, that everyone should enjoy this film.  I must have seen this at least a dozen times so far!  7/10 "},{"Title":"Astonishing debut marks movie that holds up suprisingly well","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seeing Funny Girl recently I was struck how well it has held up. Wonderful Lead performances from Streisand (one of a handful of great debut film performances) to Omar Shariff (suprisingly good) to Kay Medford and Walter Pigeon. The songs are great, The direction is expert and the story telling compelling.Of course there are a few signs that this was the late sixties. Notably, the color design-- lots of orange against pink and the hairstyles. Thenumber His Love Makes Me Beautiful is a supposed homage to the great Florenz Zeigfield production numbers of the past, featuring a bevy of beautiful girls. But here it doesn't look in the least bit thirties, but more like a 60s Playboy Girlie layout.But that's minor carping. Streisand delivers on all counts. From winsome and vulnerable, a beautifully staged People to hilarious, His LoveMakes Me Beautiful to earth-shaking- Don't Rain On My Parade.They truly don't make em like this anymore. Bravo! "},{"Title":"barbra's best vehicle","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The basic plotBarbra Streisand plays vaudevillian Ziegfield Girl Fannie Brice,in a biography of Miss Brices rise to a Ziegfield Girl from the Lower East Side,to her eventual marriage and divorce to Nick Arnstein.The PraiseBarbra gives her full talents on this enjoyable showcase for her which flaunts all of themdramatic,performing,vocal,vaudeville,comic It's a fun movie,with good music,a few bittersweet or tragic scenes temper the comedy,and the well-rounded supporting cast allows this film to be better.One of the 60's finer musical's. The FlawsLoses momentum at some key story points. "},{"Title":"It's all about Barbra more than Brice","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes, this is the film that made Barbra Streisand a bona fide star. Sure, she was already a big star, having been blessed with one of the most gorgeous singing voices ever recorded. Her albums were big sellers in the 1960's. Funny Girl released in 1968, had been a Broadway smash, also starring Streisand. Actually, some of the top movie executives did not want to gamble on Barbra, as this was her first film. Thank God wiser heads prevailed. The story follows Jewish comedienne Fanny Brice's interesting and somewhat turbulent life; great liberties were taken here, both for entertainment value and surviving family members of Brice wanted it that way. We follow Brice through her early struggles to make a name for herself, to the Ziegfeld follies, which makes her a household name. Handsome Omar Sharif makes an unlikely suitor, and later husband Nick Arnstein, and much has been made over the 40 years since this film's release about their pairing. Regardless, Sharif manages to hold his own next to Barbra, no easy task. Veteran director William Wyler directed this film, and he and Streisand had many clashes during filming. The film has some flaws, such as the 1960's hairstyles the women wear, considering it is supposed to be the early part of the 20th century (something that drives me nuts!). Still, Wyler's touches are obvious throughout. Kay Medford has a nice turn as Streisand's wise -- although nagging -- mother. The other women, notably in the follies, have minor parts. Walter Pidgeon, looking rather old, does a good job as Florenz Ziegfeld. But let's be clear -- this is Barbra's show, and she doesn't let us forget it. "},{"Title":"Hello Gorgeous!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Taken at its word, Funny Girl is not successful - it isn't much of a biography (of Fanny Brice), and it doesn't tell the story of an insecure, lonely performer who achieves great success despite not being beautiful. Barbra Streisand plays Barbra Streisand; and, while the world may not know it, she is self-assuredly aware of her beauty (her opening line is a classic). It has the look of one, but this musical isn't full of big production numbers; rather, Streisand IS the production. And, she's worth watching, as the movie becomes a bore. Both the songs and Streisand were familiar before the film, through hit recordings and TV programs. People (a Top 10 hit in 1964), Don't Rain on My Parade (both from the first half), and My Man (the closing song) are worth seeking out.****** Funny Girl (9/18/68) William Wyler ~ Barbra Streisand, Omar Sharif, Kay Medford "},{"Title":"Barbra's fabulous debut","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Funny Girl' was the first introduction to the immense talent on-screen and off of Barbra Streisand, playing a character as up-front as herself, Ziegfeld headliner Fanny Brice.  Now, if you've seen the rubber faced Brice (who can be seen in the long version of the 1940s film 'Ziegfeld Follies' in a lottery sketch) you'll know that Barbra is nothing like her.  She doesn't look like her, she doesn't sound like her.  Not much of this biopic is based on fact, either, but its strength is in its lead's true singing talent - 'People', 'Second Hand Rose', and best of all, 'Don't Rain On My Parade' are done with real class and energy.Controversial in its time was the romance depicted between Brice and her gambler husband Nicky Arnstein - the casting of a Jewess and an Egyptian as a couple was totally unacceptable in some countries even in the 1960s.  However, Omar Sharif is excellent as the card shark spouse and their love story really allows the 'funny girl' to blossom.  Certainly this was Streisand's best film - she'd be good in 'Hello, Dolly!' and ok in 'Funny Lady', but this showed all her talents off to the full. "},{"Title":"Film looks like the year it was filmed 1968!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was 15 years old when I saw this film in 1968, and I believed then that I saw one of the greatest musical performances ever caught on film.  I still believe it.  But the overall look to the film is the nineteen sixties, not the period piece it's supposed to be.  From the make-up, to the hair styles, and especially the musical arrangements, it's very much has the look and feel of 1968, the year it was filmed. "},{"Title":"Funny???... You Think???","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" With the exception of Streisand's delivery of two songs (People & My Man), I think the rest of this movie, including Streisand's character, was utterly intolerable.This movie didn't even come close to being an accurate account of Fanny Brice's life. Brice never had the vocal talents of Streisand. Brice was actually a really gifted comedienne. Streisand was not. Streisand was so painfully bad as a comedienne that it made me wince and cringe whenever she cracked another 'funny'.About the only thing that I found 'funny' (actually hysterical is more like it) in this movie was Streisand's wigs. She never wore the same wig twice and each time she donned a new one it seemed like her head was getting longer and longer until by about two-thirds of way thru' this musical mess she started to remind me of Ridley Scott's Alien whenever she turned sideways in profile. I wonder if her inflated head was any indication of how inflated her ego was getting as film production continued. Could be.My trashing of this movie would never be totally complete without a word, or two, about Omar Sharif and I'm sorry to say but words like 'Gorgeous!' (as Streisand referred to him in the movie) ain't the kind of words that come to mind. 'Blech!' is more like it.Sharif really gave me the creeps, big time. I hated-I hated-I hated his big, droopy eyes. They always looked so watery and yucky. Apparently women in the 70's drooled like fiends over Omar and his watery eyes and they happily slept all night long with his picture tucked safely under their pillows. He was a big box-office draw back then, but his career was short-lived. Thank goodness for that. "}{"Title":"Great lead actress, but slightly weaker film overall","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is no doubt that Ms. Streisand steals the show here, and rightfully so. I'll never forget the positive audience reaction to her strong final number, My Man. This was during a Sunday matine showing of Funny Girl at a fancy cinema in Dublin, Ireland, in the summer of 1969. Women shoppers wearing hats and white gloves thought it was a show-stopper, and so did I, a teenage American boy sitting next to a young Jewish-American princess from Somerville, New Jersey. Gee, I felt like my girlfriend was up on the screen!I liked Omar Sharif very much in Dr. Zhivago but I had to ask myself why a zany lady like Fanny Bryce would be so interested in the Nick Arnstein character that Sharif played. He almost put me to sleep. Perhaps I was simply not keyed into his suave, masculine charms.As good as Barbra Streisand is in this film, I think she uses her natural comedic talent even better in Hello, Dolly (a film with even nicer musical numbers). Funny Girl does slow down in the second half, and I think the blame is with the screenplay more than the director or actors. I get the distinct impression that Funny Girl just managed to get the nomination for Best Picture at the last second. Another vote or two would probably have ranked it sixth and, therefore, out of the running in the Best Picture category. However, I fully agree that Barbra Streisand deserved her Oscar in this film, and Katharine Hepburn was slightly less deserving for her 50% of the take.Our local community theater group in Reston, Virginia, performed Funny Girl this past year. I was surprised to see that the wonderful song, Second Hand Rose, was not in the stage version. You mean the Broadway version did not have it either? "},{"Title":"Hello Gorgeous!","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Who better to play Fanny Brice than Barbra Streisand? It seems they had much in common - strong singing voices, a gift for comedy, and a vulnerability that made their personal lives less wonder than their stage ones. All in all, this a most auspicious beginning for Streisand's film career.The movie chronicles Fanny Brice's (Barbra Streisand) rise from wannabe actress to star of the Ziegfeld Follies. She starts out as a young woman who will do anything to get on stage, and once she gets her chance, her talents do not go unnoticed, ultimately leading Flo Ziegfeld (Walter Pidgeon) to ask her to audition for him. Their relationship is a bit rocky at first, as Ziegfeld wants total control of the actors in his show, and Fanny has some very definite ideas about what she will and won't do. But eventually they learn to respect each other. Along the way Fanny meets Nick Arnstein (Omar Sharif), a handsome and charming man who makes his living as a gambler. Perhaps predictably, they fall in love, and eventually marry. Unfortunately, it turns out to be a case of marry in haste, repent at leisure, as Fanny learns how much Nick spends gambling, and how much more important gambling is to him than she is. When Nick gets tired of being Mr. Brice and gets himself mixed up in a bond scandal in order to bring some money into the household, he is arrested, put on trial, and pleads guilty. As Nick leaves for jail, he suggests that he and Fanny divorce. Fanny doesn't want to, but will she change her mind in the eighteen months that Nick is in prison? It's a touching portrait of the vulnerability and insecurity that lies underneath a glittering exterior. Both Fanny and Nick present a beautiful facade to the public, but neither can help the other deal with the insecurities that drive them apart. In the end, Fanny is forced to confront the fact that being funny in public has given her a private life that is nothing to laugh about. Along the way, you get some wonderful singing and dancing. Streisand's talents for the musical stage were wonderfully showcased in the movie, as were her comedic talents. However, it is her skillful portrayal of the private Fanny that is perhaps most notable. She does a wonderful job in portraying Fanny's vulnerability and insecurity in a believable way. Sharif's acting is mostly of the stand there and look good variety. He does an okay job with Nick, allowing his less ebullient stage presence to contrast with Streisand's more energetic one. Pidgeon's Ziegfeld is delightful as a man who is simultaneously frustrated with and charmed by Fanny. Kay Medford does a wonderful supporting turn as Fanny's mother.The end product is a wonderful movie that touches us while it makes us laugh. And it is a movie that has withstood the test of time beautifully. "},{"Title":"Funny Girl, Wonderful Girl (1968) ****","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Barbra Streisand detailing the heart-breaking life of Fannie Brice in Funny Girl.Starting out life on the lower east side, Brice achieved stardom being going to the Ziegfeld Follies. She soon proves herself to be a formidable match to Florenz Ziegfeld himself, played by the wonderful Walter Pigeon. She matches wits with him and in the end does a part the way she wants it done. Hilarious and outrageous at best.Of course, the film deals with the romance and her marriage to gambler Nickie Arnstein, a remarkable Omar Sharif.Kay Medford plays her mother and in a very funny scene, Arnstein plays poker with the girls including the late Mae Questel. Out of kindness, he lets the ladies win.Naturally, there is plenty of heartbreak in this great musical film. Shady dealings leads Arnstein to prison. When he comes out, he decides to end the marriage as he felt that the two were just not good for each other. This leads Streisand to belt out on stage the classic My Man. There's not a dry eye in the house after her beautiful rendition.Streisand wonderfully captures Brice's antics as Baby Snooks and other routine sketches. Her Jewish accent is way up to par and for all this she tied with Katharine Hepburn for The Lion in Winter, for best actress.Streisand sings like a beautiful bell in this rich William Wyler production. "},{"Title":"Started off great, but then got boring...","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I rented this movie from my library along with Hello, Dolly! because I'm a huge Barbra Streisand fan. So I watched this movie first to see if it was gonna be great like people said.Well, I was kind of wrong. The movie started off great, but then during the part where Nick returns, the movie went downhill at an almost out of this world speed. It got boring and dragged along.One thing I did love about this movie were the songs. My favorites are People, Don't Rain on my Parade, and His Love Makes Me Beautiful, but that was it. The only thing I liked were the songs.If you're a Streisand fan, this movie is definitely for you. But for some Streisand fans like me, it can get pretty boring. "},{"Title":"Not a 10!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like this movie but must admit that it's just not that good. Among the weaknesses  include the cliched script that generalizes Fanny Brice's real life to the extent that it  could easily be about almost any early 20th century musical star. Streisand is nothing  like Fanny Brice. There are several good numbers along with several really mediocre  songs. This score pales horribly compared to other Styne accomplishments--Gypsy,  Bells Are Ringing, Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. Streisand is showy, stylish, sounds great  and knows how to strike a pose, but she is not a singing actress as were Judy Garland,  Liza, Julie Andrews, Ethel Merman, Shirley Jones, Doris Day. "},{"Title":"Funny Girl Isn't Funny","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If people who need people can find me; they will probably want to hang, draw, and quarter me after this, but I have to be honest about this movie. No doubt about it that Barbra Striesand is a great performer, but twasn't so in the beginning of her career. When I first saw her, to me, all she did was scream her songs out loud, but as time went on, something happened, and now,years later, where others loose their voice, Streisands just keeps going and going like the Energizers, and keeps getting better and better! Now, about Funny Girl The movie is not totally awful, it's just that she should have waited a few years later before attempting to make the Broadway Hit into a movie. Willie Wyler is really not the right choice for a director of a musical since he really isn't in that league. It's true that he was the first choice to direct The Sound of Music, but he gave up the assignment for another movie. He had stated that he knew that The Sound of Music would be a hit, but he never thought it would be THAT big of a hit! So, Columbia should have enlisted someone else to direct Funny Girl! Wyler was just not the right choice. Maybe Columbia thought that since he would not let Bette Davis get away with her shenanigans, the same would apply to Streisand, and Streisand was smart enough to let Wyler do the directing.For my money; the best musical that Streisand did was Hello Dolly. She really showed her talent to its fullest in Dolly and who cares if Carol Channing didn't do the film version? Channing didn't have the movie box office draw to bring everyone into the theaters; Streisand did! I just don't see any talent in Channings bugged-eyed groggling voice which sounds like her girdles too tight! So, if Streisand was going to make Funny Girl as a film, to me, she should have waited years later until she was older to do it, and with the right director, which Wyler wasn't the one, I believe you would have seen a different Fanny Brice on the screen and a more entertaining film. Don't get me wrong, the film is great and she performs the songs to perfection. I just think that there is something missing that isn't there, and it's too artsy-phartsy! It's just a shame that Michael Curtiz wasn't available to direct her in her debut on the screen! "},{"Title":"I guess a documentary would not be entertaining anyway.","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't think I can watch the whole thing on TCM this minute. or ever. Tune in and listen a bit an turn away is enough. Better to listen to my CD, and get the Cast album if I can, as they dropped many songs; I've read. I am just young enough to know the name Fanny Brice, but not Nicky Arnstein; and wondered do they mean Sophie Tucker! Sounds silly but was confusing. Brice was not movie star(?) let alone to ever be possible as a TV star, out of sight out of mind.The lives of Fanny and Nicky and her family in this movie are too sanitized and fictionalized. The movie and earlier play was produced by Fanny Brice's son-in-law and was 'rigged' so to avoid what I read could have been possible lawsuits especially from Arnstein! So I do hove something against it. And there won't be a musical remake of this caliber that can be closer to the real background story.I thought they stopped making up all kinds of fictionalized characters and scenarios to sell the A- musicals of the 50s with THEN old-fashioned music standards and the THEN more mature stars. (Tea for Two, Band Wagon etc.)I have no idea what Fanny Brice sounded like. Aren't there any recordings? None of the characters ring true in my imagination - songs forced style NY Jewish-ish, and sometimes the lines and sometimes not that way, too. You need to be a Streisand or a movie musical lover to take this in and be able to swoon. "},{"Title":"Hello Gorgeous","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A 1968 musical by William Wyler, Funny Girl stars Barbra Streisand as Fanny Brice, a comedienne and Broadway star who embarks upon a stormy relationship with a suave gambler (Omar Sharif).As a domestic drama, Funny Girl is mostly routine. As a monument to Barbra Streisand, though, it's a bit special. One small step for Jewish comedians, Streisand takes 1930s/40s screwballs, with their sassy, working-class heroines, and gives them a self-depreciating, unconventionally beautiful, proudly (tentatively?) Jewish and so new edge.William Wyler typically oscillated between daring projects (The Children's Hour, The Collector etc) and light-hearted fluff. Funny Girl lies somewhere in the middle, part Hollywood crowd-pleaser, part a product of the 1960s, when dramas strove for supposedly new and grittier depths. The film ends with an out-of-place rendition of My Man, Streisand standing before a black background, bawling her lungs out with phony intensity. A better film would have ditched all similar pretences at heavy drama and milked instead Streisand's comedic talents; Funny Girl works better as comedy than tragedy.Outside of Streisand, Funny Girl offers fine production design, some good cinematography and a dashing performance by Omar Sharif. Like most of Wyler's films, Girl's impeccably framed and lit. This would be the director's penultimate picture.7/10 &#x96; See The Children's Hour. "},{"Title":"Funny Girl is so-so.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hey! Don't get me wrong. I am definitely a fan of Barbra's. But her big film debt is certainly not one of my favorites of hers. I think Barbra looked beautiful in it. I think she sang outstandingly and had scenes that were very funny indeed. However, there were a few things about Funny Girl that just urk the hell out of me. One of them being that I cannot stand Barbra's character being SO love sick and submissive! For instance Nick! I promise I'll never tie you down! Oh pah-leeeeeze!!! Give me a break, will you! And to tell you the truth, to me,  after Fanny and Nick get married, the film tends to get quite dull. If you want to see A REALLY entertaining musical of Barbra's,(or just a very entertaining movie in general),I highly recommend On A Clear Day You Can See Forever. That movie was absolutely endearing! But as far as Funny Girl goes, like I said, she looked great, she sang great and she acted great, but, Oh brother!! That submissiveness that she portrayed to Nick and that love sickness really make you want to heave! And also, as I'd said, the movie really does tend to get quite dull after the two of them marry. Funny LADY, however, is a far more entertaining movie and her character of Fanny got a lot tougher for her own good, which was good to see. One to ten, ten being the best and one being the least, I give Funny Girl a 5.   "},{"Title":"Overblown","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This biography of Fanny Brice focuses on her rise to stardom in the Ziegfeld Follies. It is a fitting companion piece to the series of overblown musicals that were fashionable during the 1960s. The story is fairly standard show business fare, with parallels to A Star is Born. The main interest here is the film debut of Streisand, who snagged an Oscar not so much for her acting skills as for her musical performances. Sharif is smooth as her ill-fated husband. Wyler, who replaced Sidney Lumet (an odd choice to direct a musical), was a brilliant director who excelled in every genre but he had never done a musical and he struggles here to breathe life into this never-ending film. "}{"Title":"Dated romantic musical owes all to La Streisand","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Recently I watched FUNNY GIRL and FUNNY LADY back to back and found the latter to be infinitely funnier and more entertaining than the former. Streisand had grown considerably in her acting ability in the seven years between the two films and although her work in FUNNY GIRL is still excellent, she is far better as the older, tougher Fanny Brice than she is as the wide-eyed, lovesick youngster she plays in the first film.That said, I agree with her Oscar for FUNNY GIRL but not with its Best Film nomination.It's an okay two and a half hours but overlong, considering the almost empty plot.  It's the songs that are the draw - Only seven songs are retained from the original show with another used only as background music. There is one new song (the title song) and five interpolated songs.Here's the roster Main Title (I'm The Greatest Star/People); If A Girl Isn't Pretty; I'm The Greatest Star; Roller Skate Rag (interpolated); I'd Rather Be Blue (interpolated); Second Hand Rose (interpolated); His Love Makes Me Beautiful; Henry Street (background orchestral only); People; You Are Woman; Don't Rain On My Parade; (Intermission) Sadie Sadie; Swan Lake (interpolated); Funny Girl (new); My Man (interpolated); End Title (Funny Girl).FUNNY GIRL is ultimately for Streisand fans, not for fans of the musical genre.  There is nothing special about the staging of any of the numbers, although the Act One finale of helicopter shots zooming in for close-ups with perfectly synchronized singing matches is impressive. "},{"Title":"A Star Is Born (For Real, This Time)","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny Girl may as well be called A Star Is Born, because that's what audiences at the time were witnessing, right before their very eyes. This is the film that introduced Barbra Streisand to film audiences and catapulted her into mainstream stardom, and nearly 40 years later, she remains pretty much the only reason to watch this musical. Movie musicals have always been notorious for having flimsy scripts, but Funny Girl,s is probably one of the flimsiest. Too often, the transition from stage to screen only serves to magnify the original stage version's biggest problems, and that's the case here. Funny Girl is epic in length, but not in scope or substance, so it's one of those movie musicals that feels like it's over before it ever starts.On top of that, it has a bland actor as its leading man (Omar Sharif, who never again captured the intensity he brought to his role in Lawrence of Arabia), an unmemorable score, and a rather ungainly look, courtesy of veteran director William Wyler, who perhaps was unused to the mechanics of making musicals.Streisand is the show, the whole show and nothing but the show, and if the film's final shot, the one truly memorable moment in the whole movie, conveys nothing else, it conveys that.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"A Fanny Bryce story","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Barbra Streisand made her film debut as singer, actress, comedienne Fanny Brice and bagged a Best Actress (co-win) helped by big song numbers such as 'People,' 'My man' and 'Don't rain on my parade.'The first part of the film starts of brightly as Fanny tries to get into showbiz from being a chorus girl and finds out that she steals the show from her bad roller skating. She is brash, determined, single minded, strident and gets her own way which even the Great Ziegfeld soon finds out.The film is then soon bogged down with the love story with Omar Sharif (Nick Arnstein). Although Streisand and Sharif make a good couple, this heavily fictionalized part of the story is just humdrum. You just know that as Brice becomes more famous and rich, her and Nick, her gambler husband will drift apart before he gets involved in a dicey bond caper.Streisand shows the film world her talents and although her singing is spectacular you cannot help wondering whether she could had stretched herself as an actress, because she kept on mining the same type of character. The single minded, dominating, wannabee someone. "},{"Title":"OK, not great","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw What's Up, Doc? and, very impressed by this fine screwball comedy, decided to additionally see a Streisand musical. I chose Funny Girl. I was not quite as impressed.The musical numbers were good - no complaints there. But the movie is unnecessarily long, and becomes a bit dull after Fanny Brice gets married (I'm not saying whom she marries, but it's pretty obvious). It's still decent until about the last 25 minutes of the movie - the ending is awful.Streisand doesn't exactly have to stretch her acting talents here; she plays a funny Jewish actress / singer with a lot of talent but who isn't the most attractive woman in the world. She's basically playing herself with a different name. A few laughs come from Streisand, but the funniest aspect of the movie is the old women who support Streisand. I love the scene where the old women are playing poker, and when all bets are final, one woman lists off an assortment of random cards of varying suits, the highest card being a Jack. Take the pile, says another woman, I thought you were bluffing.Overall, this is a pretty decent movie. Not great, but not horrible. If you're looking for a good Streisand comedy, see What's Up Doc? If you're looking for a good late-1960's musical/romance, see How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying. "},{"Title":"fabulous singer, horrid actress","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've listened to Streisand's singing all my life.  I was one of the little girls who used to lip sync her songs in the mirror.  Her musical talent is phenomenal.  Her acting?  Perfectly dismal.I believe the young Barbra dubbed herself 'an actress who sings'. Please.  Barbra plays Barbra.  Period.  She played the same whiny, irritating little kvetch when she did Yentl.  Don't get me wrong, I've enjoyed all her films, but an actor she ain't.  If you want real drama from Barbra, straight from her heart, listen to any of her earliest albums, the ones she made in her twenties.  Those are the works of which I believe she should be the proudest.   "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie in the World!","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How do I love Funny Girl? Let me count the ways.  O.K., I'm not really going to do that, but I will tell you that if you consider yourself a movie connoisseur, and if you haven't seen this movie, you are missing out. Barbra Streisand stars as Fanny Brice in this movie-musical based on the real Brice's life story of a poor kid who has big dreams of becoming famous on the stage.  Omar Sharif stars as Nick Arnstein.  Without giving too much away, the chemistry between the two is amazing.  This movie will make you want to have a dramatic and heart-breaking romance! Well, maybe that's a bit too far, but you will certainly be drawn in by the wonderful characters, not to mention the amazing songs.  This is Barbra at her best.  "},{"Title":"Lousy script, but it has Barbra!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Story about the famous Ziegfeld girl Fanny Brice (Streisand) and her marriage to a loving but corrput man Nicky Arnstein (Omar Sharif).  Script-wise this is typical rags-to-riches stuff (NOT an accurate biography of Brice as other reviewers have pointed out) but Barbra is fantastic.  She's simply stunning singing or acting (she deservedly won the Academy Award for this)--you can't take your eyes off her.  Also Sharif is unbearably handsome and surprisingly good as Arnstein--him and Streisand really worked well together.  The sets and costumes are breath-taking and the color (in the 2001 restoration) is rich and strong.  And when Streisand sings the film becomes magic.  But the script is VERY bad and cliched--Streisand and Sharif do their best.  A good solid 8. "},{"Title":"To me Funny Girl is a 10+ movie","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" To me FUNNY GIRL is a 10+ movie. My great great hobby!!.I collected 100 and more items about this musical..... Overture, miss Brice!..On stage!.., in the Broadway-play .Film overture..Hello,gorgeous! and there she was FUNNY GIRL. A talented newcomer plays a girl bound for stardom becomes a star herself, winning the 1968 Academy Award for Best Actress. It is kind of funny how someone can become so obsessed by just one particular movie.And not to mention for such a long period of time, for 39 years to be exact.I very interested in this movie and it became a great passion of me. It is my GREAT(!) hobby and I have build up quit a diverse collection of items regarding the movie.It's an American fairy tale come true. It's Fanny Brice and Barbra Streisand portrays her after performance she made famous on Broaway.Barbra's bravura performance makes the movie an unforgettable musical classic. FUNNY GIRL is a musical comedy with a little bit of everything. A classic motion picture in the grand Hollywood tradition- with a timeless charm all its own.Whether belting out such classics as People, I'm the greatest star and My Man. The production was produced by Ray Stark ( the son-in low of Fanny Brice). Barbra about Fanny;We're very much alike. It's like me talking .Like Miss Brice,I find it hard to take advice from anyone.The premiere at New York's Criteroin Theatre on September 18 1968 was clearly a Streiand triumph. After seeing FUNNY GIRL, I also got interested in Miss Fanny Brice and I also collect items regarding her. Note FUNNY GIRL on DVD in widescreen completely remastered; special features Barbra in Movie land, This is Streisand, Song Highlights, Filmgraphies. Later Barbra Streisand is back as fanny Brice in FUNNY LADY.As said before, after seeing Funny Girl,I also got interested in Miss FANNY BRICE and made up a official website about her on WWW.BRICE.NL. .See the IMDb FANNY BRICE-page. The real talent of FANNY BRICE can best seen in the movie BE YOURSELF(1928) which is available on DVD,region free. "},{"Title":"I don't WANT to say anything against Funny Girl.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw it recently in what is probably Australia's best cinema (the Astor, Melbourne), which I'd never previously been to.  Naturally, I enjoyed the movie.  Apart from anything else it made me long for things that had passed away before I started going to the cinema at all Technicolor, REAL (as opposed to digitally concocted) spectacle, and the precise, methodical style of direction and editing of which William Wyler was a master.There's one shot that few directors would even try to get today; it comes towards the end of the Don't Rain on My Parade number.  Fanny is on a train, and the camera begins following the train from far enough away so that we have to guess which window is hers.  Wyler slowly zooms in on the rapidly moving train until he has Barbara Streisand in medium close-up, then holds the shot (steady as can be) until she reaches her next cadence.  It's breathtaking, but not gratuitous when he cuts away (as he has to, sooner or later), it feels as though Fanny's train has outraced something.Barbara Streisand must sing, act, and project star quality throughout; she is asked to carry almost every scene.  Is it churlish to complain that she tries too hard?  Much is admirable about her performance her actual acting, off the stage, is faultless (I particularly like the way she drops out of the Fanny Brice performance in moments of emotional vulnerability, without dropping out of character).  But as a singer she has a way of coating every phrase, every WORD, with projected emotion.  It's just too much.  Let the song speak for itself for just two bars - please.  The humour in her stage routines also seems forced, as she mugs the vulgar raspberry-blowing material for all it's worth - indeed, for a good deal more than it's worth. I would have preferred a more artless performer giving more artful performances, if you know what I mean.The biggest problem is the script.  These are rich people with minor problems - it's not even clear what their problems are - and it doesn't particularly matter how they resolve them.  So why sing so hard to make us worry about them?  The best song lyrics are delivered by Omar Sharif Need it be more complicated than this? / You are woman, / I am man; / Let's kiss.  If only they HAD left it no more complicated than that.  Those lines express the ethos of musicals in the days of, say, Gershwin.  Rodgers and Hammerstein have a lot to answer for.  After they unveiled Oklahoma! in 1943, musicals suddenly came much more pretentious, which was fine when the story or the characters could bear the extra weight; in this case, they can't.Wyler made the right choice, though, in taking the script as seriously as it takes itself.  There was no other way.  On a smaller scale than Ben-Hur (which isn't saying much), he manages to create a lavish spectacle that never fails to communicate cleanly - and if you're in the right mood, what more could you want? "},{"Title":"Funny Girl","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to say for her debut role, coming from the Broadway stage performing the role, and then winning an Oscar for it (tying with Katharine Hepburn in The Lion in Winter, because she was on the panel, and voted for herself), that is impressive, and so too is this musical film from Golden Globe nominated director William Wyler (Ben-Hur), his penultimate film. Basically Fanny Brice (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Barbra Streisand) is living in the Jewish slums of the Lower East Side, and she dreams of being a big star on the stage. She fails as a dancer (obviously later it improved), but she succeeds in a singing audition, well, she is heard anyway, and she is made the star of a new show. What the director Florenz Ziegfeld (Walter Pidgeon) wasn't expecting though was her taking advantage of the stage by making the audience laugh, and this was to continue. The film also focuses on her romance with gambler Nick Arnstein (Doctor Zhivago's Omar Sharif), which at first turns into true love, enjoyment of each other's company, she even sacrifices her career to go after him, and marriage. But he feels they are breaking apart, and then he jailed for embezzlement, so in the end she returns to the stage, and when Nick is released, they agree to separate. Also starring Oscar nominated Kay Medford as Rose Brice, Anne Francis as Georgia James, Lee Allen as Eddie Ryan, Mae Questel as Mrs. Strakosh, Gerald Mohr as Tom Branca, Frank Faylen as Keeney, Mittie Lawrence as Emma, Gertrude Flynn as Mrs. O'Malley, Penny Santon as Mrs. Meeker and John Harmon as Company Manager. Streisand is fantastic, her real life character has a great sense of humour and can't take absolutely everything too seriously (well, apart from the tragic moments), Sharif offers good support, and it is filled with some memorable songs, a very enjoyable film. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Song for Funny Girl (also nominated the Golden Globe), Best Music for Walter Scharf, Best Sound and Best Picture, it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography and Best Costume Design, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. Don't Rain On My Parade was number 46, and People was number 13 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, the film was number 16 on 100 Years of Musicals, it was number 81 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes for Hello, gorgeous., it was number 59 on The 100 Greatest Musicals, and it was number 41 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Very good! "}{"Title":"One question for the viewers","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My one question to you, a movie-loving person, is how can you not LOVE this movie? Even though, yes, it does have it's sad parts, the romance, comedy, and musical scores make Funny Girl an irresistable musical. Barbara Streisand (Fanny) was TERRIFIC!!! I have only seen one other movie with her in it, The Mirror Has Two Faces, but trust me, she went over that movie by bounds and leaps with this one. Her singing, dancing, acting, and comedic skills made you realize exactly how terrific this woman could be in the time of Audrey Hepburn, Cary Grant, and Anne Margaret. Don't Rain on My Parade and You are Woman, I Am Man will forever be embedded in my brain along with You want to kill these swans? These lovelies? My girls? What are ya, dumb? with that lovely accent that no other actress can possess. No one. Not Fran Drescher, not Elizabeth Taylor. Nobody. I gave this one a 9, not a 10 only because of one factor. Too sad ending!! I love those story-book romances. And this one just ended with a BANG, a good BANG, but still a BANG. ) Great movie. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies. Barbara Streisand is at her comic and musical best in this film. This film launched many a young girl into aspiring hopes of fame and sparked many to develop talent, oppose the odds and trudge on.The music, the costumes, the characters all flow to make this a musical extravaganza well worth watching,... again... and again. "},{"Title":"Streisand's best movie","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny Girl is the Hollywood version of Barbra Streisand's 1964 Broadway success and her movie debut.  It is a remarkable performance for which she won 1968's Oscar for Best Actress (in an astonishing tie with Katherine Hepburn).  Although she has done several notable film projects since then  (and some better left to the late night movie circuit), this movie IMO is her all-around best performance. Every facet of her talent is displayed her beautiful comic timing, her (then) unexpected dramatic abilities, and her singing is like gangbusters!  She doesn't try to act in this film, she just IS, and it works spectacularly well.  Certainly the character is clearly written with her talents and personality in mind, but she also manages to evoke what must have been the effect that Fanny Brice had over audiences in her time.  A must-see for movie musical enthusiasts!  The ending of the Don't Rain on My Parade sequence has to belong to the top five classical moments from Hollywood musicals. "},{"Title":"Back to her roots","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just watched the entire film Funny Girl for the first time. I of course had seen the tug boat Don't Rain on my Parade scene countless times (gotta love DVD select chapter feature) and People, but had never seen the entire film. How can one even begin to criticize a film with a legend like Barbra over 40 years later? It might not even be worth a shot but here it goes. The worst thing about the film are the inconsistencies in the production. Which time period are they depicting late 19th century (judging from the costumes and furnishings) or early 20th century (there are motor cars)? The kitsch is never-ending, even for someone who enjoys that sort of thing. But it was Hollywood and the film is over forty years old. The Swan Lake scene is so unfunny and borderline offensive to dancers. I realize that Omar Sharif was the heartthrob of the time but he is shallow and not very convincing in this role. Again, times have changed. The film is too long and drags on between musical numbers. I gather from reading other reviews that this might be due to the hack job they did to the original Broadway musical to make a film out of it. Now for the good parts Barbra. Her carefree acting and character are still refreshing even by today's standards. Her voice, Lord that voice. It is interesting to hear the crystalline timbre she had at that age, despite the slight technical flaws. Her delivery is always moving and perfect. The high notes are tense and at times scary, but that's what makes her exciting. What else can be said? I know that Barbra Streisand tends to elicit extreme love/hate reactions from people and I have never been a fanatic. But her natural talent has always kept me interested enough over the years despite the eccentricities of her personal life and the plastic side to the Malibu persona she has become. Her recent release Love is the answer stayed in my CD player for six months straight and is still my favorite record at the moment. Ironically I love her voice on the album for reasons similar to those I mentioned above. You can hear it crack sometimes on the high notes, but it is so moving, especially in a jazz context. To this day, no one (outside of opera) can make their voice soar like she can. The lady has staying power and it is fascinating (even for non fans) to witness her budding talent in Funny Girl. Brava Barbra!! By the way, now that I've suffered through the entire film once, I'll stick to the select chapter function and jump straight to Don't Rain on My Parade (Number 16) from now on. "},{"Title":"A near-perfect musical.","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are only a few musicals that can be considered great due to their wonderful numbers and marvelous acting. Singin' in the Rain is probably the greatest of them all, and I would put West Side Story in second. For me, Funny Girl goes in third if only for Barbra Streisand's sensational performance. Her witty tongue, incredible voice, and sheer beauty stuns you every time she comes on screen. There is no contest as to why she won an Oscar for this; she gave probably her greatest role ever. Omar Sharif is solid here, and he and Streisand have some of the best on-screen chemistry since Bogart and Bergman in Casablanca. Directed by William Wyler, the technical aspects of this are stunning as well, especially the costumes and the set pieces. Overall, this is one of the best musicals, and films, I have ever seen. If you love musicals, don't miss this. "},{"Title":"The Final Sequence","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The singing alone does it for me. The final sequence with the song My Man is so searingly honest and blunt about how you still love someone who out-and-out plays you for a fool. This was Streisand's first film and still her best. The pretentious detachment of her later roles wasn't here and she glows with youth, comedy, and attitude. Barbra plays Fanny Brice who rises to stardom via the Ziegfeld Follies' yet sees her personal life ravaged by her gambling addicted husband, Nicky Arnstein. I didn't care for Nicky at all; he seemed to just drag her down (Fanny's mom puts it best ...love him a little less, help him a little more...the man is drowning...). He wasn't all that cute and he never seemed proud of Fanny's awesome achievements. So in a way I am glad he leaves her. Fanny was too good for him. And besides, like she says in My Man she'll always love the guy...And yes, that last scene. Barbra's voice. That dress. Wow. Rated a 10 simply for the feeling that the ending gives me... "},{"Title":"Barb's only great film!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry to say that this is Streisand's only really good movie. As a singular film, it's brilliantly constructed but when compared to all her other films, she only has this to really be proud of. Of course, being an ego-maniac, she's proud of all her work and that point is legitimate but it seems that she only really made films that she liked and the public and her peers gave her a lot of bad press for it. Don't get me wrong, though. I liked THE WAY WE WERE, YENTL, THE PRINCE OF TIDES and THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES but FUNNY GIRL still to this day puts all those others to shame.Streisand capitalizes on her Broadway success of FUNNY GIRL to a perfect pitch with the film version. As Fanny Brice, I can't help but speculate that maybe the real Brice was born to be played by Streisand. Her Fanny is the portrayal of legendary material. When she comes out on stage at the finale of the film, she has so much emotion in her voice as she sings the Brice standard, MY MAN that you want to throw a bouquet of roses to her from your seat. During the course of the film, she is lovably comedic, genuinely sad in her low moments and shows the world that you don't have to be a great beauty to woo a good looking guy like Omar Sharif. Sharif is perfect as Nick Arnstein, Brice's first husband, a gambler whose luck doesn't hold out too long and it shows in Sharif's face when it happens. Walter Pidgeon is Florence Zeigfeld, the mogul of moguls who is only out for himself and his business where all his Folly girls are concerned. Kay Medford is her mother, Rose, (who was in the Broadway cast as her mother) the only one as the film opens that thinks Fanny would be a success in show business and received an Oscar nomination for her efforts. Jule Styne and Bob Merrill's unforgettable score is filled with great tunes like PEOPLE, DON'T RAIN ON MY PARADE and I'M THE GREATEST STAR. The one song from the stage version I wish they had kept in the film is CORNET MAN, replaced in the film by another Brice standard, I'D RATHER BE BLUE OVER YOU.  "},{"Title":"Unfunny Girls","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The adults who respectively told Katherine Hepburn Barbara Streisand that they had talent have a lot to answer for; the world has had to suffer both ever since. Katherine Hepburn had a modicum of talent Alice Adams 1935, before she professionally began being Katherine Hepburn, Barbara Streisand has none- just disenchanting ugliness, fueled by frame-laden fetid ego and overdone, vacuous singing which makes me envy the deaf. It's not surprising that the two women tied for the 1968 Oscar. In awfulness there's little to choose between the two or four- adding the egos. Katherine Hepburn's odious New England drawling Eleanor of Equtaine did for the French what John Wayne did for the Native American culture and rightfully got laughs in the cinema when I saw it. As richly deserving of a tied-Oscar for bad acting as was Miss Streisand's &#145;Ok &#150;I'm not pretty but don'tya think I'm loveable?' act- for her not-so funny Funny girl. They are both awesomely bad at even being themselves- for these must indeed be the disingenuous articles, for only original awfulness could beget such execrableness. You know the real thing one way or another when you see it. Perhaps the critics mistook Eleanor for Fanny and awarded them Oscars for high satire. If that was the case, then the award makes sense. "},{"Title":"Arab-Jewish relations have never been better.","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie that propelled the career of one that had been named Barbra Streisand, a nasal swamp-creature that reared its macabre-looking head and unleashed its vocal vices onto the poor, unsuspecting public in 1968. Our collective ears would never bleed as much.Funny Girl is what I refer to as a don't tell the audience they're supposed to laugh type of title. The moment you inform the audience that they're supposed to laugh - because the girl is so ha-ha-ha funny - you lose them. Imagine if ZAZ's Airplane! were called Hysterically Riotous On-Board Shenanigans no-one would laugh. If anything, this dull musical/biography should have been called Totall Unfunny Girl or even Totally Unfunny Swamp She-Creature. Streisand's attempts to be funny, as in her caricatures of a Jewish man during her Swan Lake appearance, are embarrassingly unfunny, even more so in the light of the fact that she won an Oscar for this mess. Was 1968 such a depressing time that even BS sounded funny? Speaking of BS winning an Oscar, she actually co-won it with Katherine Hepburn that year. Was Hollywood also anti-beauties in 1968? Was it hip to vote for women who looked like they crawled with all fours (or sixes) from their waterous habitat onto a pre-historic beach?Watching Streisand strut her unstruttable stuff in Swan Lake was so unpleasant that I instinctively curled into the fetal position, seriously considering seeking refuge into something more cozy and fluffy, such as Hostel or The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. (Swamp Lake, more like...) Don't get me wrong; BS isn't a bad actress, but her singing, coupled with her terminal unfunniness and non-existent charisma, are a menace to behold. Her voice is the antidote to the angels singing in Heaven. The Horned One, if he ever sang (for BS's birthday?), would produce similar sounds. However, if you think a more attractive actress was more suitable to play Fanny Brice, then think again google her photos and you'll know why...It doesn't surprise that a certain Billy Wyler directed this fluff he was the man who gave us classics such as The Children's Hour, How To Steal A Million, Raffles and other bad/cheesy comedies and dramas.On the positive side, Omar Sharif (otherwise bland) is quite good in what little he is given here. Secondly, FG, if nothing, shows that Arabs and Jews CAN live side-by-side in perfect harmony, ebony and ivory, giving peace a chance, imagine... And thirdly, a great aspect is that the movie does eventually end, as distant as that ending seems to be at any point during the viewing of this malarkey. (Don't ever lose hope when watching BS in a movie the end may be eons away, but it does exist.) "}]