[{"Title":"Good grief, why haven't you watched this yet?","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There was a beautiful brief moment in cinema history when film makers freed themselves of the shackles of form and found fun, exciting ways to tell stories. Movies became groovy mind-blowing experiences that forced the viewer to follow the plot as it tripped all over the screen. Unfortunately Jaws came along and reminded the studios of how much money they could be making and the experiment was declared a failure. But during this brief period such wonderful and largely buried treasures as Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, Myra Breckenridge, Magic Christian and Vanishing Point (only Easy Rider seems to have survived the era with its reputation in tact) were created and have since been embraced by the odd as their own. But perhaps the most reviled of the lot has been the film Candy.Candy tells the simple tale of a sweet young thing that goes out into the world to grow but finds herself confronted at every turn by typical male stereotypes (played by some of the biggest stars of the day) who really only have one goal in mind. Along the way she meets up with the artist (Richard Burton), the soldier (Walter Matthau), the healer (James Coburn) and the guru (Marlon Brando) among others. Candy wants to free her mind but each man tries (and some succeed) to free her of her panties. Despite the premise Candy is more like a teasing Roger Vadim film (think Barbarella) and the nudity is kept to an absolute minimum. The biggest surprise is even with the big name cast, the films best performance belongs to John Astin as Candy's Father and also as her lecherous Uncle who has his own designs on her. The supporting cast is definitely one of the films high points along with the terrific score that features some trippy space tunes along with classic rock. Sadly there are some faults though.The script by Buck Henry is very hit and miss with some excellent lines immediately followed by many that just produce cringes in the audience. The lead actress Ewa Aulin is lovely to look at but delivers all of her lines like she has just learned them phonetically and has no idea what she is saying and the directer allows the pace to drag at many points.Still if the films from this era interests you than this one should be required viewing. There is an excellent DVD available so there is no excuses for passing on this under-rated gem. "},{"Title":"Wildly enjoyable satire featuring an all-star cast","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  They don't make 'em like this anymore.  Based on Terry Southern's classic novel, CANDY is remarkable film featuring a swinging soundtrack, actors like Richard Burton and Marlon Brando spoofing themselves, and a fast-moving picaresque story that satirizes late 60s America (military, academia, Eastern religion, etc).  Criticized upon release for lack of any coherent story, is one of the best films from that era.  Advocating sexual freedom and experimentation, Candy is one fun movie with a funny script by Buck Henry and wild visuals, like a glass-bottom limousine and Brando's gurumobile.  A must-see!**** "},{"Title":"This film needs more consideration than it has been accorded.","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film over the weekend on Showtime for the first time since I saw it in 1969. My memories of the film were sketchy and after it was over, I logged on here to find serious discussion of it so I could interpret some of the symbolism in the movie. What I found instead was inadequate discussion of what was good about the movie. Admittedly, it was over the top in a way that was typical of alternative movies in the late 60s, but there were some very interesting points that most people seem to overlook. Also open for dismissal seems to be the final sequence in the film where Candy walks through a field and passes each person she encountered during the movie. At the beginning of this sequence, she is wearing a pristine white sheet as a toga, but by the end of the stroll her sheet is covered in an ornate flower design. Almost throwaway bits during the stroll include Walter Matthau's army general as Don Quixote, the Fountain of Youth injections being given by James Coburn and John Astin's two characters being revealed as two aspects of the same. This movie seems quite capable of generating some serious discussion other than the obvious attack on its excesses and the vapid acting of the lead actress.  "},{"Title":"everybody loves candy","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" How can you not like this movie?? those who criticize it seem to claim it is a superficial sex-romp through the 60's counter culture.Well duh! that's what makes it great.Seriously, its like if in 40 years, film critics try to asses the cultural validity of 'Dude where's my Car'. Candy wasn't meant to be a masterpiece- just a funny movie with some T and A.Though if you're gonna be a snob about it, the last 10 minutes of the movie is actually close to brilliant. See it and you'll know what i mean. Visually and content-wise, this movie pushed boundaries. Plus, i bet it would be a lot better while high. "},{"Title":"A movie so terrible, it's great!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The film adaptation of Terry Southern's book is a fine mess!  There's no real flow or purpose, but the stars have a ball and Ewa Aulin seems exactly right as Candy.  Marlon Brando, as always, is interesting and unique and Richard Burton should have made more comedies.  John Astin is excellent in a dual role, but James Coburn really steals the show as Dr. Krankeit.  I'm not too sure what they could done with this material and some of the scenes are simply unplayable, but you can have fun with this.I'm sure this was a total bomb in 1968, but I really can't remember how it did box-office wise.  Best performance = James Coburn.  Elsa Martinelli is also creepy and sexy and John Huston lends gruff support.  Very similar to The Magic Christian, but slightly better.  I know some critics at the time called it the worst film ever. "},{"Title":"Saved by the music and John Astin","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After seeing Candy again for the first time in 30-plus years, I know why it's best to leave some memories untouched. I don't remember it being as bad then as I feel it is now.  Ewa Aulin suits the title role of Candy, young and innocent, yet sensual.  However, I'd love to know what the wager was that left the losing stakes to be a role in this film.  It is disjointed, dismembered and non-flowing, with no sense from one segment to the next. With a stellar cast of Richard Burton, Walter Matthau, Charles Coburn, Marlon Brando (and Ringo Starr), how could writer Buck Henry go so wrong??? There are two saving graces, though, one being the dual performance of John Astin as Candy's father/uncle and the other being the great soundtrack by various artists, namely the Byrds, Steppenwolf and Dave Grusin.  If you have an opportunity to view it without investing a lot of cash, I'd say see it if only for the sake of seeing it.  If you're a baby-boomer, beware...the years may be as unkind to your memory as they were to mine! "},{"Title":"An incoherent, bewildering and hedonistic mess of a movie which must be seen to be disbelieved.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There has never been - nor will there ever again be - a film quite like Candy. This vulgar, scattershot, psychedelic sex satire is an utter failure, but boy what a fascinating failure!! It offers the chance to see a roster of talented stars working on such obfuscated material that their only get-out clause is to overact to epidemic levels. It also offers a chance to experience the sexual permissiveness and hallucinatory extravagance of 1960s society, in a film made just as the cinema was breaking away from the Production Code into a new and exciting era of relaxed censorship and franker morality.The film has no plot to speak of, but is more a series of highly exaggerated vignettes. Naive high-school beauty Candy Christian (Ewa Aulin) begins her odyssey of sexual misadventures at a poetry seminar given by the reviled but popular poet McPhisto (Richard Burton). Upon taking the drunken poet back to her house to dry his trousers - soaked with booze - the family's Mexican gardener Emmanuel (Ringo Starr) mistakenly believes that Candy is coming on to him, so he makes love to her on a pool table in the basement. Candy's father (John Astin) walks in on them and is so distraught that he arranges for his daughter to take a break in New York with her uncle (Astin again). Candy ends up on an Air Force jet where she is once again seduced, this time by a mad air force officer (Walter Matthau); later she is taken advantage of by a brilliant surgeon (James Coburn) who performs a dangerous operation on her injured father. During a post-operation party, Candy's father wanders off and the girl attempts to find him on the streets of New York. Here she gets into yet more sexual situations, first being raped by a weird hunchback thief (Charles Aznavour) and later rather indecently frisked by a horny cop (Joey Forman). Candy finally seeks refuge in the back of a truck, but it turns out to be the travelling home of sex-addicted guru Grindl (Marlon Brando)... and, yes, you've guessed it, he too takes advantage of the over-sexed yet ever-innocent girl.It is hard to be sure if there is any point to all this, though the lack of a meaningful narrative suggests that the film is trying to convey some kind of subtextual meaning. Perhaps the film is attempting to say that men are devious and conniving creatures who will try every dirty trick in the book to get into the pants of an attractive young girl? Or maybe it is saying that pretty young blondes who wear impossibly short skirts are capable of driving men of every age and occupation to experience their deepest desires? The original book was apparently a satire on pornographic clichés (I haven't read it, but I've read ABOUT it), but the film seems to be more concerned with titillation than out-and-out porn. Of the actors involved, Burton registers best as the self-indulgent poet. Matthau is quite funny too as the absurd air force officer. The biggest wastes are Coburn and Brando, the latter giving perhaps his laziest ever performance as the sex guru (though you can understand his agreeing to be in this.... a salary of $50,000 to rip off Aulin's clothes and romp around with her seems a pretty fair incentive!) Candy is a total mess of a movie, but you should still watch it if only to say you've had the dubious pleasure of experiencing its unique brand of vulgarity, chaos and extravagance. "},{"Title":"Candy Lives Up To Her Reputation","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As putrid as reputed, a singularity of excess. I loved it!I do not know the details of Candy's production, but I suspect that the bulk of the scenes were shot with only one take. That is the only explanation I can conjure.I only knew of this film by way of seeing the trailer at a drive-in in the 60s. The images sparked my 10-year-old imagination, particularly James Coburn flipping off the operating room gallery and the loud rock music. I had to see it! I finally found a limited edition DVD copy on eBay and snapped it up. "},{"Title":"I have been waiting to see this movie again since I first saw it in 1968.","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  An unbelievable cast!  I have been wanting to see this movie again ever since I first saw it in college, 30 years ago. The video clip reminded me that the movie is just as good as I remember!McPhisto, played by Richard Burton, reminds me of my old Psych Professor, Don Whaley, who taught a WMU and North Texas State.  In many ways Whaley was McPhisto!So if anyone out there reading this ever knew Whaley, email me.I believe I read it's a limited release so it's sure to be a classic collectors item. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you understand this movie,it is very funny.It is really an exaggeration of the way life is.It shows the plight of naive young girl,who encounters men,who want nothing more,than to get into her pants. It makes you have compassion for this girl,and women in general.The situations in this movie happen all the time to women.I call it a sexual Alice in wonderland. So if you have ever sexually violated a minor,you might find this movie offensive.Very cleverly done!This movie can only be understood by intelligent viewers and offers comedy in tradition of the cohen brothers Fargo. The psychedelic music score is way cool.To bad it was in mono. "}{"Title":"i laughed alot, really...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought I'd seen all the wacky 60's post-code anti-establishment satires, but strangely never heard of this film until recently. It starts off great, with Richard Burton (McPhisto) with wind constantly blowing thru his hair no matter where he happens to be, squaring off with John Astin as Candy's square father Mr. Christian.  Expect tons of name puns like that, and way loads of social satire against all the 6 food groups of establishment authority figures (Military, Doctors, Beaurocrats, Teachers, Cops and Spiritual Healers) and see what they all have in common, namely hypocrisy and Candy.This seems to be a sequel of sorts to The Magic Christian in not only author, but style and attitude as well. (Ringo Starr is coincidentally or purposely in both films). Its also reminiscent of Harold and Maude, O Lucky Man, Brewster Mcloud, Holy Mountain (okay, a tiny bit) and half a dozen other late 60's satirical and somewhat surreal comedies.Who needs a linear plot when you have great social satire performed by top actors (Marlon Brando, James Coburn, Walter Matthau)?  And Candy is as cute as the proverbial button to boot!Great psychedelic soundtrack by The Byrds and others as well.I'll buy the DVD (if its out yet) and file it next to my copies of Beyond The Valley of the Dolls and the Monkees' Head  "},{"Title":"The centipede has a thousand legs yet cannot dance.","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw this, on its release, I laughed until I thought I'd pop a gut. I didn't laugh so much this time around but then I don't laugh as much as I used to -- at anything.But look at that cast Burton, Huston, Brando, Aznavour, Coburn, Pallenberg, Matthau, among others. And some talent behind the camera as well.It's easy to dismiss this as just one more disorganized non sequitur from the 1960s, chaos trying to pass for art, but it's really more serious than that. I suppose serious, in that context, should be in quotation marks. Yes, it's a kaleidoscopic jumble but there's an uncanny continuity underneath the overt narrative. The novel, after all, was written by Terry Southern, who gave us Doctor Strangelove among other satirical works of the 1960s. Some of his send ups are more whimsical than others but they're hardly pointless.Among the targets skewered here the reverence in which high-echelon surgeons are held (and in which they hold themselves); the American propensity to protect itself and the rest of the world by military intervention; the charisma of alcoholic poets (I think Southern missed the boat on that one, at least as far as American students are concerned); the crypto-mysticism of Eastern philosophy so fashionable in the 60s; the nouvelle vague films that flooded the art houses; gay bars in Greenwich Village; the longing that some Irish cops have to bust heads over what they perceive as infractions; the Circum-Mediterranean virginity mystique; and the patronizing and politically correct attitude towards the disabled and deformed.Southern's novel (I don't know who Mason Hoffenberg is, but I can't find any trace of him in the book) is funnier than the movie, and sexier too. For whatever reasons, it's difficult to transpose Southern's written work to the screen. The Magic Christian, a story with enormous wit, flopped as a movie. But when it's Southern who's writing the adaptation, the movies generally turn out pretty well -- The Loved One, for instance, which did a good job of capturing some of Evelyn Waugh's humor while adding some absurdities of Southern's own. That movie introduced us to the word PRE-vert. Here, the narrative explores and explodes some of the most primitive verities of the Western world in the 1960s, not all with equal success. And sometimes director Marquand goes over the top with the special effects. John Astin doesn't really belong in the movie. The other principal actors seem to know the meaning of debauchery but Astin works too hard at hipness, only to achieve hepness. Ringo Starr isn't an actor. Too bad all the performances weren't up to the level of the short guy who played the blue-eyed eager Irish cop (Joey Forman?).It's not a masterpiece and some episodes are more amusing than others but, then, what is perfection? A petty illusion of the material world, unworthy of definition, as Marlon Brando's phony guru might put it, a complete ascetic when he's not secretly gobbling down salami and beer. It's colorful. It's funny. It features the calf-like eyes and robust figure of Miss Teenage Sweden. What more can you ask for -- a return to the innocence of the early 1960s? "},{"Title":"So that's what I missed by being a child of the 70's...","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Free love, wild visuals and cool tunes. Not an AFI classic, but an under-rated period film of the late 60's. Actually, I consider it a better film than a lot of what is passed off today as great entertainment.  The acting is interesting, the direction is adequate, and while Buck Henry's screenplay deviates (?) from Terry and Mason's novella rather haphazardly, the film is still one to recommend. Especially while lounging in a bean bag chair on the purple shag carpet.The stereo soundtrack, (ABC ABCS-OC-9)featuring backgrounds by Dave Grusin, Steppenwolf and a wicked version of The Byrds' Child of the Universe is long out of print, and I have read that the master tapes were discarded in a 1970's clean out when ABC was sold. "},{"Title":"Lighten up folks; enjoy the ride","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a hysterical low-budget film with performances by big name actors the likes of which you will never see again.  There will never be another like it unless the 60's return- not likely.  No doubt the film languished in obscurity on account of embarrassing performances, e.g., a drunken Richard Burton licking booze off the floor of a glass bottom limo. Now there is an image!  Luckily, it has once again seen the light of day.  Sure, there are flaws, but there are some classic scenes, e.g., James Coburn's performance as a surgeon!   Even the ludicrous casting of Ringo Starr as a mexican is worth watching; we are perverse enough to stare at car wrecks aren't we? Nothing is sacred- everything is mocked the medical profession, the military, higher education, family values, eastern philosophy, film making, etc.   Light up and have some fun for goodness sakes!  "},{"Title":"psychedelia...","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Candy is, above all, a movie whose point you should not try to figure out. It's the psychedelic story of Candy Christian (Ewa Aulin), a teenage girl who constantly gets raped. That's a loose description, but probably not sufficient. The mammoth cast includes John Astin as Candy's father, Richard Burton as a Dylan Thomas-like poet, Ringo Starr as a gardener, Walter Matthau as a general, James Coburn as a surgeon, Charles Aznavour as a hunchbacked thief and Marlon Brando as a guru.Okay, so I didn't actually experience the 60s, so Candy doesn't have the same significance to me as it did to my parents' generation. But regardless of that, it's still a really fascinating movie. Weird, but the good kind of weird. "},{"Title":"..and the cast still has acid flashbacks.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I had the good fortune of finally seeing this rarely see curiosity of a movie recently at a special showing in Washington DC and the set designer was there to introduce it! And YES, he did confirm that EVERY ONE ON THIS MOVIE WAS ON SOMETHING WHILE MAKING IT!  I admit I like the film.. I admire films that try to do something different even if it falls on its face. Most scenes seem to go on forever (the director wouldn't shorten any of it in the editing! said the designer) but it is incredible watching Walter Matthau, Marlon Brando, James Coburn and Ringo Starr (as a mexican.. one of the worst performances I have ever see buy anyone.. in his words Ess no good!) Richard Burton ( hilarious as a Dylan Thomas parody) chasing, er, I forgot her name, as CANDY.. Terry Sotherns immortal sexpot creation. I found the end, were she sees all the characters from through out the movie kinda touching, even if it was a little Fellini like. "},{"Title":"Waste of A Cast","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I guess I simply missed the humor in this Supposed spoof of the 60s and the military. (I have to say Austin Powers (Another spoof) is Jason Bourne compared to this movie). This film stands out as an all-time baddie, without a single redeeming factor about it. The worst part of this is the waste of the cast. I cannot imagine how you can possibly put Marlon Brando, Richard Burton, James Coburn, Walter Matthau, Elsa Martinelli and John Huston in a film and fail? This certainly does and it starts with a script that is so stupid I would sooner watch a marathon of Sponge Bob square pants. The main character Candy (Ewa Aulin) wanders through this film like she is basically stoned, and you could watch a porn film and find a wider degree of expressions on someone's face (Basically she makes Jenna Jameson look like Meryl Streep). Burton as a stupid poet named McPhisto (Which I guess is a takeoff on Dylan Thomas) comes out worst of all, it is by far and away the worst film he ever made, and Matthau as a General is not much better (And as a major comic actor should have known better)). I have seen films its compared to such The Magic Christian and Casino Royale (Sellers version) and they are better than this turkey. This film is without question the greatest waste of talent in motion picture history (Brando, Coburn, Matthau & Huston FOUR Oscar WINNERS (Burton nominated 7 times)), and thus belongs in my 10 All-Time worst film list (Not quite Machete or Walk On The Wild Side but pretty damn close). Essentially it warrants zero stars. "},{"Title":"brilliant surreal escape","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  i was very young,maybe early teenage years when i was fortunate enough to view this movie in it's entirety on late night tv in australia.since then i have made it my personal quest to locate it on video if it exists in that format.to this day my efforts have been in vain.my memories of candy (1968) are very blurred even though i was substance free at the time due to my age but images from the film are still quite fresh today.this was helped by some recent documents on terry southern's work (he wrote the novel in the 50's,as well as easy rider,dr strangelove,uncredited writing on casino royale) all favourites of mine & most people who would have an interest in viewing cany again or for the 1st time.i agree with what i've read that it would be more appreciated in todays viewing standards.john astin who plays dual roles had a standout performance,what sticks in my mind is the brain surgery one of his characters had to endure which resulted in a 240 volt powerpoint being inserted into the back of his head to attach some electrical device to aid his recovery.all shortlived cameos by the likes of richard burton,marlon brando,james coburn & walter matthau are all brilliant.i can't see (as one reviewer suggested that marlon may have buried the film rights out of embarrassment) the whole movie is intended as a farce & it looks like everyone involved had a hoot making it.see IMdb review for extensive review,i could easily use my 1000 word maximum recounting my fond memories which i hope one day can be complimented with a 2nd viewing.you know something is special when one can rave about it over 20 years later from the time it was experienced.i have tried italian video suppliers out of desperation to access a video copy,the only chance now seems to be from a pirate copy.hopefully someone out there can help in this regard.film was also known as candy e il suo pazzo mondo as it was a joint american/italian production.title star was played by former miss teen sweden ewa aulin cameo also by ringo starr as a mexican gardener,hope to here back from any other fans of an extraordinary rare 60's classic,cheers stuart  "},{"Title":"why why why is this not out on video?","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Candy is one of my all-time favorite films. Although cited as one of the worst movies of all time, it had many things going for it including a big-name cast and excellent 60's psychedelic cinematography. It is impossible to see now unless you can find someone who can sell you a pirate tape. The Movie Channel used to show it but I haven't seen a listing for Candy in a decade or more. Who has the video rights? Did Marlon Brando buy them up out of embarrassment? I would like to see both the film video and the soundtrack (Dave Grusin w/Byrds & Steppenwolf) become available. "},{"Title":"check your prurience at the door","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" this is a great hippie movie whose reputation is tarnished by the fact that everyone who hasn't seen it, and most dummies who have, think it's a dirty movie about prurient sex....great misconception. It's more simple belly laughs and uninhibited joie de vivre. Granted, there are some very weak sections, e.g. the Matthau, but I laughed even as this absurd chapter came to a close...it's a product of an era when not only sex, but laughter and freedom, were celebrated and must be seen in that mindset...this is a movie that people who write certain modern movie guidebooks will never, ever, ever understand...for the simple reason that, in this era, as prurience increases, thus does narrowmindedness, so that we come to forget completely the now remote atmosphere in which such a film could be made. "}{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore -- unfortunately.","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is one of the best in the genre of psychedelic films.  The movie is great fun.  The plot is to put it bluntly, non-linear (i.e. non-formula).  Now, I happen to love non-linear films.  I can only say if linear films are what you happen to love, then go to the mall -- and turn this film off IMMEDIATELY!  Candy is a bubbleheaded ingenue (she makes Goldie Hawn seem like Emma Thompson) whose very presence unveils the way that many 'mature' men turn into mental midgets when their libido goes into overdrive.  Richard Burton with great relish, plays an Irish pop poet named McFisto who licks spilled liquor off his limousine floor (at Candy's feet, if you get the picture).  Walter Matthau plays an air force general in a bomber that Candy and her family stumble on to. It being the late sixties, the military was considered stupidly evil (nothing's changed there - they're still stupidly evil. Everywhere) and so, hence, is the General (Hollywood thankfully hasn't changed too much regarding the military, but unfortunately the country has).  I might add that Marlon Brando is especially hilarious as an Indian guru with an Alice Cooper look, who secretly gorges on salami and beer between Kama Sutra exercises with our star.  The whole thing is pointless, which is what makes it thoroughly enjoyable.  Which is to say, if you like The Marx Brothers, The Smothers Brothers and The Coen Brothers, you'll be happy to find much of the same brand of irreverent, derisive, counter-culture humor here.  If you ever have the fortune of coming across it on cable, stay tuned in and (as us 'psychedelicos' say) turn on.  It's even better than The Yellow Submarine.   Many thanks to sychonic for the sublime inspiration - from psychotic "},{"Title":"Garbage rape fantasy","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is garbage. It's basically a series of rape fantasies. Any satire is merely incidental. I'm not sure what's even supposed to be being satirized here. People who find rape and incest offensive? Put me on that list. I tried to push through that and was waiting for some greater point to be made, but the girl literally goes from scenario to another where she is raped. And it's not a statement about rape, everyone in the production seems to really be getting off on the message. The sixties seems to have been a time when if you wanted to mock someone or someone else's values you just created a stereotype and threw stones at it. Nonetheless this is a really offensive movie, and not in the sense that someone is trying to bring some issue to the forefront by satirizing it. I get the legitimate sense watching this that someone really got off on issues like rape and incest and wanted to make a movie about it. Not entertaining. Bummer, man, bummer. "},{"Title":"The worst piece of garbage I ever saw.","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Anybody who can actually sit through this piece of trash and write a positive review with a straight face needs to have his or her head examined. I have never, ever seen a worse movie in my entire life, and I have seen many bad films. This film should never have been made, and the only reason anybody should sit through it is to see which name actor humiliates himself the most.That award has to go to Richard Burton, who absolutely hit rock-bottom in this film. His performance is totally embarrassing. After watching him trying to get it on with a mannequin, I thought to myself, He must have loved Elizabeth Taylor so much to have allowed himself to be humiliated like that. This was around the time he bought the famous 69-carat Taylor-Burton diamond for his wife, and he needed the money.The music is terrible, the acting is terrible, there is no plot, and overall it is a tasteless mess. "},{"Title":"I saw it","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" For some reason I thought Tom Stoppard had a hand in it, but I was thinking of Terry Southern. Isn't that interesting? My memories of the film, which was played over and over again on the closed-circuit television network of the USS Forrestal during my 1974 Mediterranean cruise, were two Richard Burton hoovering booze from the floor of his limo and Walter Matthau approaching Candy for sex in the cockpit of a military transport (this scene was repeated in Private Benjamin with Goldie Hawn). I vaguely remember Candy having sex with her comatose father, the appearance of Ringo Starr, and not much else. It's the kind of episodic story that functioned as porn in the late 60s--writers of porn didn't know how to built to a payoff, so they wrote a sex scene, moved the character to another situation, had another sex scene, and so forth (get a copy of The Devil in Miss Jones to see how it works, or Story of O, or Deep Throat, or anything of that era). Is there anything deeper to be seen in this movie? I really doubt it--it looks like a potboiler by a guy who has some bills. I don't have a clue how he got the stars to appear in it, but I'm sure Peter Sellers had a lot to do with that. And it's a gorgeous enough movie--the star is heartbreakingly beautiful and nubile; the sets are decorated with care. Terry's rep was looming pretty large with his Strangelove credit, too, so pretty much anything he ground out was bound to be printed and filmed. Whenever anyone wants to break out of short stories into novels, I advise them to follow this formula--write a series of related sex scenes. Write one a week for a year. Anyone can crank that much out. After a year, shuffle them and send them to an agent. Wait for the checks to come rolling in. What I don't get is why anyone would write about anything other than sex. It's all we care about as a species--having it, resisting it, trying not to think about it, trying to get it up, trying to keep it down, trying to get other people into bed, trying to get other people out of bed. Everything else is just window dressing. Candy is an important movie because it doesn't pretend anything else is important besides falling between the knees of a beautiful, nubile, not particularly bright young woman. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been looking for a video of this movie since videotape/DVD became available. Loaded with stars and very funny.  Miss Aulin was missed in other movies.  Ringo is great as gardener.  Coburn is a great surgeon.  Who says it doesn't have a storyline. I also read the book and found the movie to be every bit as good. "},{"Title":"Not exactly what you were expecting","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Utterly bizarre, but a wonderful trip into 1968 which really catches the feeling of cultural change in the air.  A lot of Hollywood stars do cameos of varying success; Burton and Brando are undoubtedly the best.  If you expect narrative continuity, forget it, but if (like some of my friends), you think it's fun to get stoned and sit through Tarkofsky's Solaris, you will enjoy this romp. "},{"Title":"unique, must see satirical comedy","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Really enjoyed seeing again.  Haven't seen since the  late 60's and had forgotten how enjoyable the flic was. Would love to get it on video. So many stars were in it, hardly recognized marlon brando. Got to see it! "},{"Title":"The ultimate watching a car wreck movie","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I first this during it's theatrical release days. I was 14 at the time and had read the book by Terry southern and Mason Heffenberg from which this movie was adapted by Buck Henry. I saw this when it was making the Drive-In circuit and since there is nudity in this movie it must have been rated R but 14 year-old's had no problem getting into Drive-In features. I had mostly forgotten much about this and then a few years ago when DVD's started replacing videos I found a video of this in a nice hard shell case on wide screen format at less than half price so I bought it, watched half of it and forgot about it again. A few days ago I decided to watch it in it's entirety for the first time in 38 years. One of the most amazing films ever made in the fact that so many talented people could get together and turn out such waste of money, film, time and talent. Marlon Brando, Richard Burton, Charles Aznavour, James Coburn, Walter Matthau, John Huston, Ringo Starr, john Austin, Elsa Martinelli, Anita Pallenberg and Sugar Ray Robinson are among the cast with Ewa Aluin in her first film role as Candy. Haley Mills was offered but turned down the role as Candy. Actor Christian Marquand somehow got the nod to direct this mess. He had acted in European films and had been in several English language films like The Flight of the Pheonix, The Longest Day and Lord Jim but only directed this and another forgettable film in his brief directorial career before he returned to acting. Respected Cinematographer Giuseppe Rotunno brought a lot of credentials to this film. He had done cinematography for several Fellini films as well as for directors Stanlry Kramer, John Huston, Arthur Hiller and Edward Dmytryk. He must have had a mental lapse of the skills he had acquired while filming this or he just sold the filmmakers his name to put on the credits but one of the two must have happened. I can't believe he would want to sully his resume with this product. Douglas Trumball, who as a Special Effects artist would do 2001 A Space Odysessy, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Silent Running, Star Trek the Motion Picture and Bladerunner produces what can be passed off as special effects here. It is interesting seeing Burton and Brando in comedic roles. Burton in the films beginning as the poet has some good lines and it's funny hearing him talk about a fearsome poetry loving tribe in Africa. Brando as the guru who travels the country in a specially equipped semi trailer gives a pretty good performance with what he's got to work with. Coburn is in his In Like Flint character. Starr is over the top in his Mexican gardener role with the pigeon English speak and English accent and his natural comedic talent is misused. Walter Huston make a cameo. Anita Pallenberg is good. Sugar Ray Robinson is way out of place here but actually isn't too bad at his role. John Austin is typical John Austin in his dual role as Daady and Uncle. Elsa Martinelli is forgettable. Charles Aznavour is in a Fellini-type character and is unfunny. Matthau looks lost and out of place and is unfunny. Buck Henry has a pathetically unfunny cameo role. Aulin is awful. The Dave Crusin scored soundtrack is horrible. The two Steppenwolf songs could have been utilized better or left out altogether. The original Byrds-Crusin closing song is forgettable. This movie is like a film school project gone wrong. If you saw this film while you were high it still wouldn't be funny and would probably scare you instead. The overall ineptitude of this film and the monumental waste of talent does warrant some kind of perverse redeeming value to it however. "},{"Title":"Absolutely unwatchable","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Christian Marquand's film-version of the Mason Hoffenberg-Terry Southern novel (adapted by the usually acerbic and talented Buck Henry) becomes a star-studded, but frantic and unfunny sex spoof ('alleged comedy' would seem more appropriate). Ewa Aulin plays a nubile innocent named Candy whose shallow charms attract eccentric men who are in and out of her life. The choice of Aulin, a Twiggy lookalike who can't act, was the filmmakers' first misstep--Henry's flimsily constructed script is the second. John Astin is amusing as Candy's father, but everyone else in the cast (Richard Burton, Marlon Brando, James Coburn and Walter Matthau among them) is simply dreadful. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Doesn't just rot your teeth","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an unbelievably awful movie that doesn't spoof anything except, apparently, the intelligence of the witless producers who poured money into it. Completely unintelligible plot centering around a strangely Swedish-accented New Jersey teenager who literally bounces from one sexual compromise to another, somehow managing to elude good acting throughout. Ewa Aulin, making her debut in this steaming pile, manages to convey that her only talent is taking her clothes off at the drop of a hat. And, since this is a '60's movie, there's a lot of hat-dropping going on (if you know what I mean). Embarrassing performances by such luminaries as Richard Burton, Walter Matthau, James Coburn, and Marlon Brando were obviously turned in for scale- that is, the scale the director must've used to weigh out the dope that permeates this piece of tripe. Painful cameos by Walter Huston and Sugar Ray Robinson, both of whom look like they wanted to be somewhere else, also burn themselves into my battered brain pan. The only honest performance was turned in by Buck Henry, who plays a raving mental patient- of course, since he also wrote the screenplay for this abomination, it was probably only typecasting. This movie is the poster child for 1960s moviemaking- the absolute nadir of self-involved, drug-addled excess. Not worth the celluloid it slimed onto.      "}{"Title":"Dull and Pointless","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Candy (1968)When Thurlow o'er this labor bent-- Thurlow to George Gordon, Lord ByronWhen Thurlow this damn'd nonsense sent/(I hope I am not violent),/Nor men nor gods knew what he meant.-- George Gordon, Lord Byron to ThurlowThis half-pretentious, half-moronic adaptation of the novel by Mason Hoffenberg and Terry Southern is fundamentally a slice of late 1960s comic soft core that is able to get away with masquerading as Art thanks to its stellar cast. The story, (supposedly), is that Marlon Brando was unhappy with the script but agreed to do the film because of his friendship with director Christian Marquand; once Brando's name was associated with the project other A listees signed on quickly and easily...and if none of them ever cursed him for it later, I would be very surprised. The script is by Buck Henry, and one might expect a satirical narrative of some wit from the screenwriter of The Graduate, particularly as the novel is nominally an update of Voltaire's Candide. But he seems to have been out of his depth with this material. Be prepared for large, tedious chunks which fall flat and/or drag badly, a couple of bits trying hard for European erotic surrealism, (or a parody perhaps), but come across as simply creepy. (Richard Burton paying amorous attentions to a mannequin while Ringo - well, you'll see if you watch it &#x96; Roger Vadim this is not.) And parts that are just plain stupid - without question this is Brando's most idiotic performance which alone puts it on the 'must-see' list. There is also a small collection of humorous ethnic stereotypes that elicit winces instead of laughs &#x96; even for 1968 they are an embarrassment. On the other hand some small pieces work very well Burton's Byronic Bombast with a Constant Breeze; the segment before the finale of Candy walking through the desert to fields populated by the archetypes she encountered in her journey, as well as the rest of the cast, the director, the crew, the extras, and probably one or two people who were just driving by at the time and recruited on the spot. (Perhaps this was intended as an existential statement that the movie knows it's a movie &#x96; or something. At any rate, it doesn't really help, but you do get to see those responsible all together.)Also John Astin is a surprising standout in the dual roles of Candy's father and uncle, and the luscious, but almost-never-heard-from-again Ewa Aulin as Candy is very appealing and far less vacuous than the script makes her character appear. Notable among the small handful of her other credits is Season 1, Episode 8 of Monty Python's Flying Circus, (7 December 1969). She left the acting profession in her early twenties and went into the teaching one. Overall, it's like the filmmakers had about 11 minutes of movie that they put in a 124 minute box and filled the empty space with 113 minutes of Styrofoam peanuts &#x96; or celluloid peanuts. A cheese product of its time that didn't curdle nicely to begin with and hasn't aged too well since, but at least it's 100% Mike Myers and Sonny & Cher free. This film's best quality it's groovy. This film's worst quality it's groovy. Oh, and any similarity this symmetry implies to any Tao-like or Cartesian dualisms is unintentional, specious and purely coincidental. No philosophies were harmed in the making of this description. "},{"Title":"Created During a Unique Period in American History","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie essentially begins with an attractive high school student named Candy Christian (Ewa Aulin) being caught in a compromising position due in large part to her innocent and trusting nature. Additionally, her good looks also had much to do with this as well. Be that as it may, each scenario in this movie has a least one character with just one sole purpose in mind&#x97;to get her between the proverbial sheets. And their desire to do so is limited only by the imaginative position that they find themselves faced with. Now as far as this movie is concerned it certainly had its share of major actors to include Marlon Brando (as the Eastern mystic named Grindl), Richard Burton (MacPhisto), Walter Matthau (General R. A. Smight) and James Coburn (Dr. A. B. Krankheit). So fans of any of these fine actors should be pleased. On the other hand, this film is definitely dated to a certain period in American history that celebrated psychedelic movies of this type. Because of that, younger audiences may not be able to appreciate it as much as those who experienced this particular time. That said, while I thought it was somewhat entertaining for the most part, it also seemed more than a little uneven and I have rated it accordingly. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Like a good wine, matures with age!","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First saw Candy on release at the local cinema, was blown away by most of the music on the soundtrack,went and got the L.P as soon as it was available! The opening music really set the standard, found the film OK. The L.P got lost in 1975 when I got married and moved but I have just bought the new D.V.D which is really great to see again, after all the years. I think the movie is better for seeing again some truly fantastic one liner jokes and way out sets! I am now searching for the L.P again to go with the D.V.D. I am not holding much hope of the music being issued on a D.V.D as I understand the master recordings have not been kept.Still at least the D.V.D is a good standby until I can find an old copy of the L.P. "},{"Title":"Specractacparacom!","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  In case you've never seen this film before or just forgot, that stands for Special reconnaissance tactical parachute command according to the Walter Matthau character in this fun film that so many love to trash. I saw this film in 1969 when it was released (though I suspect that it was actually 68 before I joined the Air Force) and still remember gags like the restaurant Candy steps into and orders a Coke. The words on the window say, Sicilian cooking our specialty and the bartender, a surly looking guy if memory serves, busts the neck of the Coke bottle off the end of the bar and pours it into a glass for the heroine to her surprise. Being half Sicilian, I howled at this hysterically funny bit.Now mind you, I won't tell you this is any sort of masterpiece comic or otherwise, but pay attention particularly to the dual performance of John Astin, vastly underrated comic actor and former husband to Patty Duke and father of Sean. His seedy uncle and prissy conservative dad are well worth the price of a rental at least, but for the music, you MUST buy the DVD if you love awesome 60's rock, since the album is almost impossible to find now.Brando as a phony guru chewing on a salami and washing it down with a cold beer saying. You must go beyond hunger - beyond thirst while the hungry and HOT Ewa Aulin complains of hunger is a gem of a scene, along with Burton's WAYYYYY over the top Dylan Thomas type poet.Mark here that a scene in the overrated American Pie of sex on a pool table was done better here where you actually SAW the act, and not just heard about it while characters were supposed to be seeing it.All in all, those who choose to hate this film, get a sense of humor. It was never meant to be more than mindless entertainment, and on that level succeeds above and beyond. I could care less if it followed the book or not. I found IT disappointing.  "},{"Title":"MY NEED!!!  MY OVERPOWERING NEED!!!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, folks.  Those are the words that McPhisto (Burton) schrieks again and again while molesting our poor young herione in the back of a limo.  It has to be one of the funniest scenes in film history. However, matching Burton all the way on the laugh meter is Marlon Brando as a phony guru who lives in a tractor trailer.  He, too, has his way with teenaged Candy.  She's not too bright, you see and all the males in the film jump her bones either through trickery or downright rape.  This picture would not have been made today.  Too many women's rights group would put a stop to it.  It was obviously made for the man who reads Playboy.The biggest mystery to me, however, is why this little movie with HUGE stars has never made it to home video until now.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film That Has EVERYONE in it!","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I loved this film and getting to see it again when I was older only has me loving it more. I secretly watched it for the first time when I was way too young because I was a Ringo fan. I remember it well, sneaking into the midnight theatre when they had those and it was the thing to do. Imaging my innocent shock. Naughty naughty Ringo Starr. Watching it years later, I couldn't get over everyone they got to be in the film. Burton to Brando and Colburn to my Ringo, of course. It isn't Citizen Kane but then it wasn't supposed to be. If you like camp and like seeing SO many stars in one film, go for it. Loved catching the Great Tyrant as Colburn's nurse. If you know what I am talking about there, you will love this film. "},{"Title":"Spoofing something that didn't really exist yet","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Spoofing porn movies in the '60s was kinda like writing sci-fi in the 1800s - the genre in contention didn't really exist yet. Porn in 1968, pre-Throat/MissJones/Mona etc., hadn't yet developed the wah-wah guitar pizza delivery slo-mo money shot vocabulary we know and love to mock today. That said, tho, Candy has some funny moments, especially the ones taken directly from the Terry Southern novel the movie was based on.Beatleholics seek the movie out to see Ringo Starr as the perpetually confused houseboy Emmanuel. Candy gives Starr a terrific catchphrase that, despite his irresistibly deadpan delivery, never seems to have caught on. Other than at my house, where I STILL frequently say, at any given opportunity, especially when confronted by anyone about anything I've supposedly done to vex them, Emmanuel GOOD boy! "},{"Title":"err, kinda good but really, really wrong.","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I work in a video shop & found 'Good Grief Its Candy' was available to order so I ordered it. There were several films I remember seeing when I was a kid growing up that would forever change my view of women, they were 'Barbarella', '1Million Years BC' & 'Good Grief It's Candy'. All I remembered about these movies were that there these women made me feel funny and awkward when I was watching them with my family.Years later when I revisited 'Barbarella' & '1Million Years BC' I watched them with a new viewpoint, I didn't feel awkward & appreciated Jane Fonda & Raquel Welch for who they were,beautiful strong women playing strong female lead characters in ever so slightly titillating movies. So, I unwrapped the DVD, put it in the player, told my girlfriend about it being a bizarre film that I saw when I was a kid & I couldn't really remember that much about the movie but there was a gorgeous girl who starred in it who I fancied when I was younger. Then I pressed 'play'.Everything started off great, brilliant opening, great soundtrack, dead trippy, wow, this is gonna be psychedelic. Wow, Burton, Coburn, Starr, Brando, amazing cast. My kinda film. Then I started to feel awkward again, like I did when I was a kid with my mom & dad sitting on the sofa next to me. But this time my girlfriend is sitting next to me.You all know the plot so I wont go over it again. Actings over the top from everyone except Ewa, who doesn't really act. Ewa Aulin, as I remembered, was still incredibly beautiful, but I forgot the actual subject matter of the movie. I think I was too young to understand it. I remember this movie was quite naughty. I kinda felt a little queasy half way through watching it.Don't get me wrong, it is a film that needs to be experienced purely to say you saw it to your mates. There were some proper funny moments, some wtf! moments & some moments you wouldn't want to watch with your girlfriend sitting next to you. I would recommend this to anyone who liked any kind of 'Grindhouse' purely for some of the strange direction & editing & exploitation (Tarantino must has ripped off some of this). I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who takes anything literally (free your mind,man).As a comedy it was OK, not 'carry on..' or 'confessions of..', darker, much darker, more 'O Lucky Man' meets 'Magical Mystery Tour' with breasts & bums. As satire & a social commentary of the time it pretty much took the rip out of all the establishment, including hippies.I am still thinking about the movie a day on trying to suss out what it was trying to say, whether it was trying to say anything, whether it was one of the best or the worst films I have ever seen. My girlfriend & I had a chat for about an hour afterwards. Initially we both thought it was exploitative but as the conversation grew the question became who was getting exploited? Obviously Ewa Aulin was shown to be a naive irresistible beauty but I believe you needed Ewa as the catalyst to show the weakness of the men involved. Any man would have tried it on with Ewa given the chance, thus showing men really for what they are. Ewa reduced these men to primal beasts. My question was I know the men in the movie supposedly had the strength, but I believe Ewa had the power. No matter what their position or stature, they crumbled. The situations were extreme in the movie, with the outcome of Ewa getting her kit off & getting manhandled becoming more and more tiresome. Initially I laughed at the incest & other taboo quips, not believing the subject matter the movie was delving into. As the movie went on though, I started to realise it wasn't that funny, actually it was a little sad. It was supposed to be a psychedelic saucy romp & I started to feel nasty fancying Ewa all them years ago. I felt nasty watching the old movie stars groping Ewa. All of a sudden it felt to me like Andy Warhol had directed 'Austin Powers'. I started to feel free love and hippies were all starting to look abit weird, well..more weird. Then I realised this was the tail end of hippydom, perhaps this film was the start of the comedown. Or maybe the film was just pants. I don't know.plus points Brilliant soundtrack, amazing cast, one off performances, some quirky humour.minus points Wrong in so many ways. PS scored it 6-7 purely because I know I will watch it again & again & still be thinking about it. Just get yourself a copy & then you can be as confused as me.Ivan. "},{"Title":"Sub-par for satire, sub-par for sexiness","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Not so good. The premise is simple enough, and it came pretty close to working in the novel by Terry Southern and Mason Hoffenberg take Voltaire's Candide and set it in 60s America, with an innocent girl in place of the innocent young man, and, of course, make sex the central matter. The novel's Candy is led farther and farther into lovemaking because she embodies sympathy. This sympathy involves sensing the need men have for her without ever really understanding it, and so the joke is, apparently, that she has sex with various men because she misunderstands their lust for a deeper spiritual need&#151;and this, the novelists suggest, is itself the essence of male sexuality the wish for a compliant, innocent beauty. It's complicated satire, because at the same time it promotes and mocks arousal. Does the movie do this? No. The movie offers a series of comic bits, each featuring more or less great actors, encountering Candy Richard Burton as the poet McPhisto, Ringo Starr as the Mexican gardener Emmanuel, James Coburn as the surgeon Dr. Krankheit, Walter Matthau as General Smight, Charles Aznavour as the hunchback, and Marlon Brando as the guru Grindl. Other parts Anita Pallenberg, John Huston, John Astin, and Sugar Ray Robinson. The title part is played by Ewa Aulin, a young Swedish actress who's in over her head. She's pretty enough, but hardly subtle&#151;more of a blank slate. The story, with a screenplay by Buck Henry, is mostly a picaresque sort of romp, with skits going on too long, so that the movie, despite its billing, is neither very sexy nor very funny. It's as if it were aiming for a sexier subject matter but a similar satirical approach as Dr. Strangelove, but it misses the mark nearly all the time. "},{"Title":"Man, the Legion of Decency was right about this one","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"     (Slight spoiler ahead)   I rented this movie to finally see the forbidden fruit I was fascinated by in 1968 but couldn't partake in.   I shouldn't have worried - the Legion was right in rating this movie condemned.  This is a bad movie that's just plain bad.   Its style is something you see in late '60s films and certain foreign movies - throw everything at the wall and hope some of it sticks. For those of you who are wondering how much you will see of its admittedly attractive star, not much.  She spends the last five minutes of the movie wrapped in a bedsheet.  But reflecting how much of a tease the whole film was, it never drops.  "}{"Title":"Unbelievable!!!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that's not for everyone. But for those of you that  enjoy a truly off-beat film this is it. The film stars some very big stars, in roles they probably would like to rethink  taking. But having said that, it was worth the price of the film to see Marlon  Brando as psychedelic  guru whose temple is in the back of an 18 wheeler. And  thats just one of the odd characters in this film. I really enjoyed this the first time I saw it in the theater in 1969, and again when I  found the DVD in 2001. But it's definitely a niche' film. There's a lot of people  who would hate this kind of film  "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This complete farce ain't even worth gettin' high for! I wanted to love this movie, but this is one o' those late sixties fin de siecle movies (i.e. Dennis Hopper's The Last Movie) where the filmmakers glommed on to a bit of a budget and decided to buy a bunch of drugs and push the boundaries of conventional film, only to fail miserably. Fun, though, for watching what all the somewhat long in the tooth and out of favor guest stars were willing to do to stay hip. And stay tuned 'til the end for Marlon Brando's bit and the awesome title song by the Byrds. That's doesn't qualify as a spoiler, does it? "},{"Title":"With this cast, who could not rate this 7-10?!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't seen this since its release, and I've looked for years to see if it made it to tape.  At last, it has, and I'm buying a copy to see if it's still the barrel of black humor laughs I found it to be in '68 Brando was one of my favorites.  Matthau a close second Snap to, fly boys! "},{"Title":"A surreal tour of the 60's in sight and sound.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  An outrageously funny film that captured the spirit of the times with a musical score to match.  An all star cast with a sense of humor about their own stardom.  I'm guessing that this film is so hard to find anywhere because some of the stars that appeared in it lost their sense of humor as they got older.  Nothing is sacred, except Marlon's bird. "},{"Title":"A Strange Movie, But I liked It","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"   Candy  is a rather strange movie, but at many times it is quite humorous and amusing. Ewa Aulin is simply delightful as Candy, with a childlike and innocent voice; she's very cute. And ofcourse, one can never go wrong with Marlon Brando either. In fact, his role as the mystic guru seems to be certainly one of his most different characters of his career. All in all, I don't think I completely understand this movie, but I enjoyed it nonetheless, especially because of its stars Ewa Aulin, Marlon Brando, Walter Mathau, and Ringo Starr. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is absolutely the best movie of all time.  So much more is going on than is apparent; I mean with all of the music and flowers and people and wild action.  Wow.  It made me feel a different emotion for every frame... "},{"Title":"Great, just like I remembered it.","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've waited 30 years to see this again and almost gave up on finding it!.  I have never read Voltaire's Candide, or Terry Southern's novel Candy but I do find this a marvellous parody of the late 60's culture.  It is also a great illustration of the fact that, no matter how cerebral men get, show us a pretty girl and we become jibbering idiots!  This is not a film that changed cinematic history but will always be one of my favourites from my college years. "},{"Title":"Why isn't this movie on VHS or DVD!!???!!!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A fun and sexy adaptation of Southern's novel. A tale of Candy's spiritual and soft-core  sexual journey. Star studded cast with Ringo Starr( a young man nearing the Priesthood), Richard Burton (as a larger than life drunken poet), Marlon Brando (as horny Maharishee/Bhagwan style guru), and many other crazed characters. This movie is very camp and very 60's. Fun and brainless entertainment. I wish this would come out on video. I haven't seen it since the release 30 years ago. "},{"Title":"Has Its Moments","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This strange movie does have its moments. My favorites include the psychedelic title sequence, the McPhisto episode, and the confrontation between the Hunchback and the police. That said, the other hour and a half of this overlong picture is best forgotten. The jokes are unfunny, the characters are clichéd (if tongue-in-cheek), and there is a grotesque turn of events at the end of the story that adds little to and subtracts much from the overall appeal. I give it 5/10.What saves it from being a disaster is how the counterculture figures, just as much as the establishment ones, are a bunch of self-interested fakes. Everyone, from Candy herself to the myriad people she meets, is made fun of.In the context of 1960s period pieces, this humorous approach separates Candy from ponderous gloomfests such as If or Zabriskie Point (tho the latter deserves fame for its unforgettable final shot). Better 60s movies are Psych-Out, The Trip, or - if you want the nudity that Candy promises but doesn't deliver - Russ Meyer's smutty comedies. "},{"Title":"CANDY (Christian Marquand, 1968) **1/2","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One of the most maligned of the all-star anything goes extravaganzas typical of the late 1960s &#x96; this time with pretensions towards satire given its origins as a Terry Southern novel (here adapted for the screen by Buck Henry, who also appears briefly as a lunatic) &#x96; is not too bad, actually (somewhat in the same vein as THE MAGIC Christian 1969 but slightly more entertaining), though it does run badly out of steam two-thirds of the way in.18-year old Swedish newcomer Ewa Aulin plays the naïve but well-meaning heroine who's taken advantage of by practically everyone she meets; actually, she had already appeared in two notable Italian movies both starring French actor Jean-Louis Trintignant &#x96; Tinto Brass' DEADLY SWEET (1967; which I caught at the 2004 Venice Film Festival with its infamous director in attendance!) and Giulio Questi's DEATH LAID AN EGG (1968) &#x96; and she would go on to star in two more worthwhile European movies which, incidentally, both feature Italian actress Lucia Bose' &#x96; Romolo Guerrieri's THE DOUBLE (1971) and Jorge Grau's BLOOD CASTLE (1973; with which I'm unfamiliar myself) &#x96; before bailing out of the film industry altogether to become a teacher! The impressive supporting cast includes (in order of appearance) John Astin who has the triple roles of Aulin's father, a hellish vision of same and her uncle; a somewhat embarrassing Richard Burton is MacPhisto, a poet-teacher (with wind forever blowing in his face) who is worshipped like a rock star by his students and whom the script requires to lick champagne off the glass-plated floor of his limousine and make love to an inflatable doll!; Ringo Starr's role isn't clearly defined but he seems to be the Christians' Mexican gardener (could he have been the inspiration for FAWLTY TOWERS' Manuel?); Elsa Martinelli is Aulin's promiscuous aunt; Walter Matthau the general commandeering a paratrooping outfit; James Coburn a celebrated surgeon; Anita Pallenberg his jealous nurse/lover; John Huston a colleague/rival of Coburn's; Charles Aznavour a hunchback criminal with a penchant for magic tricks (climbing and moving along walls or literally diving into a mirror just like in a Jean Cocteau film); Marlon Brando as an Indian guru who practices his meditation aboard a truck rambling throughout America; also in the cast as a couple of Starr's whip-wielding sisters were Euro-Cult favorites Florinda Bolkan and Marilu' Tolo.The film is most notorious perhaps for being one of Brando's weirdest acting choices during his lean years; then again, it seems that his presence was pivotal in securing the film its backing (he was friends with director/former actor Marquand who, unsurprisingly, never again stepped behind the camera); still, the best and lengthiest 'episode' is the one featuring Coburn, Pallenberg and Huston (in which Astin and Martinelli also turn up) &#x96; while Enrico Maria Salerno was hilarious as an obsessive cine-verite' film-maker who, when asked a question by a police officer, replies Who directed it? and later even films himself as he is passing out! Frankly, one of the minor pleasures I derived from the film was the surprising appearance of the smaller scale actors &#x96; Bolkan, Tolo, Pallenberg and Salerno &#x96; among such Hollywood and European luminaries.Offering psychedelic visuals and a terrific rock score by Dave Grusin (abetted by songs by such modish rock bands as Steppenwolf and The Byrds &#x96; who provide the very likable Child Of The Universe), CANDY moves at a fairly brisk pace but, at 124 minutes and with no plot to speak of, it eventually grows tiresome. The visually striking two-minute opening sequence (created by Douglas Trumbull!) alludes to the fact that Candy is less a real character than a concept &#x96; an alien embodiment of the carnal desires in man &#x96; and the Fellini-esquire ending, grouping all the characters in a circus-like setting, only serves to bring the whole thing full circle. Ultimately, film critic John Simon's memorable dismissal of CANDY is perhaps unjustified but worth mentioning here nevertheless As an emetic, liquor is dandy, but CANDY is quicker! Curiousy enough, CANDY and Otto Preminger's even more misguided SKIDOO (1968; which preceded this viewing) opened within days of one another; I wonder just what current audiences made of either of them... Unfortunately, my experience with the film was further marred by the fact that the audio on the copy I watched went badly out-of-synch around the 90-minute mark (thus including Brando's entire segment)...and no matter what I tried &#x96; usually, playing the same scene over again would fix the problem &#x96; I couldn't get it to work properly! "}{"Title":"Oh man...you are missing out! Funny and with Marlon Brando!","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" OK, so you probably heard a lot of bad stuff about this movie before even watching it. So have I, and after watching it, I realized that people just didn't get it. This movie is a British parody and the humor in it is top-notch. The script is simple, but funny. No wonder so many famous people wanted to do this movie Brando, Richard Burton, Ringo Starr, Coburn... Why? It allows these actors to revel in the absurd while pocking fun at a bunch of taboo topics. This movie in 1968 was way ahead of its time and I would compare it to the fun I had watching the Austin Powers one (w/the 60's plot). Basically this movie is for those who enjoy absurd jokes and funny situational humor. It is very worthwhile in that respect. If you are looking for plot or deep acting look elsewhere. Although it is not a 100-jokes-a-minute kind of movie, it has many enjoyable moments. As far as comedy genre goes I give it a 7/10 with 8.5 for originality and 6.0 for execution. "},{"Title":"Could have been made by Kubrick","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Could have been made by Kubrick, and if it had been, everyone would be saying what an insightful view of humanity it is.Like so many of Kubrick's films, Candy shows how no matter WHAT high-sounding excuses men give for their actions, they are really just animals seeking power, status, and mainly, sex. As someone else here said, Candy shows how men are devious and conniving creatures who will try every dirty trick in the book to get into the pants of an attractive young girl.I only wish I could know what Kubrick thought of this film. I bet he liked it. I know I did. "},{"Title":"Beautiful sexy comedy with odd ending.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is funny and very good in general for light cinema. Some shots are clever as well as for Ewa Aulin's acting... as an innocent blonde sexy girl through the whole film...some acting scenes are hilarious. Too bad she never had the chance to become known for her work. In all i rate this movie a 7...not more because the ending is a little odd for me...go watch it for good entertainment. "},{"Title":"2 hours of wretched excess punctuated by occasional cleverness","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Other reviewers have more than adequately covered the few assets this film possesses namely Ewa Aulin's pulchritude, a psychedelic-lite soundtrack and occasionally clever satire.  Despite Ms. Aulin's charms (she's a dead ringer for Austin Powers' Felicity Shagwell), there is nowhere near enough of anything else to support the interminable two hours of this film.Hayley Mills had been tapped for the lead role, but in a moment of perspicuity apparently foreign to the rest of the cast, opted out at the last minute.  Ewa Aulin learned that she had the role the day before filming began.  Considering her lack of preparation for the life of a Hollywood starlet, the part may have been inadvertently autobiographical. Candy &#150; the intro implies -- apparently came from another planet, and brought a stultifying lack of perceptivity with her.  She lives out a sort of free-form Perils of Gwendoline nightmare where every man she meets feels obliged to attempt to ravish her, including her father and uncle.  The majority of these advances are unwelcome and resisted, which gives most of the film the unpleasant feeling of witnessing an attempted rape. An all-star cast can only go so far to supporting a film, and a good many of the stars look terribly embarrassed to be there.  The rest of them essentially play their stereotyped roles, with two very strange exceptions Ringo Starr gives us a Mexican gardener with a Liverpudlian accent, and Marlon Brando's Indian guru all too often sounds like he's from New Jersey.  Don't try to tell me that these slip-ups were intentional and for effect!  If Candy's scant assets seem appealing to you, I'd recommend a couple of other films instead.  First choice would be The President's Analyst with James Coburn.  It has wit and social satire, as well as some great counter-cultural observations.  Second choice would be Skidoo.  Sometimes lumped in with Candy on lists of worst films, Skidoo also has an all-star cast, but manages to employ an editor; the film feels much more pulled-together than Candy.  Candy does have some visually interesting scenes -- mostly near the end -- but abominable editing and a chronic shortage of ideas compromise their impact.  Allegedly, brevity is the very soul of wit, which makes this film witless indeed.  "},{"Title":"Great comedy, if you like yours devoid of laughs","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This may go down as one of the worst films I have ever seen. I had heard about it for years and was very curious. Like they say, curiosity killed the cat. This film is downright embarassing from the inept direction all the way down to the wasting of great actors like Matthau,Burton, and Brando to name but a few. Maybe the book is funny but the film sure ain't! If your idea of a comedy is jokes that don't work and an incomprehensible story line, tune in. "},{"Title":"Good movie but lacking","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed the book, Candy by Terry Southern. I have been looking for this movie long before I ever read the book. Reading the book however made me go looking for a copy of this film even more intensly. I found it on DVD one day. I watched the film and was a bit disappointed. I realize that I would have liked the film a lot more if I had never read the book. But the book as too good not to have read. "},{"Title":"No scenery left unchewed","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is kind of like a huge pile-up on the freeway--it's horrible but you just can't look away. There's just something about seeing so many big name stars making complete fools of themselves (not to mention that they're all leching after a high school senior). This is based on a book by Terry Southern who co-wrote Dr. Strangelove but where that movie was cutting, on-target satire, this one is all over the place. What's it satirizing anyway--drunken Welsh poets, Indian gurus, horny Mexican gardeners?A lot of the problem is the stars who the director obviously had no control over, so he just let them all freely chew scenery--and chew they did! Strangely, the one performance that stands out here is newcomer Ewa Aulin, whose underacting is a pleasant contrast to the wretched overacting all around her. Not that she's good; she really doesn't have much to do but look sexy and act stupid, and she can barely speak English even though her character supposedly from the American Midwest (but I guess that's not her fault). John Astin is also pretty good in a dual role as Candy's father and uncle (shades of Peter Sellers in Strangelove) aside from one truly tasteless scene where the former is hugged by his daughter and has to jump away from her suddenly to, uh, collect himself (yeah, a father getting turned-on by his teenage daughter--that's a real knee-slapper). Burton and Brando both embarrass themselves, but it wasn't the first (or last) time for either of them. Ringo Starr is obviously neither a Mexican nor an actor. And Walter Matthau actually almost has a sex scene with our naked Swedish nymphet, but fortunately the film pulls back from the brink. Recommended but only if you like chewed scenery and celebrities humiliating themselves. "},{"Title":"C and Y","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Marlon Brando explains as an Indian guru the title of this highly weird and boring movie, the girl who is named candy stands for C and Y, you get it!? The problem is that Brando not really explains what the c and the y stands for. The girl who seems to come out of space makes a journey through the United States from her high-school in New Jersey to New York and all the way to California from where she takes into space again. What i really tried to figure out when i was watching this movie is why do all these stars show up in this movie, the only explanations i can think of is that they lost a bet or the cast was blowing their heads off during filming. Fact that it was made during the sixties makes you suspect the last option! "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this any more -- thank God.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is the worst of a genre of films produced in the late sixties and early seventies that might be called psychedelic.  I saw this when it played on cable in the early eighties, about fifteen years after its initial release.  Since it had quite a few stars that I was, and still am, a big fan of, I had high hopes.  The movie is a mess--the plot is, to put it politely, non-linear.  Candy is a bubbleheaded ingenue who seems to get into one scrape after another, mostly because of comeliness.  Richard Burton, with a certain depressing poignancy, plays a rich pathetic drunk licking spilled liquor off of his limousine floor; Walter Matthau plays a high ranking military officer in a bomber that somehow the title character finds herself on.  It being the late sixties, the military was considered stupidly evil and so, hence, is the character (Hollywood may not have changed much, but thank God the country has).  The whole thing is pointless drivel and if you ever have the misfortune of coming across it on cable or broadcast TV, keep on going.  If you want a decent psychedelic flick, try Yellow Submarine.  "},{"Title":"Good For Only One Thing","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ...and no it isn't the nudity, there is little of that for a movie so renowned for being  racy (or perhaps being a child of the Cinemax generation i'm merely numbed). It  isn't the satire, which is typical of self-righteous hippies with little knowledge of  what they are saying. No, it isn't the amazingly star-studded cast (amazing that  they signed on) who range from enjoying themselves (Richard Burton) todownright bored (Brando). No, the real reason is that for a man of my age i am  given a window to the strangeness of an age i did not share in. Being a baby of  the eighties i was born much too late to see it in theaters, and instead caught in  on cable late one summer night. Sharing the strange and confusing experience(and i watched it sober) with my Father--who was closer to my age in 1968--isaw an odd smile cross his face as he began to recount his own experiencewatching the train wreck that is CANDY, and of his life in that year in general.  We agree it's a terribly film, but there's nothing more fun than to laugh at such a  piece of wreched garbage with one's own Father as he shares memories ofsuch a bizarre decade. And that's all CANDY is really good for, either nostalga  for those who were there, or wondering what people were on back then forpeople who weren't. Maybe like me you'll even wonder how much of it yourparents took part in (so that's why i like licking stamps so much).  "}{"Title":"guilty pleasure","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Candy is more of an oddity than a movie. A truly dreadful piece of film. I was initially drawn to it because of the involvement of one of my heroes, Marlon Brando, and after seeing it the first time, I thought, What were they thinking?. Having said that, I must admit that over the years, it has become for me what some critics call a guilty pleasure. Some of the performances are absolutely hilarious. John Astin, Richard Burton, Walter Matthau and James Coburn are all memorable. Even Mr. Brando (who in his memoirs said that he was never good at comedy) is funny as hell! I disagree with Mr. Brando. He's made me laugh in many movies. Watch Bedtime Story to see what I mean. I couldn't resist buying the collector's edition DVD of Candy but I still have to give it a 1 on the voting scale. The only reason I'm rating it so high is because IMDb doesn't give you a lower choice. It's so bad it's good. If they had just included some good nudity, the movie might have had some socially redeeming value. "},{"Title":"My first rated X movie..","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie in December of 1968 when it was first released in the US. I was in High School, had just turned 16. This movie was rated X (noone admitted under the age of 16). I remember it being somewhat disjointed. When I think about it, I can't help comparing it (loosly) to the Austin Powers type of film, except much racier! By todays standards quite tame. It seems so campy now, but what a cast!! I'm glad it's on DVD now; I'll watch it again. I started being a movie buff when I was very young. My uncle owned the 63rd Street Drive-In Theatre in Kansas City, Mo. from the late 50's to 1998. So I'm quite well-versed in cinema history. "},{"Title":"for dirty old men only...","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The people behind this movie were obviously expecting a hit but instead they got a huge flop and I understand why. The idea probably was to cash in on the current trend for sex and nudity and all things psychedelic. With the addition of several big male movie stars, a sexy blonde girl and tons of money, what could go wrong at the box office?It does look expensive but its not sexy, its degrading and very sexist. Hardly ever seen a movie where a girl gets treated like a piece of meat, only there for male gratification as badly as this one. Candy gets used by a number of men, including her uncle and father! It was probably supposed to be shocking but its disgusting really. The Swede Ewa Aulin is pretty good, doing what she can to keep her head above water. The filming can not have been easy, she´s in every frame. I read she had a breakdown because Marlon Brando was after her all the time.It´s interesting to see this very 60s film. Lots of starlets, like Anita Pallenberg, Elsa Martinelli and Ringo Starr...  But it´s totally pointless besides trying to get Candy undressed. It goes on and on, hardly funny even though it´s meant to be. Leaves a bad taste. "}]