[{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites plus one of the quintessential comedy pairings of 20th century","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I simply can't get over how brilliant the pairing of Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon is. It's like the movie doesn't even need additional characters because you can never get tired of the dialog between these two.Lemmon had already been in several well-known films like Mr. Roberts and The Apartment and Matthau was fresh off his Oscar win for The Fortune Cookie (another Billy Wilder film also with Lemmon). That particular movie wasn't as great as this one because the story couldn't sustain such a long running time (I think it was almost 2 hours). However, this goes by at a brisk hour and a half, even though the introduction of the events leading up to Lemmon ending up at Matthau's apartment is a tad long (so was this sentence). That's a minor quibble though and for the rest of the running time you have a marvelous time.I have already written a comment about how the follow-up to this film sucked and I won't go deeper into that. The reason why this is such a joy is probably that the movie was made just as the innocence of American movies was beginning to fade fast into oblivion. There are some sexual references but they are dealt with in such an innocent way that you couldn't even get a Well, I never... out of the most prudish person out there. It is kind of fun to see a movie from a long lost era and that was probably why the sequel didn't work because you had Matthau and Lemmon say quite a few f-words and that just doesn't fit them.Of course, now they are both gone and you can just be happy that you still can enjoy them in a marvelous film like this. I think the only male actor in this film who is still alive is John Fiedler. Edelman died recently. So there you have it. Simply one of the best comedies and films ever.Add I have just learned recently that John Fiedler has died so to all the fans of him I am deeply sorry. I didn't mean any disrespect and I will try to be more careful of what I am blah blah blahing next time. "},{"Title":"The one that started it all...","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Buddy comedies always come down to two things actors and their scripts. The Odd Couple works because it has two endearing characters and an often hilarious and always down-to-earth script, making it one of the best odd couple films of all time -- inspiring but not surpassing movies that share its genre, such as John Hughes' Planes, Trains and Automobiles (1987) and Martin Brest's Midnight Run (1988). And, in some ways, even Barry Levinson's Rain Man (1988), a more dramatic buddy comedy that nevertheless takes a lot of pointers from this one.Plots always help buddy comedies, of course, but it really depends on whether the two actors -- when confined to a solitary confinement -- can interact and make the audience laugh. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, two legendary screen comedians, can do just that. Their comedic chemistry in this film has often been mimicked by other rip-offs, such as Grumpy Old Men. But this remains their ultimate combined-effort comedy.This is the type of movie that is often referenced as the pinnacle buddy movie. Sure, it may not be the best, but it did inspire the entire odd couple genre, and I would definitely place it in the top five buddy comedies list if I ever made such a thing.Felix (Jack Lemmon) has just been left by his wife, and so he goes to live with long-time poker pal Oscar (Walter Matthau), a grumpy and filthy slob who is the exact opposite of Felix, an uptight orderly man with a fetish for cleaning. In fact, he does just that in Oscar's apartment, which drives Oscar to the point of ultimate frustration. If these guys can't get along much longer, they'll just have to move along and forget their friendship. But things don't always turn out the way they appear.Neil Simon's The Odd Couple is full of inspired lunacy. It has some truly hilarious moments with great gags and interaction between its two lead stars, whose screen chemistry is undeniable -- there's a reason Hollywood paired Lemmon and Matthau together an uncountable number of times.The film is lacking the humanity and sorrow of its characters that shines through in Planes, Trains and Automobiles; there are few -- if any -- moments where the characters become so frustrated with each other that they blow up and then realize that they're not exactly how they thought. Remember the scene in the motel when Neal Page (Steve Martin) lashed out against Del Griffith (John Candy)? But after the comedy tirade ended, and as we laughed, the film took an unexpected turn when it revealed the Del character's utter hurt inside. Then we stopped laughing and we started crying.That's lacking in The Odd Couple, making it inferior to Hughes' comedy masterpiece, but it's a clever little film that inspired it all. Perhaps the best gag in the entire movie is one that was quite controversial at the time Oscar finds a note next to his bed from Felix that says they're out of cereal, and the last two letters of the note are, F U. Of course, the two letters F U are Felix Ungar's initials, but as Oscar implies, just imagine what he thought it meant when he first read the note.I love comedies where you lock down a small number of people -- preferably a pair of opposites -- in a room and let their characters take over. I like when the dialogue is rich and funny and so very real. I guess I just like subtle character comedies -- overblown special effects comedies aren't always favorites of mine. Dumb and Dumber is one of my favorite buddy comedies, and it's not because it's crude or silly but because I like the pairing of its two stars, Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels, and I like the situations they get into. The Odd Couple (based on the stage play by Simon) is the odd comedy that puts a smile on your face and delights the viewer. It's a fun movie, a great comedy, one of the finest and arguably the most acknowledged buddy film of all time. I saw it years ago and I've been laughing ever since. And despite its inferiority to some of the other buddy films that followed in its path, The Odd Couple is a delightful character comedy that will inspire similar comedies for years to come. Lord knows it already has.5/5. "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Matthau create an awesome partnership","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERSIn the words of Jean-Paul Sartre, Hell is other people. In The Odd Couple, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau demonstrate just how accurate this can be. As Felix Ungar and Oscar Madison, Lemmon and Matthau respectively create two good friends who decide to live together. As the two begin to slowly grow more and more frustrated with each other, the laughs come thick and fast, before Felix departs, leaving Oscar a changed and more cleanly individual.Jack Lemmon as Ungar is absolutely superb as the neurotic, cleaning obsessed divorcee coping with life as a single man. Walter Matthau in contrast to Lemmon's character is equally as good as the slobbish sports writer who simply wants to play poker to earn money for his child benefits.Lemmon and Matthau are magnificant in their selected parts, to some degree dependent upon the beautiful script by Neil Simon, and simultaneously because they work well as a team. As two friends who are inherently different in lifestyles, although similar in relationships with ex-wives and children, these two, late, great actors create a partnership which is practically impossible to recreate. So great in fact, that the world screamed out so much for something similar, that two years before Matthau's death and three before Lemmon's, the characters were reunited in an inferior sequel. This idea, whilst following Hollywood's irritating obsession with sequels, might have worked to a certain degree, but at the same time, it could never come close to replicating the genius of this original film.Ultimately it's not really possible to say anything else. With Simon's amazing script, filled with humour and laughter, the creators of this film were already onto a hit. The casting of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau as Felix Ungar and Oscar Madison though, is the most important part of this film. The Odd Couple, with it's traditional soundtrack (which even gained a tribute in The Simpsons), it's excellent script and it's genius leading men, is a tribute to cinema and a feature for history to remember. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful comedies","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This cordial comedy confronts a few bizarre characters. Especially, of course, the two leading characters. Jack Lemmon plays Felix, a hypochondriac whose wife lost him because she couldn't stand his cleaning and cooking attacks any longer. So he tries to kill himself but every attempt fails. Walter Matthau plays Oscar, his friend, an untidy, unreliable sports-reporter who lives in divorce from his ex-wife in a bachelor apartment. He offers his distressed friend Felix a new home in his apartment. And soon the trouble begins because two such contrary characters can't live together for a long time. Felix turns Oscar's disorderly flat into a clean exhibition flat. He cleans and cooks the whole time. After a short while, Oscar feels persecution mania ... Filmed in a theatrical way and excellent acted. Above all, Jack Lemmon's play is wonderful. He is the perfect clown. He makes us laugh but in a tragi-comic way. Look for the wonderful scene when both men invite their two female neighbours for supper, because Oscar has to touch something more softer than a bowling-ball. While he is preparing the drinks, Felix sits with the two young ladies in the living-room. To get out of this embarrassing situation, he starts to talk about the weather. A minute later, he changes the subject and talks about his ex-wife and children. Suddenly he begins to weep and when Oscar comes back with the drinks, there are three weeping people in the living-room.  The film is full of such amusing and at the same time touching scenes. An intelligent, entertaining comedy with much heart. 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"my long-time favorite","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple is one of those movies that far surpasses its reputation. People all know it, they hum the theme song, they complain of living with a sloppy Oscar or a fastidious Felix...but they're under-selling the film without knowing it. This isn't just about a neat guy living with a sloppy guy; it's a portrait of two friends helping each other through the agony of divorce. It's also damn funny from start to finish, but it's the kind of comedy that arises from realistic, stressful, and just plain awful situations. So, some viewers have actually found the film to be a bit uncomfortable, but I think its verisimilitude is its strength. Besides, Matthau's bulldog face just cracks me up! My favorite comedy, by a country mile. "},{"Title":"Comedy as it should be....","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this film many times and I like all bad teachers want to give it ten out of ten but feel that it would be unfair to other good films. However, I do think that this is one of those rare gems a perfect comedy. It is I would venture one of the greatest comic films of all times. Matthau and Lemmon are perfectly matched and mismatched. The script is so sharp that you need to staunch the bleeding. The story is well known and has already been described in other comments. The two leads give extraordinary performances, the girls are superb and the situations are side-splittingly funny. Not one swear-word in sight (mark that Hollywood, you don't have to swear to be funny, you have to be witty) and the move from stage to film is seamless. They don't make'em like this any more. Timeless. "},{"Title":"When Fussy Felix Met Untidy Oscar","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A man ( Jack Lemmon ) intending to commit suicide books into a seedy hotel room. His name is Felix Ungar. After straining his back trying to open a window, he goes to a strip club, and from there on to the apartment of his friend Oscar Madison ( Walter Matthau ). A poker game is in session. Oscar and his friends have heard that Felix's wife Frances threw him out, and try to prevent him from doing away with himself. Felix moves in and the two men - who are of diametrically opposed personalities - drive each other nuts. Oscar is one of Nature's slobs, while Felix is tidy to the point of obsession. He is also a hypochondriac, forever complaining of sinus trouble. They are bound to drive one another mad in the end, and do... Based on the stage play by Neil Simon, 'The Odd Couple' has not been opened out much for the big screen, and that's one of its strengths. Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon are brilliant as Oscar and Felix, and the supporting cast are wonderful, particularly John Fielder as 'Vinnie'. Cute Monica Evans and Carole Shelley giggle their way through the film as 'Cecily and 'Gwendolyn' - the cuckoo 'Pigeon' sisters who live upstairs, and whom Felix later moves in with ( lucky guy ).Even now after all these years, certain moments can reduce me to tears of laughter - Felix interrupting Oscar in the middle of a ball game with a dinner request, Oscar cracking up and chasing Felix around the apartment, the Pigeon Sisters brought low by Felix's sob stories, and of course, the legendary cafeteria scene ( later ripped off by Nora Ephron's 'When Harry Met Sally' ). Razor-sharp dialogue too. When the boys think Felix has taken an overdose, Oscar says They could be vitamins! He could be the healthiest one in the room!.Neal Hefti's theme will be going round in her head for days after you see this.Later spun off into a long-running television series starring Tony Randall as 'Felix' and Jack Klugman as 'Oscar', with Evans and Shelley reprising their movie roles.In 1998, 'The Odd Couple 2' appeared. It had its moments but could not compete with the original. "},{"Title":"The Odd Couple is a comic gem","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple is a comic gem. One the funniest script ever committed to celluloid - exceeded only by Strangelove, Spinal Tap and Lebowski! Lemmon and Matthau are best friends obsessive compulsive Felix and sloppy, irresponsible Oscar. Oscar's wife has already left him because he is impossible to live with due to his irresponsible attitude. Felix's wife leaves him at the start of the movie, and after an aborted suicide attempt he moves in with poker buddy Oscar. Thats when the fun begins.The entire script is brilliant and filled with brilliant one-liners. You are probably already familiar with the F.U. joke but it still works brilliantly due to Matthau's comic timing.My favorite moments are when Lemmon tries to clear his sinus in the diner and when the Pigeon sisters are being charmed by a very suave Matthau and Lemmon is totally out of his element. This one requires repeat viewings! "},{"Title":"The Odd Couple","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Simon's best comedy is superbly crafted by director Gene Saks and given life by the immense talents of Lemmon and Matthau. No one delivers these lines better. No one times them better. Nobody does it better.  "},{"Title":"I'm a neurotic nut, but you're crazy","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't think I've really ever given Walter Matthau his due as a comedic performer. He's certainly been wonderful in plenty of lighthearted roles, but I guess I always put his success down to his characters' grumpiness and ruthlessness, a gruff contrast to the flamboyant personality of his frequent co-star Jack Lemmon, and, I suppose, a natural extension of his earlier work in dramatic pictures. Watching Gene Saks' 'The Odd Couple (1968),' adapted from a popular Neil Simon play, the realisation suddenly clicked Matthau is, in his own right, absolutely hilarious! Initially striking the audience as filthy, crude and generally unappealing, his Oscar Madison eventually manages to worm his way into our hearts, culminating in a hilariously overplayed confession of emotions that Matthau rasps out in a voice not entirely his own. At the same time, while holding his own as a comedian, his interplay with Lemmon is, of course, pitch-perfect; indeed, the film rightly belongs to both actors, who have never failed to light up the cinema screen by themselves, let alone together.Calling to mind Billy Wilder's screenplay for 'The Apartment (1960),' this Neil Simon comedy builds itself around around a rather morbid premise. Compulsive house-cleaner Felix Unger (Lemmon), having just been evicted by his wife of twelve years, attempts to commit suicide, but fruitlessly abandons the idea after he wrecks his back trying to open the hotel window. Dejected, he arrives at the house of good friend Oscar (Matthau), a divorced slob who lives alone on a diet of potato crisps and green sandwiches (that might contain either very new cheese or very old meat!). Oscar kindly offers Felix a place to stay, but is soon overwhelmed by his friend's finicky personality and constant insistence on absolute cleanliness. The pair form an unusual sort of marital arrangement, with Felix assuming the role of the effeminate and constantly-nagging wife, and Oscar as the sloppy, unappreciative husband who always comes home later than he's supposed to. This is a marriage that barely lasts three weeks, and, by the end of it, we can completely sympathise with Felix's ex-wife, who remains unseen.'The Odd Couple' is a terrific comedy, most of all because it has a lot of heart. For all their arguing, it's obvious that the two roommates have plenty of affection for each other, most movingly seen when Felix tries to launch into a furious tirade, instead &#150; perhaps inadvertently &#150; ending up informing Oscar how tops he his. The pair's four poker buddies (John Fiedler, Herb Edelman, David Sheiner and Larry Haines) are also constantly badgering each other about some obscure annoyance, but you can't deny that they've got the best of intentions. Their decision to treat Felix as though nothing has happened to him may have sounded fine in theory, but maybe being ignored wasn't quite the correct solution to Felix's gloomy feelings of inadequacy and inconsequentiality. Unlike some comedies based on popular stage plays I was recently disappointed by Wilder's 'The Seven Year Itch (1955), this film doesn't simply strike at the same chord throughout, and the relationship between the two leads is progressively developed, through tears, laughter and much disagreement. "}{"Title":"The Original Dynamic Duo","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE ODD COUPLE (1968) **** Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau. Superb comic teaming of Lemmon/Matthau as fussbudget, neat freak Felix Unger and perpetual slob Oscar Madison, two recently divorced buddies in New York who decide to live together with some pricelessly funny moments and cutting dialogue.  Based on Neil Simon's hit play and later a tv classic with Tony Randall and Jack Klugman.  Interesting note original Broadway Felix,  Art Carney, wasn't used in film because producers thought he wasn't a bankable name!  Classic line Matthau (after tossing Lemmon's plate of linguini at the kitchen wall and thinking it was spaghetti, only to have Lemmon correct him ) replies Now it's gahhbijgg! "},{"Title":"Very funny, good cast","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Often laugh out loud, sometimes sad story of 2 working divorced guys -- Lemmon a neurotic clean house husband and Matthau a slob sportswriter -- who decide to live together to cut down on expenses.  Nicely photographed and directed.  The script is very barbed -- that is, there's always more than one side to almost every line.  Particularly funny scene involves 2 british sisters (Evans and Shelley) who seem amused by everything anyone says, but when Lemmon busts out his photos of kids and, yes, ex-wife-to-be, he has the girls sobbing along with him before Matthau can show up with the promised drinks!Very entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Triumph","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No need to recap the plot. What a triumph of scripting and casting. The premise, viz. the neat freak and the slob, has got to be one of the most durable on record, accounting for both this movie and the long-running TV series. In fact, I count that early 20-minutes around the card table as one of the funniest and best-written episodes I've seen anywhere. If this isn't playwright Simon's best work, I don't know what is. And what a fine example of ensemble acting are the poker-playing buddies, even if they never seem to play. Then too, get a load of the giddy Pigeon sisters. I love it when killjoy Felix gets them out of a romantic mood with a good cry. No wonder I-need-to-touch-something-soft Oscar wants to throttle him. And I'm still wondering whether Simon came up with the name Felix Unger because of the loaded initials or just happened to notice them. Anyway, the initials provide a good laugh.Of course, filming a stage play is always tricky since there're minimal scene changes. Here there're basically only two sets. But I hardly notice because director Saks manages to keep somebody moving all the time. That, plus the quality of writing and acting, keeps attention from wandering. One thing I did notice. Catch how the poker players are bunched on one side of the table so that the camera can have an unobstructed angle. It's artificial but understandable.Anyway, this is one of my favorite comedies, and I catch re-runs of the TV series when I can. Thanks Neil Simon for a truly inspired comedic set-up. "},{"Title":"The Best Neil Simon Ever Achieved","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadI am not a Neil Simon fan. Most of his movies I simply cannot take; they are so staged and contrived. They have such an air of a play about them; a total lack of verisimilitude. Please, watch Seems Like Old Times and tell me what the statistical probability of those occurrences would be One in a billion? This movie is funny; the scene with Felix clearing his throat with those Moose calls is worth one showing alone. My other favorite is when one of the guys smells the cards,He washed the cards, I can't believe it, He washed the cards, I'm getting out of here I can't take it anymore. Felix's anal retentive clean freak with Oscar's biggest slob on earth personalities generates lots of laughs. You will not suffer like you did in Barefoot In The Park with personalities around the couple that never have nor ever will live with you in an apartment building. The movie works because of the strength of the acting and the chemistry and comic timing of Matthau and Lemmon. They work so well together. Walter was always so great with his facial expressions; often, the look he gets on his face is funnier than Simon's dialog. No movie can be perfect, this is no exception. The pigeon sisters are not funny they are annoying, in the extreme. The scene is painfully bad. It drags on and on; when you read attacks on the movie here, trust me, this is what younger viewers are hating so badly. The scene was always too long and the writing with the two dumbest actresses they could have found lay waste to this part of the otherwise great movie. It is so phony, no women this stupid could possibly have functioned out in the world. The other part of the film, that drags, is after Oscar throws Felix out; this goes on and on pointlessly and without the slightest bit of humor. Simon always had dead spots in his writing; this movie is no exception. I, to be honest, get up during the Pidgeon sisters part, I come back ten minutes later. I usually turn the movie off after Oscar throws Felix out; the movie is over for all intents and purposes all that is left is unfunny resolution and boredom. Despite these flaws, which are minor compared to Biloxi Blues, Goodbye Girl or the dreadful Max Dugan Returns, the bulk of the movie is very hilarious. The best of all that Neil Simon ever wrote. I agree with some of the above criticism; yet, it has some of the funniest scenes ever seen in a film and the two of them work together so well. A Very Good Comedy "},{"Title":"Timeless comedy gem that is utterly hilarious  and is easily one of the funniest films that I've seen","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" They always say that you never really know someone until you live with them and the Odd Couple demonstrates this point in a way that is utterly hilarious for the most part, whilst it also managed to be quite touching on occasions.Felix Ungar (Jack Lemmon) has broken up with his wife Frances. He loved his wife dearly and the break up has affected him pretty badly. Felix ends up moving in with his good friend Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau). The trouble is that Felix has a clear case of OCD and Oscar is a slob so to say that Felix and Oscar had arguments and problems whilst living together is an understatement. I think the funniest thing about this film is the fact that although Oscar is divorced and Felix is going through a divorce, both men act more like they're a married couple than friends. Felix is the 'wife' character - he cooks, he cleans and constantly nags at Oscar. I was in stitches when I saw the scene when Felix was rollicking Oscar for returning home an hour later than he'd agreed because it just isn't what we're used to seeing. The chemistry between Matthau and Lemmon is a big plus and this is down to a combination of great acting, great scriptwriting and great comic timing by both Matthau and Lemmon. It would be impossible for me to name all the funny moments in this film, but I guarantee that from start to end you'll be laughing and you'll be laughing regularly.Another interesting aspect with this film is the support cast; Lemmon and Matthau are supported by their friends Vinnie (John Fiedler), Murray (Herb Edelman) and Roy (David Sheiner). On a number of occasions, the support cast are given very little material and are more often merely foils for the two lead actors. However, Oscar's friends are well written and I believe we managed to get one or two laughs from each of these characters (which isn't bad considering the screen time that they were given).Whilst The Odd Couple is an absolute laugh riot for the most part, it also manages to be quite touching at times. Even though Oscar and his friends probably wouldn't make ideal dinner guests, they do all show surprising compassion towards Felix (particularly when he arrives at Oscar's house). The initial set up would lead you to believe that they are uncaring, but this isn't the case. All the characters are likable and I'll admit that the scene where Felix arrives at Oscar's is both touching and hilarious at the same time.The Odd Couple is an absolute gem of a film that everyone should watch and when I say everyone, I do mean everyone. This is a film that has no profanity and no vulgarity so it is something that the whole family can watch and enjoy together. Whilst I'm not averse to profanity and vulgarity in films, it is nice to see that some writers can create a film with a simple premise and with good writing can create a film that is clean and a whole lot of fun. Go ahead - watch the Odd Couple. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A comedy of timing and leisure; whatever happened to UNpredictability?","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gene Saks' The Odd Couple is a masterwork of comedic timing and actors showcasing their energy and talents on screen. It marks the debut film showing both Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau together in a film and would unfold into a long, flourishing career featuring the talent and humor of both men. The Odd Couple is amazingly crafted because it shows its actors as people and utilizes rare long takes in small settings that allow the actors to recite dialog that shows their specific character personalities and traits.Jack Lemmon plays Felix Ungar, who is seen at the beginning of the film checking into a seamy motel with plans to kill himself after his wife claims she wants a divorce. After pulling a muscle in his back trying to open the window of the room that he plans to jump out of - a delightful example of pitch dark comedy - Felix wanders hopelessly around the wasteland that is Times Square with no clear direction or feelings of purpose. We then cut to a cluttered, disgusting mess of an apartment that belongs to divorced sports columnist Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau), who is hosting a card game with several pals and anticipating the arrival of Felix. This scene in Oscar's messy apartment lasts an upwards of twenty-five minutes, even past the arrival of a depressed Felix, giving Matthau and the band of hilarious character actors time to spit memorable one-liners and uproarious meditations on life.Upset that Felix arrives with suicidal thoughts and feelings of uselessness, Oscar opens his apartment to Felix, despite their opposite personalities. Felix is a compulsive cleaner and so neurotic he'd make Woody Allen wince. Oscar, on the other hand, simply doesn't care about cleanliness or anything of the sorts. This, as expected, leads to contention between their differing personalities. For a typically predictable and ostensibly tiresome premise, writer Neil Simon and director Gene Saks know how to keep this material lively. For one, they rely on the characters and their interactions with each other and their conversational relationship rather than a series of events that anger one another. This is the biggest key to the success of The Odd Couple. There is no reliance on crudeness or over-the-top humor involving stock situations based on the characters' personalities. The relationship Felix and Oscar bear is one predicated off of lengthy conversations and deep, thoughtful realizations on life.Lemmon and Matthau are a comedic force of ingenuity and hilarity. It's no surprise that their film career together was expansive and their friendship remained strong until their death. They have an exceptional way of building off one another through energetic banter, and despite their characters being polar opposite, there's no mistaking the way they feel like they need each other in order to thrive in the world. Few comedic talents could bring such an oddball chemistry to necessity-levels, but Lemmon and Matthau do an exceptional job at conveying such a need for one another.Furthermore, it's refreshing to see a film not feel rushed and utilize its one-hundred and five minute runtime calmly and effectively. I tire quickly of films that feel that things need to be rushed or hurried so that the maximum amount of antics need to ensue. Saks and Simon are smarter; they are much more lax and have a looser grip on the material, allowing for sequences in the same setting to continue long past twenty minutes and this is a great thing. Two things have changed in contemporary comedies - the jokes are raunchier and often dirtier and the settings are utilized for not as long as they once were. Older comedies don't feel like they have a schedule, while newer comedies feel like a businessman aboard a 915am train that arrives ten minutes earlier than scheduled.The Odd Couple is a hilarious endeavor, not hurried, not contrived, and not forced, allowing the energy of its screen-talents with their conversational fluidity and the genius of its writing and directing team to make an uproariously funny comedy the old-fashioned, good-intentioned way. The way that is unfortunately neglected in contemporary times.Starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. Directed by Gene Saks. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Comedy.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Neil Simon's play was successfully transferred to the big screen in this hilarious film with stars Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau as Felix Unger(Super neat but depressed) & Oscar Madison(Super slob but happy). After Felix's wife leaves him, friend Oscar invites him to move in with him for a while(concerned he might kill himself) not counting on the disruption of his life this will cause.Both Lemmon & Matthau are superb, perfectly cast and bring both unique characters to memorable life. Viewer will most likely identify with one character over the over, but that's to be expected. So many funny scenes and supporting characters, though does tip a bit too much in sympathy with Oscar, Lemmon is so appealing that story doesn't feel lopsided.This inspired the famous sitcom with Tony Randall & Jack Klugman. "},{"Title":"A timeless comedy.","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of all of the versions and variations on Neil Simon's classic, The Odd Couple, from its original production on Broadway, to the celebrated television series starring Jack Klugman and Tony Randall, the 1968 film version is, arguably, the best representation of the dynamic twosome. Felix Unger (Jack Lemmon) and Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau) are friends and sharing an apartment because Felix's marriage has fallen apart and needs a place to stay temporarily. Though Felix and Oscar are friends, their lifestyles and housekeeping skills are as different as night and day, which leads inevitably to endless confrontations fueled by frustration, and the results are pure comedic splendor. The hilarious, second to none chemistry between Lemmon and Matthau is the backbone of this film, accompanied by Neil Simon's incisive, wholehearted writing gives the movie its timeless quality. Matthau and Lemmon both do a sensational job, because even though they can't stand living together, they both do care for each other, and their performances reflect just that magnificently. If you are looking for a timeless comedy classic with brilliant writing and wonderful performances, there is no need to search any further. The film received two Academy Award Nominations for Film Editing and Adapted Screenplay. "},{"Title":"A Comedy with Heart","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The concept at the heart of The Odd Couple is laughably simple - so simple that it's been done dozens of times since in both films and TV sitcoms. The recipe - take two characters who are polar opposite in (at least) one aspect of their personalities (neat vs. messy is a popular variant, but there have been others) and cram them in a small environment (often an apartment) and see what happens - hilarity will ensue. Actually, although The Odd Couple can be seen as the original or, at least, the one that popularized this theme, it isn't that much more sophisticated or unexpected than any of the others. Felix and Oscar are very nearly cartoon characters, with the defining feature (neat vs. messy) as extreme as humanly possible. The big difference, though, is in the comedic duo of Lemmon and Matthau (in their second collaboration) who make these characters real, hilarious and so very lovable.The Odd Couple was adapted from the popular Neil Simon play, but as funny as the play is, it takes a back seat - this is Lemmon and Matthau's show, and they made the most of it. These two had perfect chemistry and comedic timing, but unlike other great comedic duos - Abbott and Costello, Laurel and Hardy - Lemmon and Matthau were both accomplished dramatic actors as well, and in all their films they managed to create characters who are extreme, polar opposites but also very relatable and very convincing as a pair of good friends. It's their acting that makes The Odd Couple not just a good comedy - which it is, but not a great one, there aren't really many laugh-out-loud moments throughout - but also one of the best buddy movies of all time. Though I can't help but wonder if it might have been a better film at the hands of a more visionary director like Billy Wilder, this film isn't about the director but about two of the most likable actors ever seen on film. "},{"Title":"Male bonding comedy at its best ...","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Told you 158 times I can't stand little notes on my pillow. We're all out of cornflakes. F.U. Took me three hours to figure out F.U. was Felix Unger! Felix Unger (Jack Lemmon) is the neat freak, forming with his buddy Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau) the titular odd couple, and this line is only one drop of the ocean of hilarious one-liners this adaptation of Neil Simon's play contains.And 'hilarious' is an understatement, because the more I watch The Odd Couple, the more tempted I am to believe this is one of the funniest films ever. In other reviews, I would have left such a bold statement for the conclusion after a series of well-developed points, but this time, I give up, I have to say that first. I have to shout how truly funny Gene Sachs' film is, how high is the level of hilarity reached by its best scenes and how delightful it is to watch Lemmon and Matthau inhabiting the conflict between two grumpy middle-aged men that couldn't have been more opposite, the neurotic and overanxious Unger and the joyful and frivolous slob Madison. Even the title even resonates as the comical premise and the psychological core of the story, two men, two attitudes towards loneliness ... Felix is the agony, Oscar the ecstasy.Much more, their attitudes in life have one thing in common they're driven by their marital experience. Felix inherited the manic habits of cleanliness, Oscar not only rejected them all but exorcised his demons by shamelessly getting back to his roots and living like a bachelor again. In a way, the film opened my eyes of some endearing aspects of being a man carelessness. You can smoke, drink a beer and put a glass on the table, even if it leaves rings, or not eat over the plate, even if it leaves crumbs on the floor, no one would shout at you. And every once in a while, Mister Hyde becomes the Doctor Jekyll and it's time to turn the place into something more presentable. Generally, it happens when you expect a charming visit, but that's the virile circle of life, 80% dirty and 20% clean, and I guess male bonding is about rediscovering the joy of carelessness together. Believe me, it's been eights months since I'm married and one year since I lived with my wife and I wish I could savor the taste of carelessness again. Yes, sometimes, I look at bachelor's life envy. And when I go to my friend's house, I'm like in heaven. The Odd Couple has this appealing quality; it shows you that life hasn't changed much since 1968. I could respond to Matthau's Madison, even more because in life, my wife turned me into Lemmon's Unger. When my friend came to my house, I asked him to leave his shoes near the door, to have the round thing for the beer, not to mess with the carpet. He couldn't believe it, but well, he couldn't believe either the way the house improved, how full was the fridge, maybe he felt he was missing things too. Well, that's women, the cause and the solutions of our problems. And I guess the joyful bunch who come to Madison's flat to play poker every Friday night (great cast by the way) enjoy their game even more because they know after this virile oasis, they'll get back to marital routine. Married guys don't know what they miss, but when they become bachelors again, they miss what they lost.And that's what Oscar and Felix have in common they're not married anymore, both are divorced and divorcing, and when out of friendship, Oscar invites Felix to live in his eight- room apartment, he doesn't realize that he brought himself a man whose habits are worse than a woman's without the advantages of a woman. Both have two philosophies of life extended to their most extreme sides, one wants to enjoy freedom, another to control things, you could tell why both divorced (we can figure that for them because basically they can't) so maybe the salvation is somewhat in-between. But the film is less about the cohabitation process with a learning or a message than a series of hilarious sight gags and one-liners that are both witty and true to life. It feels like a sitcom sometimes but it transcends the material of a sit-com through powerful performances from a genuine odd couple.Indeed, it's a comedy, a gag-driven comedy, and any other considerations are totally useless, it's all about the interactions between Matthau and Lemmon, the Auguste and the white- faced clown. And the force of the film is to never reach a breaking point of absurdity. Lemmon's mimics are hilarious, the opening sequence is probably the greatest tribute to his comedic talent, he's the true successor of Silent legends, his FMUH in the restaurant scenes killed me, but he never exaggerates them, he always carries the gravity of his character, with such versatility he could have made him a pathetic in a drama. Another example is when they invite two English sisters, both equally cute and funny. Well, in a bad film, the date would have been turned into a disaster, Today, it would have lead to some gratuitous crude gags, in The Odd Couple it's dealt with sweetness and a rare sensitivity.The film deals with the pathos of his character with sweetness and intelligence, and their confrontation are so full of memorable lines that you never get tired of their interactions. It's funny, witty, hilarious. I guess it exceeds The Producers as the best comedy of 1968 and last but not least, it features a very catchy theme. Remember, it's the one Homer Simpson sang to Lisa, convinced that it was her favorite film, ta-tata-tataaa&#x85; "}{"Title":"A One-Joke Comedy Which Works","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Neil Simon's plays have enjoyed great popularity ever since he started writing in the 1960s, not only in the theatre but also as the basis for film scripts, generally written by Simon himself. Most of his plays are set in his native New York- Biloxi Blues, based on his wartime experiences, is an exception- and it is notable that Gene Saks, the director of The Odd Couple, is a New Yorker, as was Walter Matthau, one of its stars. (The other star, Jack Lemmon, was a Bostonian). All three men were involved in other Simon films. The previous year, Saks had directed Barefoot in the Park, Lemmon was to appear in The Out-of-Towners and The Prisoner of Second Avenue and Matthau was to appear in several, including Plaza Suite and California Suite. When New Yorker Felix Ungar and his wife split up, he decides to move in with his old friend Oscar Madison, himself a divorcée. The film, which tells the story of their co-habitation, is essentially a one-joke comedy, the joke being that, despite their long-running friendship, the two men are very different in character. Oscar, a highly-paid sportswriter, takes no interest in cooking, cleaning or housework. Although he lives in a luxurious and obviously expensive apartment, he has, ever since his wife left him several months earlier, allowed the place to degenerate into an untidy mess. Felix, by comparison, is not only an excellent cook but also neurotically obsessive about cleanliness; after he moves into the apartment he spends most of his time cleaning and tidying it and berating Oscar for his slovenly ways. As a result the two men continually quarrel and bicker like an old married couple. Most one-joke comedies do not really work in the cinema, but The Odd Couple is perhaps one of the few exceptions. Its great advantage is that Lemmon and Matthau were two of the best comic actors of the period, and both are on good form here. In his comedies Lemmon played various different personality types, but one thing that several of his characters have in common is that they like to be in control of their lives, and the humour derives from their (usually vain) attempts to reassert control after losing it. Thus Stanley, the hero of How to Murder Your Wife, wakes up one morning to find that he has inadvertently got married while drunk, and George, the testy, impatient business executive in The Out-of-Towners finds himself confronted with an insuperable series of disasters. Felix's problem is precisely the opposite of that which confronts Stanley. Stanley is a confirmed bachelor suddenly threatened by the loss of his bachelor status, which he equates with a loss of freedom. Felix is an apparently happily married man whose world collapses with the sudden collapse of his marriage. (Oscar, by contrast, treats his divorce with much greater equanimity). Felix is a comic character but also a genuinely pitiable one; in the early scenes he is actually contemplating suicide. His obsessive tidying of Oscar's flat can be seen as a desperate attempt to regain control over at least one area of his life. Although Felix might sometimes act like Oscar's wife, there is nothing effeminate about Lemmon's portrayal, not is there any attempt to insinuate a gay relationship, which is important. Not only would any implication of homosexuality been frowned upon in 1968, much of the humour derives from the fact that the relationship is between two masculine, heterosexual men. Suggest that one, or both, is gay, and much of that humour is lost. The Odd Couple is not Simon's best screenplay, but he always had the ability to write witty dialogue, and there is enough in this film to prevent the humour from becoming merely repetitive. Another plus is the attractive, witty jazz score from Neal Hefti, who also wrote the score for How to Murder Your Wife. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Lemmon terrific great chemistry","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felix Ungar (Jack Lemmon) is despondent after his wife left him. He even fails in his suicide attempts. He moves in with his divorced sportswriter friend Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau). Felix is a neat freak and Oscar is a slob. They don't make the best roommate. They are the odd couple. Oscar convinces Felix to go on a double date with the Pigeon sisters. It doesn't go the way Oscar wants which only makes the living situation worst than ever.Jack Lemmon is terrific. His sinus problem is hilarious. The couple has great combative chemistry together. They are some great lines from Neil Simon. The Pigeon sisters send it over the top. In the end, this is the two guys' performances that make it so great. "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Matthau at their best.","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We all have differences with our friends,but those differences never become truly evident until we try to live with each other.Clashes will happen,sooner or later,and this point was never better illustrated than it is in this classic comedy.Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau always had great chemistry on screen,but never more so than they did here.Those who enjoyed the pair in the Grumpy Old Men films,will get a big kick out of seeing the two go at it in earlier days.It was the constant clashing that made them work as a team,if I dare use the term,because they were such great actors individually,that they probably wouldn't have preferred to be called such.Great comedy. "},{"Title":"Here's your drink&#x85;Where's the coaster?&#x85;I think I bet it.","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Transcending Comedy Written by Neil Simon from His Long Running Play. The Movie Spun-Off the Popular TV Show. So from Hit Play to Hit Movie to Hit TV Show. It is Testament to the Enduring Nature of this Popular Culture Icon that Entertained so Many for so Long.Nothing Hardly Changed in this Trifecta. Sure the Casting Changed but not the Characters, it is Felix and Oscar that Find the Funny Bone and Tickle it Aplenty. In the Movie it is Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon who Become the Title Characters and even though the Camera Hardly Moves and the Setting of Oscar's Apartment Hardly Changes, the Film Exudes Charm from the Likable Mismatch.They get Steaming Mad at One Another but it Never Really Seems Serious (although it gets mighty close sometimes), Their Humanity is Hardly Absent in the Verbal Sparring and is Rarely Far from View as Things Change on a Dime and these Best Friends Stay Best Friends through Burnt Meatloaf and Little Rings on the Table. The Film is Densely Dialoged with Rapid Fire Exchanges and One Liners Galore with Never a Dull Moment. Matthau and Lemmon Made Ten Films Together. This is One of the Best. Barely Dated and Void of Vulgarity (unless you count linguini's splattered on the wall vulgar), this is One for the Ages and One for All Ages. "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Matthau Hilarious Comedy Team","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple (1968) **** (out of 4) Hilarious adaptation of the Neil Simon play about two friends who try to make it as roommates. The slob Oscar (Walter Matthau) lets his clean-freak friend Felix (Jack Lemmon) move in after he's kick out by his wife but it doesn't take long for Oscar to see why the wife wanted no part of Felix. THE ODD COUPLE is without question one of the greatest comedies ever made and it really doesn't matter how many times you watch it, the thing always comes across as fresh, original and downright hilarious. There are so many terrific moments in this movie but there's no doubt that the two stars deserve a lot of the credit for making it work so well. Of course, there's the Simon play, which is pretty much a masterpiece because how many stories could take a subject like suicide and turn it into something hilarious? The early sequence with the poker buddies fearing that Felix has killed himself contains some of the biggest laughs you're ever going to see and things just get even funnier once we move along to Felix and Oscar living together and not working. It's said that Matthau originally wanted to play the Felix character but thank God he didn't. That's not to say that Matthau couldn't have pulled it off but he's at home perfectly as the slob. Just the way Matthau walks, talks and acts is just so funny and you can perfectly believe him in the role. Lemmon is also terrific because of how innocent and loving he is but at the same time he's just so annoying and too perfect for anyone to live with. The way Lemmon and Matthau play off one another shows why they're considered one of the greatest comedy teams ever. The supporting cast are also terrific with John Fiedler, Herb Edelman and David Sheiner really standing out in their roles as the poker buddies and then you have Monica Evans and Carole Shelley as the Pigeon sisters. THE ODD COUPLE has been copied and ripped off countless times over the years but there's still no question that this here is the king of all buddy movies. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The great comedy duo of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau star in this 1968 comedy classic The Odd Couple.Felix Unger(Lemmon), a compulsive neat freak is thrown out of his house by his wife. After wandering the streets of New York, he winds up at the apartment of his best friend Oscar Madison(Matthau),a slob, who's wife had left him. Oscar, fearing Felix may commit suicide, invites him to stay at his house. The rest of the movie consists of Oscar and Felix driving each other insane with their complete opposite views.The Odd Couple is a great and funny movie. The duo of Lemmon and Matthau are one of the greatest of all time and this movie only proves that. I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"How American Manhood Has Changed","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember something that Roger Ebert said in an interview with Martin Scorcese. Ebert said that Raging Bull was a great movie. People would protest that they didn't want to see it because they didn't want to see a film about boxers. No, Ebert insisted. The subject matter of a film is not the heart of the film. Rather, it's how well a film is made that matters. An expertly made film about boxers is better than a badly made film about a topic you may be interested in. So, no, I'm not a man; I'm not divorced. But The Odd Couple was so well made that I fell in love with it. I surprised myself by laughing out loud throughout the film. The Odd Couple, of course, is the story of news writer Felix Unger leaving his wife and children and moving in with his friend, sports writer Oscar Madison, who is himself a divorcée. Oscar lives in an eight-room Manhattan apartment, which he used to share with his wife and their kids. Felix is neat; Oscar is messy. Sounds pretty trite.But the movie is a revelation. The script reveals surprising depth about love, hate, and human relationships. The Walter-Matthau-Jack-Lemmon team is like a well-oiled machine &#x96; they seem to have perfected their shtick together through several lifetimes. Jack Lemmon plays the entire movie completely straight. He gives the exact same kind of performance as he did when he was acting in The Days of Wine and Roses, a hyper serious film about alcoholism. When Lemmon, as Felix, is upset about his meatloaf burning, he shows as much agony as he showed in the previous film about a drunk ruining his own life. It's hysterically funny to watch this poor schmuck wrestle with his petty obsessions and compulsions, oblivious to how he affects others. Even as you laugh at him, you realize he can't help himself. Felix Unger has Asperger's. What has changed in America, and American film, that this film from 1968 feels like a time capsule from a lost moment in America? Oscar lives in a spacious, eight-room Manhattan apartment. Manhattan real estate has become more expensive, of course. But it's more than that. The words that kept going through my head as I was watching the movie were grown-up and intelligent. Oscar, Felix, and their poker buddies are six white guys. They meet and play poker. There are no scenes where these adult, white men are revealed to be inept in comparison to women, blacks, or homosexuals. There are no scenes where the sassy gay man instructs the straight men on how to dress or create romance. There are no scenes where the magical negro shows the men that they can't dance. There are no scenes where a woman puts the men down for not knowing how to take care of children or shows the men up as being blinded by lust. There are no scenes where these straight, white men are made to apologize for being straight, white men. The men are grownups. They have jobs. They wear adult clothing. They wear white shirts and ties, slacks, belts, and shiny shoes. Oscar does wear a backwards baseball cap, but he is the clown of the group. And he does not wear it throughout the film. When he goes out, he dresses properly. They speak of their marriages as if marriage were something important. They speak of their children as if they love them. They go on dates. They ask women out, dress up for the occasion, and make witty banter with subtle double entendres. While watching The Odd Couple, I thought of recent Judd Apatow comedies starring men like Jason Segel, Paul Rudd and Jonah Hill. These current male stars all play children; they all play losers. They play failed men. The humor in these films is built around what pathetic creatures they are. In Forgetting Sarah Marshall, Jason Segel, who is fat and prematurely saggy, is shown fully naked. The nakedness highlights his humiliation when his girlfriend, Sarah Marshall, dumps him. These films all use the F word over and over in a manner that feels desperate and limited. There is one very sly, very funny reference to the f word in The Odd Couple. Oscar complains to Felix Unger that he is tired of getting little notes from Felix like We are all out of cornflakes. Signed, FU. Oscar says it took him hours to figure out what FU meant. A funny joke. Delivered deliciously. The only time The Odd Couple has to refer to the F word to get a laugh. I've never felt, while watching a Judd Apatow comedy, that I was gaining any insight into the human condition. There are so many payoff moments of absurd comedy in The Odd Couple, as when Oscar steps on a vacuum cleaner cord and then takes his foot off the cord at just the right moment to send Felix reeling. But there were so many moments that made me say, Gosh, yes, that's what human relationships are like. That's what it's like to love/hate another human being.I can't imagine a film like The Odd Couple being made today. A genuinely funny, intelligent, rich, grownup comedy about men that shines light on the human condition and that need never speak the F word to get a laugh. And I can't imagine anyone other than a Trump being able to afford that eight-room apartment in Manhattan. "},{"Title":"This Odd Couple makes for good evening entertainment","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like comedies such as Gene Saks' 1968 picture The Odd Couple, starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, largely because its comedy doesn't come from excremental humor or people hurting themselves badly like most films do today (I still don't get what's so funny about that stuff anyhow). Instead, its comedy comes from the spoken words and the payoffs of the situations the film's main characters find themselves in. A quality script is certainly the difference between good comedies such as this and&#x85;well, all the other comedies out there. In The Odd Couple, we follow Felix Unger (Jack Lemmon), a guy who recently split from his wife and tries to commit suicide in various ways, but fails miserably. When his group of pals including sportswriter Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau) get wind of this and try to think of a plan to prevent him from committing suicide, Oscar volunteers to let him move into his apartment. While Felix does agree to stay in Oscar's apartment given that they were both separated from their wives, problems eventually start to emerge between the two while they live together. For one thing, Oscar takes extremely poor care of his apartment. To say that his apartment is filthy is an understatement, especially when he's using his couch pillows to wipe off whatever's on his hands. This causes Felix to become obsessive with cleaning the apartment, which in turn drives Oscar nuts over how picky Felix is about everything. And as you can probably guess, more situations like this occur between these two to the point where they literally drive each other crazy. Something to keep in mind before you see this picture is that this was based on a Broadway show and it was written by the same screenwriter of this film, Neil Simon. Now, I'm not mentioning this to make comparisons between the play and the film. If you already know how I feel about making such comparisons especially if I'm unqualified to do so, you already know I'm not going to do such a thing. I'm mentioning this since the film does have a stagy feel to it, meaning it feels like we're stuck in one setting throughout the film. The stagy feel of the film doesn't bring it down by any means. Some films are successful because the filmmakers and storytellers take advantage of the fact that they only have one setting to work with. This film manages to work well with its very minimal amount of settings because it further contributes to our understanding of the escalating frustration between these two. The script by Neil Simon is very well written with its sharp dialogue and clever plotting. Credit should also go to Lemmon and Matthau for the high quality delivery of their performances. The supporting cast is also pretty good, particularly Herb Edelman as a friendly police officer who maybe worries a little too much. That's John Fiedler, aka Juror #2 in 12 Angry Men (1957), as one of Felix and Oscar's poker buddies, just for the sake of pointing out a familiar face. Even the musical score by Neal Hefti has a catchy beat to it and adds a nice touch. If there was one criticism I needed to make about this picture, it would be that all that Monica Evans and Carole Shelley do with their performances as two British girls that Felix and Oscar date is just giggle a lot. I felt like their scenes just didn't seem to really get anywhere, because it just felt so awkward that they're just giggling the whole time. And when push comes to shove, they contribute so little to the plot that the movie's put to a halt every time they're present. Other than that, The Odd Couple is a story about two polar opposites done right. The story's well told and there's a fair share of good laughs that you'll get from watching this flick. To declare this a masterpiece would be a bit of an overstatement, but this much can be said for sure. If you're looking for a quality comedy to watch with your friends or family one night, this could be a possibility since it delivers on what it promises a light, fluffy film for all to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Kindly remove that spaghetti from my poker table","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Based on a 1965 Neil Simon play, The Odd Couple is a now iconic buddy comedy revolving around a mismatched couple, played Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. Matthau, who played his role on stage several times, embodies Oscar Madison, an easygoing but frumpish macho type and an ex sports-writer. His counterpart is Lemmon's Felix Ungar, an effeminate hypochondriac whose marriage has recently ended. Ungar moves in with Oscar and much comedy ensues, most of which plays on the idea that Ungar and Oscar themselves resemble a married couple, complete with marital feuds, domestic disputes and much affection.It's sitcom level humour but Matthau and Lemmon are immensely infectious, their dialogue is delightfully written, Simon's script keeps his funny banter flowing and director Gene Saks' smart direction masks the film's claustrophobic stage-play origins with clever choreography and an energetic, roving camera. The film's memorable score was by Neal Hefti.8.9/10 &#x96; Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Hilarious! Just like an old married couple!","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felix Unger and Oscar Madison are like a married couple. The humor hits harder if you're also married. The two are constantly at odds as Felix nags Oscar, even though he claims he's trying not to. Oscar's trying to help Felix get his obsessive-compulsive disorder (the only sickness Felix really DOES have) under control. I truly believe that if married couples watched this movie together and kept an open mind, they'd realize just how much they have in common with the Odd Couple. Each of them tries to hide their humanity deep within, as was prevalent with the times. The movie set the stage for a successful television spin off, but there is nothing like the original movie, save the stage performance which, sadly, is long gone, though pieces of it may be seen on YouTube. Send the kids out to grandma's house for the night, this one would go right over their heads. "}{"Title":"I'm Home Dear!","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau star in this 1968 comedy based on Neil Simon's play. Two divorced pals become roommates and learn they're complete opposites. This begins with mild-mannered man, Felix Unger (Lemmon) who is depressed because he's getting a divorce after 12 years of marriage. He tries to unsuccessfully kill himself, but becomes roommates with his divorced friend, Oscar Madison (Matthau) who is a slob. After a couple weeks, Oscar is ready to throw Felix out because he's squeaky clean and depressing him. Lemmon & Matthau were great together and this classic is definitely one of their best films I recommend. "},{"Title":"Still funny after all these years","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When Neil Simon's Broadway play The Odd Couple ran 1965-67 and then was made into this movie in 1968 with Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, its uniqueness and the conflicts aroused by having one leading male role as a more or less traditional masculine slob (Oscar) while having a male (non-gay) room-mate (Felix) as a neat-freak, a cleanliness and timeliness cooking nut, was funny in & of itself. Add to that Neil Simon's comic repartee and dialog, and it's no wonder it then was reborn yet again as a popular TV program for 6 more seasons (1970-75; with Tony Randall & Jack Klugman in those principle roles). But the element of surprise, of our being unaccustomed to even thinking such a relationship would exist, is over -- thanks to the play, this movie, and the TV series. Nevertheless, while that match-up is no longer QUITE as funny, the show still abounds with many scenes that invoke snorts, guffaws, and chuckles.I'd seen it years ago when it first came out and thought the whole movie was hilarious. I saw it the other day and found it funny but also a quite delightful look into a past era. The repartee and reactions among the poker players left me fairly flat. But I'd forgotten the episode of Oscar & Felix's double date with the Pigeon sisters from upstairs and the outcome of that was probably as funny to me now as it was then. Neil Simon is great at setting up scenes and having them evolve in unexpected but realistic ways.Still funny (maybe not quite as much but yet enough) after all these years. "},{"Title":"Still fresh after forty years","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comedy pairing of Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon may be over forty years old but it has hardly aged; largely because the theme is one that doesn't rely on the time it was set. Lemmon plays Felix a neurotic, house-proud hypochondriac whose wife has had enough and kicked him out and Matthau is his friend Oscar who is a total slob; fearing that Felix will harm himself Oscar offers to let him stay with him and almost immediately regrets it. Felix sets about cleaning the flat as soon as he moves in, insists on doing the cooking and generally annoys Oscar. Matters come to a head after Felix's behaviour at a double date Oscar had arranged spoilt Oscar's chances with the girls.The plot may be fairly simple but that doesn't stop this being a laugh out loud film; this is partly down to a sharp script by Neil Simon and fine acting from the leading men; especially Walter Matthau who was a great comic actor. The supporting cast also provided plenty of laughs; even though their poker buddies were only secondary characters they were interesting to watch and each in their own way had characters as distinct and as flawed as Oscar and Felix. In an age where much comedy relies on swearing and gross out humour this was a real tonic as there is almost nothing that might offend. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow, I really liked this movie! At times it seems not very plotty (two guys move in together and fight tons) and simplistic and a setup for a hugely boring time, but I couldn't stop laughing. It's gutbustingly funny--you have to concentrate, because the dialogue is quite fast, unexpected, grumpy, a bit slapstick, a bit witty.It's definitely classic screwball, almost predictably so at some points. At one point, two ladies sob on Lemmon's shoulder as he regales them with sad tales and you can already tale that Mathau is going to come out any minute and give a bit of a hard time. Still, everyone is pitch perfect. Sometimes, the most dreary situations turn into something hilarious -- I love the group of friends who desperately try to prevent Lemmon's character from suiciding (harassing him outside the bathroom, accidentally slamming him into a door when they break into his bedroom, etc.) It's also great to see scenes of 68 New York. So different, yet so much the same. "},{"Title":"One of the best one liners out there","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Please leave a comment Tell me what you feelThe Odd Couple (1968)8/10Starring Jack Lemmon Walter Matthau John Fiedler Herb EdelmanDirected By Gene Saks Distributed by Paramount PicturesThe Odd Couple is a movie based on a stage play in 1965 by Neil Simon. Done in 1968, it is a classic comedy, which gave birth to a series that ran for 5 years and a sequel. Imagine watching a movie about Bree (Desperate Housewives) and Liz Lemon (30 Rock) leaving together in the same house. What do you think you'll get? Comedy I bet ya, regardless of the time difference from when it was made and now, Odd Couple has all it takes to make you laugh hard, from a failed suicide plan to three way match-up. The cast is anything but dull, they keep you interested and laughing and wanting more. The director Gene Saks, was also responsible for the old classic South Pacific, did you see that? Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are the best couple I have seen together on screen. Both mismatched and yet enjoyable, wonderful acting too on their side, in a time where you don't have all the 3D tricks and CGI programming. Acting needed to be done precisely, well and to the point. The movie is ranked #17 in AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs. Jack Lemmon plays Felix, a clean freak whose wife left him because she couldn't stand his compulsive cleaning habit. So he tries to kill himself but fails and out of ideas goes to see Oscar (Walter Matthau) his friend, who is a slob untidy, unreliable and an irresponsible sports-reporter who is divorced and leaves in a bachelor pad and decides to give Felix a place to stay at his humble pad. The rest is up to your imaginations. I did get to see this two again in movies like Grumpy Old Men, Grumpier Old Men, Love Boat and Odd Couple 2. This movie has some wonderful one liners that you will never hear anywhere. Well scripted, well acted and an impressive set, if you think you heard the best dialogue around, go see this movie and see what a good comedy dialogue is meant to be. If you get the time go to the video store and get this movie, it is a guaranty keeper. "},{"Title":"Felix And Oscar","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple made its debut on Broadway in 1965 and ran for 964 performances for the 1965-67 season. On Broadway it starred Art Carney and Walter Matthau. As Matthau had both won a Tony Award for his portrayal of Oscar Madison and was also just off an Oscar for The Fortune Cookie, he was a sure bet to be asked to repeat his role. But in The Fortune Cookie the teaming of Jack Lemmon with Walter Matthau won audience and critical raves so it was almost dictated by the movie-going public that they co-star in The Odd Couple. What was started in The Fortune Cookie was made permanent with The Odd Couple. Lemmon and Matthau became possibly the last great male buddy team in screen history. Their impeccable timing and chemistry is what makes The Odd Couple the classic film it has become. I'm not sure who gets more laughs, Lemmon with his fuss budget ways or Matthau who became the greatest slob in movie history. When I see my messy apartment I always think of Matthau and Jack Klugman from the television series.Paramount had the foresight to hire Neil Simon to do a screenplay adaption of his play for which he also won a Tony Award. Simon is one of the great chroniclers of life in New York and he hit his artistic peak here. Sad to say the Motion Picture Academy only gave The Odd Couple two Oscar nominations for Film Editing and for Neil Simon's screenplay of material adapted from another source, even if the source is himself. What I cannot understand is how they overlooked Neal Hefti's classic theme which became more widely known in the television series. It's one of the best known and loved film musical themes.With the television series, two Broadway revivals and numerous repertoire companies performing this all over the world, The Odd Couple has become a cottage industry. Personally I'd like to see a gay version done of this play, the material would lend itself so well.Nothing more, nothing less, The Odd Couple is as perfect an example of stage and film comedy as you can get. "},{"Title":"A Classic Comedy","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A simple comment...What can I say... this is a wonderful film that I can watch over and over. It is definitely one of the top ten comedies made. With a great cast, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau wording a perfect script by Neil Simon, based on his play.It is real to life situation done perfectly. If you have digital cable, one gets the menu on bottom of screen to give what is on. It usually gives this film ***% stars but in reality it deserves **** stars. If you really watch this film, one can tell that it will be as funny and fresh a hundred years from now. "},{"Title":"Not in other words, those are the perfect ones","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple is one of the funniest movies ever made. Oscar and Felix are more than just characters they have become cinematic archetypes.Felix (Jack Lemmon) has been left by his wife and is suicidal. His best friend Oscar (Walter Matthau) offers him to stay in his house. However, the two are polar opposites. Felix is neurotic, hypochondriac, petulant, obsessed with order. Oscar is a pig his house is a dirty mess, with food rotting in the refrigerator and other amenities of the sort. Soon they get on each other's nerves and a domestic war ensues.There are two reasons this movie is so enjoyable. The first is the marvellous dialogue, with dozens of memorable quotes. Equally crucial is the acting the work of the lead actors is the stuff of legends. Matthau, with his scornful stare, was just born to play Oscar. He gets all the best lines his comedic timing is impeccable, his body language hilarious. Lemmon is just as great as Felix, a man so whiny you want to strangle him - and yet, while ridiculous, he does keep a certain quiet dignity. Iconic and worth multiple viewings.10/10 "},{"Title":"Warning Theme song will provoke uncontrollable humming","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's more to offer in the opening of The Odd Couple than in the entirety of most films. Felix Unger (the poor guy's monogram even curses him) checks into a New York hotel. A cleaning lady says Good night. Goodbye, he answers back. In his room he empties his pockets, then struggles to take off his wedding ring only to put the objects neatly into an envelope, addressed to his wife and beloved children. When the viewer finally puts it together &#151; aha, he's going to off himself &#151; we watch him struggle to open the window &#151; oh no, he's going to jump &#151; The poor guy injures his lower back. This is all you need to know about Felix Unger &#151; his wife has left him, he's a compulsive cleaner and he's a hypochondriac. And all in one scene. This is the particular genius of Neil Simon's comedy &#151; it's about situation and character. There are few obvious physical jokes &#151; no kicks to the groin, no cheap gags &#151; just funny characters in uncomfortable situations. And, of course, he is a master of manipulating the audience's expectations. Coming from the Swingers era, imagine what I thought in the date scene when Felix starts lamenting about the breakup of his marriage to the girls his roommate Oscar has worked so hard to get into his apartment. He's blowing it, right? Think again. The girls love his sensitivity, his ability to cry in front of them. They invite him back to their place since his meatloaf has burned because Oscar wasn't paying enough attention to it. He's in like Flynn, right? Uh, yes, but he doesn't want to go with the girls because he's feeling vulnerable. Great stuff. And it's made even greater with a style that minimizes editing and maximizes the wonderful eight-room apartment set. You've got Jack Lemmon and the slouchy, pouchy Walter Matthau for Chrissakes, why mess it up? The visual style reminded me of Breakfast at Tiffany's, in that great effect is made from a large depth of field and the interplay between the various planes of action. Particularly memorable is the scene in which Felix, fleeing from Oscar, closes a partition only to realize the partition doesn't cover the side where Oscar is coming from. You get a real sense of the layout of the apartment, and thus the proximity in which the two divorcées live. The twist here is that these two are really married &#151; to each other. So the observations about married life that might be ignored in an ordinary romantic comedy are made all the more poignant since they are two guys. "},{"Title":"The Odd Couple (1968) ***1/2","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here's another film that doesn't really need much of a recommendation. It's a classic comedy, very funny and entertaining and which, of course, ultimately inspired a successful television series which many would say was even better (I enjoy both, personally). For some, it's hard to warm up to Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau as Felix Unger and Oscar Madison when they were were weaned on the TV show starring Tony Randall and Jack Klugman (or perhaps vice versa). But what we've got there in both cases are four good actors who in real life seemed so much like their film counterparts that they managed to make these characterizations their own. It's Neil Simon's humorous material that's key, and where the laughs really originate from.For those who have somehow never heard of THE ODD COUPLE, it's the story of a neurotic and fussy neat-freak (Lemmon) who is thrown out of a 12-year marriage by his long-suffering wife and takes up residence in the Manhattan apartment of his sloppy and totally irresponsible buddy (Matthau). Pitting these two unlikely roommates together within the same four walls makes for some hugely funny predicaments. ***1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"timeless classic","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is my fave comedy film of all time.lemmon and mattheu are two of the greatest actors of all time but in this movie they are outstanding. no other duo comedy or otherwise comes close to touching these two in this movie.there is not one bad word i could say about this film,it's superbly acted throughout from our main performers to the supporting cast.the scene in the diner where felix(lemmon)is trying to unblock his ears is in my opinion the funniest thing ever committed to celluoid.i cannot recommend this film high enough. it really is a timeless piece of work. if only movies were as funny today. "},{"Title":"And the theme is catchy, too...","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a recently divorced television personality and neat freak.  I don't succeed at my suicide attempt or drink warm Pepsi or resist at vacuuming a messy apartment.  And I don't know Vinnie (John Fiedler) or Murray (Herb Edelman) or any of Oscar Madison's (Walter Matthau) other card playing buddies, but I'm sure I will after I move in with him.  I believe in efficiency, not disorganization, compassion, not isolation, and that I should remind Oscar not to eat a hot dog at the Mets game on franks and beans night, even if it means him missing Mazeroski hitting into a triple play.  A meat loaf should be served cooked, not burned, F. U. does stand for Felix Ungar, and I do pronounce my moose calls F'MEH - NOT HORK - F'MEH!  The Odd Couple is a play about my life as a divorced slob's roommate, a movie on a similar subject, and one of the best works written by Neil Simon!  My name is Felix (Jack Lemmon), I AM IN THIS MOVIE THAT YOU SHOULD SEE! "},{"Title":"The Perfect Couple","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau began and ending their career together. Remember best as the Grumpiest of Old Men as well as the Oddest Couple to have ever made us laugh, Lemmon and Matthau were one of Hollywood's best loved comedy teams of the last 100 years. Not as raunchy as Pryor and Wilder, instead, they were the classic comedy team that reflected a more modern Marx Brothers routine. Such as the physical comedy as well as the mixed blend of chaos that Marx, Chaplin and Keaton were so famous for. In the Odd Couple, Lemmon and Matthau play complete opposites that create the chaos. The physical comedy is as unique as Chaplins. The joke is usually on themselves as oppose to passing the joke onto another. Not your typical guy film, it is in a way a coming of age comedy with two old men as oppose to two young teenagers in their prime. The chemistry between Lemmon and Matthau is entertainment enough. Although this movie isn't for everyone, this is a great comedy. "},{"Title":"Who would send a suicidal telegram? ... Felix the Nut, that's who!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In what must have been the biggest redundancy of the year, Neil Simon actually got an Academy Award nomination for adapting his Tony winning 1965 play The Odd Couple to the screen--redundant since the film seems to have preserved Simon's stage text word-for-word, with the pauses for theatrical effect kept intact. In their second screen-teaming after 1966's The Fortune Cookie, Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon are equally good here, and often times very funny, but the material is crassly labored, with Simon over-emphasizing every irritating quirk (Matthau's sports writer is not just sloppy, he tracks in dirt and likes it that way; Lemmon's divorced hypochondriac isn't just natty, he's a walking phobia). Slim comedic story about two bachelors in New York City attempting to live together (in a humongous eight-room apartment with a view) has set-ups that constantly remind one this is just a loud transfer from its source. The jokes aren't varied, they're all in the same pushy vein, and Simon thinks hollering is funny; he uses yelling as the capper to every volley, every barrage of put-downs. ** from **** "},{"Title":"****","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a combination Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon made in this 1968 great comedy.The two were made for each other, except when it came to the divorced man (Matthau) living with the recently separated Lemmon. Matthau is essentially the slob and Lemmon, a meticulous person, if ever there were.Neil Simon uses the New York backdrop where the film takes place to remind us that we're in New York. While on a park bench, Matthau says to Lemmon Let's get going as it's almost time for the muggers to come!Lemmon practically takes on the traditional female role in running a house.The scene with the Pigeon sisters visiting is hilarious, especially when the two express sympathy for Lemmon's outburst when he thinks of his wife and children.The ending proves that you have to watch out for the quiet types. They succeed with women. "},{"Title":"What do you say to a man who's crying in your bathroom?","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The disadvantage I seem to have is that I'm such a big fan of the TV show with Tony Randall and Jack Klugman. I saw them first and so many times that they define the Odd Couple for me. So I was conscious of my bias when I began watching this for the first time the other day.Nevertheless Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau did a fairly admirable and funny job with this assignment. The same opening theme music that was used later in the TV series sets the proper mood and I was surprised to see so many of the later elements used here, obviously for the first time. The bit that really got me was when Felix (Lemmon) started his honking routine to clear his ears, closely followed by the 'brown sandwiches or green sandwiches' offer from Oscar (Matthau) to his poker buddies. One thing I don't remember from the series, and it's something I might have missed, was that not only was Felix divorced, but he had kids.There's another layer of entertainment woven into the picture for viewers like myself who grew up in New York (State, not the City, but still). The scene at Shea Stadium was pretty cool, and when Felix goes shopping at a Bohack Supermarket it was like a trip down memory lane. That goes for the prices too - bagels at four for ninety nine cents and turkey roast at sixty nine cents a pound. But the one that really got me was when Felix checked in to a New York City hotel and got charged five bucks! Holy cow, for a minute this comedy became a fantasy flick! "},{"Title":"A fun flick","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" And now I see what the big deal is about. Finally got a chance to watch this movie, thanks to AMC (which is becoming my new favorite channel) and I love it! The movie is about a recently divorced neat freak moving in with his best friend, who happens to be a complete slob. This is one of those movie which has become so engrained within our popular culture that most people know what it is about without even seeing. This movie went on to spawn a television show (twice) and even a sequel something like 20 or 30 years later. It is just that good, mostly thanks to Walter Matthau. Matthau's larger than life performance is great to watch but equally counterbalanced by Jack Lemmon's neurotic character. The first 5 minutes of the film is a little slow but it picks up once Matthau comes into the picture. This is a gem and had me laughing out loud more than once. Sharp dialog and witty comebacks makes this picture so much fun to watch. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Very Charming!","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Through the history of Hollywood, there are always movies being made about best friends whether they are earnest dramas or cop comedies. But the main granddaddy of buddy films is the 1968 film, The Odd Couple. This is an enduring classic that certainly stands the test of time. Film technical quality has gotten better and the actors come and go, but no generation can deny the pleasure of the film. The film plays like a drawn-out soap opera at times, but than can be forgiven given the hijinks our main characters get themselves into, mainly over the issue of fussiness. But thanks to the immense charms of great real-life friends, Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon, this is a really fun comedy to add to the collection.This film is about a man named Felix who falls into a state of depression due to his break-up with his wife and he contemplates suicide. But his best friend, Oscar comes to the rescue by having him stay at his place. But Oscar begins to get fed up with his friend's tidy nature compared to his messy nature, and hilarious hijinks ensue.This film mainly works due to its lead actors. Matthau and Lemmon are comedy legends and if anything, this movie shows why. They don't rely on potty humor for their comedy and instead, they use their natural ability to get the laughs. Just watching them throw insult after insult at each other is a doozy, even if the act starts to wear thin as the movie draws to a close. But nonetheless, I don't think this movie could work without that great chemistry between Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon.Overall, The Odd Couple is a solid, charming comedy that has Matthau and Lemmon on top of their game. Even if you despise these kind of films, I think not even the hard-hearted you could deny the charm of these two gentlemen. I also loved the interaction they had with the supporting cast, mainly with John Fiedler known as the nerdy guy in the 1956 classic, 12 Angry Men. I loved the score of the film and that main theme is stuck in my head. This film is rightfully hailed a comedy classic.My Grade A "},{"Title":"A Great Combination.","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple (1968) Dir Gene Saks / Cast Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Monica Evans, Carole Shelley, Herb Edelman Easily one of the best comedies of the decade. This is a hilarious film about clashing personalities. Felix is divorced and makes failed suicide attempts. Oscar is divorced but spends evenings playing cards with the boys. Felix is fussy and constantly cleaning up while Oscar is sloppy and leaves things as is. Central plot regards Oscar allowing Felix to move in and driving him up the wall with his constant tidying. Director Gene Saks seems to open up what appears to be the inspiration for sitcoms. It is given two hilarious performances from Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. Lemmon has sinus issues which also annoys Oscar. Matthau is the straight arrow here who grows irritated when a double date goes sour. Among other roles are two women played by Monica Evans and Carole Shelley who arrive as dates and are swept away with Felix's sob story. They will surface later in the film's final comic payoff. Herb Edelman plays Murray the cop, one of their poker pals who uses his cruiser to search for Felix when the boys worry. Very funny film in that opposites attract or relate manner that most viewers should relate to when being around anyone for lengths of time. The message reflects tolerance of one another and all of our odd traits and habits that conflict with others. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Lemmon & Matthau are a riot!","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'The Odd Couple' is a stunning comedy, that is boasted by two mesmerizing performances by the late/great Jack Lemmon & the late/great Walter Matthau. Two of the legendary performers go at each-other in this breezy, well-written comedy classic, that hasn't lost its charm even after nearly 5 decades since its release. 'The Odd Couple' Synopsis Two friends try sharing an apartment, but their ideas of housekeeping and lifestyles are as different as night and day.'The Odd Couple' is pure fun from start to end. I laughed & laughed all through. Neil Simon's Screenplay, which is based upon his Play by the same name, is notoriously funny & well-worded. The camaraderie between Lemmon & Matthau, is the highpoint of the enterprise. Gene Saks's Direction is proficient. Cinematography is vast. Editing is rightly done.And coming back to Lemmon & Matthau, words fail to describe their work here. As best friends turned into foes, both of the blessed talents deliver probably the greatest comedic performances ever. I'm not kidding, their performances here, are simply matchless.Don't waste your time thinking, Watch 'The Odd Couple'. Two Big Thumbs Up! "}{"Title":"MOSTLY a fantastic movie.","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The majority of this film was able to capture its comedy very well. The pacing was a bit slow at times, but the comedic banter between the two leads was enough to make this movie a very positive and fulfilling experience. HOWEVER (and this is a very big however) this ending was very unsatisfying. I knew that it would be, mostly because there could never be an ending that would please everyone with a concept such as this. However, I felt that the overall experience was dampened simply because of its lackluster finale. The movie itself isn't flawed. It instead was the idea that simply wrote itself into a corner. The acting in this film is very good. I enjoyed many of the comedic bits not only between the two leads, but also when their friends were involved in the conversation. I know a movie is very good at getting its point across when it is able to make the audience uncomfortable WILLINGLY. It does this a few times. The overall feeling that one will receive after viewing it, however, is not the awkward unfamiliarity that is portrayed by the characters, but instead a very sour taste from how fast and unsatisfying the ending comes. Instead of a usual resolution, it seems to plummet back to where it started. This could be seen by some as a refreshing change from usual movies that follow similar story arcs. This is not the case for this movie, however, since it leaves you thinking that it could have ended better. Everything leading to the climax is stellar, but the overall ending is an experience that doesn't seem to fit the rest of its charm. "},{"Title":"Really Good comedy","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gene Saks' The Odd Couple (1968)is based on the 1965 Neil Simon play on Broadway but one difference between the play and the movie is that in the play Art Carney played as Felix Ungar ad then he was portrayed excellently by Jack Lemmon in the movie. The movie tells the story about a man named Felix Ungar (played by Jack Lemmon, as mentioned earlier in the review) who had just been divorced by his wife Frances and then gets emotional about and almost goes on a nervous breakdown and kills himself, meanwhile Oscar Madison (played by Walter Matthau)is playing poker in his 8 room apartment with friends Murray (Herb Edelman), Vinnie (John Fielder), Roy (David Steiner), and Speed (Larry Haines). One of the things that is funny in one of the beginning scenes is that When Felix shows up at Oscar's apartment Oscar and the others act as if nothing even happened before Felix walks in the door, any way after the poker game is over Oscar wants Felix to move in with him but after a few days (especially after the double date with Gwendolyn and Cecily.) Oscar for some reason gets ticked off at Felix when Felix didn't do anything wrong for Oscar to be mad. Then Felix gets kicked out of Oscar's apartment ans Oscar doesn't really care what happens to Felix because he thinks that Felix doesn't even worry about him. But in the end the movie had a good story as well as good performances, and especially a good amount of laughs. "},{"Title":"Some Mathau with a slice of Lemmon!","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is like riding a train on top of a red bouncy ball in the middle of a 1940's Jacks and Marbles tournament. Every one's looking at the pretty red ball, but it's the Jacks that hurt. The lovely soft tones of Mathau's delivery, only to set you up for a sharp jab in the side by Lemmon. Hitting every rib with realistic views. You can help but crackle over his pain. Good Intentions dribble from Mathau's character to Lemmons, trying to make sense of own predicament. The rest of the cast, these guys bounce between the masters of duo perfectly with no mistakes. Filling in the holes glue each dilemma together smoothly. Each setup is anticipation in a bottle, every minute you drink just makes you thirsty for more. "},{"Title":"Grumpy Young Men","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felix Unger (Jack Lemmon) is kicked out of his house by his wife, who wants a divorce. Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau) offers to let him move in. After all, his apartment is huge. But one simple difference -- their appreciation for cleanliness -- makes this a harder proposition than it first appears.The best line was the We are out of corn flakes. F U. joke. I find it kind of racy for the time, even if it fit.While the film is funny, it may have lost some of its appeal. The idea is hardly odd that two men would live together, with one being clean and the other not. I think that is a very typical relationship. "},{"Title":"The Timeless Bromance","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple is the classic throwaway example people use when talking about plays and movies certain people go see as opposed to those who go to see Waiting for Godot, as if the latter is too heavy and inaccessible for those who enjoy the former, and the former is too lighthearted and silly for those who seek the latter. Judging by my own tastes and proclivities, I would probably be compartmentalized into the latter's group, because I love risky, challenging, arty stuff, but who's to say there's no thematic juice to be squeezed out of Neil Simon's abiding farce? Can't it be viewed as the timeless bromance that Judd Apatow, Simon Pegg and Seth Rogen have brought back this past decade in the form of audience-friendly, wide-appeal guy comedies? it belongs in that class of films, which in their own way, despite any low-brow sensibility they may or may not attract, have a direct effect on the audience, a snappy, endlessly endearing coverage of the softies beneath the machismo. It's not more thoughtful and provocative than existential angst and philosophical musing; it just happens to be more accessible.Shuffling around on feet that seemingly ought to be webbed, Oscar Madison is the slackest, anti-classic leading man in history. In midsummer, Christmas stockings even now dangle over his fireplace, and his refrigerator is cleaned so infrequently that he has milk standing up in there exclusive of the bottle. And still, as played by Walter Matthau, he's the better half of The Odd Couple, because he is laugh-out-loud funny in a way that many real men like him are It's not so much that they have sharp tongues as that they just look and sound funny, they're crass, derogatory, and carry that persona all but unconsciously. Matthau is an extraordinary comic actor for that very reason, because the most deceptively difficult thing for a comedian to do is to translate how they're funny in personal situations into performance material.The other performances are also consistently first-class, particularly Herb Edelman as Murray the cop, and Monica Evans and Carole Shelley as the chirping Pigeon sisters from upstairs. Jack Lemmon is agreeably cast as Felix, the finicky and desperate news writer who breaks up with his wife. Though it's difficult to compare his performance here to masterful bouts before and after, he inevitably brings a manic energy and pitiful vulnerability the role that indispensably defines the film as a bromance. He's not the most masculine fellow in the world, indeed embodying many feminine stereotypes, and this foil to Oscar's rugged manly grossness is automatically comic material, and their bonding is the universal conflict and reconciliation of the male's outward aloofness with its inner sensitivity.Occasionally a movie's Broadway genesis is glaringly apparent, like when the characters in the poker game are clustered around three sides of the table with a forever nonexistent downstage side. Carting this stage course even further, director Gene Saks has left the same wall out of Oscar Madison's apartment! Indeed one of the benefits of film is that one can move the camera around and ultimately reveal all four walls of a set. Regardless, the energy, briskness and good-company feel of the characters, sets and scenes are all intact. Perhaps Saks didn't want to filmify because he felt the script's theatricality is inextricably linked with those qualities, which he produces with vim and vigor. "},{"Title":"Excellent, in every way","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a film! The genius of this comedy, is two men who are yin and yang. Neat. clean freak Felix, and slob, nasty Oscar. Classic comedy is the result of collision, when two opposites collide, and the result is comedy. This is what happens in The Odd Couple.Lemmon and Matthau had a chemistry, that was on a par with Tracy and Hepburn. These two classic actors, made many films together, and always delighted audiences.The film has some classic lines, but my favorite is when Oscar shouts Go to your room!. Also, when Felix and the sisters are weeping, Oscar bounds into the room with Is everybody happy?. Again, a classic of collision comedy. "},{"Title":"Simon, Matthau, Lemon, and New York at Their Best.","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's actually funnier than the Broadway play from which it was adapted -- more, well, subtle. (There must be a better word.) Walter Matthau is sportswriter Oscar Madison, divorced, broke, and sloppy. Jack Lemon is Felix Unger, finicky, demanding, nagging, misophobe. When Lemon's wife throws him out, Matthau invites him to move in with him.It's a big apartment, but not big enough. The two scenes that sketch in their eroding relationship, involving Friday night poker parties with a couple of the other boys, are hilarious. All the actors have their characters down pat.Matthau, in particular, is memorable, slouching around, stooped over, serving the card players brown sandwiches or green sandwiches, offering them warm beer or Pepsi, and charging them six dollars each for the buffet.I don't suppose it's necessary to go into the plot in any great detail. There are a couple of weak spots. Felix disappears and the boys borrow Murray's police car and drive around New York City looking for him. It opens up the play, but it's both obvious and pointless.And the scene with the Coocoo Pigeon sisters isn't as funny as it's meant to be. Who likes to see a grown man cry? And it ends, after all, with a genuinely angry exchange between Matthau and Lemon, lacking in the usual irony.The weak spots are unimportant in the context of Simon's imaginative dialog. Conversations turn into clashes with rapiers. Lemon's fussiness drives the poker players out, and Lemon, unaware of Matthau's growing fury, carries on about how the others probably think of the odd couple as playboys. See the irony of it? Matthau Yes, Felix, I see the irony. Lemon Okay, tell me, what's the irony of it. Matthau The irony of it is that if we don't get out of this house and have some fun I'm going to strangle you, Felix. That's the irony of it. These are approximations, of course, and the jokes enacted are far funnier than the jokes printed.If you can sit through this without laughing, you should have someone with a medical background check your funnybone. "},{"Title":"An Odd But Entertaining Comedy","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gene Saks directs 'The Odd Couple' based on Neil Simon's (who also wrote the screenplay) play. The film starts off with a depressed Felix (Jack Lemmon) booking a hotel room and then wondering through town before stopping by his friend Oscar's (Walter Matthau) apartment. Much of it is pretty much a conversational piece and the highlight of the film are the banters between Lemmon and Matthau. Their personality clash and concern for each other is terrifically depicted by the two actors. Obviously they share a great rapport as they will reunite in many more future projects. In addition, they have some great lines to deliver. This movie has not dated because some of the conflicts between Oscar, who is a slacker and slob and Felix, who is a neat freak, are easy to relate to especially for those who have had housemates. Walter and Jack rock together as 'The Odd Couple'. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films of all time","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Odd Couple is directed by Gene Saks, has a screenplay by Neil Simon based on his stage play and stars Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau.The Odd Couple tells the story of best friends Felix Unger(Jack Lemmon)and Oscar Madison(Walter Matthau)who end up sharing Oscars massive bachelor pad after Felix tries to kill himself.He had a big row with his wife over his obsessive compulsive cleaning sprees and weird phobias and sends her a suicide telegram.She calls Oscar and lets him know what happened.Felix turns up at Oscar's during his weekly poker game with their friends Vinnie(John Fielder)Murray the policeman(Herbert Edelman)Roy(David Sheiner)and Speed(Larry Haines).After some side splitting hysterics it's agreed Felix will stay with Oscar.The rest of the film looks at how these two are such completely different characters.As well as looking at if Oscar can stand Felix's truly weird and unique habits and cleanliness and if Felix can stand Oscar being such a slob and his laid back attitude to everything. Really a film about two complete opposites living together and the joys,highs,lows and necessity of the gift that is friendship.With great acting an intelligent and very funny script and the great Monica Evans and Carole Shelley as two sisters who Oscar invites over for a double date.This one is guaranteed to make you laugh every line is priceless and Jack and Walter are fantastic with a great chemistry.Also made into a successful and equally funny TV series with Jack Klugman as Oscar and Tony Randall as Felix. "},{"Title":"Classic Neil Simon ...","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" and laugh out loud funny in many scenes.The movie's basic plot is well chronicled, a story of opposites trying to find a way to survive each other in close proximity.This is unquestionably Lemmon and Matheau's best film as co-stars, and the interaction between the sloppy Oscar and the OCD Felix are classic.The scene where Oscar lines up a double date, leaves the room briefly, and comes back to find Felix and the two girls all crying is pricelessly funny.For any fan of intelligent comedies, The Odd Couple is a go out of your way to see it film. "}{"Title":"Hilarious and insightful comedy!","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First ever viewing July 21, 2008Very impressive screenplay and comedic acting and timing in this film. Now 40 years old, it has lost none of it's power. Neil Simon displays excellent insight into human nature and relationships as well as how to create genuine comedy from unusual situations. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau give great comedic performances. Neil Simon was inspired by actual events in his own life to write the play this film is based on.One of the best written and acted Hollywood comedies of all time!Surprisingly, only nominated for 2 Academy Awards Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film Editing. Hollywood rarely awards comedies, no matter how well they are made. "},{"Title":"Some Classic Comedy, Slightly Hurt By Depressing Undertones","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The original movie, The Odd Couple, has some wonderful comic one-liners. The entire world it seems knows the story of neurotic neat-freak Felix Ungar and funny, obnoxious, slob Oscar Madison. This paring of mismatched roommates created one of the most successful TV series of all time as well as countless, not anywhere near as good, imitations.The Odd Couple movie has some wonderful jokes about Oscar's apartment and his sloppy habits. He says, Who wants food? One of his poker player buddies asks, What do ya got? Oscar says, I got brown sandwiches and green sandwiches. What's the brown? It's either very new cheese or very old meat! I also love the line about Oscar's refrigerator, It's been out of order for two weeks, I saw milk standing in there that wasn't even in a bottle! There is no question that Walter Matthau's Oscar Madison is a joy to watch on screen. He's almost as good as Jack Klugman's version in the TV series.The problem with the movie is Jack Lemmon's Felix Ungar. Jack makes a very, very, honest effort at the role. The problem is that he makes Felix SO depressing and down-trodden that he becomes more annoying than comical. Tony Randall's performance in the series, brought the kind of humor, warmth, and sensitivity, to Felix's character, which Lemmon's portrayal lacks. Tony's Felix Unger obviously could be annoying some of the time. However, in the TV series, it related to specific situations where the annoyance was needed in the storyline. Jack's Felix Ungar, (note the different spelling) in the movie, seems to never be happy, fun, or interesting. The movie Felix Ungar is a roommate that drives you up the wall, all the time.The movie still has great moments that withstand the test of time, the famous meatloaf fight is one of the greatest scenes ever! One of the other great examples of Felix's little notes on Oscar's pillow will be remembered forever. However, there are some darker sides where Oscar goes over the top, His crying near the end after bawling out Felix, and a scene involving Felix's Linguine dinner, (although lightened by a funny line.) seem more depressing than comical.Perhaps there wasn't enough time to see the lighter side of these characters that made the series so memorable in the movie. The beginning 20 minutes are very boring. The same issue occurs with Felix's conversation with the Pidgeon Sisters. The movie's ending is predictable and too pat. There's very little care or compassion for each of them by the other. The result is that the darker side of the film leads to a lot of depression and anger, rather than comedy, unless you are watching the great scenes described above. It appears that Jack Lemmon's monotone persona of Felix brings the film down, rather than enhances or embraces the comedy between the characters.It really took the 1970's TV series to make The Odd Couple the best that it could be. The original film is still very good. However, the TV series is much better. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Comedies with Dark Dramatic Undertones","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some of the best movies that are categorized as comedies actually blur between comedy and drama. The Graduate and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, which were made also in the late 1960's are perfect examples. Are they comedies with dramatic undertones, or dramas with a lot of humor? In many respects, The Odd Couple falls into this same category of being both comedy yet highly dramatic with deep underpinnings about human nature. Much of what happens may be funny to the audience but the characters are not laughing.Despite the rather light-hearted TV show of the 1970's, the original Odd Couple is not merely about a neat guy and messy guy who are forced to live together because of their marital situation. It's really about two opposites who must face why their marriages fell apart and how their detrimental idiosyncrasies reveal themselves outside of their marriage. Neatness, the characteristic of Felix Ungar (Jack Lemon perfectly cast) and messiness, the characteristic of Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau), are only the beginning and somewhat superficial. As the story unfolds, we find there is a lot more to these men than simply neatness versus messiness.Briefly, the story is really about Felix Ungar, who has to face an impending divorce from his wife Francis, who we never meet but is an important character throughout the story. On the verge of suicide, Ungar goes to the only place he knows the apartment of Oscar Madison where a group of poker buddies hang out every so often. We learn that Ungar is not only a member of this poker club but the group knows what's happening to him and try, in their inept way, to help out. Madison figures the best way to help Ungar is to let him move in with him until his suicidal tendencies wear off.Unfortunately for Madison, he doesn't know what he's getting himself into. Madison is a carefree happy-go-lucky if rather irresponsible slob who's refrigerator was last cleaned probably when Herbert Hoover was still in the White House. Madison's idea of serving snacks is grabbing moldy cheese and sticking them in between two pieces of bread, and then throwing the contents of a bag of chips on the table. On the other hand, he enjoys booze and women, in short having a good time. Ungar is not only altogether different, he is diametrically opposite. He is not only an obsessive neatness nut that finds more joy in disinfecting the apartment than meeting women but he knows more than most women do about cooking and fine eating. At one point, he calls his ex-wife, not to talk about reconciling, but to get her recipe for meatloaf. At another moment, Ungar was going to spend the rest of the evening cutting cabbage for coleslaw. When Madison seems unimpressed, Ungar finally confesses he was only doing it for his roommate because he can't stand coleslaw. Who is this guy? But he has another endearing trait Felix is also a hypochondriac. He obsesses about his health to the point where he makes strange noises in public places claiming he's helping his sinuses. He seems to have every health condition in the book. And if they made up more, Felix would probably have them. Ultimately, he is overly self-absorbed.Running throughout the movie are references to marriage. At one point when Madison is trying to convince Ungar to move in, he says, What do you want, a wedding ring? But little does he know that it is not the neat guy who can't deal with the messy guy, but the other way around. Their friendship becomes an inadvertent hellish relationship. And the climax occurs when Oscar invites two lonely British sisters for a get-together with both comedic and tragic results. This is one of the best comedies of its type ever written and not to be missed, with superlative performances by Walter Matthau and Jack Lemon in roles that are hard to imagine better played by anyone else. It is unfortunate that writing of this caliber is sadly lacking from most comedies being produced today. "},{"Title":"Neil Simons Best Script","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Neil Simon has quite a body of work, but it is the Odd Couple that carried him to fame. This film really works. Jack Lemmon & Walter Matthaw have a great chemistry. The supporting cast for this film is stellar as well.It is about 2 men living together who are from opposite planets. The script bristles with humor from this situation. This had been done in some forms previously. This is the one that brings it all together in a very good package.Simon has done some other decent work, but this one is really his best work which made the rest of his work possible. It is hard to imagine Simon ever topping this. "},{"Title":"They don' make them like this anymore","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Matthau and Lemmon are at their very best in this one - everyone else in the movie are also great. The Dialogue is excellent and very, very witty - and the scene where Lemmon's character attempts to clear out his sinuses in a restaurant have me rolling on the floor with laughter every time I see it. Anyone who happened to see the not so great sequel should not be turned away from the original. I recommend this wonderful movie to everyone - I just love it. And the fact the Jack Lemmon plays his character so straight forward with tragic overtones only adds to the hilariousness in my opinion. These two great guys made a string of movies together, but this one is the best - no doubt. "},{"Title":"Makes sense!","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the Neil Simon piece of work that got a lot of praises! The Odd Couple is a one of a kind gem that lingers within. You got Felix Ungar(Jack Lemmon); a hypochondriac, fussy neat-freak, and a big thorn in the side of his roommate, Oscar Madison(Walter Matthau); a total slob. These men have great jobs though. Felix is a news writer, and Oscar is a sports writer. Both of these men are divorced, Felix's wife is nearby, while Oscar's is on the other side of the U.S. (The West Coast). Well, what can you say? Two men living in one roof together without driving each other crazy, is impossible as well as improbable. It's a whole lot of laughs and a whole lot of fun. I liked the part where when those two British neighbors that speak to both gentlemen, and after Oscar kicked out Felix, he gets lucky and lives with them when he refused to have dinner with them the night earlier. It's about time that Felix needed to lighten up. I guess all neat-freaks neat to lighten up. They can be fussy, yet they should be patient as well. A very fun movie, and a nuevo classic. Neil Simon's The Odd Couple is a must see classic movie. 5 STARS! "},{"Title":"The Definitive Neil Simon Screen Comedy...","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE ODD COUPLE is the classic film version of Neil Simon's most famous play about a TV newswriter named Felix Unger, who is an obsessive neat freak, who moves in with his divorced best friend, Oscar Madison, a sportswriter and complete slob, after his wife Frances throws him out of their apartment. Already divorced, Oscar takes his best friend in and regrets it from the moment he does it. Neil Simon's classic comedy first came to Broadway with Art Carney playing Felix and Walter Matthau playing Oscar. Jack Lemmon takes over for Carney in the film version with a memorable performance as Felix Unger. Lemmon is not only terribly funny in the role but so vividly real that he brings an element of melancholy to the pitiful figure that is Felix Unger. Matthau, fortunately, was allowed to recreate his role as Oscar, a one-of-a-kind gem of comic performance that provides consistent laughs throughout. This teaming of Lemmon and Matthau turned out to be comic gold that was re-visited in nine other films. With both of these actors no longer with us, the viewing of this classic becomes more touching but no less hilarious. Simon's play has been nicely expanded for the screen with a silent prologue chronicling a depressed Felix's suicide attempt that is a winner. The supporting cast includes Herb Edelman, John Fiedler, Larry Haines, and David Sheiner as Oscar's poker playing buddies and Moncia Evans and Carole Shelley as the Piedgon Sisters, blind dates of Oscar and Felix. Of course, it later became an excellent TV series with Tony Randall and Jack Klugman, but there's nothing like the original. A joy from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Lukewarm comedy about opposite characters living together...","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *The Odd SPOILERS* Oscar (Walther Matthau) is a divorced sports telejournalist; he's scruffy, a tombeur de femmes and a man's man at the same time, and stereotypically untidy.His best friend Felix (Jack Lemmon) arrives to the weekly poker game in great distress, and announces that he's getting divorced.Since he needs a place to stay, Oscar decides to have him stay at his place, but Felix is his opposite; very sensitive (sometimes, even girly), a great cook, and a man who could give Bree Van De Kamp a run for her money about home cleanliness.Do I have to tell you what happens then? I watched this comedy and well... I wasn't all that amused. It's a hell of a lot better than most comedies these days, but still it's a little... cold.Oh, well, it may be just me. Watch it anyway.The Odd Couple 8/10. "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Matthau at their best","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" At this point, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau had only co-starred in Billy Wilder's The Fortune Cookie, but in The Odd Couple, they made what was probably their best movie together (certainly their funniest). When recently divorced clean freak Felix Unger (Lemmon) moves in with slob Oscar Madison (Matthau), they have a REALLY hard time getting along. Any embarrassing situation that you can think of, they experience it. The dinner is truly classic, and Oscar's eventual anger about Felix's neurosis so funny that it's almost scary. The 1998 sequel The Odd Couple II was absurd, but I would call it vintage Lemmon and Matthau. But do start with this one. "},{"Title":"For what it is, absolutely peerless.","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... The template here is by now a familiar one. Now, me not currently being the consummate film historian I'd like to become, (I'm FAR too 'young'... !) I can't categorically say that this was the 'progenitor' of a trend, but the mismatched pair is certainly a staple of the performing arts - and that being so, The Odd Couple must surely represent its glorious apex...The most 'joyous' aspect in many respects is the quality of its script; pirouetting as it does adroitly from one-liners, to the comedy of embarrassment, to occasional moments of extraordinary pathos. However, no script can survive without the right calibre of actors to energise it, and the names Jack Lemmon and Walther Matthau should speak for themselves as guarantees of excellence.Given that they made so many films together, their understanding of each others 'rhythms' borders on the telepathic. If you're a fan of the sitcom formula when it's done well, you simply cannot afford to miss this. It's basically one of the finest exponents of 'friendship' and ultimate camaraderie that cinema has ever known. "}{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was extremely well done as it mixed the funniest of comedy with extremely sad personal tragedies and all the while gave glimpses of warm glows to the viewer. Jack Lemmon is such a good actor and I thought he did the best out of everyone but the others did well and carried their own too. You can definitely tell this was based on a stage play as the acting was very theatrical but it still fitted the movie. I couldn't help but thinking poor Felix as everything kept going wrong for him...which is how a lot of people feel about their lives sometimes I'm sure. While I'm not the biggest fan of his counterpart Walter this was definitely an extraordinary work of his and I thought he did an exceptional job as some of his remarks were hilarious! This movie will always remain a classic as there weren't any mistakes about it. Carried out perfectly, I honestly give it my highest praise...I only wish I was able to catch the play and television show as I heard they were laugh out loud funny as well.Final ConversationMovies Nah, viewing on the small screen was fine by me.DVD Purchase A good one to add for your collection.Rental Very glad I did. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Totally hilarious,I can watch this over and over again.Walter matthau and Lemon are brilliant in their roles.I also love the opening scene when Felix is trying to kill himself and cant open the window and hurts himself.also the poker buddies are great.actually two are like Oscar and two like felix. I love the part when the two guys are talking about how great felixs sandwiches are and the sarcastic guy is going mad.Of course felix has cleaned the cards with disenfectant and the other guy storms out.so many great scenes,I love when Felix is telling the two girls his marriage problems.Then Oscar bursts in from the kitchen roaring IS EVERYBADAAH HAPAAAH and they are all in tears.  I could go on with mant more but you get the message.Get this movie you will love it. "},{"Title":"the best of neil simon oscar and felix great combo","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  walter matthau and jack lemon take neil simons play to the movies. making a great pictures with great  characters, murray the cop, and speed.. jack lemon is the quintessential pain in the rear. he is a whining miserable hypochondriac, a neat freak. while oliver is the dirty slob,  a great combination for a bad marriage or abnormal roommate situation.. and this is the best. "},{"Title":"Just Awesome","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is something that I will always remember and always adore. I grew up on the hit series, (spawned from this film) and its hard to believe Hollywood cannot come close to making a classic comedy such as this film, but instead they copy themselves and remake garbage over and over again. Look harder guys, films like this that have not been produced are still out there.  "},{"Title":"Hilariously Funny!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies I have ever seen directed by Neil Simon, and written by him for the stage.  The movie is funnier than the play with Walter Malthau and Oscar, the slovenly sports writer, and Tony Randall as Felix, the tidiest neatnick, who become roommates.  A sure winner and recommended highly.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Comedy genius","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best comedy ever? Certainly up there. Odd Couple is a timeless and enduring classic which even has relevance today. What happens when two best friends begin living together in one's apartment? Well, to say the friendship is tested would be an understatement. The story is great fun, and simplistic, but the strength here is the comedy genius of every player. Yes, Matthau and Lemmon were never better than they were here, but the rest of the cast also have the knack for superb timing, delivery of lines, and overacting to just the right degree. An outstanding display of how comedy can be.(How this is outside the top 50 in the IMDB top movies comedy section is beyond me) "},{"Title":"Guys, this could be YOUR marriage life!","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A perfect look at what happens when two friends, no matter how close, move in together. With classic and innovative performances. It's the characters which make this particularly funny. Oscar and Felix are total opposites and totally embody the two ways people live either carelessly or picky. In addition, the jokes about divorce and marriage apply even more today. That's what really makes this a classic in American comedy. If your thinking of moving in with your sweetheart or your best friend, watch this first.  "},{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau's performances as Felix and Oscar, respectively, were what made this movie excellent. I have been Felix in the play, and my performance was largely based on what I saw of Lemmon in the movie. A strong supporting cast also helped. An amazing movie, and I recommend everybody to go see it. Lemmon-Matthau went on to make other movies, including The Odd Couple IISolid performances by everyone. "},{"Title":"Roommates! Ya Can't Live With Them But Ya Can't Live With Them!!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Felix Unger, a depressed, down on his luck man walked the streets of New York at night and stops at a hotel where he checks into a room on the ninth floor. Once up there, he tried to jump out the window but it got stuck. So he left and went to a night club. Meanwhile at the apartment of Felix's friend, Oscar Madison, a poker game was going on. Oscar's friends Vinnie, Murray, Roy and Speed were there. Oscar lives like a slob so his apartment was a mess. They get a phone call from Felix's wife Frances who declared their marriage was over and that Felix had sent her a suicide telegram! Felix then arrived at the apartment. Oscar and the gang kept a close watch on him so not much poker was played. Oscar offered to let Felix stay with him for the night then asked him to move in. Felix was delighted. The next day, Oscar goes to work at the baseball stadium where he reports on plays. Thanks to a phone call from Felix, telling Oscar not to eat hot dogs because that's what they were going to have for dinner, Oscar missed a triple play! Felix was a good cook. He was also a heavy cleaner. At Oscar's next poker game, Felix set out coasters, napkins, he even cleaned the cards! It was too much for the men to take.        When Oscar and Felix go to a restaurant, Felix get's cold from the air conditioning. He also tried noisely to clear a sinus condition he had. Felix also had certain allergies to certain perfumes. Oscar figured Felix for a nut. Oscar wanted to get to know some women and it just so happens he once ran into two beautiful women the other day. Their names were Gwendolyn and Cecily Pigeon. They were widowed and divorced. Felix would prepare the dinner and they'd get together the next night at eight o'clock. Felix told Oscar to be home by seven thirty and he agreed, so when he strolled in at eight, Felix was furious and the meat loaf he prepared was about to go to the pot when the Pigeon sisters arrived. They begin talking and some how the conversation is steered towards their previous spouses causing Felix to break down and cry. Then Gwendolyn and Cecily start. Since Felix's dinner was ruined, the girls invited them to their apartment for dinner. Oscar was excited but Felix wasn't. He stayed home so Oscar went alone. The evening was a bore so Oscar was furious with Felix and so began a spat. Oscar would walk on the furniture and dirty things up to anger Felix. He'd also make the vacuum cleaner cord hit him for his own personal amusement.        Oscar could take no more. He ordered Felix out of his apartment. Before departing, Felix said, Let it be on your head! Then left. That worried Oscar somewhat. Vinnie, Murray, Roy and Speed were worried about Felix too. No telling what he might do so they go out in Murray's patrol car and don't find Felix. Back at the apartment, Gwendolyn and Cecily drop by to pick up Felix's things. Felix arrives then and he and Oscar make amends so once again, all was well.      A pretty funny film. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are so good together! Sadly, they're no longer with us. Walter Matthau died in 2000 and Jack Lemmon followed in 2001. The world lost some funny guys, let me tell you! Also in the cast were John Fielder (Piglet), Herbert Edelman who also is no longer with us, and Monica Evans and Carole Shelley who play Cecily and Gwendolyn. The Odd Couple had a TV series in 1970 with Tony Randall as Felix and Jack Klugman as Oscar. There was another one in 1982 with Ron Glass as Felix and Demond Wilson as Oscar. In 1998, The Odd Couple II came out. I like that one better than the original. I guess because I'm used to old Jack Lemmon and old Walter Matthau than I am to when they were young. It's sad to know there won't be an Odd Couple III. If you're fans of Lemmon and Matthau, then I also recommend Grumpy Old Men, Grumpier Old Men and Out to Sea. But for now, I recommend The Odd Couple! The Neil Simon play-turned-movie masterpiece!- "},{"Title":"They might as well be married!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Two poker buddies with diametrically opposed personalities find themselves driven crazy by each others company, when one is invited to move into the other's apartment.  Playwright Neil Simon may be talented, but he hasn't really topped this one in any of his subsequent plays (my personal worst is his Brighton Beach Memoirs, and the even-more-boring sequel... thank God I forget the name to that one!). The 'Couple play inspired this 1968 film, a short-running sitcom, a cartoon series (Cat and Dog, instead of humans) and even a female version play (Sally Struthers and Rita Moreno) as 'Felix' and 'Oscar' respectively (the ladies' names were Florence and Olive).   "}{"Title":"Great stuff","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mild spoiler warning... Despite seeing this in an awful pan-and-scan version rather than in its full widescreen glory, this is still a hilarious movie.  Matthau and Lemmon really were masters of American comedy, were they not?  Their work here seems completely effortless - so light, so subtle, so effective.  The rest of the small cast is made up of familiar faces and the two wonderful English broads whom Matthau has designs on but who end up mothering Lemmon and taking him in.  This is fast-paced, wise-cracking New York comedy, full of great lines and wonderful interplay between all the performers.  What are you waitin' for?  See it! "},{"Title":"A Lemmon/Matthau Classic - We Will Miss Them Both","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Odd Couple has never really had the admiration & praise it so richly deserves because it has always remained in the shadows of other Lemmon classics like the Apartment, Fortune Cooke & Some Like It Hot.However, for me, this film is a true delight, not only for Lemmon (Rest In Peace) but also for his durable partner & comic foil, Walter Matthau (Rest In Peace) coupled with an excellent Neil Simon script.The two guys decide to live together Oscar (Matthau), a divorced slob;Felix(Lemmon), a caring, neurotic & over-fussy husband, recently seperated and on the verge of committing suicide. But thanks to Matthau and his poker-playing friends, Felix becomes housemaid for Matthau and all of a sudden Oscar's home is totally unrecognisable - ITS CLEAN!!Like all couples they start to argue & fight,especially over finding new girlfriends because Felix still hasn't got over losing his wife. Soon after Felix realises why his wife kicked him out, so he goes awol again and the poker guys all rally round to find him before he thinks about killing himself again.The film is magical, definately much more suited to the stage and perhaps one of the criticisms of the film is that nearly 90% of it are interior shots, making the atmosphere stuffy & claustrophobic, just like Oscar's home.But the comedy between L&M sparkles and its always a joy seeing Matthau's craggy face smile. And of course Lemmon is on top form as the paranoid Felix. Two great actors, now lost to us, provided so much pleasure here.Go check it out because it will be well worth a peek.****/***** "},{"Title":"Lemmon + Matthau + Neil Simon = great film","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm afraid there's nothing new I can say about this quintessential comedy. However, if you chose a quote at random to read, and you happened to pick mine, here is what I and all the other critics agreed upon great acting, great actors, great script, great jokes, great plot great fun! Lemmon and Matthau shine in this well-written and hysterical movie. If you haven't seen this one, run, do not walk, to your local video store and purchase it. "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another masterful Neil Simon film about loneliness and incompatibility. I liked it so much I saw it twice in a row! It is one of the greatest American movies, a sublime masterpiece. My hat is off to Simon. He is a better judge of the human heart that a thousand psychiatrists, because he has a heart, and a mind. How glad am I, that such a genius is duly recognized.This is a very earnest film behind the laughter.  The most memorable scene is the one with the Cuckoo Pigeon Sisters! What acting! I heard they also appear on the TV show.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyed this very much","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is classic comedy not to be missed. The 2 leads are terrific and work off each other very well. The acting is flawless, it's perfect! The screenplay is very good and quite simple. The direction is good but the framing wasn't as good as it should've been. If you want super comedy, this picture delivers.Watch this film in widescreen otherwise you'll miss out on 43% of the picture. "},{"Title":"A very funny classic!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A neat freak moves in with a sloppy friend and funny things start to happen. Brilliant comedy is a real riot to watch,great chemistry.Rating****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"As good as they get!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie. The best line is We are all out of cornflakes. F.U. It took me three hours to figure out that F.U. was Felix Ungar. Jack Lemmon and Walter Mathau are wonderful as usual, those two still make me laugh today. Living with anyone like Felix would make me insane too. Good to watch if you are in the mood for old nostalgic comedy. Don't miss the scene in the cafe where Felix opens up his ears with the moose calls!  "},{"Title":"They don't get much better than this!","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What wonderful characters! Lemmon and Matthau are at their best in this true classic.  And Neil Simon's script is tuned to perfection. If you don't laugh at THIS film, you're probably brain dead!    "},{"Title":"Super Comedy","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a true masterpiece and is definitely the second best comedy ever made in Hollywood (the number one is, of course, Some Like It Hot)Hilariously directed by the versatile Gene Saks, scripted by the king of the dialogue Neil Simon, and featuring the nothing ODD couple of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, this super comedy surely will make you laugh over and over on the floor. Walter Matthau plays sloppy Oscar to perfection, and Jack Lemmon gives us the best comedic performance ever caught in films. The scene in which Felix (Lemmon) and Oscar are in a restaurant, and the most awkward scene of Felix and Pegion Sisters are the two of the funniest in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Felix & Oscar","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" what a great comedy,, after having watched the TV show for years, I came across the movie version around 10 years ago but never had a chance to rent or own it,, well I bought this one and the sequel.. Walter Matheu , and Jack Lemmon God rest their souls were two of the great comedic actors of our time. first you have Felix who is a neat freak, and Oscar of course who just throws stuff on the floor,, Felix leaves notes on the pillow and such,, vacuuming in the middle of a card game to get the crumbs of off the floor and so many things to annoy Oscar. both men are going thru a divorce so it's brings some seriousness and grounding to the picture. there are some other bit characters in the movie that also lend a hand in this wonderful comedy,, it's too bad that Hollywood can't come up with some more wonderful comedies, in this kind of setting without a remake of any sort this movie needs to stand by itself. "}{"Title":"Three masters at their best  Neil Simon, Walter Matthau, and Jack Lemmon","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Felix Ungar checks into a hotel, wanting to be as high off the ground as possible.  We soon realize he wants to kill himself, but his window won't open and he hurts his back trying to open it.  Later, he hurts his neck watching scantily clad dancers.  Eventually, he wants to try again.  Meanwhile, his poker buddies worry about why Felix hasn't shown up for the game.  What they should be worrying about is exactly what is in those sandwiches, and how long food has been on the filthy floor.  Felix's friend Oscar, whose apartment the guys are playing cards at, gets a phone call that gives the guys a clue about Felix's situation.  Oscar calls Felix's wife, who says they broke up and she's concerned Felix will kill himself. Fortunately, Felix remembers the game, and when he shows up the guys go out of their way to pretend nothing is wrong, even though Felix is acting quite despondent.  Of course, the guys end up nearly going crazy trying to keep Felix from doing anything crazy.  Needing a place to stay, Felix spends the night after the others leave, and Oscar offers to let Felix stay longer since he has plenty of room (his wife and kids used to live in the apartment).  Felix reluctantly agrees, but he knows Oscar needs someone to cook, clean and manage his money.The next poker game is quite different.  Fresh sandwiches, coasters for the drinks, a clean floor, and the cards have been disinfected.  Some of the guys aren't happy, but Oscar reminds them he has to put up with the guy all the time.  Throughout the rest of the movie, Oscar and Felix are bickering like a married couple (though they do date women, and that doesn't turn out too well, at least for Oscar).  Eventually, things get so bad that Oscar reopens a window he had closed despite the heat because he was afraid Felix would jump (and he makes a point of reminding Felix they're on the 12th floor).Walter Matthau was wonderful.  This is one of his best roles.  Jack Lemmon was also quite good, but I couldn't help but wonder how David Hyde-Pierce would have done as Felix.  So much of what Lemmon did reminded me of Niles Crane.  The actors playing the other poker buddies were also good.  And one example of good comic timing came after the  phone call from Oscar's ex demanding her alimony.  Oscar's accountant was there and the two argued over why Oscar hadn't paid his alimony.  But the movie wasn't just funny.  Matthau and Lemmon both showed quite a range, and the movie did get serious at times, but that was fine because these were such good characters, and the writing was so good.I enjoyed the TV series with Jack Klugman and Tony Randall (and also the one with Demond Wilson and Ron Glass).  I won't necessarily say Matthau and Lemmon are better than Klugman and Randall, just different.  I can't believe I waited all these years to see this movie.     "},{"Title":"Difficult edges but very funny when it gets past them","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When Felix is thrown out by his wife he tries to kill himself.  His poker playing buddies rally him in a `keen to help, glad it's not us' way.  Oscar agrees to let him stay at his place until he gets back on his feet.  However when Felix begins to anally clean the house (not literally!) and display all his annoying habits Oscar realises that they may be no more compatible than Felix and his wife.Based on Neil Simon's play this is a mixed beast.  The actual story mixes in suicide, divorce, broken hearts etc and all this is a very strange shell in which to contain a comedy &#150; and it shows at times.  The harsh edges take the shine off the comedy at times and makes it slightly harder to enjoy but at it's core it's very good.  The core of the film is simply the marriage-like relationship between Felix and Oscar and the way that they are very different.This works mainly because Lemmon and Matthau are very good together.  Admittedly Matthau really pushes the Brooklyn accent to breaking point but Lemmon is spot on as the man who appears sympathetic at first but manages to push all our understanding onto his wife (who we never even see!).  The poker players are all good but really this is a two man show and the two men in question are bang on the money for the whole film.Overall I felt that the downbeat setup took a lot of sparkle out of the comedy and the film only got going once the `odd couple' relationship had been set up.  The film is very funny and should be enjoyed by anyone who has seen a bad buddy-buddy movie.  This is how it's meant to be. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, the TV series that followed was great. Even the sequel was pretty funny. In fact, I've enjoyed a lot of Matthau-Lemmon stuff. But nothing is better than this film.  Simon has written a classic for the ages. There will be performances of this play centuries from now. And people will still be enjoying the movie.Matthau and Lemmon play two mismatched buddies who become roommates.  Lemmon has never been funnier and Matthau utters one of the greatest lines in film history  You keep leaving notes all over the house. I found one under my pillow Oscar, we're out of cornflakes. F.U. It took me three hours to figure out F.U. was Felix Unger.Klugman and Randall were great in the roles, but no one could ever do them as well as the originals. If you've never seen this movie you owe it to yourself to rent it. It's an all-time classic. "},{"Title":"Maybe The TV Show Was Better But This Is Still Worthwhile!","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE ODD COUPLE (3+ outta 5 stars)Like most people I will always feel that Jack Klugman and Tony Randall are the definitive Odd Couple.  Their incredible work on the TV series from the early to mid-70s was a highwater mark for television at the time... easily surpassing the stage and screen versions of the tale.  Nonetheless, how can you go wrong with a Jack Lemmon/Walter Matthau pairing?  Matthau is in especially good form as Oscar, the slob.  Lemmon takes a bit of getting used to as Felix, particularly if you have previously seen Tony Randall's outstanding performance.  The script is good... definitely Neil Simon's best.  (I will go on record here as stating that Neil Simon is probably one of the worst, most over-rated playwrights of American theatre.)  The storyline is simple Felix, a neat freak and newly separated from his wife moves in with Oscar, the slob who needs some help saving money for alimony payments.  Their living arrangement becomes much like a marriage as well, culminating in some amusing tiffs and spats.  Lots of fun and some great one-liners.  "},{"Title":"Okay, But I Prefer The TV Series","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some scenes in here I found extremely funny, such as when Jack Lemmon (Felix Ungar) starts making strange honking noises. Other parts are uncomfortable, such as when Walter Matthau (Oscar Madison) gets downright mean to Felix. However, Matthau does have a lot of funny lines in here.Yes, the two are supposed to argue a lot but it got to be a little too much in the second half of the film. Unlike the TV series which was spawned after this hit movie, Felix parts with Oscar in the end.Overall, okay but not as good as the television series with Jack Klugman and Tony Randall. "},{"Title":"Who sends a suicide telegram?....","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felix Ungar has just broken up with his wife. Despondent, and at a total loss, he goes to kill himself but is saved by his friend Oscar Madison. With nowhere else to go, Felix is urged by Oscar to move in with him, at least for a while. The only problem is that Felix is neat, tidy, and neurotic, whereas Oscar is slovenly and casual.........Matthau and Lemmon bounce off each other in this wonderful, sniping, sarcastic comedy, with just a little darkness thrown in for good measure.If you could sum Felix and Oscar up, they would be like the little demon and angel that would sit on your shoulders helping you to make a good or bad decision, they are so different, that the only thing I really questioned during the movie was how on earth did they become friends?A film about a neurotic, suicidal man, living with a couldn't care less slob, gradually falling out sounds like a chore to watch, but one would never question this, and I doubt they ever have, because it's written by a genius, and is bright and breezy, despite some of the dark subject matters it deals with.Some of the humour now seems a little tame, because of the world achangin' over the years, but it's not very often, and it's still funny, because if you've seen this, the chances are you like other comedy's from this era.It's funny, and the two leads are fantastic. It wouldn't surprise me if they were best friends in real life. "},{"Title":"A fun but somewhat forgettable comedy","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felix Unger (Jack Lemmon) has just ended his relationship with his wife and decides to kill himself, after being unsuccessful at doing so, he goes to Oscar Madison's (Walter Matthau) house to play their weekly poker game with a group of friends. This eventually leads to Felix moving in with Oscar but unbeknownst to him, Felix is a clean freak where as Oscar has a complete mess of house. This quickly leads to Oscar not being able to take Felix's behavior. It's a fairly simplistic comedic setup but still allows for a nice, enjoyable, and relaxing film. I won't say the film is that special because frankly, it isn't. I will more than likely forget about the film within a few days but it was still an enjoyable watch. The film seemed to have a problem with actually starting up, it takes a good twenty minutes for the plot to really even begin which was a problem for me. Luckily, the film is still filled with plenty of laughs due to cast playing off each other well and the two leads (Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau) being fantastic in their roles. It could have probably benefited from ten or so minutes being cut out in parts to let the film flow better in it's already fairly short run time of around an hour and forty minutes. Overall, it's a good time and is filled with some fun, comedic moments but you won't remember much about it afterwards. "},{"Title":"Just watched it again","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" They cover all the great aspects of the original TV series. The card playing--time going by as the you the viewer, circle above the them and the fast paced music plays. The montage of them running in the park, Oscar stopping to talk to a pretty girl( looks like a prostitute in this one ha, ha) There are plenty of other great sequences that are reminiscent of a style of sitcom dialog and camera work that you rarely see anymore. Which I think is a shame. I really enjoyed this overall, yes the wedding storyline is weak, but the Randall and Klugman one on one dialog exchanges are wonderful. FYI...the First season of the TV series is out on DVD now. "},{"Title":"The TV Show Was Better","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this, I didn't laugh too much. At the time, I was only about fifteen years old and thought that maybe some of the deeper humor was too mature for me to understand at the time. I had the same reaction when I viewed it a second time a few months ago, and this time, it was because Felix's aborted suicide attempt at the beginning of the movie kind of darkened the movie a bit. This scene made some of the things Oscar said and did to Felix later in the movie seem needlessly cruel, and their personality clashes weren't as amusing as they could have been. Had I not already known the story, I would have been worried that some of Oscar's antics to Felix might push him over the edge. As it was, it didn't make me laugh or smile like the television show with Jack Klugman and Tony Randall did. Still, all in all, a pretty good movie and it spawned one of the greatest sitcoms on television. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece.","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of those movies that fully justify the invention of cinema. It is one of those films that achieve something that's quite hard to do to make you feel happy. Some say that making a comedy is much more difficult than making a drama, and I do agree with that it's much easier to make people cry than to make them laugh.The Odd Couple is based on a theater play, and it tells the story of two friends that have recently divorced and have to live together. One (Jack Lemmon) is such a fussy-hyponchondriatic-meticulous guy, and the other one (Matthau) wouldn't mind to live among pigs.With such plot, with those two giants of performance, and with some of the best dialogs in the story of cinema nothing can go wrong the success is insured. A MASTERPIECE.*My rate 10/10 "}{"Title":"A Comedic Masterpiece - Should Be Remember For Years to Come","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never knew that a film could be this funny. I remember hearing somuch about the film, the play and the TV series (My father is ahuge fan). One Christmas, while i was on vacation at a relative'shouse, i was shouted into the house because 'The Odd Couple'was on. I quickly dug out a tape and recorded it. I'll never regrettaping over the film that was previously on that tape. This filmseems to fly by like it's only on for ten minutes. The performanceswere amazing and hilarious. The writing, the directing, thecinematography, the sets, the famous theme tune etc... It was allamazing! I love to brag on about films and i would do this on thisfilm but if i start i wouldn't be able to stop and eventually i wouldn'tbe able to write anymore due to the fact that IMDB has a limit of1000 words for reviews. Anyway, just go and see this film. Nomatter what format or what quality, just get it! "},{"Title":"A flawless blend of the subtle with the flamboyant","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Before I ever saw The Odd Couple,  I heard scenes of it on an longplaying record that my roommate had on our air base in Texas in 1969. The dialogues were inter-spaced with music clips from the film.  It gotto be a matter of course that Sandy and I would unwind with DirtyPoker and Clean Poker immediately upon returning to our room afterduty hours.  Therefore, by the time I got the opportunity to see themovie, I had memorized an awful lot of the dialogue and thecomplementary visual aspects of the film appeared all the moreillustrative.  The Odd Couple is the most flawless blend of writtendialogue with setting, movement, and facial expressions that I haveever seen on film.    Every scene of The Odd Couple is a masterfulblend of the understated with the flamboyant.  It is a film that offersthe audience a nice blend of comfortable, likeable characters in afamiliar setting with something new each time the movie is seen again. In the Dirty Poker scene, nothing is said about it but the viewer whohas seen the film several times can see in their chagrined, resignedfaces that Oscar's poker party guests have long since given up tryingto get him to take down the Christmas decorations now that they areinto the dog days of summer.     When warm beer starts spraying allover the apartment, Oscar is in the background wiping up with sofapillows.      In 1975, after serving in Vietnam and after getting an MA degree in Tokyo, I dropped in on Sandy in Chicago.  Now with our wives in thecar, I suddenly asked Sandy,   My meat loaf is all dried out.  What amI going to do?   Without missing a beat, Sandy responded,  Put gravyon it. Where am I going to get gravy at 8 o'clock? I don't know.  I thought it comes when you cook the meat.     Both of our wives really thought we had lost it when I angrilyinsisted,  You don't know what you are talking about, Oscar.  You'vegot to make gravy.  It doesn't just come!  "},{"Title":"Uninspired","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The opening credits tell it all, this movie is adapted from a play and unfortunately it's already noticeable from the introduction scene  the action is dreadfully stuck and the scenes are often uninspired and drag on unnecessarily in a characteristic verbosity. Moreover the rhythm is very slow, the lines and situations are for the most part so mediocre that it's cringe-worthy, and you barely crack a smile at the few, contrived gags. The Matthau-Lemmon duo, who usually augurs good things, doesn't seem convinced at all, there is no chemistry between the two and Lemmon's acting is so apathetic that it's almost bad. It's tough to find something to draw from this annoying comedy, incomprehensibly well regarded by critics and rankings. "},{"Title":"Almost a great comedy","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you delete the first twenty minutes or so of this film, you will be left with a fantastic comedy.  As it is, I still found it to be a pretty good movie, which is no small feat considering the coma I was put in by the opening scenes.  To put it mildly, this film has a dreary beginning that wasn't even remotely funny, or even upbeat.  Once things get sillier, however, you are left with a comedy that still holds up well after more than three decades.  Definitely worth checking out, especially if you're a younger fan of Lemmon and Matthau who wants to see their earlier work. "},{"Title":"Winning Pair in a Slight Neil Simon Effort","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's nothing really to dislike about The Odd Couple, and it's no surprise that Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau make a hugely winning comedic team. But there's something so underdeveloped about Neil Simon's adaptation of his hit stage play as to make it seem more like a skit on a sketch comedy show than a full-bodied film. I have not seen the play, but have to assume that the screen version is fairly faithful, since Simon wrote it, so the defects cannot be blamed on a stage-to-screen adaptation. There are some interesting ideas in this story--two recently divorced men who fall immediately into traditional married roles when they become roommates because neither knows any differently--that Simon never fully fleshes out. Still, there are many worse ways to kill a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the ideal mismatched pair Lemmon and Matthau","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felix Unger (Jack Lemmon) has just been dumped by his wife, because he is one of the most annoying , neurotic people in the world. Suicide is his way out, but he just can't seem to get it to work, so he heads over to his friends house. Oscar Madison (Walther Matthau) is also recently divorced and living it up in bachelor heaven. Smoking, gambling, hitting on chicks, eating out and never cleaning is paradise to him. Well, with the suicide attempts Oscar decides to let Felix move in. At first, it is a match made in heaven, Felix cooks and cleans and helps Oscar pay his alimony on time, but soon Oscar is jonesing for women and Felix (who in today's world would probably be gay) isn't ready to move on. They invite a couple of British birds over and they find Felix so tender that soon they and Felix are weeping and chatting about his family life, leaving Oscar denied. This is it, he explodes and throws him out, but Felix isn't as helpless as it seems, and soon he has the upper hand. My favorite quote You leave me little notes on my pillow. Told you 158 times I can't stand little notes on my pillow. We're all out of cornflakes. F.U. Took me three hours to figure out F.U. was Felix Ungar! Based on a Neil Simon play (who also wrote the screenplay), this has a certain theatre feel to it. Set and the repartee and looks feel quite play-like (for better or worse). Lemmon and Mathau have excellent comedic chemistry and have appeared in the Grumpier Old Men movies and Out to Sea, reprising the same finicky/slob roles, but with different names (to avoid royalty issues, I'm sure).This movie is like strawberries dipped in chocolate. The chocolate is smooth, sweet and rich, the strawberry is tart, juicy and bright red (unless you get those nasty greenish ones). They are almost polar opposites, but together, the contrasts highlight each other and make a wonderful dessert. 7/10 http//blog.myspace.com/locoformovies "},{"Title":"After a slow start, the comedy gets into gear...pure gold...","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Neil Simon had a knack for dialog and nowhere is this more evident than the lines he gives WALTER MATTHAU and JACK LEMMON as opposite types in THE ODD COUPLE--a mixture of comedy and sadness that depends entirely on the believability of two such mismatched friends sharing an apartment.Lemmon is neatnik Felix Ungar, bent on suicide after the divorce from his wife and reluctantly agreeing to share an apartment with Oscar Madison (Matthau) with somewhat disastrous results. Seems that everything Felix says and does drives Oscar up the wall and neither one can stand the other's ways, with Oscar being the messiest male imaginable and Felix the exact opposite.Funniest scene for me was when the giggling Pigeon sisters in the apartment above visit them on a dinner date. The priceless interaction between Lemmon, Matthau and Carole Shelley and Monica Evans is enough to put you in stitches. The talented Pigeon sisters are the gals who did the voices for the Gabble Sisters (a pair of geese) in Disney's THE ARISTOCATS, and here--their comic timing on top of Lemmon's sad story of despair is enough to spin the film into hilarity--where it remains much of the time.If you're a Neil Simon fan and have enjoyed other screen treatments of his work, this one is not to be missed. Matthau and Lemmon are perfectly cast (even though they considered exchanging roles before filming began) and, of course, it's easy to see why it became a top-rated TV show later on.Summing up Top Simon comedy, not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Laughter On The 11th Or 12th Floor","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's hard to watch this movie without thinking forward to the television show it would become, especially if, like me, you happen to like the TV show more. But there's a lot to be said for the source.Oscar Madison (Walter Matthau) is a top New York City sportswriter who lives in an eight-room apartment by himself, a casualty of divorce and his own stubbornly sloppy mindset. Enter his friend Felix Ungar (Jack Lemmon), needing a place to live after his wife threw him out for his stubbornly neatnik mindset. The result is a train wreck and one of the most beloved movie adaptations of a Neil Simon stage play.First thing's first I love that apartment! Poker table, novelty dart board, askew photos of baseball players, empty booze and beer containers, even a pair of Roman columns. It's a place where men can be boys. Simon and director Gene Saks do a great job opening up the stage play's single set, Oscar's living room, by moving the action into the bedrooms and kitchen and giving the mounting tension between Oscar and Felix more corners to bounce off of.Neal Hefti's familiar score was heard on the TV show, but never so sweepingly orchestrated as it is here, in several different arrangements that make the on-screen action soar whenever its played. Real location work and night shots of Manhattan give the film an energy common to films shot in that place and time (Buddwing, The World Of Henry Orient, Midnight Cowboy, Manchurian Candidate, Rosemary's Baby, etc.)Are Lemmon and Matthau too heavy in comparison to Tony Randall and Jack Klugman? To be fair, the movie is meant to be a more serious affair, dealing with the then-uncommon condition of mid-life divorce and the frustration inherent in not being able to make a relationship work. Simon has more in mind than entering Felix and Oscar in a game of Password or a battle of wits with Howard Cosell. But I don't know...Both Lemmon and Matthau were terrific comedians I enjoy watching especially in the middle of this film as I often do in their separate movies, but I never understood why they were regarded as a great comedy team. Here, in their best-regarded partnership, they seem to be acting in two different films; Lemmon in a comedy-drama and Matthau in a farce. Matthau is great in the beginning, charming us with his teddy-bear demeanor around the poker table, but near the end of the film he takes a turn much like Jack Torrance's in The Shining, reacting to Felix cleaning up his apartment and serving tasty food to his friends in a way that totally upsets the delicate balance of blame.While the ending bothers me, the part many see as the most jarring, the beginning, works fine as I see it. Watching Felix stumbling around trying to kill himself isn't great comedy, no, but it's a good way to get into a great comedy, setting us up with some real-life pain before bringing in the warmth and laughter. (Plus it has some great shots of the seedier parts of the city.) In the middle of the movie, this scene would have been a miscalculation, but it works as a way of establishing Felix's torment and a sense of sharp relief to come when we see Oscar and his poker friends bicker and feud.That's where Simon's lines are so great. They are the underlying strength of the film. He gets the banter exactly right and real, and still makes it funny. I don't mind you talking, Felix. You got things to say. What's scaring me is I'm beginning to listen. The TV show showed how wrong it is to assume the movie is always better, in fact the TV show once made a good point about assuming anything at all, but the movie makes for a solid foundation and is a joy in its own right. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon are both reasonably good in this rather stagy comedy, which does little to disguise its roots as a play. It is very slow to warm up, and even once it has warmed up, the film is not very funny, although there are admittedly some entertaining moments. The premise becomes tiresome as it leaves the storyline with little room to go, and having the different characters shouting over each other is not one of the better things to have on screen. But, the film is still okay to watch nevertheless, and it has a simply classic music score, plus it is also notable for having inspired two television series. "},{"Title":"The Best Lemmon-Matthau Partnership.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A side-splitting film that is basically a two-man show (Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau) about their attempts to try to keep their minds when they start living together. Matthau is already divorced and Lemmon's wife has had it with him. Lemmon believes that the world is as good as over and decides to commit suicide. Matthau and some of their mutual friends come to the rescue and Matthau decides it is best for Lemmon to stay with him for awhile. Well of course he starts to regret this decision as Lemmon's neatness and by-the-book antics about drive Matthau crazy. A really creative and first-rate comedy that never does lose its steam and remains solid from the start to its closing credits. 5 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"A classical and inspirational comedy","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are hilarious as Felix and Oscar, two middle-aged buddies who share a flat in Manhattan. The trouble is, they have very little in common! Felix is a neat freak, almost feminist man while Oscar is the slob who owns the joint and doesn't mind if the apartment is messy or not. Oscar resents Felix's obsession with cleaning, while Felix hates his roommate's pigsty of a life. This movie has to be the inspiration to many future comedies, because it was the first to show how 2 people with completely different tastes try to put up with the other's life style. Future films such as Grumpy Old Men and even Lethal Weapon and Tango and Cash had borrowed the mismatched concept of the Odd Couple if you thin  "},{"Title":"Jack + Walter are fantastic","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The odd Couple i thought was a fantastic movie, My favourite part in the movie was when Jack (Played Felix) was making noises in the restaurant just because he had something up his nose, i laughed at that part and i think that is one of the best parts in the movie. Smer, that's the sound, i love it. Walter Matthau and Jack lemmon are fantastic comedian actors. God Bless you both, i give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy/classic duo","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a classic comedy in the sense of the word.  Fun entertainment with a good duo in-between.  Jack Lemmon and (the late and great) Walter Matthau make one of the best pairs as a slob and a neurotic cleaner.  A little over-dramatic performance by Lemmon, but it helps in Matthau's delivery. One of the best films of the 60's.  Written by Neil Simon, which he wrote from his original play.  A "},{"Title":"The Odd Couple","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my honest opinion, I can't see the big fuss with this film, and it is more of a drama than a comedy, mainly because only one bit was funny. Basically Golden Globe nominated Jack Lemmon as Felix Ungar has recently split from his wife, and needs a place to live. So he goes to his best friend, Golden Globe nominated Walter Matthau as Oscar Madison in his near untidy apartment. Felix seems keen on suicide and is really feeling under the weather, but with the small quarrels and convincing of Oscar he slowly changes his mind. Also starring John Fiedler as Vinnie, Herbert Edelman as Murray, David Sheiner as Roy, Larry Haines as Speed, Monica Evans as Cecily Pigeon and Carole Shelley as Gwendolyn Pigeon. This was the second of ten films that Lemmon and Matthau appeared in together. The only funny part for me is when Lemmon tries to clear his ears/sinuses by making a ridiculous snort type noise. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. Jack Lemmon was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, the film was number 34 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films, and it was number 17 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "}]