[{"Title":"Still powerful, relevant, and sensuous","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a heck of a lot more relevant than more recent films dealing with lesbianism -- the shallow, lame DESERT HEARTS comes to mind.  Though over two hours long, TKOSG held me with little effort.  The action moved freely from the studio to the apartment to the pub.  And the seduction scene was totally erotic and ... well ... never mind.  Was this particular scene overly long? Only to a generation raised on sex scenes which rarely last as long as it takes to cook a three-minute egg.  Explicit?  Grow up!And the performances ... wow! I had no problem with the hold George had over Childie, with Beryl Reid's superior portrayal complemented perfectly by Susannah York's fragile and, at the same time, forceful Childie.  I must admit, York was a bit over the top in the beginning, but I wouldn't say that if I didn't count her as one of my all-time favorite actresses. And how about Coral Browne -- she was sensational!  Sublty menacing, eerily sensuous -- and when I realized this was the same woman from AUNTIE MAME and LYLA CLARE, well, I nearly fell off my chair.  I love this lady!  "},{"Title":"Underrated 1960's British black comedy. A must-see","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Anyone who likes gritty, clever, slightly comical drama should see this one. The plot is simple enough - an alcoholic gay actress worried about her future in a top Coronation Street-style soap opera - but the way the film is put together is pithy without being too complex - the characterisations are brilliantly satirical, showing up the worst side of the soap opera industry and its catty, backstabbing nature. You don't find yourself feeling sorry for anyone at the end of it apart from perhaps Susannah York. Lots of London-in-the-1960s location filming and familiar faces - I'm only surprised that John Le Mesurier doesn't appear in it. In a word - absorbing. Why don't they make them like this anymore? "},{"Title":"Beryl Reid gives a terrific performance in this overlooked comedy drama from Robert Aldrich, one of Hollywood's most underrated directors.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Aldrich is a director who rarely gets the attention he deserves. Ridiculously versatile he made the fascinating Film Noir 'Kiss Me Deadly', the gothic black comedy 'Whatever Happened To Baby Jane?', and the macho tough guys on a mission action classic 'The Dirty Dozen' to name just three in a long career. Just to emphasize that he could do just about anything, one of the first movies he made after 'The Dirty Dozen' was 'The Killing Of Sister George'. It's hard to imagine two more different movies! George is a very English picture about a much loved soap opera star (played by Beryl Reid) who has to juggle a career crisis with a complex lesbian relationship (her lover being played by Susanna York). Reid was well known to British audiences through her TV work, especially a couple of highly popular John Le Carre adaptations. Reid originated the Sister George role on the stage and she really makes the most of it in this movie. Her performance is terrific, hilariously bitchy and also very sad and pathetic. York is also good, and the lesbian subject matter must have been very shocking for the time. It may look a little dated now, but in context it is quite sensitively handled. There are some great actors in the supporting cast, most notably Coral Browne ('Theatre Of Blood') who plays a TV producer who has her eye on York. 'The Killing Of Sister George' deserves a bigger audience. I highly recommend it and hope that anyone who enjoys it looks further into the career of the Robert Aldrich, a seriously underrated film maker! "},{"Title":"Scathing indictment of show biz","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beryl Reid gives a no-holds-barred performance as an aging lesbian actress who's already teetering on the edge when she gets word that her character in a TV soap opera is to be killed off. She takes out her frustrations on her childlike lover (Susannah York) and a production head (Coral Browne), the two of whom eventually become intimate on their own. The script-reading sequence had me howling with laughter, and Reid's non-stop barrage of put-downs, insults, wisecracks and other hateful remarks are acidly hilarious. A surprisingly realistic sex scene near the end is pretty graphic for its time (I almost felt like looking away) and we never learn much about Browne's icy character, but the final scene is gut-wrenching, as is the final line of dialogue. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Monumental performance by Reid","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is a showcase for some magnificent acting....it doesn't seem at all homophobic , but rather immensely poignant and sad...and in what other film do you get to see a great lesbian band in matching sweaters and guitars (good solo!) Difficult at the beginning, just seems shallow and bitchy, but stick with it and watch Beryl Reid's character disintegrate....the final scene reminded me of The Blue Angel or The Entertainer in its shattering degradation...congrats to Aldrich for having the guts to make this movie, I think it stands the test of time rather well. Coral Browne is also magnificent, and York holds her own. The lesbian bar scene is worth waiting for. "},{"Title":"an overlooked gem...","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not see the stage play upon which this film is based (too young) but, based on its own merits, this film surely deserves a closer look.The central trio of performers (Reid, York, Browne) provide career bests and there are some amusing vignettes from the others (Fraser, in particular, as a truly odious soap actor).The much-discussed sex scene is, by today's standards (and, it would seem, even those of the 1960s stage play), tame, but its real value as a display of the shift of power between the three central characters is very neatly worked through in the closing quarter.The final five minutes of (self-) destruction is heartbreaking, with excellent use made of the music track.In short miss it and miss out. "},{"Title":"Robert Aldrich, Sensitive Guy of the Sixties","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Am I the only one who finds it painfully touching that Robert Aldrich went from the biggest hit of his career--the almost woman-free DIRTY DOZEN--to the kind of movie he really wanted to make, i.e., a stagebound melodrama about an aging lesbian soap star's love for a demented nymphet? In its day, SISTER GEORGE was considered the ne plus ultra in coarse homophobia; critics saw the sweaty thumbprints of the Aldrich Touch on every girl-on-girl scene. (Does anyone now lambaste THE BITTER TEARS OF PETRA VON KANT for not being hardhitting docudrama?) In retrospect, the movie seems to me one of Aldrich's most affecting, with Coral Browne (December) and a teeny, teenaged Susannah York (May) grand-slamming this folie a deux to a fare-thee-well. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie in every way","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't give many movies 10/10, but this black comedy-drama gets my vote, for fine acting, production values, and of course its place in movie history in the frank portrayal of lesbian relationships.Others have & will comment on the latter, so I'll point out some of the other aspects of this fine film. The combination of comedy with personal tragedy poses difficult problems both for the writer & director; here they both succeed brilliantly.The three principals' performances are riveting. I particularly liked the ambiguity of Coral Brown's portrayal of Mercy Croft; watch her carefully in the tight closeups in the gay club, and notice how the down-turned mouth at times hides a hint of a self-satisfied smile.The cinematography deserves special mention. The use of colour is beautiful; I was reminded of The Umbrellas of Cherbourg, but it never steps over the line into unreality. On the contrary, the alleys of London, the TV studio and above all the stairs and corridor of the flat are supremely realistic. Most unusual is the use of chiaroscuro, the interplay of light-and-shadow, seldom seen outside of black & white films. In so many colour films the light appears to come from some amorphous omnidirectional source out of science fiction; great for lighting everything and everybody evenly, but unrealistic and DULL. Look at the shadows as Beryl Reid ('George') enters the apartment building and climbs the stairs, or in some of the bedroom scenes. Apart from its other many virtues, this movie held my attention as a fine piece of film-making.All in all, a masterpiece; my one regret is that it was shown on TV in pan-and-scan. It IS now available in DVD - in several formats & regions - so I look forward to watching it again in its original form. "},{"Title":"Too long but good","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" June Buckridge (Beryl Reid) plays a character named Sister George on a popular TV show. She gets word that her character is going to be killed and panics. She is also a lesbian and her relationship with her lover (Susannah York) is falling apart. Network executive Mercy Croft (Coral Browne) tries to help her...or does she?This movie has problems--it's way too long (almost 2 1/2 hours), has unlikable characters and is pretty depressing. Still it's very well-directed (I love the way the opening credits are done) and has three great performances. Reid had already been in the play on stage so she pretty much knew what she was doing. She's just great--you see her anger but also sympathize with her. York is very good as her lover. Browne is just superb as Mercy Croft. SPOILERS IN THE NEXT PARAGRAPH!!!! This was (for its time) pretty extreme. It was seen as a lesbian movie. In my opinion it really isn't. It's about an older woman whose behavior and attitude ends up destroying her. She just happens to be a lesbian. Still this was pretty raw for 1968. They shot the bar scenes in an actual lesbian bar in England and there was a sexual seduction in the movie that wasn't in the play. It's when Browne and York get together. York hated doing that scene and it shows. This got slapped with an X rating originally just for the subject matter alone. Director Robert Aldrich fought against that rating for years--he thought it deserved an R. It was re rated to an R in 1972. I remember it played here in Boston for months on end. Lines were around the block every night despite the rating. Still it was only a modest hit and quickly was forgotten. The stigma of the X rating still haunts this film which is too bad. No great masterpiece but worth seeing for the great acting by the three leads. "},{"Title":"A scabrous comedy about the ugliness of human longing.","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While there is delicate humor here, as in the movie's satire on the twee reassurances and stereotyping of an English soap opera's portrayal of homely English village life, this movie is in the end an unsettling portrait of the human condition, of the ugliness, the uncontrollable and incendiary nature of our sexual and emotional longings and need.I spent years wanting to see this movie, if only because of its legendary nature and Coral Browne's presence in the cast, and it's nothing like what I imagined. Given the title and all the talk in books about scenes set in a dark and intense demimondaine world of lesbian bars, I pictured some sort of police procedural about lesbians being killed by a serial killer, a Sidney Sheldon-type story.Ostensibly a portrait of an aging actress's dying career, the heart of the picture is the competition among the characters for love, for the ruthless quest for success and the money and companionship that go with it.There is constant sado-masochistic emotional gamesmanship here, with characters playing roles that are alternately passive and active. One character pretends to be not much more than a slip of a girl and sits by and watches as others compete for her attentions.The sex scene in the movie, while ugly in the extreme, is vital to the film's message. (I'm amazed that this aired, even late at night, on Turner Classic Movies, so that I, thankfully, got a chance to see the movie.) Coral Browne's face, stripped of its mask of demure self-possession, exposing the animal (the monster?) that we all are at the core of our being--that's something to see. And unsettling.I'll never particularly care for Susannah York. She'll always strike me as a bit of an over-praised, over-successful relic of the 1960s, a kind of prissy relic, but what a film, even with some longeurs. And the towering--both literally and figuratively--Coral Browne what a presence. "}{"Title":"This defies the year it was made.  Classy film.","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beryl Reid plays June 'George' Buckridge, an actress who's appeared for many years on BBC soap Applehurst as the lovable Sister George. In the world of soaps everything changes, fearing she's due to be written out she begins behaving more and more unreasonably, making her partner Childie's life a misery along the way. George becomes horrendously insecure and keeps hitting the bottle, but soon her worst fears are realised.I have to start by saying this film totally defies the period it came from, I had to keep checking it was made in 1968, it feels incredibly modern, and incredibly relevant. Wonderful black humour, some of George's cutting remarks and put downs are so funny. Mrs Croft's arrival at the club is so funny, her facial expressions were priceless.The acting is absolutely phenomenal, I love Beryl Reid, and this has to be the crowning glory of her career, her performance is exquisite, the hold she has of Susannah York's 'Childie' is amazing, and her drunken acting is sensational. York herself got into the role fabulously well, very much up to Reid's charismatic George.I love the scenes of 60's London, it looks amazing, great to see the London buses too. It's a long film, coming in at over two hours, but I promise it's so good it holds your attention.An absolute gem of a film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Best of Beryl Reid","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beryl Reid gives the performance of a lifetime in this film about lesbian roommates, one of which is an actress. The main plot revolves around the possibility of Beryl Reid's character on a TV show being written off (the show.) Her relationship with roommate Susannah York is very interesting. But, suffice it to say, Beryl is very dominating, possessive, and demanding. She wants to know where she's been all the time and likes to throw her weight around. At middle age and with extra weight, she is no longer the beauty she once was, and, as someone points out to her late in the film, she is not the ideal desired sex object for young women. To describe this film with mere words really doesn't do the film justice. Granted Beryl's performance is the whole show. But the movie is an experience you're not likely to forget, especially with a love scene between two ladies near the end of it. Coral Browne is quite good and memorable in her role as well. But The Killing of Sister George belongs to Beryl Reid and this film's hard-to-find status is only hurting people's chances at seeing Ms. Reid at her best. "},{"Title":"Beryl Reid's rascally and a real riot...","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seeing Beryl Reid mouth silently a four-letter swear word when such things didn't happen in films and drunkenly canoodling with two young nuns in the back of a London cab is both quite outstanding and rather lovable.Miss Reid, who I only got to see in my childhood as a twee, granny-like innocent (the sort that she plays for real in a TV serial as Sister George, a homely district nurse), I found The Killing Of... both delicious and ever astounding in its frankness and of her rather warped relationship with the much younger Susannah York.Warped, not because of the age difference, nor of their same-sex partnership, but because June Buckridge (Reid) has a cruel streak that is borne out by her playing sadistic mind games with Alice Childie (York).Sister George, in the best tradition of TV soaps, is being killed off, to make way for an Australian replacement. Hence June's venomous outpourings and increasingly erratic behaviour.Equally interesting is the London of the late '60s, both in its landmarks but also its people and fashions, whether that's in how they live and/or how they dress and present themselves.Though real soaps cover such material freely and openly these days, 42 years ago, it must have been a very different kettle of fish. Lesbianism back in those days was not only considered immoral but also a mental aberration and had to be so hidden, in an attempt to prove to those 'righteous' souls that it did not exist. Therefore, it must have been a very brave undertaking as a film, though it originated as a play, written by Frank Marcus.Having now seen it again, I consider Robert Aldrich's ground-breaking film to be a bit of a classic and one, which, no doubt I'll want to see again in a few years time. It really is a piece of British cinematic history. "},{"Title":"seventies lesbian melo-drama at its best and then some","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i found the going-ons behind the scenes more interesting and intriguing than the actual film itself. for starters this one film was considered by many to be a landmark film. Aldrich lost a lot of money from this film due to the sensory board giving it an x-rating and cutting away from the more explicit scenes between mercy and childie. Susannah york apparently was far from happy when told of the climatic love scene she was to have with coral Browne. according to one producer on set that day, york was a real bitch towards Browne simply because she did not want to do the scene. one long-time collaborator of Aldrich left in disgust over the subject matter. i personally feel that this film would have been more suited as a television mini-series than the silver screen though it holds up remarkably well after all these years. "},{"Title":"Enthralling 1960s minor classic still works well.","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Firstly, it's not about lesbians per se; it's about these two particular lesbians and the final days of their long, twisted relationship. More importantly, it's about one woman's slow, sad self-destruction. 'TKoSG' was based on a stage play, but rest assured the movie is a satisfyingly 'cinematic' experience, realised with skillful editing and excellent direction. Amazing that director Robert Aldritch went from macho WW2 caper 'The Dirty Dozen' to this female-dominated character-driven 'small-scale' movie. 'TKoSG' bears repeated watching to catch the subtler portents. George is monstrous but not a monster; though petty and self-obsessed to the point of becoming oblivious to the spiraling degeneration of her personal and professional life. The most complex, enigmatic character is George's TV boss Mercy Croft, who a first seems disconcertingly snooty, condescending and unpleasant. In fact, it is the widowed Mrs Croft who (arguably) acts with the most genuine humanity; instantly recognising an abusive relationship and making moves to rescue Alice from it. She constantly endeavours &#x96;until finally pushed too far- to break bad news with sensitivity and treat George with due respect, including lining her up a new job. Even the blatant display of homosexual affection at the Gateways Club barely fazes her. Her only miscalculation is that she does not fully see Alice for the unstable, pathologically dependent person she is. While some of the more superficial elements have become dated, the great acting (including the smaller roles) remains a pleasure. Only Susannah York lets the side down just a little with an occasionally self-conscious performance. Also, it may be just me; but the (deliberately?) garish manner in which George's prostitute friend is presented gives an oddly 'David Lynch' vibe (that's not completely unwelcome, though). The ending, when George finally realises just what has happened and how, is unforgettable. All in all, a very entertaining, emotionally engaging movie from the late 1960s with only a thin dusting of 'quaint' to show for all those years. And for aficionados there's the bonus of some truly groovy neo-psychedelic soundtrack music at the Gateways Club party. "},{"Title":"Very amusing with vitriolic dialogue!","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A supremely entertaining film I thought, WAY ahead of it's time for the content and theme. The 'showdown' scene between 'Sister George' (Reid) and 'Mercy Croft'(Browne) was excruciatingly funny! a two way band of vitriolic hatred-the dialogue was bitchy and vitriolic in the extreme, overall an excellent movie that contains pathos/paranoia/jealousy/mind-games/spite and vast amounts of HUMOUR!! The fashions and locations are very 'period' of the time-Late sixties. A very good script that never let's you down-you almost can't wait for the next injurious insult/put-down to be heard-I truly believe the way those sentences were constructed were very over the top, but somehow very real and true to life - even now. "},{"Title":"Maybe a bit too shocking even in this day and age for some viewers","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Killing of Sister George (1968) THE KILLING OF SISTER GEORGE tells the story of June Buckridge, a middle-aged actress who portrays Sister George in a cosy weekly British TV soap opera called Applehurst.In the show June, as Sister George, is a sweet and charming District Nurse loved by all, but off-screen she has a more sinister side to her personality she's a hard-drinking, foul-mouthed, cigar smoking lesbian, totally insecure in her relationship with the much younger Alice Childie McNaught (Susannah York).Into this insecure relationship arrives the spidery Mrs. Mercy Croft (Coral Browne), who indirectly gets June sacked from her television role and seduces June's lover into the bargain.Beryl Reid is sensational as June Buckridge. Using a wide variety of acting skills she makes the character completely her own. It's a memorable performance, but perhaps a bit too theatrical at times.Coral Browne fairs a bit better and simply oozes fake charm and arch superiority. She's positively malevolent. Her every line of dialogue and facial expression seem to drip with evil intent. What a great performance.Susannah York is a bit hard to take as Childie. She's simply the wrong actress for the role because she appears to be too old and her personality is too strong for someone who is supposed to have been dominated by her lover.The film, directed by Robert Aldrich, will be a bit too full-on for most audiences. In the play on which the film was based, the lesbian relationship was only hinted at, never really mentioned. But in the film, however, Aldrich hits you over the head with it again and again.Be warned the trip to The Gateways Club (a lesbian bar) maybe a bit too shocking even in this day and age for some viewers.A good film, but it could do with some pruning, but definitely worth seeing for Beryl Reid and Coral Browne's performances. "},{"Title":"Not all women are raving bloody lesbians, you know.","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sister George is a lesbian cult classic that has the distinction of being the first serious film to receive an X rating. Serious? Beryl Reid who played June 'George' Buckridge got a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actress, which she lost to Joanne Woodward.Director Robert Aldrich used Lukas Heller for the screenplay. They both did the gay favorite Whatever Happened to Baby Jane six years earlier.Sister George may be the first movie in which an alcoholic, unrepentant butch who molests nuns is redeemed by her unwavering commitment to her sexuality. She lives with a much much younger Alice 'Childie' McNaught (Susannah York).We never see any thing approaching affection between George and Childie, it is a two minute seduction by Mercy Croft (Coral Browne) that got the X rating, and it was rather tame by today's standards.A really funny play about aging actresses with an excellent cast. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted, but Don't Expect a Lesbian Boys in the Band","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The same year that Mart Crowley's landmark play about Gay men in New York, THE BOYS IN THE BAND, opened off-Broadway, Robert Aldrich, one of Hollywood's brightest and most versatile voices, gave us the distaff version with his adaptation of Frank Marcus's play THE KILLING OF SISTER GEORGE. Two years later, William Friedkin would bring Crowley's work to the screen, with much better results than Aldrich achieves here, but I think it is only fair to point out that, flaws and all, Marcus and Aldrich got there first.And they brought a cast of heavy-hitters with them Beryl Reid, a force of nature as June Buckridge (Sister George, a nurse on a popular soap opera), Susannah York as her somewhat infantile lover Childie, and the third point in the triangle, a serpentine BBC executive by the name of Mercy Croft, played to a fare-thee-well by Coral Browne, who has a dual agenda telling June that she's been sacked and stealing Childie from her into the bargain.The acting by all three of these women is, in a word, sensational. Reid in particular dominates the proceedings June Buckridge is an unpleasant, loud, obnoxious woman who is abusive to her lover. York, however, it must be said, is no slouch in the role of the submissive Childie; in fact, there is one scene with a cigar butt where Childie turns the tables on George with devilish glee. And Browne as Mrs Croft is a perfect foil for the both of them a serpent in a Chanel suit; oozing style from every pore while scheming to get her way.The only problem is that the basic situation really isn't enough to hang a two-hour-and-eighteen-minute movie on. With THE BOYS IN THE BAND, setting the proceedings at a birthday party allowed the drama to unfold almost in real time, with room for a cast of nine actors crammed into a fancy Village apartment; the claustrophobic nature of the set actually works in the film's favor.Unfortunately, GEORGE is a bare-bones story of an aging actress about to lose a job that she has grown to take for granted, much as she takes for granted her lover, a woman who retreats into her dolls when under stress and whom George abuses mercilessly. Childie, as I mentioned, sometimes gets her own back, and once or twice we see some real affection between the two women, but halfway through this thing I found them both quite unbearable and I had a hard time swallowing the notion that either of them would stand for the other's nonsense for so many years. The addition of Mrs Croft to the proceedings does add a little something extra, but though Browne works hard, the part is underwritten and we really don't understand what motivates her. Is she really attracted to Childie, or is she just a bitch out to get George, and taking her lover just an added bit of venom? In the end we are forced to draw our own conclusions. And June, as difficult as she has been, is most certainly the one left with the short end of the stick as the curtain falls.The sex scene, which garnered a lot of press in its day, and which in fact is a pivotal moment, is frankly the movie's low point. Much was made at the time of Susannah York's reluctance to play the scene; I do not know if there was any truth to that, but Browne's icy-cold approach to the seduction, her fixation on one of York's breasts as if it were a rare specimen of beetle under a microscope, and York's orgasm, which sounds more like a blood-curdling scream of pain than ecstasy, all add up to what must be the most unpleasant seduction scene in film history.At the end of the day, this is a film worth seeing for the performances (Reid's in particular), and for its historical importance, but it's a rather unpleasant business, and goes on way too long; frankly, by the time the thing finally ended, I was ready to take a hatchet to all three of them. "},{"Title":"It's a super pre-Stonewall lesbian film!","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Killing of Sister  George was a true trail-blazer in 1968.  It contains one of the finest lesbian scenes ever!  Coral Browne gives an excellent performance.  Rent The Killing of Sister George tonight. "}{"Title":"Interesting, though a little too long and rambling","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Killing Of Sister George was slapped with an X rating when it was first released to theaters. A few years later the rating was reduced to R, which remains the rating today. However, I suspect that for most modern-day viewers, they will find the movie extremely tame for the most part. In fact, the movie might get a PG-13 rating if submitted today. It's a fairly interesting movie, both in its depiction of homosexuality during a time when it was almost never discussed in public, as well as a character study of a person starting to lose control of her life. Both factors combine to make a movie that's definitely not boring. However, I do have to admit that the movie (at 140 minutes) is a little too long, and could have been compacted significantly without hurting things. It's still worth a look, but best watched when in a patient mood. "},{"Title":"Bleak drama that has outstanding acting but is not for everybody.","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find that some films of the 1960's are very difficult to watch because of their character shattering plot developments. Along with Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, this is one of them. It happens to a very similar character here, who like Martha in VW, has begun to isolate many people around her. June (Beryl Reid) is a lesbian soap opera actress in London who plays Sister George, a popular nurse on a serial. She lives with the Baby Doll like Katie (Susannah York), and emotionally abuses her when Katie, in her mind, acts up. On the set, June (called Sister George on and off screen) is more than a bit demanding, jealous of other actors whose popularity ratings are going up, and just a bit angry when it is insinuated by one of the crew members that her days are numbered. June gets rip-roaringly drunk, assaults two visiting nuns in a Taxi, and is reprimanded by Mercy Croft (Coral Browne) of the production staff. Her behavior gets more and more out of control until it all caves in on her and she is indeed prepared to be killed off. Even that, June can't take with dignity, and makes funny faces at the truck drivers who killed her off, which sets the cast and crew tittering. It's not apparent whether or not they love her or take pleasure in watching her downfall, but that's what happens here. Katie obviously has had enough, and Mercy, having visited June at a gay bar to tell her the news of her dismissal, sets her sights on Katie. From there it's just a matter of time before June (Sister George) has her blowout, and ends up having a breakdown herself, much like Martha did in Virginia Woolf.I think that you must be of an artistic, serious dramatic viewing mind, to watch The Killing of Sister George, and familiar with having seen serious dramatic plays on stage. Every actor is outstanding, and the film is riveting to be sure, but it is deep, even if there is a lot of black comedy abound. Then, there is the lesbian issue. The films of the 60's have a bleak take on what living openly was like. Take a look at Staircase or The Boys in the Band to see the male version of this. These are not happy people. Sister George is only happy when she is the center of attention on the set, or when she is humiliating Katie, punishing her by forcing her to eat her cigar butt. Reid is simply amazing to watch with her boundless energy, York is enchanting, and you certainly won't confuse Coral Browne's Vera Charles (Auntie Mame) with Mercy Croft. The film shows its theatrical routes which indicates why many plays did better on stage and felt like an acid trip when put on screen. "},{"Title":"Well - Cheerio!","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While trying to keep this film's 1969 time-frame firmly in mind - I certainly have to say that I found having actress Beryl Reid in my face for 2 hours & 20 minutes (with her abrasive, scenery-chewing June Buckridge character) to be (almost) too unbearable to endure at times.A hateful, nasty, jealous and temperamental boozer - Was June Buckridge really supposed to be looked upon as being a fair representation of an older, butch lesbian (who was having a very stormy affair with a very girlish and feminine woman who was young enough to be her daughter)? If you ask me - This badly-dated, British production (filmed in Metrocolor) was so antagonistic in nature that it only succeeded in reinforcing the most negative lesbian stereotypes imaginable.And, finally - I think that director Robert Aldrich handled this film's subject matter very poorly. As an example of just that - The nightclub scene of same-sex couples slow-dancing together certainly went way beyond the point of being just clumsy and awkward. It sure did. In fact, it was downright atrocious! "},{"Title":"A disappointing film, worthy for its historic appeal","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am very interested in pre-Stonewall gay life, and as such I was delighted to see this film. However, if I found it historically and cinematographically interesting, I didn't enjoy it per se. The George character is a lesbian that doesn't care to hide that she's a lesbian. She's not apologetic, which is good, but she also displays a certain number of traits which make it very difficult to like her she seems to have no understanding of social norms or play. She's unable to conduct herself like an adult. She interrupts people at the bad moment, yells on her girlfriend and insults her in front of everyone, etc etc. She gets drunk all the time, and is a mean drunk. Why is she like that? You'll have the greatest difficulties to convince me that it is not some homophobic logic behind. Just the way the scene in the bar is filmed you understand from where the movie comes from It is a film made by a heterosexual man for a (60s) heterosexual public. It is not by chance that she ends up alone, drunk and desperate. (read The Celluloid Closet by Vito Russo...) In the end, I had heard that The Killing of Sister George and The Boys in the Band were two very homophobic movies made in the late 60s presenting gay people as desperate souls. I saw TBITB, and it went directly in my top 10 of all times movies, and I can argue against anyone who tells me it is homophobic. I tried to have the same take on TKSG, but I couldn't. While TBITB is a gay movie made by a gay man (not Friedkin, but Crowley) with gay people and for gay people (it used to be a play on Broadway), TKSG is a straight movie played by straight actors for a straight audience, and pretending to portray the life of lesbians as it is but failing miserably. "},{"Title":"Too long and rather awful, but not uninteresting","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sister George turns out to be an unpleasant person to spend 2 1/2 hours with. She's loud and obnoxious, with a hair-trigger temper, and is prone to throwing screaming tantrums over even trivial matters; one wonders how she managed to keep her job as long as she did. This doesn't help the movie, which as a whole is big and broad and overstated; there's a slapstick quality to even the dramatic moments. The dialogue is fatuous and artless; people shout and argue a lot but no one really says anything. I'm no film student, but even the direction seemed bad. As if the words weren't obvious enough, there are lots of lingering close-ups of the actors giving exaggerated facial reactions to slam home the idea of what they're supposed to be feeling. There's a scene in a very small, very crowded lesbian club, and the way the camera weaves through the crowd, showing various same-sex couples slow-dancing, is supposed to be shocking and salacious, but only comes off as rather clumsy. Most of the subtlety in the film is reserved for the glimpses we get of Applehurst, a gentle soap opera (parody) on which Sister George is a featured character. I've read that the author of the play from which the movie is taken has said that it wasn't supposed to be a serious study of lesbianism, and that's good, because it isn't. The relationship between Beryl Reid and Susannah York is distasteful verbally and psychologically abusive with hints of sado-masochism. The film reinforces those awful stereotypes of older, butch lesbians preying on younger, more feminine women.One of the few elements of the movie that kept me watching was Coral Browne. She made an interesting contrast with Beryl Reid; Browne is actually more mannish-looking than Reid, with a large, strong face, but this is offset by her elegant style of dress and manner. Whereas Reid is all bombast and outwardly-exploding emotion, Browne's character is controlled and well-spoken, exuding an icy, almost reptilian vibe. Her sex scene with York is the movie's apex of unintentional humor, though; the faces she makes as she's bringing York to climax had me rolling.I would say the film's chief merit is as a curio of its time, and the then rarity of the subject matter with which it deals, however ridiculously. "},{"Title":"I almost gave up on this film the other night, I'm STILL not sure what to make of it.","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So, this very strange and almost rather unusual film was on Irish TV the other night. I had read the brief description of it listed in the TV Guide earlier in the week and then on the day's paper. I had nothing else scheduled to record, so I though Why not? It might not even be on DVD and I ran up to my room, got a blank DVD and popped it in, set-up the channel, appropriate recording time, etc. and got cracking.Now, I knew there was a fairly British cast in this, having only heard of Beryl Reid (Beryl being a very English-sounding name) and then seeing next to it, Susannah York, who I had of course heard of before, I just for some reason got the impression that this might have been a more entertaining, middle-to-late 1960's American TV Movie Of The Week-type thing.As it began, I quickly discovered that, it wasn't. Not in the slightest was it.The picture was wobbly, it was INCREDIBLY dated and with Beryl Reid's line in the beginning of Jolly kind of you, thank you, or something along that matter, during the opening English afternoon bar scene, it was indeed a VERY typical English production. With a not-so-great, yet, not-so-bad Opening Credits and theme music introduction, consisting of Main Titles that were a little somewhat reminiscent of the American TV Drama Series of (primarily) the 1980's, Knots Landing, The Killing Of Sister George began.In what can only be described as a series of constant scene changes showing Reid's character make her way from a bar to her apartment, with the appropriate credit and titles sequences quickly flashing-and-disappearing on-screen as the picture changed for each moment of Reid's character making her way home, it showed a lot of what is typical of Ireland and Britain bad weather, alley-ways, not-so-good-to-drive-on roads and a lot of dog walkers.Then, oh wait, is that? YES, IT IS! Coral Browner's name appears on the screen as being a co-star in this film. In case you aren't an E.L.O. fan, Coral Browne was the voice of a character in the 1980 Universal Pictures/Electric Light Orchestra co-production of Xanadu. It was commercial flop, but never mind that, on with The Killing Of Sister George, I say! Intending to only stick with it for a few minutes and then head to bed, I ended up staying with it and I kind of regret that now. It didn't really enthrall or entertain me, to be perfectly and completely honest. I expected it to be a MUCH better film. Now, having said that, it's not all bad. The climatic, nighttime lesbian sex scene which involves York and Browne's character, was indeed shocking for it's time and still is a little for today, but I have seen much more intense stuff in 15A-rated films showing at The Cinema, etc.It wasn't necessarily a good sex scene either. Both of the women's characters were fairly butch and it looked very uncomfortable and also very much a turn-off. It makes you look at women differently and makes you wish that the film wasn't nearing it's end so as something else could be done with the characters and make it seem better.I thought The Killing Of Sister George wasn't going to be GREAT! Sadly, it wasn't and didn't live up to my honest expectations of what it should have been like AT ALL. Maybe, if it was an American production, it would have been handled better and have made for a better film. I would have done some recasting and have picked someone like Susan Clark for the leading role and have changed the characters to Americna ones and have set it in mid-1970's America.That's just my opinion and I'm thinking of adding The Killing Of Sister George to my list of not-so-great late-night-shown films on Irish TV. in it, at the moment are Pope Joan (terribly depressing) and Disaster Zone Volcan In New York (oddly enough, shown the following night after this film). "},{"Title":"Not Aldrich's best but quite powerful","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm quite a fan of Aldrich's work but for I found The Killing Of Sister George to be one of his least enjoyable films. Beryl Reid gives a commanding and energetic performance as the monstrous June Duckridge (George) whose alcohol-induced fits of temper are starting to annoy her employers, the BBC. Particularly the assault on the nuns. Her youthful lover, Childie (a willowy Susannah York), whom George cohabits with is the punchbag for her fits of rage and jealously. Although we know that George will be sacked from that hideous rural soap-opera she stars in quite early on, the announcement (face to face) comes in a delightful swinging club (with all girl band on stage, miming some beautiful psychedelic tunes) from the absolutely gorgeous Mercy Croft (Coral Browne).Croft has been smitten by Childie since they first met a few days beforehand and offers her shelter from the overbearing George. This sympathy culminates in a rather explicit love scene in George's flat.The scenes are largely drab and dull (forgivable because it's a play adaptation) and the characters rather nasty and bitchy. Plus it's rather overlong at 140 minutes and the script does drag in parts. Having said that, it's a reasonably powerful piece and certainly tackles a (then) taboo subject well. You just won't find yourself warming to it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Lost on film","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never saw Reid on stage, but I saw a production by a local amateur groupwhich was much, much better than this film version. The director doesn'tunderstand the timing of the very British irony, wit, bitchiness and waspishness,  and consequently the actresses flounder and the camera doesn't frame themright. Reid and York's flat should look sinister, with its mounds of dolls and  grown woman in a babydoll nightie in the daytime, but these details are justTHERE. Imagine what a British noir director (Rober Hamer?) would have donewith them. York is lovely, but her voice is wrong, wrong, wrong. She shouldhave a whiny, slightly Cockney accent. She sounds like a debutantecomplaining that her icecream has gone runny. As for Reid, she is too cuddlyand lovable for the part. It would be fun to make this film again. xxxxx "},{"Title":"She's the lesbian you love to hate","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is SO over the top that it has become a guilty pleasure much in the same way as Showgirls and Valley of the Dolls.  As a kid, all I remember was the ad in the paper and the X rating.  When I finally saw it, I found myself laughing whenever Beryl Reid flew into her tantrums.  It just seemed to me that EVERYTHING that was done in the movie was done for sensationalism.  I found it hard to believe in the characters because the situations lacked credibility.  However, it was just fun to watch what Sister George would do next.   "},{"Title":"The Director of Dirty Dozen becomes just a Dirty Director","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hard to believe that Robert Aldrich directed both Sister George AND the Lee Marvin WW2 action movie Dirty Dozen within two years of each other the juxtaposition is quite an eye-opener and no mistake.However, to his credit Aldrich does a relatively good job handling a very hot & controversial topic (for its time) of lesbian relationships in 60s London.Beryl Reid (Sister George), continues from her stage play adaption with great aplomb. She plays a middle aged radio-play actress for the BBC only to find that her character is to be killed off after many years service.George has a live-in lover, played by a very young Suzanna York, to whom I felt was a poor choice because I really can't imagine someone as young as York wanting to be a lesbian lover to someone who could be mistaken for her own mother. Perhaps I'm being cynical but I suspect York was chosen with one eye on her astonishingly elfin good looks and the other eye on potential box office takings.Anyway, York has to suffer the physical & verbal abuse from a frustrated, bitter & twisted George now that she realizes she can no longer get any decent work in these changing times of fashion & sex appeal. George eventually becomes so paranoid that she believes York is having an affair with another woman which only adds to her defragmented middle-aged life!The story, although controversial for its time, is quite gentle, and would probably pass into a typical soap opera these days without a whimper of protest, such are the changing times & political attitudes to gayness. But back then taboo subjects such as homosexuality & lesbianism was a positive no no as far as Hollywood was concerned.The story is very well handled, and tries not to fall prey to cheap exploitation. But the love scene between York and Corale Brown, although cleverly done, is perhaps a little graphic - one wonders why Aldrich had to be so detailed & time-consumed with this particular scene. A lesbian act is a lesbian act, it really doesn't warrant so much time going over every detail of sexual foreplay as portrayed here. Again, in my cynical mind, I suspect such controversial titilation had more to do with box office than any serious indictment of the subject matter in question.All in all, Sister George is a very warm & caring movie, the characters are firmly cliched into a typical English Country Cottage lifestyle where everything is tea, cakes & roses. Reid & Brown are both excellent and York does her best with a difficult character.I feel the movie would have been taken on its merits at a critical level had it not being for the rather tacky love scene, but generally it offers an interesting study into how such a taboo subject was handled during a time of massive social change during the so-called Swinging 60s, which didn't quite swing far enough to include the homosexual community.***/***** "}{"Title":"What was stunning on Broadway was just plain stunned on film","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw the Broadway production of this with Beryl Reid and Aileen Atkins.  I thought it would be a terrific movie.  It wasn't.  Like a deer stunned by oncoming headlights, it was paralyzed on film.The sex scene between Browne and York was particularly annoying because it was so obviously a cop out to the censors.This movie may have broken ground, but so can a bulldozer. "}]