[{"Title":"Excellent movie, hilarious yet tragic","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"42 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Was there a better hard man in the 70's then Lee Marvin ? I don't think so. Team him up with Toshiro Mifune (yojimbio, Seven Samurai), gorgeous scenery (Paulau islands) under the light hand of John Borman (Deliverance) and watch as a simple story grows and develops into a visual feast. There is no lead-in to the film, all we see is a lone Japanese soldier on a tropical island spotting a life raft and realising he is suddenly not alone, and worse, his company is an enemy soldier. The initial confrontations are tension filled as the two chase each other around and around their new home in a battle of wits and cunning. Eventually the inevitable happens and they are forced to start living together. Rather than a Disneyish style 'lets all learn to live together because we are all really the same under the skin' co-operation, the two have as little to do with each other as possible, unless arguing about possession of driftwood (in a scene that left me in tears of laughter). Eventually they do co-operate through necessity to leave the island and develop a bond of friendship through adversity, only to have this challenged when exposed to the realities of the world outside their desert island refuge. A bitter but unavoidable ending reminds us of the insanities of war. I loved this film because it was totally gripping in a way few movies are, I genuinely cared about the characters. It was in some ways like watching 'survivor' in the way the relationship changed-only in reverse- so naturally did it happen on screen. Bormans direction was great, more of a fly on the wall perspective that made the story all the more involving. This movie deserves to be seen.  "},{"Title":"Rare and forgotten Lee Marvin Picture","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I only discovered Hell in the Pacific after searching for Lee Marvin films as I have become enamored with his work as of late. I thought this was going to be a war movie from start to finish, which I'm not always a big fan of. I am glad to say I was surprised and very pleased with this film.This is a rare work of film that uses two actors, limited dialog(half of it in Japanese), and only one location. There have been many attempts at making movies about people stranded on islands, but this one pulls it off in a way no other has.Thsi is a film about not only survival, but overcoming prejudice towards ones sworn enemy in a time of war. It is about moving past the fears of what you do not know, and using what you do know and the basic need to survive to pull through and band together.I was more enthralled by this movie with almost no dialog, than I have been with movies that have won screenplay Oscars. To me, this is an example that if you have the right actors, the right story, and the right setting, dialog is not always necessary. "},{"Title":"Crummy title - Great movie about human beings!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A Japanese naval officer and an American pilot find themselves stranded alone on a desert island during WWII. How would you react to being marooned with a dangerous enemy? This film is an obscure treasure that should be better known. I suspect that people are put off by the cheesy and unsuitable title. The film explores the evolving relationship of two men from different cultures as they each struggle to find the best way to survive. Their collective fate is an exploration of the human condition.One outstanding feature of this film is that it is in both Japanese and English, intentionally without sub-titles. An American or Japanese audience could watch this film and appreciate its message. This duality serves to heighten the cultural differences between the two men, and it is cultural bias that is the true enemy.Buy it, it's a keeper!  "},{"Title":"Hell in the Pacific Interesting experience","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Hell in the Pacific is a magnificent movie, with only two actors - but two of my biggest favorites. I watched it without subtitles and I couldn't understand Mifune and I often didn't here what Marvin said either. The best way to appreciate it is to not know English or Japanese, because you will understand it anyway. A film almost without dialog, a very interesting experience. Surely one of director John Boorman's most memorable movies, with flawless direction. The end is a surprise which fits in well. A must see!Rating 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"Cast Away on Steroids","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Isolation in extreme conditions allows for very telling studies of human beings, and potentially unpleasant philosophical conclusions. Marooning a character on an island will get you some dramatic results, and the only way to take it a step further is to maroon that character's worst possible enemy with him. That's what Hell in The Pacific proposes.This is not Cast Away Meets WWII. For one thing, it has a much tighter focus, completely losing anything beyond the island's horizon. It is admirable in its bloody-minded focus, and, with only two actors to cast, it's hard to imagine how it could have been any more perfect that pitching wild-man extraordinaire Lee Marvin opposite Kurosawa favorite Toshiro Mifune. A genius idea, but one that could have failed with a more conventional approach. We are introduced to both antagonists in a neutral way, free to prefer which ever one we choose, though that is hardly the point, and director John Boorman makes it both easy and at times hard to sympathise with either in equal measure. Both actors do a fine job, playing mostly emotional and physical roles with great restrain and intelligence. Boorman's direction is perfect, rejecting excess stylization in favor of a subtle approach, aided by superb photography. You have got to see this at least once, simply because, for all its visceral thrills, it is quite profound without ever trying to be. Because it boasts top performances from two of the last century's greatest leading presences in action cinema. Because, though frustrating at first, the ending is, for once, the smartest one that could have been chosen. Humanity is on trial and the judges choose to be honest and pragmatic, thus delivering something that combines greatness and very thoughtful substance.We need more films like this! "},{"Title":"Two great actors, a great script, a grand theme.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" What I would give to know only Japanese and watch this movie. You don't have to understand what Toshiro Mifune is saying to understand this movie.Does war extend to the individual? Trained to kill or be killed, two adversaries face off. Each with his own fear that the other will succeed. Why didn't they kill each other when they had the chance? Because man is a social animal and he needs the company of others. To use a cliché - No man is an island.And in the end conflict erupts. Not because of any innate difference between the two men - but because of how they define themselves in a greater scene. I am Japanese - you are American (and vice versa). Throw in the element of non-communication (neither spoke any of the other's language) and you have it.Two great actors, a great script, a grand theme. "},{"Title":"Enemy Mine in the Pacific","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In World War II, a shot-down American pilot (Lee Marvin) and the marooned Japanese Captain Tsuruhiko Kuroda (Toshiro Mifune) are stranded in a small island in the Pacific. When they find the presence of each other, the American tries to steal the water provision of the Japanese that protects it, initiating their personal war. After a period fighting each other, they decide to join forces and build a bamboo raft to seek a larger island.Hell in the Pacific is a good movie about how struggle to survive supersedes any other feelings even in times of war. The Japanese and the American soldiers find how pointless is their fight and resolve their situation joining forces and learning to accept and respect their culture differences despite the language barrier and warfare. Surprisingly they also become friends but the abrupt conclusion is too stupid and meaningless, apparently imposed by the studio. The alternate ending is also terrible but better then the original one. In 1985, Wolfgang Petersen used the same idea in a futuristic environment in Enemy Mine. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Inferno no Pacífico (Hell in the Pacific) "},{"Title":"For those of you who didn't like the ending...","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Not much more can be said about this outstanding film that hasn't already been said.  It really is one of the finest meditations on war and the nature of men ever made.  Boorman's direction is amazing, Conrad Hall's cinematography is luminous, and Mifune and Marvin are forces to be reckoned with.  I did notice however that some of the reviewers had some issues with the ending.  I thought I might just pop in here to let those of you who don't know, the DVD of Hell in the Pacific features an alternate ending that may be a bit more easily digestable, yet is no less powerful than the original ending.  In fact in some ways it may be better.  Watch the movie with both versions of the ending for an interesting example of what a difference the conclusion of a film can make.  Viva Lee Marvin. "},{"Title":"history culture survival","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Not only is this film a fascinating account of survival against odds, its a reflection of cultural differences within a crucial historical timeframe. Its narrative may be flawed, a little too stylized, but it features two of the greatest faces of 60s cinema history Marvin and Mifune. Looking back on the second world war, it seems ironic that the Japanese believed their culture was superior in warfare, and the Americans believed theirs was superior for peace. In the end it will turn out to be the other way around. This film touches on that subject, highlighting Marvins aggressive, loud, and brutal behavior, and Mifunes quieter, more methodical survival methods. But in their battle to survive, the two men become almost indistinguishable. The most touching scene in the film Both men collapsed in their sinking raft, dejected, exhausted, dehydrated, totally at their mercy of nature, a symbolic scene for human life. The DVD i saw contained both endings, the original, never seen in TV prints, much more believable and satisfying.  "},{"Title":"Cain and Abel in a Land Primeval","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a truly cinematic experience character and plot develop through visual storytelling.  The two characters can't even speak the same language, but compelling performances speak volumes to the audience.  The often breathtaking scenery provides a dramatic contrast to the ugliness of Man's cruelty.  Marvin and Mifune show Man is bound to 'return to where he started;' sin spoils moments of grace despite our noblest intentions.  The devastating ending perfectly completed the metaphor of the film.The primal setting (in Panavision) and Twilight Zone ending reminded me of Planet of the Apes.   Fans of the Boorman-Marvin director-actor collaboration must see Point Blank.  Those who don't like island-survival films with controversial endings should avoid Limbo.  "}{"Title":"Well-made allegory which deserves to be better-known.","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" John Boorman's allegorical story of two men stranded on an island during the latter part of WWII is a very powerful and cinematic experience. Boorman approaches the subject boldly, providing a mere two characters and opting not to use subtitles when the foreign character speaks. Many films would fail under these circumstances, but Boorman works wonders with this one and the result is a fascinating film indeed. There are a few weaknesses, such as an ambiguous and abrupt ending and some longueurs in the narrative, but on the whole the film is recommended viewing.A Japanese captain (Toshiro Mifune) and an American pilot (Lee Marvin) find themselves marooned on a remote Pacific island in 1944. Initially, there is understandable hatred between the pair, as their nations have been locked in conflict for so long. The Japanese soldier attempts to smoke his opponent out of the jungle; the American pilot repeatedly attempts to steal his adversary's fresh water. On and on their feud goes, until eventually they begin to realise that they are stuck on this lonely speck of land, with no-one on the way to rescue them and no chance of survival unless they work as a team. In spite of the cultural and linguistic differences between them, the duo manage to construct a makeshift raft and launch out upon the Pacific waves in search of help. After an arduous trip across the sea, they come to another island, apparently formerly used as a military outpost but now deserted and totally in ruin. Amid the rubble, the two men find alcohol, newspapers and scissors, among other things. After a long overdue shave, and a few drinks, they seem almost to be returning to the realms of civilisation after their trying ordeal.Marvin and Mifune are superb in largely wordless roles as the two sworn enemies stranded together. Their frustrating inability to communicate is brilliantly interwoven into the story, and via gesticulations and expressions the two men eventually manage to get their message across to each other and the audience. The film is visually beautiful, with very appropriate Palau Island backdrops used to emphasise the isolation that each man feels. There is an element of comedy about the film, too, which is cleverly underplayed but very funny if you watch closely. The scene where Marvin urinates on Mifune from the trees is simultaneously vulgar and hilarious; also amusing is the scene where Marvin is startled by Mifune and growls for a second I thought you were a Jap! The sequence in which the two men attempt to navigate the ocean aboard their fragile raft is thrilling, and culminates in an unforgettable shot of the pair slumped, exhausted, side by side &#150; a perfect metaphor for the draining and pointless effect of war upon their respective nations. Indeed, Hell In The Pacific is full of intelligent allegorical imagery &#150; the experiences of both men can be viewed as a microcosmic representation of the whole Japan vs USA war. Hell In The Pacific is a great film that deserves better recognition. "},{"Title":"Tropical Paradise?","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Watching Hell in the Pacific may force some people to give up certain notions about going away to a tropic isle to get away from it all. Even if Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune were the best of friends, cast away as they are on that tropical Pacific island, it's anything, but paradise.But they've got World War II going against them also. A Japanese captain and an American flier stranded on a small island and having to survive. It's an interesting premise, that would have been better served in a half hour television drama. NOT Gilligan's Island though.The film was shot on the actual locations in the Pacific where both American and Japanese lost a lot of members of one generation fighting for these coral reef lined shores. And Lee Marvin of course was one of thousands who survived on the American side.Even for two players as capable as Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune can't keep the interest from flagging in spots. "},{"Title":"For a second I thought you were a Jap","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Anti-war movies have come in many shapes and sizes &#x96; from the shocking to the satirical, from the blunt to the oblique &#x96; but few are as simply effective as Hell in the Pacific. At turns suspenseful, mysterious, cartoonishly funny and touchingly human, it boils the conflict down to the adventures of two men on opposite sides forced to share an island, but rather than just being a trite allegory, it convincingly demonstrates the benefits of co-operation over competitiveness, and shows that mistrust and enmity are not necessarily innate.Ignoring the ridiculously abrupt ending, Hell in the Pacific is excellent in its structure. Considering that the target audience is going to be English-speaking (although the experience would not be too diminished for a Japanese audience) the story is told in the beginning from the perspective of the Japanese man. The American character is a mere presence amid the trees, and the fact that we can understand him is of little consequence because he doesn't say much of relevance. The Toshiro Mifune character is more loquacious, even though most viewers won't know what he's saying, and Lee Marvin's relative quietness emphasises the wordless savagery of the first half. It's only as the picture progresses and the men become more amiable towards each that they become recognisably human characters. But even this is done more through imagery than words, giving us an equally good impression of the two of them despite the language barrier.This telling from the Japanese point-of-view is also reinforced in the methods of director John Boorman, who often makes the camera Mifune's eyes or keeps him up front while Marvin lurks in the background. Other than that, Boorman's style as a director is like a love letter to Akira Kurosawa and Sergio Leone, the latter especially. He gives us gnarly close-ups, a dynamic rhythm and eye-catching tableaux such as the shot of Marvin and Mifune as they arrive on the second island, like statues about to leap into action. It is all very overtly stylised, but it is a pretty neat way of keeping this story of such simple elements constantly interesting and engaging.Toshiro Mifune is well-known to even the most casual of foreign cinema buffs, being the favourite star of the aforementioned Kurosawa. It's nice to see him used well in this less familiar context. The only other non-Japanese picture I have seen him in is a bizarre British-made Western called Red Sun, which is incidentally one of the worst films I have ever seen. You notice, seeing him here opposite Lee Marvin, he is not a tall man, but he makes up for this with his strong presence and irascible energy. But it's not all about the rage. I like here his passively bemused responses when Marvin is ranting at him. Lee Marvin shows his easy capacity for turning a serious-sounding performance into something surprisingly comical, such as his acting out of throwing the stick and picking it up.Appropriately for a movie of few words, music plays a big part in Hell in the Pacific. The Lalo Schifrin score is by turns haunting, playful, and sometimes teasingly melodramatic. It is an unusually big score for a movie that is otherwise so minimalist, but its constant variation and inventiveness suits the action very well. And, aside from the power of its message, this is part of what makes Hell in the Pacific so appealing. It is all of a piece, a mesmerising tone poem on a the fate of humanity. "},{"Title":"Something more compact and intense could have been a classic...the elements are here","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Hell in the Pacific (1968)A great concept--two men are lost together on an island in the Pacific. The war is over, but prejudices remain, and one man is Japanese, one American. They don't share a language, so there is basically no dialog. There is only survival.How do you make a feature length movie about this without stretching the idea thin, without boring the viewer, without resorting to clichés of makeshift boats and coconut to eat? You don't. The movie is ambitious over very little, and if it seems impressive in some isolated, focused way, it is still a slow go.And you kind of know what the progression of events is going to be, as common human needs rise above nationalist myopia. What keeps it afloat at all is the odd combination of the quirky boorish stereotype American thug, Lee Marvin, who is not his best in this situation (but who has his own following--I like him in his crime films a lot) and the most famous Japanese actor of the period, the Kurosawa standard bearer Toshiro Mifune (who is an archetype of the vigorous, smart Japanese male).I have to admit I didn't really like the most recent parallel production, Castaway, at least not the island parts (which everyone I know loved). In all these cases you depend on the acting, the actors themselves, to make it special. And for some that might be enough. It's a unique movie, for sure, a kind of old Hollywood hanger-on in the new Hollywood era. John Boorman had just finished the remarkable Point Blank with Marvin, and would soon work on Deliverance, and all three have a masculine quality of rising about a hostile world and making it on your own terms.Finally, if you do get through it all, the last five minutes is important--clumsy and improbable and sensationalist after all that preceded, but important. It tries at last to talk about the difficulty of really understanding someone else, personally and culturally, and about the madness and indifference of war. It's 1968, after all. "},{"Title":"Physical and psychological battle between Marvin and Mifune with anti-war allegory","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Nice and well executed film set during WWII,containing a brief anti-war declaration . It deals with an American pilot (Lee Marvin who sings a song) and a marooned Japanese navy officer (Toshiro Mifune , only speaking in his native language) are deserted on a tiny island in the Pacific , as they confront each other in a violent mini-war . There, they must cease their hostility and unite themselves if they want to survive until a disappointing and unexpected ending .Straightforward and gripping movie with magnificent acting by only two protagonists ,the dynamics Marvin and Mifune , fighting all by themselves , as playing American and Japanese soldiers coming to terms with each other on an uninhabited island in the Pacific Ocean, both of them stranded together . However , the movie sometimes lapses into tedium and slowness , though contains striking images with moments of great power and wonderful scenarios . It's one of the sharpest and cleverest war film of the 60s masterfully and stylishly realized. The handsome cinematography by Conrad L. Hall does full justice to the varied settings on the Pacific ocean , bursting into the colour . Imaginative and haunting score by Lalo Schifrin.The motion picture is well directed by John Boorman . He's a real professional filmmaking from the 6os, though sparsely scattered and giving classics as ¨Point Blank¨ . His film are without exception among the most exciting visually in the modern cinema as he proved in ¨Deliverance¨ , ¨Excalibur¨,the best of them, , a rare Sci-Fi titled ¨Zardoz¨ , ¨Emerald forest¨ with a ecologist denounce included and of course ¨Hell in Pacific¨. "},{"Title":"Director's ending better than theatrical release SPOILER ALERT","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" SPOILER ALERT  If you have not seen this film, you should get the MGM released DVD with the director's alternate ending included in the special features.I recently watched this movie for the first time, and was enthralled by the story of two men, stranded on a deserted island, sworn enemies whose countries are at war with one another, who are faced with a great dilemma. Can enemies work together to insure their survival under the harshest circumstances, or will hate prevail and both men die? It is a very touching story about how friendship is formed out of necessity, and fueled by the human survival instinct.At the end of the film, Marvin and Mifune escape one island and land on another that had been conquered by U.S. soldiers, then abandoned just as quickly in the swift series of battles throughout Pacific islands toward the end of World War II.With supplies left behind on the island, the two men get cleaned up and shaven, and are able to find something to eat and even find sake on which to get drunk.While drunk, Mifune finds a copy of LIFE Magazine which shows Japan losing the war rapidly. Mifune understandably gets upset and angry, then he and Marvin get into a drunken argument.In the theatrical release, bombing can be heard in the background during this argument, and the movie just ends abruptly with an explosion that tragically takes the lives of these enemies-turned-friends. End of story, war is hell, now go home.Luckily, I was watching the 2004 released MGM version DVD, which has the alternate ending that presumably director John Boorman had submitted to the studio as the ending for his film.In this ending, no bombing can be heard in the background. Mifune reads the magazine, gets upset, and the argument takes place. This version, however, contains no convenient explosion to make it seem like both men became enemies again, only to be killed together. The tragedy here happens when both men seem to realize, with dialogue-free fantastic physical acting by two legendary actors, that despite everything they have been through, and despite having becoming friends, their place in this world is not meant to be together. They both exchange sad final glances, and quietly walk off in opposite directions.I like to think that both men returned home to their respective countries, and became actors, who went on to star in movies like The Seven Samurai, and The Dirty Dozen.This alternate ending is a much more complex, more interesting, more ironic, more tragic, and infinitely more satisfying ending than the one that was slapped on the end of the film for the theatrical release. I hope this movie is restored to the better ending, and featured as a Criterion Collection release with commentary from director John Boorman some day soon. "},{"Title":"Hell in the Pacific","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" An American pilot, Lee Marvin, is stranded on a deserted island with enemy Japanese officer Toshirô Mifune. If they are to escape this island, they'll have to put their differences and feelings aside. The film shows their rocky relationship and language barriers. The film's strength(besides Conrad Hall's visually stimulating cinematography)is watching these two larger-than-life personalities clashing on an island together. Heck, it takes Marvin nearly thirty minutes just to sneak some water from Mifune's private stash. There's a definite culture clash with neither understanding the other the entire duration. Once they settle their differences by working together to build a raft, it's out on the treacherous Pacific Ocean with it's fierce winds, pounding rain & piercing hot sun.The film offers the possibility of a kinship that forms as both these men come to count on each other through a lot of tough times on and off the island. But, towards the end when they do find what appears to be the damaged ruins of an American outpost on a Japanese island, that possible developing friendship is shattered when they wake up and realize that while they were alone, a war was raging on between their respected peoples.There were two endings offered by director John Boorman. The one in the movie seems a bit abrupt and empty, while the alternate ending just feels right. They are sharing a drink celebrating how they made through the tumultuous hardships only to read a LIFE magazine reminding them of the war they were fighting. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but good","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Both Mifune and Marvin are great in this film, going through initial trained impulses, through each gaining the upper hand to working togeather in order to escape the Island.The ending is suprisingly good. Because it is unexpected, sudden and loud it obviously took many by supriseSPOILER!!! SPOILER!!!............ .................. ....... The ending is magnificent, it's a shame that the industry has come full circle once more to making predictable, feel-good finishes to most films. Mifune/Marvin come upon a ruined barracks with newspaper whipping in the wind. This is when they learn of Hiroshima and Nagasaki...Mifune is stunned, incredulous that people could do such a thing. Marvin, unable to justify or explain it, becomes defensive and angry (Art imitating life, try asking most Americans to justify it, especially given that the Japanese approached the Americans a week before the first bomb was dropped to ask for terms of surrender.)And the hate continues. "},{"Title":"Two mortal enemies, no common language, stranded on an island together","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Hell in the Pacific is an excellent film.  It may come across as long, but it has to be in order for the movie to have its full effect.  It's more than an American vs Japan war movie.  It's a movie with a though provoking message.Imagine you are stranded on an island with only one other human.  And he's your mortal enemy.  How do you cope?  Do you try to kill your mortal enemy before he kills you?  What do you do?That's the paradox in Hell in the Pacific.  If you like war movies and thought provoking movies, this is a must see.  Stick with it, I guarantee you'll be rewarded in the end. "},{"Title":"May Well Be A Masterwork...","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This film, of all the ones I have ever seen (much less reviewed), has the distinction of being one of the most perfect examples of a pure cinematic experience. The story is remarkably compelling. Told nearly exclusively in a visual language, it is fascinating to see these two great actors, Mifune and Marvin, relate to each other as human beings, while being completely unable to understand each other verbally. This film should be a must-see for any cinemaphile. Brilliantly directed in two very different ways first of all, visually and then from a stand point of the acting. The challenges of making this film had to be enormous... filming on the water, dealing with the language barrier, and all the while never letting the core themes of the film suffer. This film is a great achievement. Bravo! "}{"Title":"Silence is not always golden.","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Hell in the Pacific is directed by John Boorman and stars Lee Marvin and Toshirō Mifune. It's written by Reuben Bercovitch, Alexander Jacobs & Eric Bercovici and the music is by Lalo Schifrin. During World War II, two men, one American and one Japanese, are marooned on an uninhabited Pacific island. In order for them to survive they must find away to co-exist and maybe, just maybe, forget the War and find a way off the island.Intriguing premise and two watchable stars not withstanding, Hell In The Pacific is not a particularly great film. Decent? Yes! But the novelty value of a two actor piece, with sparse dialogue, soon wears thin. The central idea of two racially different characters forced to come together, is hardly a new one. It's been done considerably better before this film with the likes of The Defiant Ones in 1958. But Boorman's movie does not lack for invention or trying to veer from the norm. Neither character speaks the other's language, so with no dubbing or subtitles, the viewers are forced to be part of the unique situation; sharing in the frustrations of two people unable to communicate verbally. That both Mifune & Marvin are fine actors physically and with their faces, also benefits the piece and the viewers. With both men ex-servicemen of their respective countries also a notable plus point.The film was entirely shot in the Rock Islands of Palau in the north Pacific Ocean, near the Philippines in the Philippine Sea. Visually it is a treat with the blues and greens offering up a beauty that battles the harsh like atmosphere for supremacy. It's impact being that of throwing up a heaven and hell comparison. Yet this pleasing aspect of the film is almost ruined by Schifrin's score. In a piece awash with loneliness, suspicion and borderline hatred, we really don't need evocative and perky, we want threatening and sedate. Which brings us to Boorman's direction, which is choppy and unsure what tones work best within the story. It's no surprise to find that the producers wanted to fire him off the project; his bacon saved by Mifune's insistence that Boorman stayed on. There is also some consternation with the ending(s) of the film, where both available endings have actually caused disapproval in equal measure. In truth neither ending fully rewards the viewer for having spent over 100 minutes with these two men. But for the record I personally like the abrupt one better.Its intentions are honourable, and for trying something different it deserves a pat on the back. But too many itches exist within; and thus the film is scratchy and never able to achieve allegorical greatness. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Hell in the specific...","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" War is Hell, they tell us (but only when you're on the receiving end...). Boorman's minimalist masterpiece, fully realized with the aid of three of the Art's finest (Mifune, Marvin, and Hall), stands the test of Time. Its message is as clear and as valid today as it was then. Even vastly inferior fare, like the SF feature ENEMY MINE, would go on to re-imagine HELL IN THE PACIFIC- though I don't recall the filmmakers giving credit where credit was due at the time of that movie's release (shades of THE TERMINATOR!). Mifune and Marvin make for a marvelous mix, and Conrad Hall's eye for detail is (as it always was, throughout his entire career) unmatched. The alternate ending (which I'd heard about, but have never seen) sounds interesting, but I'd always assumed that Boorman's original ending was even darker I thought it might've been a drunken hand-to-hand struggle to the death between the two men, in which they both die(d). Either way, HELL IN THE PACIFIC is one of the truly Great Ones. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Slow but intelligent and interesting","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" An American pilot washes up on an island somewhere in the South Pacific. He does not have time to savour his release from the ongoing and bloody war because he finds that he is not alone. His fellow island resident is a Japanese Captain, similarly cut off from his colleagues on the island. The Captain has been here some time and has established methods for feeding himself, collecting drinking water and a shelter to live in. The arrival of the American immediately puts him on high alert, as indeed the sense of being pursued does to the American and a standoff quickly escalates into a battling game of cat and mouse.My plot summary has perhaps made it sound more exciting than it actually is and I can understand viewers who have come to this film expecting tension by the bucket load. However this is not about a thrill-a-minute narrative where the focus is on exciting the audience but rather it is much more low key and will be of more interest if you look at the characters and how they act and interact &#150; this is where the film is happening and it is where I think we are meant to be concentrating, rather than on a specific battle for drinking water. Here we see where the allegory is as the two men are initially fighting one another over turf and resources on this island, before eventually coming to an understanding and working together. It isn't as clever as it thinks it is but it is interesting in this regard and does have some very good material in there (personally I think the line I thought you were a Jap is a wonderful summary of what the film is saying).Boorman directs well considering how little is happening in the script. He keeps the narrative just about interesting enough while not pushing the meaning to the point where it is too obvious (although it is a fine line). Mifune and Marvin are both excellent in this double-hander. They must have both been aware of the meaning of what they are doing but neither loses touch with the fact that they are also still playing out individuals. Some have criticised the ending but personally I just saw it as yet another wider point &#150; this time just reminding us why the journey the two men went on is no use if it is not done at a higher level.A slow film then but one that is much better than I have made it sound here. The story itself is well layered to bring out a wider meaning and also be interesting on a surface level. If you want action and excitement then it won't give you that but yet is intelligent and interesting. "},{"Title":"a pearly silver poem","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This war Robinsonade is a quirky poem and a psychological essay, not of an unusual or twisted psychology, on the contrary, a raw one, the two actors were carefully chosen as types of ordinary guys, Mifune and Marvin, both awesome, with Mifune being the superior actor; it reminded me of Russian war movies, the Expressionism exchanged for '60s _avant-gardism and fanciness, where the playfulness, coldness and irony enhance the beauty and the absurd, the two styles resemble in some heartfelt sympathy, yet Boorman reveals a hopelessness and sense of dread and of the absurd. Think of it as of a poem, also because of its masterful unity.Two soldiers torture each other, then cook, then set up a raft and, toilers of the sea, leave the island, towards a larger world unable, unprepared to contain their comradeship, which was uncertain and shaky to begin with, and, born on a wild shore, breaks in the ruins of societal life. They rediscover comfort in a ruined military base on another island cigars, a magazine, sake. But they drink too much. The drink, the magazine are enough to dispel their newfound, unlikely and strategic unity. They rejoice in the things they find, but foolishly, vainly.The '60s were eager for this naked psychology.They don't know each other's name. Sometimes, their relationship has the abrupt and dizzy quality, with sudden changes and outbursts, found in the '60s and '70s cinema inspired by the stage. Which on stage can look convincing and maybe lifelike, but in a movie looks abrupt, silly and almost contrived.The island, their 1st island, which they leave, is in itself Paradise, and the director is very aware of this pristine beauty. "},{"Title":"Interesting and profound","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Interesting and profound.Very interesting movie, with a great moral message. Builds slowly, if anything to show the gap that has to be bridged between the two characters. Ultimately they discover that peace and co-operation are more constructive than war and strife - surely a code to live by.Solid direction by John Boorman (who also directed Deliverance and Excalibur, among others), to go with the excellent plot. Good performances by Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune, in one of the smallest casts ever (though there have been movies with a cast of one)... "},{"Title":"Restricted Community.","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's a brave and impudent movie -- just two great stars, Marvin and Mifune, one Japanese and the other an American pilot. The score is by the inventive and sonorous Lalo Schifrin, the photography by the seasoned craftsman, Conrad Hall. There's mutual harassment at first, sometimes comically expressed, as when Marvin pees on Mifune below. Ultimately, the two men realize they must cooperate to survive, but they're overwhelmed by the larger picture of the war around them.It's curious piece of movie making. Two enemies isolated on a rainforest-covered lava lump sticking out of an indifferent ocean. I enjoyed it the first time I saw it, chiefly because I wanted to see where it was going. The second time around is a sluggish trek through some highly stylized material.If you haven't seen it, you'll probably enjoy it. There is a contrast of some magnitude in the personalities of Mifune and Marvin. Mifune is angry, all business, proud. Marvin is an importuning elf, slipping here and there through the shrubbery, begging for water and spitefully destroying Mifune's primitive fish net. "},{"Title":"Hatred Fueled War Helps You Understand Animosity Better","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It is an interesting movie that I have seen 3 or 4 times. The first time, I was enthralled. The second, entertained. The third, wondering what I would do better if I was on the island and the after that, you sort of wonder why two people in bad straights would make things worse. Between the two of them, they could eat, drink and have decent shelter. Think Robinson Crusoe and how he turned lemons into lemonade. Actors held their own so that worked well. The ending was rushed and someone should have taken a nap, then had a good swim and then had a good BBQ...In other words...some time out to discover a decent ending to a decent movie. Tom Hanks did something similar with Castaway as well which is this movie but only with one guy. One more thing. Try to get you mind around how cruel the war was on both sides which helps you to understand why they were at heavy odds against each other in the beginning. Eat and drink during this move and you will really relate to the pleasures they were denied first hand. "},{"Title":"Two-Man War Film.","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Lee Marvin & Toshiro Mifune play a downed World War II pilot and a Navy Commander who are stranded on a Pacific island during the war. Both men of course distrust and hate each other, trying desperately to survive and thwart the enemy. As time passes, they find that, if they plan to survive, they will have to come to some sort of a truce. They both have times when they captured the other, but did not kill, which teaches them to begin to get along.Interesting, well acted and directed(John Boorman) film is highly allegorical, that is both men represent two superpowers who can either learn to get along, or kill each other. The ending will either come as a bitter irony, or a misstep, though I lean toward irony; either way, it is memorable. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Hell in the PacificThe worst part about conducting a war on a South Pacific beach is trying not to step on any of the sunbathers.Fortunately, the warring factions in this drama are the only people on the island.Amid the dogfights of WWII, an American pilot (Lee Marvin) is shot down over the Pacific.Deserted on an islet, the pilot discovers he's not alone - a Japanese Navy Officer (Toshiro Mifune) is also marooned there.Instinctively, the two immediately try to kill one another with their limited weaponry.Overtime, however, the pair must learn to cooperate in order to survive.But is there enough room on the atoll for the Japanese castaway's honour and the Yankee castaway's bullheadedness?With only two stars, minimal dialogue and an exotic setting, Hell in the Pacific breaks war down to its basics, and dissects.Furthermore, this island coupling led to the creation of Japanese-American fusion cuisine.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Two men","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There is World War II going on out there.Two men find themselves shot down on a small uninhabited island in the Pacific Ocean.Those men are enemies, the other is an American man while the other is Japanese.They are battling against each other.Then they realize they're in the same situation, and if they don't start working together they never get off that island.John Boorman is the director of Hell in the Pacific (1968).There are only two actors in this movie, but luckily those two are most fitting men.Lee Marvin plays the part of the American Pilot.Captain Tsuruhiko Kurodais played by Toshiro Mifune.Really great job from both of them.It's pretty great to watch the survival game of these two.Like when they build the raft and hit the ocean.I recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"I saw the movie in the theater in 1968","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I saw this in 1968, and it seems there have been some cuts and changes. But, what else is new in Hollywood. It still is a great movie, but both these endings on the DVD aren't like the movie I saw. In the end they are sitting around drinking and friendly. Then a Japnese newspaper is picked off the floor, brushed off, and there is the picture of the atomic bomb going off over Hiroshima.At that point the movie takes a startling and abrupt change as they both end up killing each other. Maybe that ending didn't sit well with today's DVD crowd.An example of a cut is in the beginning when the Japanese officer is walking through the jungle, he stops and urinates on Lee Marvin. Lee is under some foliage (as you see him in the beginning), and the Japanese officer didn't see him. That is why Lee urinates on him later in the movie.Other movies that have been tampered with are Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Mr. Bean, the Movie, The Family Man, Mr. Bean's European Vacation and you can go on and on. They edit the movie and put those in the extras section with, if you're lucky, some lame excuse for not including it in the DVD. Like maybe you might get impatient watching it at home for an extra 10 minutes or something.For some reason, they do the opposite in making a director's cut. But here, they make what might be a reverse director's cut and make a dumbed-down cut which is shorter and leaves out pertinent information or just fun stuff to watch.We are at their mercy, and there is nothing we can do about it. "},{"Title":"1000 times better then those overpriced top250 movies","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Excellent film. Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune find themselves alone on a deserted Pacific island. The first represents USA & West, and the other Japan & Orient. First they are in conflict then they realize they must together find their way out of the island. To do so, they need to overcome cultural and language differences... There are some splendid and funny situations. Beautiful nature offered plenty of beautiful shots. Anyway, this story is about Pacific war, how it started, how it ended, what would happen after the war. But disturbing ending shows us eternal damnation of humankind.(you can find somewhere alternative ending but it is pretty the same). "},{"Title":"War is Heck!","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Two guys on opposite sides learn to live together in this nifty little WWII film. The great Lee Marvin and the legendary Toshiro Mifune live, laugh and fight as a couple of shipwrecked military types who happen to find themselves marooned on the same Pacific island. I love this movie because it has no women in it to mess up the plot, The Japanese guy speaks Japanese with out subtitles, so, like Lee Marvin, we haven't got a clue what the hell he is saying and it is a lot of fun watching them try to psych each other out then become buddies. The transformation from half naked savages to well dressed, clean shaven sophisticates doesn't last long, thanks to too much sake and some provocative photos, courtesy of Life magazine. Are they going to shake hands and let bygones be bygones or are they going to go at it? We will never know because somebody decided to use their new island sanctuary for target practice and an incoming shell takes them both out. The End. I was always frustrated by this ending. I guess John Boorman couldn't let it end any other way. Kind of makes sense. By the way, Lee Marvin actually was a Marine in WWII and he is buried in Arlington National Cemetery. Happy Fourth of July, everybody. "},{"Title":"No man is an island...two men can be a war.","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A very moody, brutal and at times judgmental and uncompromising movie directed by John Boorman. At the end of World War II, American Marine pilot Lee Marvin and Japanese soldier Toshiro Mifune find themselves engaging in their own private war after being left alone on an island in the Pacific. They stalk and taunt each other and take turns capturing and hog tieing the other. Although not being able to understand the other's language, they declare a truce and combine efforts to survive the deserted island jungle. Building a bamboo raft may mean salvation.Not a full two hours long, this is a great movie for a lazy afternoon. Well acted and photographed beautifully. My favorite sequence is when the two determined warriors charge toward each other through the jungle in a tropical rain storm. Finding the deserted military camp is interesting as well. Highly recommended, because the two actors are believable. "},{"Title":"Au natural","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Hell In the Pacific makes perfect sense when considered in the context of director John Boorman's body of work. The film takes place on an incredibly lush Pacific island which will remind viewers of Boorman's The Emerald Forest (1985), and the central conflict--a struggle for survival on the most basic, brutal level between two very dissimilar men--anticipates both Deliverance (1972) and Zardoz (1974). The film's setting also set me thinking about Shakespeare's The Tempest, especially when Marvin and Mifune are alternately trussed up like turkeys during the film's second act, reducing them both to lurching, Caliban-style monsters. There's another remarkable transformative scene featuring a mud-caked Lee Marvin, seemingly grafted onto a tree, underscoring the fraught relationship between man and nature. Hell In the Pacific compares favourably to the films of Werner Herzog in its mad intensity and respect for the forces of the natural world, and frankly blows the collected works of fellow eco-lover Terrence Malick out of the water. Boorman filmed fecund greenery, pouring rainstorms, and powerful waves long before Malick did, and to far greater effect. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A study of desperation and an allegory about war itself on a much smaller scale, John Boorman has intensely directed quite a good film here, powered through by the work of two superb lead actors. The lack of dialogue unfortunately makes it hard to be encapsulated by what is going on, but yet the absence of such has symbolic significance, if the two men are taken as two groups of men who do not speak the same language - it is the barrier between friendships and understanding. The film is however overlong, even at less than two hours in length. The premise is good, but the new and original content that it allows for is slim, which leads to it being quite drawn out. Even so, it is worth seeing. In addition to the virtues mentioned already, the locations are spectacular, the sound effects are good, and it is well shot, with a number of interestingly composed shots. The film ends abruptly, which may leave some scratching their heads, but it is an appropriate conclusion to a film about a war within a war. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Its Difficult with a capital F to write a review of this movie. You think F stands for frustrating.. guess again. Allow me to explain why this is a a TREMENDOUSLY good movie. Because in its haunting simplicity are revealed the summed up characters of AWKWARDLY LOOMING NATIONS. Got that? Your character versus my character.. YOU AND ME.. right up there on the silver screen. And my my.. ain't we just a lot alike you and me. In this movie we find our daily bread.. my battle with you, whom I have to put up with and tolerate. WHY WONT YOU DO WHAT I WANT YOU TO??? FOR GODS SAKES! What is at stake here is Satre's principle (people are hell). You are my hell. Even when you do what I want you to.. you are my hell. Does man really enjoy suffering? Do YOU... ENJOY.. SUFFERING? Are you ever really satisfied with what you have? Oh yeah? for how long. I see in this movie gobs of really powerful principles at work. LOVE Isn't ENOUGH! I hate to, and am unable to admit I really need you! GOOD GOD MAN! This movie is an exploration into SELF via these two vessel SELVES -> Marvin and the jap guy. I mean I want to scream at the jap and tell him GET REAL WILL YOU? STOP PLAY ACTING! CANT YOU ACT NORMAL! I want to scream at the religious fanatic clowns of this world and tell them the same. GET REAL! STOP PLAY ACTING! Cant you see you're living a role assigned to you by some very rich people that are making a living off of your sweat? and I hate you because you don't see it!!! But how do I wake you up? We live in a society where the people who do the least work make the most money. NO! I Don't NEED SCHOOLING TO KNOW WHAT INSANITY IS. And then as George Carlin put it so aptly my god has a bigger stick than your god.. which translates to.. Im right you're wrong therefore kindly do what i want you to. But these are power plays.. and roles assigned to US by others like cheap clothes. Yeah.. those clothes you're wearing right now. Oh Mister King.. your erpidermus is showing. The king who wore no clothes. YEAH.. I SPELL EPIDERMIS-- ERPIDERMUS.Question is.. what do to about it? And so men go to war for a wealthy few who can pay there way out of war. A long time ago.. you could bribe a priest, rabbi, guru whatever... to give you holy passage clear to the next life.. AND problem is YOU STILL CAN TODAY!!!! Its called a democracy, a monarchy, a 3rd world.. its all the same. POWER PLAYS. I power play you because I don't want to face the self in me that id rather not see. This is what is written in invisible ink here my friends.. right here in this movie. Its here.. it really is ring a bell? This is what is written between the lines.. the words that are not spoken and yet.. are spoken here.Here we see our relationship with our self and our relationship with our other self.. YOU. PEOPLE. You who are a part of me.. (you who read this) and from whom I cannot escape nor would I want to. Sooner or later, in this life or the next, we will be here again on this island. You and me.. and we will war.. you and I.So.. what do two men do, who find themselves alone on an island? do? See those quotation marks.. take a good look at that. So there you are, you're with yourself and with your inevitable other self... other people. HELL IN THE PACIFIC IS EVERYDAY LIFE.. IT IS HAPPENING NOW. YOU ARE ON THAT ISLAND M'FRIEND.. AND IM RIGHT THERE WITH YOU JUST WAITING TO MAKE YOUR LIFE A LIVING HELL OR YOU MINE. But wait.. little lord Bush.. and he's really gonna make our lifes hell.. oh gee I just love to suffer! WHATS THAT?? oH M'GOD.. Our Lord King George Bush (who by fraudelent means stole the presidency from al gore.. yeah him) has now transmorphed into Lord King Obama! (a.k.a. oh hell they won't mind my fake birth cerificate obama baby) hmm interesting trick! Great THEATRICS. HOW DO THEY DO THAT? "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Long before Survivor or Castaway this film came out.  If you like this type of entertainment you will love this movie.  Its about a US and Japanese fighter pilots who become stranded on a Island, and have to battle each other and the elements.  Well acted, and written, this film like Castaway has very little talking, but the viewer becomes fascinated with what Marven is doing in order to survive.  Original, and entertaining this film will surprise you. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Powerful in it's simplicity.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The basic story is simple... a downed American WW II pilot makes it to a small Pacific island inhabited only by a marooned Japanese naval officer.  As time passes the continuing war in the outside world fades from their consciousness as their personal battles with each other gradually change into a mutual struggle to survive.  It's when they contrive to escape the island and arrive back on the fringe of on-going war that the movie... ...ENDS!I'm not going to spoil the ending and I don't seem to have any problems getting it, though other folks are baffled and bothered by it all.This movie consists entirely of Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune, and that's enough to make it watchable.  But it's more, it is remarkable.  I saw it only once, decades ago, on television and I never forgot it.  So when I saw the video for sale recently I bought it immediately.  I was not disappointed.  If you're the type that can get sucked in by two fascinating characters interacting, then only bad luck could have kept you from seeing this film before now. "},{"Title":"War Classic for non-Fans of these stars too","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  You certainly don't have to be a fan of these two actors to fully enjoy this classic struggle of war at the lowest commom denominator - hand-to-hand, one-on-one, the only 2 people on a desert island being mortal enemies.The protagonists progress through wartime's high-alert state of mind of kill or be killed.  Then, after apparent days and weeks of slowly realizing the futility of hunting each other, just as slowly begin to cool off and begin to understand each other's communication.  This leads to cooperation which liberates them from their hell in the pacific.  It does end abruptly, which further comments on the insignificant role of these 2 in the wider war still in full array.  It's an 8. "}{"Title":"Great premise - Bad direction and ending","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This movie had the potential of becoming the quintessential anti-war movie, yet it was ruined by its laughable execution. And yes I mean the ending or should I say the endings. Where do I begin, performance wise Toshiro Mifune and Lee Marvin did their job great, I have no major complaints, they both managed to get across the desperation and the suffering their characters endured. Now for the direction of this movie all I can say is WOW just WOW, how in the name of God can you screw up this amazing premise so bad? Seeing the movie it is clear that the director himself wasn't sure about the path he should take, this is obvious in the ending part when they either get blasted, either part ways or the American get's decapitated by two Japanese soldiers and then Mifune takes a sword and decapitates them both for revenge as it was in the original screenplay. Apart from the third being the tackiest thing ever the first ending solves literally nothing plot wise and the second one goes against the entire flow and meaning of the movie. It's like saying I am bored to create a coherent ending which shows that peace is more important than war and that the things that drive people together are more important than the things that drive them away, so yeah.......they're not. I think that Boorman underestimated the gem he had in his hands. So yeah I give this movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Good idea, good execution.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a rather good little movie, that features only two characters, hardly any dialog and a simple but yet effective concept of an American and a Japanese soldier during WW II, who are both marooned on a small uninhabited island in the Pacific Ocean.Of course it's quite predictable from the start on how the movie is going to progress further. Still the execution of it is done rather well and also surprising. I like how the first halve of the movie is basically like Tom & Jerry when the two main characters only bug- and try to steal from each other. It makes the movie quite pleasant, without ever really becoming fully ridicules or a comedy by the way.Its themes and clichés are all being handled well. It's a nice touch that the two main characters don't speak the same language and therefore hardly ever use any words to communicate. Nevertheless they start to understand and respect each other, despite their big difference and the ongoing war in the pacific and therefore hatred and suspicion toward each other, almost constantly.John Boorman is a director who often puts nature-themes in this movie. With this movie as well obviously, as it's set almost entirely in the open and wild nature. It shows how men uses natural elements at hand in order to survive. The movie doesn't need much to tell a 103 minute long story with and it does so without ever becoming boring or so. This is also thanks to Conrad L. Hall's camera-work, that uses some great and original perspectives at times.The movie only has two character in it and despite the fact that they don't have an awful lot of dialog the two actors still carry the movie with their skills. Toshirô Mifune is one of the best and certainly also one of the best known Japanese actors of all time. He of course became famous for starring in many Akira Kurosawa movies, often in the main lead. Lee Marvin of course also is no small actor and had already won an Oscar several years prior to this movie. It's something special watching these two big actors together, who both obviously have their own distinctive style, which also suits the movie its main concept.A nice little unique movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Oh, for a second I thought you were a Jap.","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" One can scarcely imagine the quality and excitement in a film that stars Toshiro Mifune (181 films including Rashomom, Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, and many other great performances) and Lee Marvin (106 films including Cat Ballou, Paint You Wagon, The Dirty Dozen, and many more.Two great actors, one speaking English and the other Japanese with no subtitles. Needless to say, the script is minimal, but you have no trouble understanding the story. Hate, fear, acceptance, humor, all the emotions are there and you do not need to understand what is being said to realize what is going on.Add incredible scenery and you have a film worth watching over and over - and no one has to resort to talking to a soccer ball. "},{"Title":"aside from the ending- which wasn't the one I ordered on my video, thank you- this is one of the very best stranded-on-an-island' pictures","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's one of the classic guy flicks, and one that, apparently from the rating, is all good for the kids! (Actually, they might be a little thrown off by the last reel, but I digress). It's classic because a) it has little dialog- and what dialog, however much can be understood depending on the viewer who understands English &/or Japanese- but only in tiny spurts, with it being otherwise about physical movements, facial ticks, the anger and frustration of men; b) two A-class actors, Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune, who have commanding presences so strong they could likely out-act each other right off the screen (Mifune especially is a perfect balancer of overacting machismo and subtlety that he's best at); and c) it's tense and full of cool music from Lalo Schifrin. Add to that some mind-games, a botched escape attempt off the island (damn waves sending off to yet ANOTHER deserted island), and it's good times.And aside from the appeal on that end, it's also a stunningly directed feature, utilizing the locations by Conrad L. Hall as areas beautiful but suffocating, with a kind of dead-end promise despite all of the cool ocean water and fish. The location becomes another character for Boorman, and like with Deliverance there's a sense of it coming in on the characters as lush as it all remains. Then when the soldier and the pilot get to the other island, it's all a big wreck from war- an escape from the lack of civilization to the destroyed remains of it. This might be a little much to read into a flick like Hell in the Pacific, where it's a maestro turn of two stars playing off one another as the main draw. But there's a keen knack at understanding the nature of men stripped of all of their usual comforts and all of the things that make civilization recognizable- especially the lack of communication. It's smart to not even have subtitles under Mifune for English-speaking viewers, and even wiser to not have any scene where it's like oh, do-you-speak-English? That they talk to one another, and understand here and there intuitively, is enough.It's a near-masterpiece of simplicity despite, as many have discussed, the ending to Hell in the Pacific that's a cop-out that the producers used as a way to get out of having to really deal with- or, color us shocked, make the film a little longer or a little more epic- despite the illogical usage of a bomb when the spot they're on looks already demolished and obliterated by the ravages of battle. The idea that it would be sort of due to just bad luck it happening is also not fitting with the mood of where the film led up to till then. But, this should be taken with some grains of salt; the VHS version I watched didn't have the alternate ending, which sounds slightly less irksome with the two just walking away in disgust. Overall, Hell in the Pacific is a grand work of things unspoken and read right on the exhausted, angry, and somehow vulnerable ex-soldiers with only their common sense to get them through. It could've even been a silent film, though it would've lost the whole facet of communication breakdown the filmmakers presented. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Lousy Ending!","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Really terrific film that keeps you interested for the duration. As it neared the conclusion, I was frothing at the bit to see how it would end. What a cheat! The total equivalent of the And then I woke up type of ending we all wrote in third grade due to lack of imagination. The ending was such a cheat that I went from absolute engrossment to wishing that I hadn't bothered to watch at all. How unsatisfying is the ending? Let's just say that if it had ended up with the American flier and the Japanese soldier falling in love and living happily ever after, well, even THAT would have been less of a cheat! Now for the spoiler, just in case you won't wish to waste your time as I did. After almost two hours of these guys fighting it out, learning to live together for survival and getting off the first island, they sail their raft to another deserted island. This second island, now abandoned, was previously a Japanese outpost. The two men get drunk over dinner and have an argument. Right then shells begin to fall on the outpost. One shell is a direct hit and they're both blown up! Dear god! It's a DESERTED ISLAND! And all of a sudden, at night and right on cue, shelling starts and they both die!? Biggest lack of imagination I'v ever witnessed in a major Hollywood film with two excellent stars! "},{"Title":"Not Boorman's best by a long shot, this is still an interesting and unique film","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" John Boorman and Lee Marvin's previous collaboration Point Blank was a masterpiece. Hell in the Pacific doesn't even come close to replication. Still, its an interesting, low-key, and subtle piece of Naturalism which only in the decade between 1967 to 1977 (after the code and before the blockbuster success of Star Wars) would a major studio dare finance. One might fear that, judging from a simple plot description, this is a film where nothing much happens. Fortunately, Boorman is a skilled director and he manages to maintain attention even on the flimsiest and least exciting of plots.Both of the stars, Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune, are great (and very believable) in their roles of men trying their hardest to survive and avoid going insane. It was a good decision on Boorman's part to not subtitle the Japanese dialog of Mifune and still manages to make his character multi-layered to non-Japanese speaking audiences. I wonder how someone who spoke Japanese and not English would react differently to the film than myself? The film isn't perfect however and the ending builds up to a tense climax which just isn't there (the actual resolution is a major cop-out). Not Boorman's best by a long shot, this is still an interesting and unique film. (7/10) "},{"Title":"maybe I saw a different version","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I watched this in a film class during college, and I don't remember anyone being blown up at the end. The way we saw it, it just had the two guys walking off in different directions, and I thought it was a brilliant ending to a beautiful movie. If I had seen the two of them getting blown up at the end, I'm sure that my rating would be a few notches lower.I am convinced that the basic premise (with a few changes) of Castaway was stolen from this movie, much as the basic premise of Payback was stolen from another Boorman movie Point Blank.Visually, Hell in the Pacific was stunning. It really had to be, as the dialogue was just two monologues (and if you don't speak Japanese, you can only follow one of 'em). Great metaphor for the almost indomitable obstacles of communicating with another person, and also for the inevitability of finding some sort of common ground with anyone, given enough time. Better to have a shred of understanding than to be alone, but given the choice, people will usually stay with those who share more with them.I felt that Boorman reached his peak as a director between this and Deliverance...but that's with a different ending than what people on here are describing. Blowing everything up at the end does seem like an art-house cop-out to a movie (you know, provided it's not Dr. Strangelove, when it was completely warranted). I'm glad the version I saw was different. I'm sure I would've been outraged, like I was upon watching A.I., had I caught the original ending. "},{"Title":"Yojimbo vs. Goofy","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This could have been a great movie!  The photography is beautiful and the story is compelling, BUT..........  Lee Marvin comes across looking like Barney Fife.  Perhaps his role should have gone to Don Knotts!!!   Mifunes is an intelligent and believable performance and of course he steals the show (which he is inclined to do on occasion).  His dialogue is all in Japanese and is not subtitled.  This is probably the most interesting aspect of the film.  It makes his character all the more menacing.  The film is entertaining and fast paced but in the end rather a disappointment.  "},{"Title":"The inspiration for 1985's Enemy Mine","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I remember seeing this movie on television back in 1970. In the days before cable and satellite television, movies like this one, came to TV a lot faster than they do today. The story is similar to that of 1985's Enemy Mine. Two pilots, one American, (Lee Marvin,) and one Japanese, (Toshiro Mufane,) are trapped on an uninhabited island in the Pacific during World War II. The entire movie is about their fight to survive. This is definitely the inspiration for 1985's Enemy Mine, though it was based on a short story by Harlin Ellison, I think. I'm not sure. It's been a while since I've seen this movie. It was on again in the mid '70s. Lee Marvin's character is only identified as American Pilot. Toshiro Mufane's is identified as a Japanese captain. "},{"Title":"Great Saturday afternoon flick...","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" ...or any afternoon for that matter. Both actors are terrific in this one, even with almost no dialogue. Highly recommended. One reviewer mistakenly claims the Japanese soldier looks at grisly photos of Hiroshima and Nagasaki from a stack of old newspapers. He (the reviewer) then uses that to back up his incorrect and distorted world viewpoint as well. Just as well.The Japanese solder actually looks at photos of his dead military comrades while leafing thru a copy of LIFE magazine. That's what triggered his anger. This was during the war ....not after. The new DVD just released has an alternate ending included. Interesting....very interesting. But I'm glad they chose the original one included in the movie. Makes much more of an impact.  "}{"Title":"Fifty-Fifty, Right?","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"       A solitary Japanese soldier guards a remote Pacific island during or shortly after World War Two.  One day an American serviceman washes up on the island.  Enemies who lack a common language, the two men must decide whether to continue the vendettas of a distant civilisation, or co-operate in order to survive.     This gentle human comedy was scripted by Bercovici and Jacobs with the sparest possible use of dialogue.  Boorman's direction has a relaxed, late sixties, make-love-not-war slant to it and a superb jazz score by Lalo Schifrin.  The first meeting of the two men sets out the film's stall brilliantly.  Told purely in images, the story builds a terrific level of tension.  Suspense is augmented expertly through deft editing in the 'bullets' scene, and later, the din of the torrential rain swells to a crescendo to underpin the human tension.     National characteristics (or cultural stereotypes, if you will) emerge naturally from the interplay of the characters.  Lee Marvin is a brash, violent man who cannot defer gratification, whereas Toshiro Mifune is methodical, dutiful and somewhat unimaginative.  Personally, I did not like the urination joke, but at least it emphasises the difference in outlook between the two men.     As one would expect in a film which all but eschews the spoken word, the visuals are strong.  The natural architecture of the rock formations in the fishing scene is a delight for the eye, as are the sun, sea and sky during the crossing of the reef.  The film conveys the immense loneliness of the Pacific, and by extension, the pettiness of our human conflicts.  Visually, the two men come to resemble one another more and more closely as their uniforms rot away and they take to wearing headcloths against the sun's heat.  Civilised values are falling away and the two men are reduced - or rather elevated - to their simple humanity.     The film makes its points intelligently.  Tensions is relieved by passages of endearing humour (That is MY log!) and the low-key ending is appropriate.  With the rediscovery of long-inculcated values, it is inevitable that the men will feel a certain emotional distance returning.     Marvin and Mifune are great.  They hold the viewer's attention with seeming effortlessness through a long and technically difficult project. "},{"Title":"Two of the finest actors working","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  With a cast consisting of Mifune and Marvin-two of the coolest and greatest actors ever and the keen eye of director John Boorman, it would be hard to miss. And for about 97% of the film it doesn't. But what the hell happens at the end? "},{"Title":"A taut and gripping psychological drama","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" An American soldier (Lee Marvin in typically strong and robust form) and a Japanese officer (superbly played by Toshiro Mifune) find themselves stranded together on a remote Pacific island. Can they set aside their differences and learn to get along in order to survive in an unsparingly harsh environment? Director John Boorman, working from a tight, intelligent and intriguing script by Alexander Jacobs and Eric Bercovici, wrings plenty of sweaty suspense from the absorbing premise and cogently captures a potent sense of isolation and desolation. Moreover, Boorman never lets the central allegory about how war divides men and forces them to become bitter enemies get bogged down in any heavy-handed pretension or gooey sentimentality. The top-notch performances by Marvin and Mifune help matters a lot; their tense, edgy chemistry keeps the picture humming throughout. In addition, Marvin's volatile gruffness and Mifune's stoic resolve make for an excellent and hugely enjoyable contrast; the way their initially adversarial relationship slowly, but surely develops into a grudging tolerance and eventual affinity for one another is both touching and convincing. Conrad L. Hall's sharp, breathtaking widescreen cinematography offers a wealth of striking visuals. Lalo Schifrin's nicely varied score constitutes as another significant asset; it's alternately shivery and dissonant, lush and lovely, yet always rousing and melodic. Only the dissatisfyingly abrupt and jarring studio-imposed ending disappoints. (The original conclusion is much more dramatically sound and hence more pleasing as well.) Offbeat, inspired and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A great anti-war movie","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A parable showing absurdity of war. Two soldiers, an American and a Japanese, on a small uninhabited island, continue on a small scale the war of their nations (WW2). Their warfare - totally absurd and pointless, but funny - makes one see that the great war itself is just as absurd and pointless.    "},{"Title":"A true anthem of American/Japanese relations","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I absolutely loved seeing these two soldiers obliterate their animosities to survive, although, I doubt the likelihood of its occurrence, considering Japan, with its warlike ways and America, with our ethnocentricities. Being the admirer of Japanese culture that I am, I felt very uplifted when I saw a (fictional) softer side to Japan's rather nasty reputation during the war; something I'd always done my best to push to the back of my mind. I'd like to think this could've happened, (probably not, but...), and I wish an end to the sporadic, still-existent hatred of one of our most infamous of enemies, Japan.The production is flawful, but still quite excellent. Mifune and Marvin present golden performances, delivering effectively intense dialogue, (could've used a few subtitles, though). The story lacks a characterized antagonist, which is good, and Mifune's character is thankfully free of stereotype. The film's conspicuous eyesore is a clumsily and oafishly produced climax, and I feel you have to know a little bit about the history of WWII to fully understand it. In closing, I recommend this amazing film to all war buffs, war haters, and Japan lovers. Anime fans should definitely give it an open-minded try as well. "},{"Title":"Iconic Movie fails to be fair","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a one-sided view of the two cultures of Japan and America. In every aspect of this movie the American is portrayed as an oaf while the Japanese is seen as civilized. For that reason alone I diminished this movie to only 1 star. While the production, look, and acting are very good (in keeping with the stereotypes) this is only a veil to hide the meaning of this movie.So it should be viewed only by people who accept these stereotypes as the true representation of these two cultures. Keep in mind this is not just a story - it is a movie designed to portray the conflict of the two cultures during WWII (or the conflict of man during any war). As such it makes these two characters icons of those civilizations. Since it is one-sided, it utterly fails because of its prejudice.A good hint is the cover photo - the American looks brutish while the Japanese appears stern and determined. So it goes throughout the entire 149 hour show.I am a fan of Toshiro Mifune, Samurai movies, and the Japanese culture in general ... but don't you dare pick on America - the greatest country since the dawn of man! (And who doesn't love anything Lee Marvin does??) I wanted, and expected (since this is an iconic movie about war in general), an even portrayal saying that we are different but the same. Instead I got Americans are thieves, oafs, loud, and brutish; Japanese are hard working, disciplined, quiet, and thoughtful. Another aspect of this movie is that neither soldier tries to communicate with the other. Although this was evenly done I suspect it was because the director did not understand how real people would react given this situation. (They would first try to set up some common ground - such as a language.)Finally, the fact that they never learned, nor even asked, each others name points to the iconic nature of these two characters and thus the whole movie.(I just learned that the American character is listed as American pilot - he has NO name! While the Japanese character has a rank, first name, and a last name - a full out one-sided prejudice against America.) You would be hard-pressed to convince me that this movie was about anything other than what I said it was about.PS The DVD I had (from NETFLIX) has the original ending as a Special Feature which you have to select. Do so after you see the replacement ending. In my opinion the original ending is in keeping with the one-sided view of the entire movie. 1/10 = only watchable for anti-Americans.-LD______________________________________________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "},{"Title":"By far the greatest comedy film of all time","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Sorry but no other comedy in history matches the greatness of this one. I was ROFLing through every second.The movie is about a Yank and a Jap whose planes crash into an island during WWII. Hilarity ensues.The highlight of the film is a urination sequence involving Toshiro Mifune getting peed on by Lee Marvin and then he goes all crazy and starts washing himself. I bet you're laughing already. Another powerful moment is when Marvin gives a heroic speech about how he owns a log. This is obviously an analogy which refers to the fact that the Allies had logs while the Axis didn't.Like I said, hilarious. "},{"Title":"Great Acting, Great Direction, Poor Movie","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Might be an artistic wonder, but failed on entertainment. A Box Office Flop. The struggle is never resolved, it just re-ignites at the end. Then poof its over. Lee Marvin and Misfune do great jobs considering they are it, that's a lot of acting. The direction was good the acts are believable, but predictable. The camera work is excellent, probably wasn't an easy location to shoot. Its hard to write 10 lines about this movie. Two men trapped and surviving on an island, nothing much to eat or do except dream about rescue. If you're a Lee Marvin fan, well this isn't the blood and guts tough guy you like to see. Not much humor here either, its a struggle movie, but not good against evil. "}]