[{"Title":"Polanski's Baby","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"211 out of 255 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When people talk about perfect films I don't actually know what they mean. Perfect for whom? Perfect compared to what? I think that perfection is in the brain and heart of the beholder. Rosemary's baby is a perfect film to me. Scary in a way that makes you breathless. You're thinking and feeling throughout the film. One of the many sides of Polanski's genius is to suggest. And what he suggest is so monstrous that we don't want to believe it, but we do. The characters are so perfectly drawn that there is no cheating involved. John Cassavettes's superb study in selfishness and egomaniacal frustration is so real that comes to no surprise that he could do what he does to advance his career, but we are surprised, we're horrified. The spectacular Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer are not Deborah Kerr and David Niven, are they? So that they turn out to be what they turn out to be is totally believable, but Polanski presents it in such a light of normality that you can't believe it. Mia Farrow's predicament is as classic as the boy who cried wolf tale and yet, as told by Roman Polanski in the wonderful face of Mia Farrow, is as if we're hearing it, seeing it and living it for the first time. Every silence, every voice in the distance, every door opening. Your heart is always in your throat. There is something there that accelerates a constant state of dread. Very few movies have been able to take me to that place, most of them by Roman Polanski, what about The Tenant or Repulsion? Other movies that come to mind David Lynch's Eraserhead and Martin Donovan's Apartment Zero But Rosemary's baby stands alone as a terrifying masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Psychological Horror at its very best","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"140 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" One might argue Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is not a horror film, since it lacks almost everything you'll find in almost all of them shock moments, vampires, werewolf, serial killers, even blood. The most graphic scene is a nightmare sequence that displays a rape scene so stylized it isn't actually disturbing. But one might also argue that Rosemary's Baby is a horror film in its purest form, since it doesn't depend on all those gimmicks to create its atmosphere. I prefer the latter point of view. So what is happening in this film? Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse move to a new apartment. Their neighbors are Roman and Minnie Castevet, an elderly couple. Although they are very friendly, there is something strange about them - the sounds that come from their apartment, the fact they remove all the pictures from their walls when the Woodhouses visit and other things like that. While Rosemary tries to keep a certain distance from them, Guy is very fond of the relationship to his new neighbors, and especially Minnie becomes more and more obtrusive, especially when Rosemary finds out she's pregnant - she recommends her another (better, as she says) gynecologist's and mixes a (healthy, as she says) herbal drink for her every day. The pregnancy, however, develops rather unpleasant Rosemary keeps feeling pain in her stomach and she becomes thinner (Pregnant women are supposed to gain, not lose weight, a visiting friend observes), and when the pain doesn't stop after several months, she begins to believe that her neighbors, her gynecologist's and even her husband conspired against her and want to harm the baby she's carrying. All this is told by Roman Polanski in the perfect tone; the mood for the entire film is already set during the opening credits when we hear that weird lullaby, sung by Mia Farrow. And a lot of strange things happen throughout the entire film Guy and Rosemary are told by Hutch, a friend of theirs, about the horrific past of the house they're now living in, a young girl that lives with the Castevets commits suicide (really a suicide?), Guy, an actor, gets the role he wanted so badly after the contestant who was originally supposed to play it turns blind, and Hutch, who might have found something out that would help Rosemary, suddenly is in a coma and dies three months later; all these (and a few other) events are precisely dosed by Polanski to draw us more and more into the film, while he makes sure on the other hand that the film doesn't become absurd. And he manages to give the film an ending that works, makes sense and is observant, slightly (but only slightly) funny and very disturbing, all at once. Rosemary's Baby also contains two of the most memorable performances ever Mia Farrow is haunting as Rosemary Woodhouse. She looks like she is physically suffering from her pregnancy and close to complete despair. And Ruth Gordon is amazing as the curious Minnie Castevet, always friendly, but also giving you the feeling that, hidden behind her generosity, she actually follows her own, obscure motives. If you have a helpful elderly female neighbor, you'll see her with other eyes once you've encountered Minnie Castevet. So, if you think a real horror film needs shock moments, vampires, werewolf, serial killers or at least blood - watch Rosemary's Baby and you'll change your mind. "},{"Title":"One of the ultimate horror classics","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"143 out of 166 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Every bit of acclaim that Rosemary's Baby has earned is totally deserved. The Dakota, located at 72nd and Central Park West, is the perfect setting for the demonic events; all that rich Gothic detail in the heart of Manhattan provides the perfect atmosphere, serving as a dark fairy-tale world of its own within the modern setting. Roman Polanski knows this and utilizes it brilliantly, opening the film with stunning aerial shots of the skyline and focusing in on the ornate castle amongst the skyscrapers and tenements.The acting is fantastic, particularly Mia Farrow, who is the only person I can envision as Rosemary. Her fine-boned fragility makes her the ideal target for terror. She goes from obliviousness to suspicion to fear to near madness without showing a seam, and we as the audience are with her all the way. And Mia is given a run for her money by the delightful Ruth Gordon, a comical yet sinister presence popping in on a deliberate schedule with pale green drinks and sandpapery advice. She's scary because we know her--a batty old broad with a seemingly sweet nature beneath her caustic surface. That such a person could possibly be a vessel of evil is a thoroughly unnerving concept.Unnerving is the proper adjective for the entire movie. Unnerving, eerie, and penetratingly frightening in a very subtle manner. The subtlety is key, since a more explicit treatment would've spoiled everything. As the tension heightens, we feel what Rosemary feels Curiosity, then vague suspicion, then paralyzing terror at the final revelation. At all times, the movie retains its dignity, from the opening and closing shots of the building to the flourishing title script to the beautiful music. Even on TV, this picture can chill you to the bone. The best big-budget horror movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Reassuring to fine it's every bit as good as its staunchest champions would have you believe","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"144 out of 174 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Why aren't the horror directors of today as careful with their scripts as Polanski was?  Not that this is really horror.  Horror as we know it came into being with the slasher flicks of the late 1970s and early 1980s; Rosemary's Baby is rather the kind of thing that the term dark fantasy was coined to describe, by people of taste who noticed that the word horror promised audiences something distinctly unpleasant and nasty.The film's construction is marvellous.  Things start slow - one beat, so to speak, to a bar - and gradually pick up speed so that by the end we are nervously tapping out semiquavers with our feet.  Polanski also understands the gentle art of hint-dropping.  Many events are filed away as tiny puzzles to be solved later, and they ARE solved later; others we don't attach any particular significance to at the time Polanski invites us to re-interpret in retrospect, AND chooses the right moment to let us do so.  And then, at the end, AFTER we've worked everything out, he presents us with a surprise - a delightful, gratuitous twist which nothing had prepared us for, which we couldn't have guessed, yet which doesn't cancel out the story as we'd understood it.  (Alas, many people know what this surprise is in advance.  I, for one.  Yet this foreknowledge did nothing to spoil my enjoyment a sure sign of superb construction.)All in all, a film that tempts you to rank it with the best ever made - which is more, but not much more, than it deserves - simply because it's perfect.  Everything went right.  Rosemary is a wonderfully sympathetic heroine, powerless without being passive, largely ignorant of what's going on around her without being at all stupid, and Mia Farrow makes you care deeply about her.  The cinematography is pellucid; the art direction is subtly right; there's also a fine, odd yet tuneful, musical score.  I can't believe I waited so long to see this. "},{"Title":"the best supernatural movie ever made?","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"119 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure about that but Rosemary's baby has got to be one of the best, if not the best, psychological supernatural thrillers ever made. The real test of a good movie(or one of them) is can it hold up to multiple viewings? In this case-oh yes.I cannot even count how many times I have seen this. A good-really good-scary movie must have more then the ability to merely scare, it must have the ability to haunt. Rosemary's baby is a movie where certain scenes become etched in memory. Movie as good as book which is almost a non existent thing.This is not a slow moving picture at all or at least I don't see it as one. What this movie does, as does another Levin creation, Stepford wives, is lure you in. There maybe moments that are not scary but as it goes on and you keep watching you start to get more and more creeped out-the atmosphere is what does it-even if someone were tuning in and didn't know this story already-the creepy feeling that something's very wrong is still there strongly from the beginning, strengthening in tone as you get deeper into the picture until by the end and the final few scenes your blown away.This is definitely more subtley and atmospherically creepy then a boo in your face scare fest like scream. It is the type of movie you very rarely see anymore.If anyone, by chance has NOT seen it they are missing someone-I don't recall seeing this in the IMDb top 250-while I'm not sure I'd put it in my top 10, I still think this maybe should be there, in IMDb'S top 250, it's been an influence on so many other movies and so few movies have been able to follow the movie's lead in the same well done way. "},{"Title":"A Landmark Horror film","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"76 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is one of the best horror films ever made.  This isn't because it's going to scare the pants off you with a series of sensational jolts.  This isn't the shallow, gimmicky kind of horror movie we mostly get these days, and it isn't the traditional old-fashioned horror film of an earlier era.  This is a movie that came out during a period of transition in Hollywood.  The old production codes were breaking down and films could suddenly be more true to life in the way they showed how people really lived, acted and talked.  1968s Rosemary's Baby is a more sophisticated, less elegant thriller of the kind that Alfred Hitchcock patented, but it displays much more class and intelligence than the horror movies that would come out in its wake.  Popular '70s films such as The Exorcist and The Omen are the prodigy of Rosemary's Baby, but offer far less nuance and much greater vulgarity.  What we get here is a more naturalistic depiction of modern life, but without the crassness that would soon explode into American cinema.  Most of the credit for what makes Rosemary's Baby such a successful film goes to Roman Polanski.  Polanski is a master at conveying to an audience not just a sense of the uncanny but a vivid depiction of it.  His earlier films like Knife in the Water, Repulsion and Dance of the Vampires, display the talents that would come to such a controlled mastery in Rosemary's Baby.Polanski very faithfully adapts Ira Levin's novel to the screen so that the viewer is, just as the reader was, free to interpret the eerie events of the story as either reality or a depiction of an isolated woman's decent into madness.  At the same time the picture can be taken as a black joke on the human male's fears of the changes a woman goes through during pregnancy, both physically and emotionally.  But Polanski seems most interested in presenting a normal world, in this case Manhattan in the mid 1960s, and then through subtle cinematic techniques get an audience to actually believe that the hysterical, fantastic ravings of the heroine could be true.  It is this tour de force exercise in suspension of disbelief that makes the film a classic.  The horror films that have come since have had to ratchet up the shock effects in order to thrill more desensitized audiences, but this deliberately paced film reminds us of how much better it is to leave things to the imagination of the viewer.  That is where films really come alive and remain so.The Paramount DVD presents an excellent print of the movie that looks as if it were shot yesterday, along with extras that include new interviews with Polanski, executive producer Bob Evans and production designer Richard Sylbert, and a featurette from the time of the film's original release that really works as a good time capsule. "},{"Title":"Flawless Horror Masterpiece","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"78 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary, in Mia Farrow's performance, is so immediately recognizable that everything that happens to her, happens to us. Her explanation to Dr Hill (Charles Grodin) about the absurdity she's at the center of, is so brilliantly written that she becomes more than just one of us, she becomes us in all the depth of our unspoken fears. To see this film in 2007 is really amazing. Perfection! And that for our benefit. Polanski is not one of those directors who concocts camera tricks to feed his own ego. Everything is at the service of the story. John Cassavettes is a scarily convincing weakling with an ambition bigger than his talent. Ruth Gordon got, what I, in my modest opinion, consider one of the most deserving Oscars in the history of the Oscars. Her performance is beyond superb. Okay, I'm running out of superlatives but let me finish with one more...Roman Polanski is the greatest. "},{"Title":"The Horror Underneath a Pregnant Woman's Belly.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"56 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Pregnancy is the time in a woman's life that, despite the hormone imbalance and the emotional changes, is charged in an overwhelming among of love and support and the notion that she is slowly gestating a human life, male or female, a child that will bring her (and her family) happiness. Motherhood has been depicted as beautiful, symbolic, Woman being Creation in progress in ancient cultures, a Thing to venerate and respect and even worship, Something capable of ensuring the continuation of a family line, a tradition, and hence, life and culture for an entire strata of society. Nothing is supposed to go wrong, or at least, not at the level of what happens to Rosemary Woodhouse's pregnancy, which is the ultimate wrong thing.What Ira Levin seems to want to tell us in this plot surrounding Rosemary's pregnancy is that society and its religious tradition can be substituted by something much more sinister, as-yet unseen but gestant -- the force of will, the creation of Man's own version of what he believes will be the new wave of humanity. Is God dead? Well, considering the timing of the novel and the movie with society's disillusionment with Establishment, the onset of Vietnam, the loss of innocence of a country just years ago with the deaths of John F. Kennedy, Bobby Kennedy, and Martin Luther King, He just as well may be. Religion and religious figures pop up during the movie, but seem unable to bring any comfort and only add to the vague sense of unease that permeates ROSEMARY'S BABY.And this nagging unease is precisely what both author and director give us something not quite, completely there, something that seems to be happening just off-limits, barely overheard through the flimsy walls which divide these prewar apartment buildings converted into chic, livable spaces. The way the banal elements that are so much a part of our lives are overthrown so subtly makes the horror that is the movie's denouement even more tragic. Surely the nice neighbors can't be more than just that -- they're so helpful... well, maybe a little too helpful. Surely the death of that girl Rosemary befriends was just a freak suicide. Surely the doctor's recommendations for Rosemary are the best -- don't doctor's always know what's good for us? And surely, one's own partner would not have done the unthinkable in order to advance professionally now, would he?Paranoia of the unseen is a powerful way to tell a horror story without ever giving away any shock cuts or showing the boogeyman. While it becomes abundantly clear early on that this is a story of witchcraft of the worst kind, the only time some of it makes its way in front of the camera is in the extremely stylized ritual/rape scene, and even then, since Rosemary is having what might be the worst nightmare of her life, one isn't quite sure of what is happening, and of course, in the end, when all is revealed in a comic yet horrific way. That takes skill in a storyteller and what makes ROSEMARY'S BABY so completely disturbing even now, almost forty years from its release unto the public. Also the fact that it never relies on a twist ending so common today but on the nuanced performance of the actors portraying real urbanites enhances from Mia Farrow who carries the movie and even at the end retains a resigned innocence to her fate once her suspicions are facts to John Cassavettes who plays his part slimy straight, and supporting actors Ruth Gordon and Sydney Blackmer who have the hard task of making kindly and eccentric hide sinister just underneath. Their performance makes you wonder who exactly are your neighbors, and if they might be harboring some deadly lifestyle, and makes you feel uneasy being alone even in an empty hallway or accepting anyone's offered smoothie. "},{"Title":"Truly Creepy and Demonic","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"77 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best horror films ever made.  The conspiracy that Rosemary goes throughout the film is truly creepy.  What makes it so scary is that she goes trusting her husband and 'friends' without any idea of what really is happening to her.  The rape scene is horrifying, very intense and at its best for the horror genre.  Rosemary's Baby is a great horror film, there are no posessions, no gore, but the film is intense in content.  It has power to make the audience nervous, tense and very scared. -********** A perfect 10. "},{"Title":"A Veneer Of Normalcy","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It starts off like one of those 1950's Doris Day movies. Young, idealistic Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and new hubby Guy (John Cassavetes) move into a Manhattan apartment building called the Bramford. Throughout most of the film we, as viewers, see and hear what innocent Rosemary sees and hears. There's a veneer of normalcy at the Bramford that belies what's really going on, behind our backs. It's the script's POV, therefore, that makes this film so chilling.At the Bramford, which has quite a colorful history, you can hear through the walls. And, as Rosemary and we viewers soon find out, strange people lurk in other parts of the building. The strangest of all are Roman and Minnie Castevet (Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon), superficially cordial, but a bit too inquisitive. Roman is retired. His wife, Minnie, wears tons of makeup and pawnshop jewelry, and gushes with praise for herbal cures, especially something called tannis-root. And Minnie's friend Laura-Louise (Patsy Kelly) wears thick glasses that make her eyes seem to bulge, and she talks with a strangely deep voice.Rosemary's Baby is one of the great thrillers of all time. Given the underlying subject matter, can you imagine how this film must have come across to viewers in 1968? The strength of the film is the script, which through its plot and dialogue implies and suggests. Not until near the end do we, like Rosemary, find out the presumed truth. Suspense increases toward the end as Rosemary ventures into the inner sanctum of the Bramford.The film's acting is great, and reinforces the strong script. I particularly liked Ruth Gordon, with her delightfully eccentric behavior and mannerisms. Production design and especially costumes are lavish and colorful. Clothes and hairstyles, as you would expect, are very 1960ish. Visual effects are minimal, and are used to enhance the story, not be the story.Given the film's POV, the story is rather subjective. Its interpretation is based on Rosemary's perceptions, images, and fears. One could explain that Rosemary suffers from delusions. Or, alternately, one could explain that what happens is real. It's all in the interpretation. Either way, it's a great movie. It holds up well, forty years later, a tribute to its writer and director, Roman Polanski. "}{"Title":"In a word, outstanding.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" There are only a tiny handful of horrorfilms that really deserve the superlative outstanding, but Rosemary's Baby is definitely on my personal list and damn near the top of the column.Elements of the supernatural are present; the murderous coven, the devil come to earth, the use of juju to destroy the enemy. But all of these things are at nothing compared to the real horror in Rosemary's life that she is nothing more then a gestation vessel for her ambitious husband, the gory eccentrics in her building, and the most powerful demon in the Christian pantheon. No one takes her seriously in any other capacity. Even at the end, her last bit of resistance is broken down as Roman Castavet eases her into the role of the mother of destruction.I don't think it's any coincidence that Ira Levin wrote this novel or that it became such a huge hit in the sixties, when birth control pills became household words and the first open battles for legal abortion were being waged and won. The strength of this film is that it deals with social issues (reproductive rights) that were actively bouncing between the ears of the greater population of this country, and yet still doesn't become a tedious piece of social realism or agitprop. The cast of the film is remarkable. Mia Farrow plays a woman protagonist who is far more self identified then the usual female victim in a Gothic, Guy Cassevetes plays a treacherous husband whose actions are beneath contempt, both performances are very precise. The film bounces adroitly from the high camp of Elija Cook's fastidious building superintendent to the great white fatherliness seen in Maurice Evan's character Hutch. The use of Ruth Gordon is inspired, having Sidney Blackmer play straight man to her zaniness even more so. The very fine comedienne Patsy Kelly shows up as a more obstreporous member of the coven, Ralph Bellamy is sedate and subdued as the suave warlock Sapperstein. And somehow or other, director Roman Polanski managed to tie all these energies together and create a solid, consistent package with a subdued pace that is both hysterical and chilling at the same time. It is one powerful satire.Finally, the film contains one very strong nightmare sequence. Dreams are scary, Neil Gaiman reminds us,but there are few portrayed on film as strikingly as the one Rosemary has under a drug induced slumber on the night of her demonic group rape and the child's conception.Rosemary's Baby is a magnificent effort. And I believe it set a standard that every new horror film should be measured against, just as the film 2001 has become for many admirers of science fiction one of the benchmarks of that genre. "},{"Title":"Truly terrifying","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Roman Polanski's horror classic is literally pregnant with paranoia. Mia Farrow gets an iconic cropped 'do, John Cassavetes broodsHalfway through Polanski's classic psycho-horror, Rosemary (Farrow) decides to chop off her bob. Not since Delilah took to Samson's barnet has a haircut signalled such a decline. It's at that moment that Rosemary's slump into madness begins. She's pregnant, she's in love with husband Cassavetes, and living in a beautiful new apartment. But a burning pain in her womb tells her something's not right. Why are her elderly neighbours so concerned? Why has hubby's career suddenly blossomed? Surely her memory of being raped by Satan was just a dream? Ira Levin's story erodes Rosemary's sanity drip by drip. A pierced ear, a foul smelling charm, a chocolate mousse with a chalky flavour, these are the unlikely fertilisers of her paranoia. In Polanski's hands their significance remains chillingly ambiguous as he explores the natural alienation of pregnancy. Truly terrifying.   "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Fight","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Polanski successfully sets the tone right from the beginning as the strange and somewhat scary lullaby plays as the opening credits appear. In the background we see Rosemary's neighborhood while the focus is on her window. This tone is maintained throughout the entire film. The film is quite well executed. Polanski creates a gloomy, isolated and chilling mood. 'Rosemary's Baby' is a horror film but unlike most movies of this genre, this one is very subtle and is more dependent on the atmosphere rather than the 'horror creatures'. It is only in the excellently executed nightmare sequence, which is comprised of fragments of scenes, that one witnesses something 'out of the ordinary'. I was initially dissatisfied by the ending but after some thought, I couldn't think of a better more effective conclusion. The ending itself is so spine-chilling and makes the movie experience more horrifying. The haunting lullaby replays in the end capturing that moment of horror like a photographic memory. The cast does a fine job though clearly this is Farrow's film. Mia Farrow is spellbinding. The way she captures Rosemary's kindness, agony, anguish, fragility and courage is noteworthy. She is simply amazing to watch. I can understand why it is still so popular after 40 years. There has been hardly anything else like it. "},{"Title":"Awful things happen in every apartment house","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby was originally proposed as a project to Alfred Hitchcock. He turned it down, and instead it fell to the up-and-coming Polish director Roman Polanski. It's hard to imagine what the master of suspense would have made out of this tale of devil worship and Catholic guilt, even though there is some Hitchockian psychology and mystery at work. As it was however, it proved to be right up the young Polanski's street, taking his career to new heights, and spawning a run of occult horrors in the late 60s and early 70s, of which this is still one of the few greats.Polanski had already established himself as a director most comfortable with the confinement of interiors in films like Repulsion (1965). Here he draws us right into the claustrophobic feel of the upstairs apartment, often placing the camera in a room adjacent to the action, with the characters viewed through a doorway. The camera movement is mostly restricted to pans. It rarely tracks or dollys, as if it were trapped in a corner. Even in the exterior scenes the sky is often sandwiched or blotted out altogether between the buildings rising on either side. The actors often appear uncomfortably close to the camera, but not in individual close-up shots. Instead, they come in that close as they move around the set and the camera pans back and forth. Not only does this add to the cramped, awkward atmosphere, but this constantly changing distancing of actors within a single shots makes the audience feel as if they are actually standing there.Rosemary's Baby may come across as very slow to some viewers. 140 minutes certainly is a long time in the horror genre. There do also appear to be a lot of unnecessary details in the dialogue &#150; we get to find out far more about Rosemary's background than is normal for a character in cinema. But for one thing, Polanski was not interested in making a shock-and-gore horror &#150; Rosemary's Baby is all about the eerie atmosphere, the tension and the mystery. He holds our attention by regularly dropping in clues that something sinister is afoot. Furthermore, all the detail and depth has its significance in the finished product &#150; like the references to Rosemary's Catholic upbringing or the background of the Castavets.Polanski has never overused flashy techniques &#150; no fast editing, zooms or unusual angles that make for a very obvious directorial style. But there is always great complexity and meaning in the look of things &#150; the set design, lighting, costume and so on. One of my favourite touches is Mia Farrow's extremely short Vidal Sassoon hairdo that she has done halfway through the film. With her bony features and pale skin she more and more begins to resemble a skeleton, especially under the carefully placed lighting in the scene after the party when she realises the pain has gone. It's simple yet significant ideas like that which make Polanski one of the best directors of his era.There's some great casting in this picture. Careful choice of character actors makes for some quirky supporting roles. Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes are perfect in the lead roles. The musical score &#150; that haunting opening melody, or the atonal violin squeaks &#150; all add to the atmosphere.Rosemary's Baby is a real landmark in horror. It helped keep the genre alive by pushing the occult - something fairly taboo, and not fully explored in cinema since the days of silents - to the fore. Also the restrained atmospheric horror was doubtless influential, particularly on Kubrick when he came to make The Shining. It inspired a lot, but was rarely bettered. "},{"Title":"A scary slice of paranormal paranoia","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Young marrieds in New York get the apartment of their dreams, but the wife is uncomfortable with her new neighbors right from the start. Mia Farrow is incredibly genuine as Rosemary, and she's handled just right by director Roman Polanski, who has an unerring eye for detail. Polanski, who also adapted the screenplay, apparently loved the book by Ira Levin because there are details on the screen taken straight from Levin's pages (the book now reads like a novelization of the film, except for several details near the close). Some of my favorite scenes Rosemary, looking at the belongings left behind by the last tenant of her future apartment, seeing a note that reads, I can no longer associate myself..., asking the manager, Why would she cover up her vacuum cleaner and her towels?; Rosemary dreaming about a mistake she made in Catholic school, confusing it with an incident in the apartment and hearing her neighbor's braying voice, Now we have to start all over!; John Cassavetes (in a brave performance as Guy) rushing home from the theater, nervous and serious, to pull a fast one on a dear friend of his, and Rosemary staring at her neighbor's pierced ear, the music swelling up in the background; Rosemary in her doctor's office, telling the receptionist she's wearing a new perfume (Detchema) and finding out her smelly usual (a devilish fungus called Tannis Root) is a favorite of ...well, you-know-who. It's a subtle, stunning, stupendous effort with a plush production, fantastic supporting cast, creepy music (with a title theme la-la-la'ed by Mia Farrow herself), and an incredible amount of cunning wit and the blackest kind of humor. **** from **** "},{"Title":"Devils","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is absolutely the most terrifying film ever made dealing with supernatural evil. Forget `The Exorcist,' that's kid stuff. Forget the hundreds of `jumping out of the dark' gore pictures. `The Shining'? effete. This has guts like the old horror radio shows used to because I can imagine something worse than anything you can make up and show with rubber and catsup.And surprisingly, this film has aged well, even improved as the hippie era is now long gone.Mia is preciously delicate, open. Her commitment to this film makes it real. One can feel her taking personal risks and this reflects on her character. Roman almost goes too far here, after `Repulsion,' walking the edge of suspense, slowly building, relentlessly restrained. He so eclipses Hitchcock in his camerawork; he so stamps this with a East European mystical surrealism that I wonder why this film is not more celebrated.When `The Exorcist' came out five years later, the publicity machine made much of supernatural happenings on the set, in an attempt to make the film seem more real. But this film is damned creepy when you look at its history.Many people were students of magick in those days, as part and parcel of spiritual exploration. Mia gets into this film rather by accident, has an affair with Polanski during it. Divorces her husband the singing thug and finishes the film. Goes to India with the Beatles, Donovan and Beach Boys to meditate, during which John and Paul write thirty songs based on Kabbalah. Inspired in part by Crowley.This album inspires Manson to kill Polanski's wife, mistakenly thinking the house was occupied by someone close to the Beach Boys. Lennon takes up with Yoko directly on returning from India. Her interest in the occult leads her to the Dakota, where they keep their home until John is killed. During which period, Yoko has a parade of occultists and mystics, even the largest private US collection of Egyptian artifacts.Polanski meanwhile makes the most powerful `Macbeth' ever filmed because of its emotional take on evil anarchy. Then he is exiled from the US. After a long dry spell and much preparation, makes `The Ninth Door.' which shows incredible understanding of the occult tradition in art, and his own role -- his current wife plays the supernatural agent of semiotic art. Pacing and direction refers to `Rosemary,' but is less confident, more frightened.Jesus, scary enough for me. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly meh.","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I rented Rosemary's Baby after having heard for many years what a perfect horror film it was. I thoroughly enjoy psychological thrillers and horror films like the Exorcist, Alien, Prince of Darkness, and the entire Hitchcock oeuvre, so I thought Rosemary's Baby was right up my alley.Sadly I was mistaken. Most of the movie I ended up yelling at Mia Farrow's character to DO something (Rosemary really is a spineless, mindless idiot), when I wasn't groaning over the rather hammy performances of the other actors. Perhaps I'm too young to understand the helpless woman type of character, but instead of being in fear for Rosemary, I was simply annoyed by her.The rape scene was the highlight of the movie, in that it had some genuinely creepy sequences (again, her husband's appearance and dialogue seemed out of place, but that was a minor part of the sequence). The rest of the movie, while trying to seem normal and everyday, just seemed obvious and annoyingly overacted. Even if you didn't figure out that the neighbors were up to something in the first few minutes, I would think you'd still be annoyed by them.The supposed twist ending isn't really a twist at all, at least to me. It did provide some surprising laughs, as I don't think I've ever laughed that hard at a Hail Satan! Again, its supposed to be creepy that supposedly normal people are saying this, but it just comes off as campy.All together, I really can't understand why this is still considered one of the great horror movies of all time. In 1968 Rosemary's helplessness might have led to psychological scares. In 2009 it just leads to frustration. "},{"Title":"Terrifying; a timeless, paranoid classic","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby centers on Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse (Mia Farrow and John Cassavettes), a young, happy couple who move into a New York City apartment building to start their life together. They are greeted by their elderly neighbors, Minnie and Roman Castevet (Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer), an eccentric and friendly couple who are helpful but a bit intrusive. Rosemary and Guy plan on having a baby together, but the conception is strange and seems to have happened while Rosemary was dreaming. All the while, Minnie and Roman seem to form an unusual relationship with Guy, and begin to take over all the duties and events revolving around Rosemary's pregnancy - things that should be up to the mother. Meanwhile, Rosemary begins to lose weight, is constantly ill, and has odd pains in her stomach - things that aren't normal in a healthy pregnancy. After a series of strange events, Rosemary soon becomes convinced that Minnie and Roman are part of a Satantic cult, and that they have made some sort of exchange with Guy... a horrific exchange that involves Rosemary and her baby.Maybe one of the greatest stories of betrayal to grace the silver screen, this adaptation from Levin's phenomenal novel is done neatly and the transfer to the screen is brilliant. The film, like the book, takes its time, but the slow-going nature gives plenty of room for formidable suspense and atmosphere.One of the scariest things about Rosemary's Baby is its affect on the viewer. The paranoia, fear, claustrophobia, and foreboding that Rosemary feels channels directly to the audience, and you by proxy experience what she's experiencing. The first forty-five minutes or so seem fairly conventional, but after that the film goes into a straight downward spiral into madness, and by God do you feel it. There's a consistent sense of something not being quite right, mainly with the neighbors whose motives are questionable behind their friendly facade, and this feeling never dissipates. Within the element of the betrayal are the layers of subjects that make it a horror film&#x97; the Satanic society, the occult, strange rituals, the Antichrist, and the overall demonic subtext. It's all quite terrifying, and the contents of the plot are all sinister subjects. The film looks amazing, as if it could have been shot just last week. Nice camera-work that is subtle and neat, but shaky and effective when needed. The settings are all truly spooky, and the Dakota is is photographed to its full Gothic effect.Mia Farrow stars in the performance of her career as the young, naive Rosemary. All she wants is the ideal life with her husband and child, but she is swept into something more terrifying than she could ever imagine. Farrow plays the part precisely and gains plenty of sympathy from the audience. Ruth Gordon won an Oscar for her portrayal of the Woodhouse's nosy neighbor, Minnie. She's friendly and inquisitive, but we know from the start that she has ulterior motives, as well as her husband. John Cassavettes plays Guy excellently, and Sidney Blackmer is great as well as Minnie's odd husband. As for the ending, it's a shocker, and probably the most memorable thing about the entire movie. It's something that will stick with you and that you can't easily shake, but is ambiguous enough to keep you asking questions.Overall, Rosemary's Baby is a through-and-through classic. While it isn't 'scary' by conventional means, it manages to maintain a subtle, foreboding atmosphere, unnerving the audience to the point of paranoia. The performances are top-notch, and the subject matter is as shuddering as the Castevet's dark, evil intrusion into Rosemary's life. You'll spend an uncomfortable but spellbinding two hours on the edge of your seat. Isn't that what a good horror movie should do? 10/10. "},{"Title":"A dark jewel of-a-movie in the Age of Aquarius's occult crown","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" What does it mean to give a movie 10/10? It must mean that no part of the film could possibly(!) be better the characters must be three-dimensional and engage the viewer (whether it be sympathetic or antagonistic); the performances must then bring these characters to life; the script must carry the plot without stale verbiage or cliché; the story itself must be believable or, in the case of horror or science fiction, create the conditions wherein the story can be seen as believable; the editing must make it not a scene too long nor a scene too short; the music must be&#x85;and you get the point, right? On each of these points, as well as any other you care to mention, 'Rosemary's Baby' easily qualifies.Having established himself as an up-and-coming European director in the 1960s with the likes of his debut 'Knife in the Water' (1962), Roman Polanski was brought to America to direct this horror movie about a secret society of Devil worshippers composed of wealthy and distinguished citizens manipulating a young woman into giving birth to the child of Satan in late-60's New York. The film is the second part of Polanski's so-called apartment trilogy (the other parts being 'Repulsion (1965)' and 'The Tenant' (1976)) and as such begins with a shot of the Bramford apartment building (in reality the Dakota building which would later be the building John Lennon was shot in front of) which struggling actor Guy Woodhouse (Cassavetes) and his beautiful young wife Rosemary (Farrow) manage to bag a sizable apartment in. Despite being regaled with macabre stories of the history of the Black Bramford from their previous landlord/paternal figure Edward Hutch Hutchins the couple move in to begin their new life and soon strike up a relationship with an elderly couple, Minnie (Gordan) and Roman Castevet (Blackmer), after a young drug addict in their care kills herself. Not long after (and with the help of a dizzying dream/nightmare sequence which is far more authentic than the famed Dali sequence in Hitchcock's 'Spellbound') Rosemary becomes pregnant&#x85;but her jubilation is short-lived and soon transforms into a disturbing paranoid nightmare.For a horror film it is refreshingly free of gore or ridiculous jump-moments, and instead slowly chills the viewer through an atmosphere which becomes increasingly unnerving and claustrophobic as Rosemary discovers various clues which suggest that the Castevets may be involved in the darkest of dealings, and may have lured Guy into their ranks. However, the film perfectly walks the line between suggesting an actual conspiracy (supernatural or otherwise) and a hysterical paranoid fantasy on Rosemary's part which is surely a testament to the fine performances of every one of the cast. A particular joy of the film are the countless Oh yeah moments you get from corroborating, upon repeat viewings, observations made by Rosemary like the mismatched paintings on the walls of the Castevets' apartment when they first visit, or that Guy is still wearing his make-up when he returns home unexpectedly early to disrupt Hutch's visit, all of which contribute to Rosemary suspecting that something is afoot. These subtle psychological ploys unsettle the viewer as they suggest things which we are prone to miss despite being in plain sight and effectively conjures an atmosphere rooted in the familiar but where disturbing figures may be watching from the periphery.A year later, Polanki's wife Sharon Tate would star in the role which would earn her pop-culture immortality a butchered victim of Charles Manson's family. As such, with its explicit occult themes (although Church of Satan founder Anton LaVey's involvement as a consultant and the figure of the Devil in the dream sequence has been shown to be false) and its exultant subversion of Nietzsche's God is Dead! the film could be seen as an eerie prophecy of the darker vein inherent in the flower-power ideology which ended so abruptly with the Tate-LaBianca slayings&#x85;and the post-script of which would be with Lennon's murder outside the Bramfo&#x85;Dakota building. Polanski himself would go on to secure his Hollywood A-List status with 'Chinatown' (1974) and 'The Pianist' (2002), but how can one's career improve upon a movie genuinely worthy of 10/10? "},{"Title":"Nowadays, this film is an anomaly--a scary movie that uses atmosphere and suggestion, instead of gore.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's hard to discuss this film without using spoilers, so I'll get the non-spoiler part done first. Seeing this movie a few decades after my first viewing only confirms my high opinion of Polanski as a brilliant director. In an age when most directors seem to confuse gallons of stage blood and severed body parts with scariness, it's refreshing to be reminded that the most frightening movies need not resort to the grand guignol technique. This one does it with subtle suggestions and carefully crafted atmosphere, and the result is infinitely more effective than the confections in which hideously scarred maniacs take chain saws to shoals of nubile coeds, etc., etc., etc. The acting is quite good throughout Farrow embodies vulnerable innocence, Cassavettes nails his role, and Ruth Gordon is sublime--was this the film that revitalized her career? It certainly deserved to be. But the star of this film, in terms of who makes the biggest contribution, is Polanski. The end result is a wonderfully evocative and chilling movie that works as well now as it did in the late 60s. (HERE COME THE SPOILERS---IF YOU DON'T KNOW THE FILM, STOP READING HERE) Leaving aside the question of why people, even in a fiction, would believably choose to be Satanists, the great virtue of this movie is the way in which it progresses by gradual steps from a kind of super-normality into a nightmare. Polanski's touches--the shadowy corners of the elaborate old apartment, a fragment of a faded note written by the former tenant, the illustrations in the book on witchcraft that Rosemary gets from the newly deceased Hutch--the contrast between the banal, everyday world around the Woodhouses and the horror Rosemary is slowly but inevitably sucked into...it all works. The whole, to my mind, is greater than the sum of its parts. I would say it can be called a genre classic. "}{"Title":"Superb but not particularly scary (spoilers throughout)","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Even though I think Rosemary's Baby is a fantastic film, I wouldn't really class it as particularly scary. If anything it's more of a dark comedy. Pregnancy is the joke and giving birth to the child of Satan is the punch line.But that's not to say that the film doesn't have its moments. The dreams are certainly creepy. Indeed, the way that Polanski films Satan having sex with Farrow with a bunch old Satanists watching would probably put the willies up most expectant mothers (so to speak). But then again, maybe that's my problem as regards finding the film scary. I'm never going to be giving birth, so I'll never know what it's like to be in that position.However, the film does do an excellent job of portraying the helplessness of pregnancy and the paranoia that can come about with no longer having control of your own body. Rosemary starts the film as an able woman, a woman who can choose an apartment and make decisions, but once she's pregnant she's ruled by doctors, nosey neighbours and her husband. Suddenly she's passive and suddenly her own importance is downgraded. It's as if she's a mere incubator.I'm sure that's something a lot of women must feel when they're pregnant. They must feel like conduits. But Rosemary's Baby takes that idea and takes it to extremes.One of the most amusing things about Rosemary's Baby is its Satanists. Here you have a coven populated mainly by wrinklies and old codgers. Never before have old people been so evil. But then again, are they really that evil? I mean, Rosemary's neighbours provide her with chocolate moose and herb drinks. What's wrong with that? Well, I guess there's a bit of a moral failing when the moose knocks Rosemary out so that Beelzebub can rape her. And I suppose Satan could have at least been a gentleman and date-raped her the old-fashioned way - with a drink and some Rohypnol. But they're mere formalities. And besides, the result would have been the same. But I do like the way that Rosemary doesn't eat all the knockout moose and is partially aware of having sex with the Devil. It adds to the weird helplessness of the scene. The whole thing is like a night terror. Indeed, despite thinking it's real while experiencing it, she puts it down to a dream. After all, it's too crazy to be true, isn't it? Watching the film again it's fun seeing how the conspiracy works. I mean, when you first watch it, you're not sure whether Rosemary is just going insane. You don't know whether it's mere paranoia. But while the weird chanting through the walls stuck out during the first viewing, when I watched it again I noticed how Rosemary's husband goes off to meet alone with their Satanist neighbours. He's obviously being seduced. Then there's the offhand way that Minnie (one of the neighbours) asks whether Rosemary wants children. It's done in such a light way &#150; Minnie herself doesn't even seem interested in the answer &#150; that when you first view it, you kind of miss this obsessive interest. But you've also got the herb drink, the doctor, the moose, the way that her husband runs off to tell the neighbours about the pregnancy and the way that one of her friends, an old man who is the only voice of dissent when it comes how the pregnancy is handled, goes into a coma and dies. Rosemary is right to be paranoid. Things are going on behind her back.And that's part of the film's genius, especially in the way it's directed. Rosemary is the focus of everything. She's in every scene and everything is from her viewpoint. Therefore you can never be sure, when you first watch it, whether it's just a fantasy. And Mia Farrow is a big factor in the film's success. Among some actresses there could be a tendency to overplay things, but she plays it as a woman desperately trying to keep control. Only when things go absolutely insane does she resort to hysterics. Consequently, you like her and you want everything to work out for her. And it's also quite winning the way that she gets her haircut during her pregnancy to try and reaffirm her identity and importance, and the way that she talks to her baby when she starts to seriously loose it. She's a woman pushed to the limit, but she's a woman who fights it admirably.And that likability works for the ending. When she finally sees her baby and what it is, you wonder what she's going to do and you actually care. And the fact that she doesn't kill it and that she begins to embrace it (by rocking the crib with an almost misty look on her face) makes it rather sad. But when you think about it, it's not too absurd that she'd become a mother to Satan's child. I mean, just look at some kids today. Would this kid really be much worse? And I'm sure that being Satan's concubine must have certain perks. But seriously, how often do you hear, he's got a face only a mother can love? And people always speak of 'little devils'. The maternal instinct is strong.But although the ending is creepy and sad, at the same time I find it funny. Just take the way that all the old fogies start shouting, Hail Satan! Or the way that the oriental guy snaps photos. Then there's the woman rocking the crib and fact that the scheming neighbour says that the baby has his father's eyes. There's a lot of dark humour in the film and the ending is where it comes through strongest. But that doesn't mean that the joke is funny for poor Rosemary. "},{"Title":"A devil of a good time","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Honestly, one cannot ask more from a horror movie. Sans any special effects, it's all up to the story, acting, and directing to pull it all off, and they all work perfectly together to appropriate the correct mood.Rosemary Woodhouse and her husband, an aspiring actor, move into a new apartment to start their future off... the apartment is near to where the husband must go to get work, and it's big enough that they may have room for children. Their initial excitement eventually leads to her becoming impregnated, though under suspicious circumstance. Eventually the pregnancy becomes less than welcome as physical pain and continually untrustworthiness of surrounding people start hemming Rosemary in...just as she begins to feel they are plotting against her baby.Roman Polanski said of the book, At first I thought it was a soap opera, and then I found myself reading it at four in the morning with my eyes burning. So the directing goes. Mia Farrow's acting is of young innocence that seems rather childish in some parts, but profoundly adult in others she is a young woman with hopes and dreams and worst of all, fears. Rosemary's concern is never for herself, even as she discovers the plot against her; it's for her child.Better, the audience is never really sure she's not insane. As the plot thickens away from cheery city life towards claustrophobic fear of entrapment, even as we sympathize with Rosemary her angst, her outward worry is not sympathetic to a world where everyone acts as if all is normal. For all we know, nothing could be wrong at all.Then we find ourselves at the end, the coup de grace of horror movie design, where she makes a decision that is sure to shock even the most blase of viewers.The cinematography in this film is amazing. At one point she's looking at a clock and it seems to warp in space and grow further away from her, fitting her insecurity expressionistically perfectly. Simple things like doorways are shown as if there's no mystery behind them at all, yet as they are opened they become foreboding.For horror fans, there is little better.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Virtually flawless piece of storytelling with Farrow's best work.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Already a best-selling book when this film was made, the title has now become a pop-culture touchstone and this is regarded as one of the top psychological thrillers of all time. It all starts off nicely enough as married couple Cassavetes and Farrow move into an old, but richly appointed apartment building in New York. Farrow works overtime to transform it from a dark and old-fashioned place into a bright, sunny place to live...the perfect place to have a baby. When Cassavetes is handed a plum stage role, they decide to concentrate on conceiving a child, with the curious encouragement of their oddball, elderly neighbors Blackmer and Gordon. Still recovering from the apparent suicide of their border, the older couple takes a shine to the younger couple and soon have insinuated themselves into their lives. On the night that Farrow is most fertile and the pair had planned to attempt conception, she passes out and experiences a horrific extended dream in which she is raped by a demonic man as onlookers stare determinedly. Or did it actually happen? She finds herself with child, but her pregnancy is a monumentally difficult one, even with all the added attention and nourishment provided by Gordon and her pricey doctor Bellamy. Soon, Farrow realizes that there is far more at work in her life than just prenatal discomfort, but she has a hard time convincing anyone of it. Director Polanski is an absolute master of mood, tension and general unease. He expertly builds the paranoia in this film to an extraordinary level. Farrow (who, in the early sequences of this film is quite possibly at her highest level of attractiveness and appeal) gives an astonishing performance. Though she wasn't initially the actress Polanski wanted (which was Tuesday Weld), it's hard to picture anyone else in the part (none more so than Patty Duke, who appeared in a dire TV sequel in 1976!) She gives the part everything it needs and more amiability, freshness, sexuality, warmth and most of all vulnerability. She is transformed from a lovely, happy woman into a wraith-like, ghostly stick-figure. (However, in one minor misstep, the makeup people whitened her face, but left her ears tan!) Cassavetes is strong as well, but perhaps overplays his hand a little. He does a decent enough job, but in some ways he isn't right for the part at all. His aspiring actor character is pushing forty and he is sixteen years Farrow's senior. A younger actor (like first choice Robert Redford) may have aided the mystery of the film a little more. Gordon, of course, steals every scene she's in with her brash, fussy ways and her distinctive voice. She was truly a force unto herself and seems to exist in her own atmosphere. Many familiar veteran actors turn up in supporting roles. In some cases, their previously benign personas are given a sick, darkly comic twist. Grodin is shown in one of his very earliest roles as one of Farrow's doctors. Farrow's female friends at her cocktail party are enacted by a trio of interesting actresses. One was Dr. Bellows' wife on I Dream of Jeannie, one was confidant and secretary to The Green Hornet and the other was a Hee Haw honey and Mrs. Kenny Rogers! Made prior to the MTV era in which everything must be spelled out, explained and shown in gory detail, this is a deliberately paced chiller that is far more focused on mood and audience manipulation. By the time Farrow is stuck in a phone booth (with famed producer William Castle making a cameo appearance) and frantically seeking assistance, the audience is desperate for her to find some way out of her predicament. It's top notch in all departments and has been cribbed from countless times since. Farrow, who was undergoing unbelievable pressure and personal trauma at the time due to her crumbling marriage to Frank Sinatra was inexplicably left out of the Oscar race that year. "},{"Title":"Creepy and effective thriller based on atmosphere and ambiguities (spoilers)","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary and Guy are newlyweds who move into a new apartment in an old building. They meet and befriend the elderly couple next door, the Castevet's, who are very friendly and make them both feel welcome. After Guy's acting career suddenly turns around and he lands quite a big role (due to the original actor going blind suddenly) the couple decide to try for a baby. They plan the night that they will try on both Rosemary gets drunk and passes out, dreaming of some weird rape-like attack. She awakes the next morning to find that Guy had just been drunk and had had sex with her anyway &#150; but she forgives him when she finds she is pregnant. However with both Guy and the Castevet's acting strangely it appears that something strange is going on, or is it just a frustrated Rosemary's over imagination?Of course, many of us know the answer to this question; even those who have not seen the film will know that things are not just in Rosemary's head, however what makes the film so creepy and enjoyable is the fact that Polanski doesn't seem to want to make his mind up either and plays it right down the middle. As such the simple plot sees lots of ambiguity in the story for much of the story, although we are pretty sure something is going on the director never comes right out and says it, instead he continually suggests it while also pointing to Rosemary's mental instability. It is the confusion in Rosemary that makes this so creepy and engaging &#150; she herself goes between disregarding her fears and embracing them and it is very effect in building the tension even if we know what is the truth (or else there wouldn't be a film!). However, even though we know what is coming, the end is still very creepy and I was surprised just how effective it was even on a second viewing.The story builds a nice conspiracy well and sustains a real creepy atmosphere all the way through to good effect. The performances are also key in pulling off Polanksi's trick. Farrow is suitable unbalanced and we feel her fear and suspicion growing during the film. Her performance is really good and the fact that she manages to balance her own doubt for most of the film is very effective. Cassavetes is also excellent, all at once he is friendly, cheerful, menacing and mysterious; he also plays a big part in creating the sense of doubt that drives the film's tension. Ruth Gordon is a nightmare neighbour and overplays very well even if her character is a bit of a cliché &#150; I certainly would not want her for my neighbour, but she is never so creepy that we know for sure, only overbearing in a normal yet weird manner. Likewise Blackmer is effective as the potential head of the coven and is never too obvious to blow the tension. The support cast are all good and echo the performances of Blackmer and Gordon.Overall this is a great horror thriller. Another review on this site has rightly pointed out that too many modern films in this loose genre will have a vague tension over poor dialogue delivered by a 'teen-friendly' cast and then tonnes of expensive effects. Happily Polanski is smarter than that here and he uses doubt, tension and atmosphere blended with good dialogue and some fine characters to create a film that is never really scary so much as it is just creepy. Even though I know it inside out it is still effective and it doesn't bode well for modern films that rely on effects instead of these qualities.  "},{"Title":" Accepting gifts from the Devil is the shortest route  to Hell ","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" During the past centuries, the Santanic rituals of the Black mass have been updated so often, it has caused many a coven to rewrite their purpose. Servants of the Black arts are no longer bound by cannon law. Indeed, modern films depict followers with a definite role and their agenda empowers women to believe they are the foundation of man's ultimate fate. Case in point.  Rosemary's Baby  written by Ira Levin in 1967 was adapted for the screen in 1968. The story is of a young couple who move into a New York Apartment called 'the Bramford' a building with a haunting past. There, Guy and Rosemary Woodhouse (John Cassavetes and Mia Farrow) are befriended by Mr. and Mrs Castevet,(Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon) an elderly couple who take an abiding interest in their new neighbors. Guy is a struggling actor who's stage career instantly improves with their help. Rosemary is interested in having children but suddenly discovers, Mrs. Castevet has invaded her life with intrusive advice and puzzling instructions. Eventually she evolves into a surrogate Mother-in-law. Following a nightmarish rape during a Satanic ritual, Rosemary becomes pregnant. There after the selected mother to be is smothered with attention and begins to doubt whether the attention is directed at anything but her child. Frightening in it's approach, the movie lays the foundation for a terrifying ordeal and the cast which includes Maurice Evans, Ralph Bellamy and Elisha Cook Jr. does a terrific take on the original novel. Written and directed by Roman Polanski, this film has become a dark Classic and a surprising cult movie. **** "},{"Title":"Prepartum Crazies or Good Old Devil Worship?","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's adaptation of Ira Levin's novel follows very closely to the book (About 95%, I think)and he does a wonderful job in doing so.Rosemary (Mia Farrow)and Guy (John Cassavetes)are a young married couple. Guy is a struggling actor, always looking for a good break, but Rosemary is supportive. An apartment opens up at the Bramford (Or known as The Bram) and they decide to take it, even though their friend Hutch (Maurice Evans)tries to talk them out of it. Seems that The Bram has a rather black history in which strange occurrences happened, including a man named Adrian Marcato, who claimed to have conjured up Satan. Of course, being young people, they tend to ignore his advice.Soon, Rosemary meets her neighbors, The Castevets. Minnie (Ruth Gordon)is incredibly nosy and Roman (Sidney Blackmer)is warm and caring. Guy soon takes a liking to them. Rosemary however finds them to be a bit smothering, especially since a young girl that stayed with them leaped to her death. Then, Guy gets the break that he wants when the actor that beat him for a starring role goes blind. He then tells Rosemary that they should have a baby. Rosemary loves this idea, considering that she always wanted a child.On baby night, Rosemary passes out after having dinner (With dessert by Minnie). She then has a nightmarish dream in which her neighbors are chanting and she is being raped by the devil.From this point on, Rosemary's Baby takes an interesting turn.Soon after finding out she is pregnant, The Castevet's recommend Dr. Saperstein (Ralph Bellamy). Later, she starts having pains that increase and she is eating raw meat. Her friend Hutch falls into a mysterious coma after looking into info about her helpful neighbors, and Guy seems to not look at her.She also begins to suspect that her smothering neighbors are a little too interested in her baby. And soon she finds out that her neighbors are witches. Are her fears genuine, or are they caused by what Guy calls Prepartum Crazies? All of the performances are stellar, especially Gordon (Who won an Oscar). I guess my only beef with the film involves actually seeing Rosemary's Baby (If you've read the book, then you get a really nice description), but maybe some things are best left to the viewer's vivid imagination. "},{"Title":"Classic, Masterful, Horror","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  In an age of over the top visual and sound effects it's a real treat to look back on this one for an example of a horror flick built around great story telling, excellent direction and attention to detail, where implied horror is much more powerful than anything that could be shown on the screen.  An expecting mother is one of the most vulnerable states of the human condition already filled with worries, doubts and insecurities and this film plays on that to the hilt.  The dream, drugged scenes leading up to the encounter with Satan himself are an excellent depiction of the subconscious mind and this movie itself has a way of slowly seeping into the subconscious and getting under the skin. This one uses the technique of beginning in the most common and pleasant of situations and then slowly descending into a paranoid nightmare as well as it has ever been done. John Cassavetes  does one of the best husbands as jerk roles that you'll see. Everyone in the film is excellent in their roles, Ruth Gordon almost steals the show and Mia Farrow's delivery is perfect at conveying her emotional state with the inflections of her voice in the delivery of every line. This is a must see film and well worth a revisit if it's been some time since you've seen it. One of Polanski's very best with a nod of course to the obvious Hitchcock influence.    "},{"Title":"If this doesn't scare you...","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I had heard a lot about this movie for a long time but I had not had the chance to see it until recently. And I must say that at first I wasn't that impressed. For the first 30-40 minutes not a lot of stuff seemed to happen, but after the truly horrifying rape scene (a great depiction of was-it-a-dream or reality) I was bolted to my couch watching the enchanting Mia Farrow grow more and more into the frenzy of thinking she is impregnated with the child of Satan himself. I am now convinced that I should go see this movie again to catch all the details director Roman Polanski must have put in those first 30-40 minutes.Like in other movies in Polanski's early work (i.e. Knife In The Water) this was so well-paced that as a watcher you are lured into this false sense of security just like Rosemary is, but underneath horrible things are happening to her that are unspeakable.Another thing about this film was the feel to it. I was convinced that this movie was made in 1978 or something but later on I checked my Maltin guide and read that it was actually from 1968! How's that for a surprise. This looks and feels like a seventies film but it's not!The role of Ruth Gordon as Minnie Castavet was played to perfection to once again give the audience that feeling that such nice neighbours would not be capable of doing something so horrible and give us the dilemma in which we are driven to thinking that it is Rosemary who is dillusional and is making all this up. A deserved Oscar for this lady.Sheer brilliance, a definite must have on DVD.10/10 "},{"Title":"Year of the Devil","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" (There are Spoilers) One of the best horror movies ever made with almost no blood or splatters scenes at all with the exception of Terry, Victoria Vetri, jumping, off camera, to her death form the seventh floor of the Bramford Building. Rosemary' Baby has to do with the most darkest fears one can conjure up in a movie book as well as in one's own mind; The return of Satan-the Devil-on earth and everything that goes along with him.It's early October 1965 and the Pope, Pope Paul VI, has made a historical visit to the US and is in the process of giving a sermon, to some 60,000 people, at New York's Yankee Stadium. It's also the time designated by a coven of Devil worshiping witches for the Devil's offspring, to be named Adrian, to be conceived by the unsuspecting and Catholic observant Rosemary Woodhouse, Mia Farrow.Since Rosemary and her actor husband Guy, John Cassavetes, moved into the creepy Bramford Building they've become very friendly with the elderly couple who lives next door to their apartment Roman and Minnie Castevet, Sidney Blackman & Ruth Roman. Even though Rosemary is not that taken in by the Castevets eccentric and somewhat wired behaviors her husband Guy is. Guy a struggling actor was desperately trying to get a part in a play that the far more talented Donald Baumgart, Tony Curtis, got. After Guy's involvement with the Castevets Baumgart suddenly lost his sight opening the door for another actor to replace him Guy Woodhouse!The movie starts to grow and accelerate, together with Rosemary's pregnancy, in both tension as well as curiosity as she becomes very frail and sickly as the day of the blessed event, June 28, 1966, is soon to arrive. Feeling that something just isn't right Rosmary has been haunted since her night of conception, October 5/6 1965, it that she feels that it's wasn't Guy who fathered her now soon to be born child but the Devil or Satan,played by Clay Tanner, himself!Despite the movie's many subplots, all centered around Rosemary's pregnancy and birth to her child, the film is never confusing in that they, the subplots, all come together in the film's final and shocking ten or so minutes! The Woodhouse's at first had no idea to what evil existed right at their front doorsteps! Soon they would become in their associations with the Castevets the very central, and rotten, core of it!It was family friend Edward Hutch Hutchins, Maurice Evens, who knew not only the history of the eerie Bramford Building but that of one of its infamous tenants Steven Marcato. It was also that knowledge that lead to Hutch falling into a deep coma that he never came out of!****SPOILER ALERT**** It was Marcato who was killed by an angry New York mob some 80 years ago for secretly practicing witchcraft! It was also Marcato who had a son who had since changed, or rearranged, his name and became a man of the world as well as, in his many travels, secretly gotten himself involved with the occult like his father did! That person is non other then the Woodhouse's kindly and harmless looking next door neighbor Roman Castevet himself!Making a pact with the Devil has its price and the price that Guy Woodhouse paid for bringing him, in Guy allowing Satan to rape his wife Rosemary, out of the depths of Hell and into the unsuspecting world above was more that it was worth. Guy's career in both TV and the movies, as well as the theater, took off like a shot but in reality he ended up damned for all eternity. As for poor Rosemany in the end after seeing what her new born son really looked like, and what he represented, it was both her goodness, in Rosemary's Christian beliefs, and maternal instincts that eventually overrode her horror and revulsion in what she was forced, by her husband Guy and the Castevets, to unknowingly participate in. As the movie ends Rosemary is heard humming the lullaby theme of the movie as she's gently and tenderly rocking the cute little Devil, her son Adrian, to sleep! "},{"Title":"Fun stuff, deluxe.","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" People seem to approach this as being a horror movie. Well, I guess it's not. And certainly not in days where the genre has been fully occupied by more or less brain dead slasher flicks.So to be perfectly clear, this movie is more or less typical Polanski style apartment suspense stuff, with the usual, well balanced mixture of paranoia and sarcasm. And as such it's outstandingly playful, entertaining and well crafted.Most notable of course are the character portrayals, and those many special moments one immediately realizes were created not to drive the story, further the potential success of the movie or the fame of anybody involved, but to plainly create atmosphere and entertain us.Just take the suicide sequence, the outfits in which Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer come strolling down the street and the following dialog about cleaning windows at night, all in face of a dead body. If I ever saw sarcasm working on screen, I'd say it was here.And the shot of Gordon holding her spectacles up to further inspect that young women who might know more about the relations of the deceased than herself - this potentially being a threat of course. Clearly, this stuff borders on being cartoonish, but Polanski - and Gordon - truly walk the line here.Also a favorite of mine, their first dinner and Farrow's looking back into the dining room while helping out in the kitchen - all just quiescence, only the tobacco smoke hinting at people sitting around the corner and maybe talking about what? Ample space for our fantasy to fill in, deliberately given to us.Gordon's performance here as house invading, chit chatting ever inquisitive elderly lady is a blast anyway. To me, one of the most memorable captured on screen, ever. Very much notable also Cassavetes, extending the evasiveness of his character to almost avoiding the camera. Rarely seen amongst actors I'd say, and giving a nice opaqueness to his performance.I could go on of course, likely for hours and without even mentioning classics like the phone booth sequence. To me, this, Chinatown and Le Locataire comprise Polanski's classic period, and are ample evidence of what a really exceptional Hollywood studio director he was and could further have been - if he hadn't blown it himself. Very regrettable, really.Highly recommended, to the true film fan. "}{"Title":"Masterpiece of  supernatural suspense.","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Polanski's first American film is one of the most enduring films of the 60's. Well-received when released in 1968, Rosemary's Baby is that rare film that grows more impressive with repeated viewings. It's a near perfect, multi-layered classic that mixes psychological horror with supernatural suspense while being funny, scary, and ironic. No remake could ever come close and the spate of films it inspired, most notably the The Exorcist and The Omen, pale by comparison. Expertly directed by Polanski, the film is perfectly cast and splendidly acted by all. Ruth Gordon won the Oscar for supporting actress, but Farrow, who is in every scene, wasn't even nominated for her iconic portrayal. The entire film is told from Rosemary's point of view. The growing sense of menace and paranoia is beautifully handled, and the audience is with Farrow and her unborn child every step of the way. On one level Rosemary's Baby is the ultimate tribute to motherhood. A winner any way you look at it. Consider it essential viewing. Among others, French film director Francois Truffaut expressed great admiration for the film, and Rosemary's Baby deserved a place on the AFI's top 100. "},{"Title":"Oh Didn't They Tell You, The Pain Will Be Gone In A Few Days!!","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Having watched this fantastic movie from teens up until last Saturday I cannot rate it enough. This sinister story with a satanic underbelly keeps me gripped from start to finish and it seems every time i watch it I notice something new. I won't bother going into the story of what it is about as there have been enough synopsis before me but i just wanted to highlight the things that i love about the story- 1) When Rosemary and Guy are first shown around the apartment and the caretaker notices that the cabinet is hiding a cupboard (we the viewer immediately want to know what's in there and why it's covered up) 2) When Terry is found on the pavement, Rosemary intervenes when the Castavette's say she has no family, she say's, Doesn't she have a brother in the navy and immediately Minny puts on her glasses to see who else knows about Terry in case they are suspected of something.3) When Rosemary and guy have dinner with Castavettes and she is helping Minnie wash up, the first sinister inkling is when Rosemary looks from the kitchen into the living rm and just see's smoke coming from Guy and Roman (you just want to know what's being said).I could go on and on but it's the subtle things that make this movie stand out and it is definitely one of my top 10 movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Two of the shots in this film were equally disturbing and uproarious- the film stands as one of Polanski's crowning thrillers","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Ira Levin's Rosemary's Baby was adapted by Polish director Roman Polanski, who in his American directing debut, created a horror film that contained no gore, practically no blood, no characters with knives and other weapons. Just the feeling of constant dredd and confusion over the fate of a woman's child.  Mia Farrow plays Rosemary Woodhouse, wife of a struggling actor, who finds a new apartment in New York called the Dakota.  Here, they meet some neighbors (one of which is the impecable, Oscar winning Ruth Gordon) who befriend them, invite themselves over whenever, and even bring food as gifts.  Rosemary and her husband, played by director John Cassavettes, think about having a baby, but aren't sure if the time is right.  Then one night, after having a drink that the friendly neighbor brings over, they make love to concieve, though that may or may not be how Rosemary sees it this is not a dream, this is really happening!  From then on, the film develops as Rosemary gets pregnant, is recommended a doctor (Ralph Bellamy) who may or may not be giving her the right medical advise, and as she enters her thirs trimester, she starts to realize something is fishy about her neighbors, and her un-born child.Like Polanski's 1965 film Repulsion, the viewer gets a feeling of something that one could feel in such horror films as Texas Chainsaw Massacre or, more appropriately, the Blair Witch Project- we feel scared or in a state os suspense not because of what we see, but of what we don't see and can't figure out.  Those who want to compare this to The first Exorcist need to know that this is the European perspective of a Satan story, and that this builds more brilliantly on claustrophobia while the other builds on the un-expected with style.  Overall, Rosemary's Baby is a remarkable achievement in the genre, and in the very last moment in the end, the sense of acceptance Rosemary achieves is possibly the most scariest thing about it.As I mentioned in the one line summary, there are two shots that to me represent the kind of startling and, bizarrely, even funny double edged sword Polanski can pull in films like this (see also John Huston in Chinatown)  the one shot of the devil on top of Rosemary will make some drop their mouths open in shock, as did I, but I was sort of laughing at it too, in the manner of how she's so calm in the scene.  Another is in the climax, when the witches are gazing proudly at their master's new bouncing baby boy, and out of nowhere there's a little Chinese guy with a camera taking pictures.  I'm not sure if this is a detail Polanski took from the book, or if he threw it in himself, but it's rather amazing that this person appears in a group of Satan galvanizers.  Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"47 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  What struck me most about this film is something that I don't think anyone has mentioned yet which is the use of colour. For a large section of the film, the overwhelmingly predominant colour is yellow, traditionally the colour of Satan. Then, as the birth draws near and after the birth, blue is brought in, an allusion to the Virgin Mary. There are many scenes symbolically comparing her to Mary, notably one while she is giving birth with her head on a pillow with yellow stripes on it so it appears she has a halo. There are so many things like that to notice, which is one of the reasons I love it so much.  "},{"Title":"A mother and her baby !!!","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" 'Rosemary's Baby' is perhaps the most popular and well known Roman Polanski film after 'Chinatown'. The film is based on a novel of the same name by Ira Levin and it's the 2nd film in Polanski's 'Apartment Trilogy'. The film is about a married couple - Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse who move into the Bramford, a Manhattan apartment. They get introduced to a nosy and odd neighbouring couple - The Castevets who start intruding in their lives a lot. Finally when Rosemary gets pregnant, she starts becoming more and more suspicious about the neighbours as well as her husband.Polanski had already made 'Repulsion' in 1965 which was the 1st film in his 'Apartment Trilogy' and his 1st film in the English language. But 'Rosemary's Baby' was his first big-budget film and this was also the 1st big-budget Hollywood horror film. But like a true product of its time, it still had the audacity to have ambiguity as one of its qualities unlike the big-budget Hollywood studio productions of the current era. Like 'Repulsion', this film can also be interpreted in many different ways.The first way to interpret it will be to view it as a work on female liberation. This was made in the 60s when the feminist movement was finally starting to have some impact. One can view the film and opine that Polanski is showing how a woman is being dominated by others and others' opinions are being forced upon her during her pregnancy when all the decisions should rest with her. She starts becoming more and more distant from her husband due to the fact even he fails to understand her mindset and starts dominating her.The second way to interpret the film will be to take everything literally. The viewer can decide to not go too much into subtexts and themes and take the film for what it is and get immersed in this interesting story of a woman and her pregnancy. The third way to interpret the film will be to view it as an allegory on how women can seem excessively paranoid and whimsical during pregnancy from a male point of view.The fourth way to interpret it will be to view the film as the struggle of a woman with a Catholic background to adjust herself to the new and changing society of the 1960s, a decade during which non-conformism and counterculture became a craze. Her paranoia gets the better of her and she begins to fear the prospect of bringing a new child to a world and a society which is straying away from her beliefs and so she tries to distance herself and her unborn baby from all folks that she suspects to have 'questionable' beliefs and faiths.The beauty of the screenplay written by Polanski himself, is that it facilitates all the interpretations that can be possible. The screenplay is open and provides hints and scopes for viewers to take the film and accept in their own way. I especially loved the ending of the film as I think it is a beautiful tribute to mothers and motherly love.Another very important aspect of the film is the style of storytelling. Polanski uses surrealism with some dream sequences that are truly weird and effective. Just like 'Repulsion', Polanski blurs the distinctions between what is real and what is being imagined by using a paranoid and sort of unreliable narrator as the whole film is from the point of view of Rosemary who is in pretty much every scene.Mia Farrow is absolutely brilliant as the titular Rosemary. She looks incredibly gaunt and petite in the film to underline her fragility. She beautifully pulls off the transition from being sweet and gullible to being flat out paranoid. I also loved Ruth Gordon as Minnie Castevet. She richly deserved the Oscar that she won for this role. She is dynamite in every scene she is in. She puts in a method performance so brilliantly that the viewer is always guessing whether to believe her or not.'Rosemary's Baby' is a very influential horror film. It uses psychological horror to explore deeper themes without resorting to cheap scares, but it still is pretty disturbing. This film is an absolute masterpiece which I can't recommend highly enough. "},{"Title":"The horror of childbirth","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" One of Roman Polanski's most well-known films and a considered to be a mid-century horror masterpiece. And for a reason. Rosemary's Baby knows exactly how to build horror, tension and how to unsettle and exploit the deepest fears within our collective psyche. Just like The Exorcist five years later, it knows exactly where to strike our progeny.The directing and the atmosphere are all thanks to Polanski, but a lot of the film's excellence is due to the chillingly good performance from Mia Farrow, playing the role of Rosemary. She's extremely likable and adorable from the very first scene she's in, making the audience cringe that much harder when the eventual horrible things start happening to her. She also portrays the confused terror of not knowing what's going on with her pregnancy extremely well and exactly like a real person would react. Granted, the way she eventually starts to unravel the mystery is a bit coincidental, but that's the fault of the script, and she does her very best to sell it to you.What I also like about the film is that it doesn't take itself one hundred percent seriously. There are some lighter touches and the film freely nods when the plot starts to become a bit over the top. Which it does, especially near the end, but the film's honesty saves a lot. Another thing about the film is that like many movies of its time, it's a bit slow. In horror that works better than in most films because the atmosphere has that much more time to build, but it'd still be very easy to cut fifteen to thirty minutes away without affecting much. It doesn't ruin the film, really, but it's something that's different to modern films.All in all Rosemary's Baby is a strong horror piece that has left a lasting impact on its genre. Definitely worth a watch if you like Polanski's style and/or horror in general. "},{"Title":"A claustrophobic and well-paced horror film which will get under your skin","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Once Rosemary's Baby takes off, it becomes a brilliant psychological and claustrophobic horror film.After a woman gets pregnant, she becomes increasingly suspicious as a result of bizarre coincidences and occurrences. She then starts to expect the worst and slowly starts to dip into insanity.The film's construction is amazing. Things start off slow and then slowly build up. Things gradually pick up speed to make us more nervous. The events start off a bit slow at first but once the movie picks up, it keeps us on the edge of our seats and we're left on our seats dying to find out what happens next.This is definitely one of the more atmospheric, subtle, and creepy horror films out there. It's really rare that you find a film like this anymore. Most horror films are in your face nowadays but this one sneaks up on you and messes with your head throughout it.The score is amazing. The soft motherly voice and the shill instruments get under our skin and it sets up what kind of movie this is. Mia Farrow gave an outstanding performance. She did a great job setting scenes with her facial expressions. The other supporting actors and actresses were great but Mia did the best job.To be honest though, I saw the ending coming from a mile away. I'm not going to say what it is but it was very predictable. I would've been surprised if my prediction about what I think would happen wasn't correct. During the film, I thought I don't think they're going to do this. It would be way too predictable.The ending needed work. It wasn't completely terrible but it wasn't all that surprising like I hoped it to be. Despite that, the movie is still a phenomenal work of horror. It's claustrophobic and it has a great pacing. It's guaranteed to get under your skin. "},{"Title":"Horror and Suspense, Not Scares","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A gorgeous piece of sustained suspense filmmaking. Polanski is leisurely in his pacing and camera-work, with long takes and assured movement. Focusing on the environment, the use of sight and sound, and the performances, to build the story. It's really just a perfect movie. There isn't a wasted shot, nor clunky editing, nor melodrama to be found.Mia Farrow is perfect as the fragile waif Rosemary, and John Cassavetes does a lot with a role that is intentionally underwritten. He sells everything Guy is going through by sheer force of acting will. Ruth Gordon, who won a hard to contest Oscar, and Sidney Blackmer play the nosey old couple next door to sublime exactness.Not so much a horror movie, as a story that contains horror elements, although there are moments of terror to be found. Used sparingly and as a result, effectively. Mia's rape scene, with its use of hallucinogenic scenery and flashes of Satan is chilling in its implications. Rosemary's reaction to her first sight of the baby is blood-curdling. But maybe what's most scary is the choice she makes to end the movie. These help the movie to get under your skin, so much so that by the film's climax you don't realize how much stress you've been put under. The movie conveys the paranoia and lonesomeness of Rosemary without drawing attention to itself.There are plenty of themes explored here. It was 1968, at the height of women's lib and Rosemary is a dependent who has shunned both God and family to get to where she is. She has no sense of self, really, outside of Guy. Her haircut, and then her baby become these things. Is she being punished for not being more independent? Was that her birth by fire into modern womanhood? There's paranoia and xenophobia, about the people next door, the people you think you know (but do you?) and the old ways all set within one of the most populated cities on the planet, and yet a person can still feel all alone.A great movie, a great story, doesn't have to be about any one of those themes, but it's all there for the taking. It's small pricklings of common human thinking and modern anxieties that can help fuel the subtext of a good story well told. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's baby","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" While Rosemary's Baby is often dubbed a horror film, the contemporary viewer may find that generic attribution confusing. Due to its slow pace and reliance on less-traditional formal tools to create suspense, Rosemary's Baby, like Stanley Kubrick's The Shining (1980), is best described as a psychological thriller or suspense story. Polanski's film, adapted from a novel by Ira Levin, isn't furnished with bloody murders and shocking off-screen entrances. Rather, what makes Rosemary's Baby terrifying is the sense of inevitability. Yes, this inevitability not only manifests itself in the plot, as Rosemary is incapable of stopping the plans set in motion by her neighbors, but from the audience as well. Polanski cues us in to the cult's true intent quite early with the aid of surrealistic dream sequence, so we're aware of Rosemary's potential fate far sooner than she is. Hitchcock once described the difference between surprise and suspense as involving the knowledge of the audience, concluding that in order to fully capitalize upon suspense, the public must be informed. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Ever","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It should come as no surprise that Rosemary's Baby ranks in the top 250 on IMDb; I, however, would rank it even higher than the general public does. It's the kind of film you can watch occasionally over the years and enjoy each and every time, i.e., a classic. Technically the film is brilliant, with superb cinematography, editing, music, acting, art design, and masterful direction. Polanski captures the timeless essence of New York, at least as I remember it, even though the setting is unmistakably the 1960s, and the milieu is literally diabolical. Depending on how you look at it, you can enjoy the film as a supernatural thriller or as a psychological thriller and study in paranoia. I especially love the dream sequences, which have a surreal beauty and nightmarish logic of their own. "}{"Title":"This film is not recommended for pregnant women","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The stylish, ambitious, chaotic mess of 1965's Repulsion was condensed to its purest form in Rosemary's Baby, Polanski's first real masterpiece and, along with Chinatown, his most memorable work. Rosemary's Baby took some cues from Hitchcock's work, but by its own right it revolutionized horror cinema, and had a huge part in inspiring classics from Jaws to The Shining and The Thing - films that took to heart the lesson that nothing is scarier than nothing, and maintain tension and terror throughout with very little actually happening.Partly thanks to the film's minimalistic nature (most of it takes place in one apartment, not unlike Repulsion) and the refusal to rely on special effects, and partly thanks to Polanski's inspired directorial work, Rosemary's Baby stood the test of time better than any horror film of its time - indeed, better than most films of the 60's. Young viewers more accustomed to slasher horror may scoff at how little happens, but once you start watching the feeling of terror and discomfort grows and it's impossible not to be taken in, especially if you've anywhere near the protagonists' age. Mya Farrow and John Cassavetes are terrific in the leads, probably delivering the most powerful performances in their careers; and their show is nearly stolen by the irritating, charming, creepy, lovable Ruth Gordon (who won a very deserved Oscar for her part).Very few films are as timeless as Rosemary's Baby, and few are as absorbing and effective. A must-see for every film lover. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film from a talented director","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is a truly gripping tale into that does everything a classic horror movie should do. Forgoing excessive blood and cheesy monster costumes, the film builds up slowly and subtly to the point where any film-goer would be filled to the brim with tension and fear for what is next to come. After multiple viewings, little subtleties become absurdly visible, such as the recurring color of red or the blatant ignorance of Rosemary as she is manipulated by the wills of all those around her. All in all, this is a genuinely horrifying masterpiece that should not be missed (with an exception for the faint of heart). "},{"Title":"An atmosphere like no other.","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is how horror films need to be made. Aside from The House of the Devil (a beautiful throwback to this period of the genre) there aren't any films that can so perfectly create this kind of a chilling atmosphere that keeps your skin tingling from start to finish. From the haunting echo of Mia Farrow's voice eerily leading us in, Rosemary's Baby immediately absorbs you into it's world and never lets you out. That's the perfect word for this; absorbing. Roman Polanski is one of cinema's finest directors and what makes him stand as such is how perfectly he can create an atmosphere. Even in his few failures he crafts a unique and full atmosphere that is expertly made for the film he's creating. He's one of the few directors who always know what he's doing and always creates a complete vision that never wavers. That's on display in spades in Rosemary's Baby, a film that drives mystery, supernatural paranoia and the fears of any pregnant woman into the heart of the viewer. With the help of a revelatory performance in terror from Farrow, Polanski creates a truly perfect film. "},{"Title":"Rosamary's baby","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary and Guy Woodhouseare are a couple who move into a new apartment of their dream together in New York. However rose couldn't like their elderly neighbors, Minnie and Roman Castevet even if they are pretty helpful, friendly to them. As every couple, Rosemary and her husband's intention is to have a baby. But one day Rosa mary has a strange and weird dream which seems rather genuine to her. She is raped by someone who seems absolutely inhuman. when she wakes up, she could realize the scars on her body but thought she and her husband had sex together. After that, she becomes pregnant assuming that she would have a normal baby. While she is unaware of anything, Minnie and Roman get closer with Guy taking care of Rosamery's pregnancy. After some weird events, she finds out something strange goes on around her and the unborn baby. And she struggles to save it. But she fails as her doctor, husband and nearly everyone around are involved in these events which aim to get her baby for some satanist rituals. Eventually, she gives birth to her lovely(!) baby on her bedroom's bed while trying to escape from her husband and doctor. But the baby is not human but a Satan with too big and weird eyes. At first it is hard for her to accept it, later she does and the movie ends up in this way. When the date is taken into account (1968), l think the movie is amazing and successful ! İt is also authentic and fast- paced. the author has a unique way to make unordinary scenes come alive hypnotizing the audience. The movie stands out ! İt has completely interesting story as horror thriller which will certainly hold your attention. There is always a genuine concern about what will happen to the distinctive individuals involved. Still it is quite entertaining ! "},{"Title":"Young innocent  married woman is delighted to find herself pregnant but begins to realise that all is not what it seems.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A truly magnificent shocker which does not require blood or bullets to make your spine tingle. The old dark Gothic building with its rickety lift and heavy furnishings only lends to the atmosphere but conversely, evil can also be sensed in the most banal of places, eg Rosemary's lemony coloured kitchen and freshly painted nursery. Cassavetes' Faustian Guy with his cynical wisecracking leaves you uneasy and Ruth Gordon is superb as the colourful, eccentric, annoying old neighbour. (Buzz me when you get back -Would you really want a neighbour who makes you account for your movements?)The various middle aged women who float in and out of the scenario seem like certain harpy teachers from my convent school in the sixties(maybe there were certain things I didn't know then!)You really feel for Rosemary and her increasing fear and isolation as small events and signs take on fresh significance -or is she just a lonely, slightly neurotic young bride who needs more chicknights with les girls? The lullaby, hummed so sweetly by Mia Farrow at the start and end, seems to convey the film's image -haunting, sorrowful and ultimately helpless. If this film reached under your skin, the tune will haunt you forever. "},{"Title":"Sodom On The Hudson","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Anyone else play with the name Ira Levin and come up with Evil Rain?Rosemarie's Baby is so clever and audacious a film, it makes you want to come up with your own twists on its tightly-knotted storyline, a tale of a young woman named Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) who finds her idyllic Manhattan lifestyle shaken by a series of strange goings-on, not least of which involves her expected baby. Director Roman Polanski channels the best of Hitchcock and French New Wave cinema to come up with a new, ever-so-perverse, retelling of the Greatest Story Ever Told.That Rosemarie's baby has something to do with Evil Incarnate is what everyone knows about this film going in. But as so many reviewers here note quite well, the film is not your conventional horror flick, but something quite different, that uses atmosphere and mood to weave an eerie spell to stay with you long after the film is over.Seeing the film once is enough, but seeing it again really brings out the humor and pathos in this strange tale. Lines like the one Rosemarie says to her husband, Guy (John Cassavetes), when she feels her baby kicking and notices he's shy about putting his hand on her belly Don't be scared, it won't bite. Or the strange girl Rosemary meets in the laundry room of the Black Bram, full of gratitude to the couple that took her in. Real grandparents, the girl calls them. They picked me up off the sidewalk. The sidewalk is where she ends up, though, a few minutes later, one of the first signs something's wrong.Minutely faithful to Ira Levin's novel, Polanski nevertheless frames his film in such an imaginative way as to make it feel alive, and thus more chilling as it goes on, with its attention to Upper East Side decor, summer dresses that resemble paisley sofa covers, and of course the baroque architecture of the Bramford, i.e. the real-life Dakota apartments, whose own unhappy history give this film a guilty kick.That's too bad, because the film would stand up as well without any tragic real-life subtext. Farrow's performance (shades of Jean Seberg) is an amazing display of an actress in complete control as her character spins farther out of it. Though she was deprived of so much as an Oscar nomination (at least the Golden Globes weren't as asleep at the wheel), Ruth Gordon did win an Oscar playing a neighbor whose amiable kookiness conceals nasty depth, the best of a supporting cast that doesn't miss a trick, whether it be Ralph Bellamy as an unorthodox obstetrician or Elisha Cook as a fey doorman.The only performance many have caveats about is Cassavetes. Would not Robert Redford had worked better in the role of the struggling, amoral actor? Yet I find myself liking Cassavetes better the more I watch this film, his guilty laughter as he urges Rosemary to finish her chocolate mouse and wear her smelly charm. He really nails a deeper sense of evil on offer, with his callous comments to Rosemary and his nasty way with a joke, at peace with a world that can ask, on the cover of Time magazine Is God Dead? Existential dread is at the heart of this film, and Guy presents a post-Christian figure that Cassavetes nails down from beginning to end.Polanski and Farrow give the best work. He frames every shot with the kind of depth and focus that reminds you of Hitchcock at his peak, while she, eerily resembling Twiggy, sets a standard for '60s glamour and acting prowess that makes you wonder how she failed to find worthy projects in the next decade. It wasn't really until the 1980s, as Woody Allen's muse, that she had the opportunity to develop a real body of work. It's like this film had some kind of curse on it.Of course, talking about curses and Rosemary's Baby makes you realize Mia got off rather lightly in comparison. My random music machine just played selections from John Lennon and Frank Sinatra in tandem, and now I really have the creeps. So will you, when you give this a chance. Creepiness is a harder trick to pull off in movies than raw shock, and here is a film that sets a standard few, if any, have come close to matching. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of mood","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Like The Silence of the Lambs, Rosemary's Baby is a horror film that is so justifiably praised that it's a pretty futile effort to attempt to find something that hasn't been said about it before, and better. Until recently, it had been many years since I'd seen the film, and upon revisiting it (with a newfound appreciation for director Roman Polanski), was thoroughly impressed.The story is simple and ingenious, and hooks us from the start Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) and her actor husband, Guy (John Cassavetes) move into an upscale New York apartment complex attract the attention of their kind yet invasive neighbors; shortly after, Rosemary becomes pregnant and grows increasingly concerned that the residents are plotting against her. Polanski would revisit this type of paranoia (albeit through male eyes) in The Tenant; Rosemary's Baby takes a similarly subjective approach to the story, telling it largely through the perspective of the title character--and Mia Farrow is incredibly good at conveying pain, sorrow, fear, and submission.In addition to structuring suspense well, Polanski also gives the film a sense of patriarchal commentary the husband is cunning, cocky, self-centered, and manipulative; ditto the loathsome Dr. Saperstien (Ralph Bellamy) who insists that Rosemary stop reading books that might cause worry. Throughout the film, Rosemary is presented as a passive, soft-spoken wallflower, easily put in her place by the male figures in her life; even when she uncovers the conspiracy around her, everyone is so firmly pitted against her that her efforts become meaningless in the face of the inevitable. Polanski makes us pity Rosemary and loathe the occult conspirators, but gives us a conclusion that drips of irony from all angles--in a sense, a great injustice is perpetrated, then accepted.With Rosemary's Baby, Polanski delivers a masterpiece of mood and subtle scares without a reliance on blood and guts. Strong performances and a fine story contribute to making this a gem of the genre. "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I read the book by Ira Levin before I saw the movie, and then, when I watched it, the film visuals almost perfectly matched the ones I had pictured in my mind, so I was consistently given chills down my spine. And it seems like barely any dialogue or plot points were cut out (it'd be almost impossible to cut out any of the plot because Levin wrote such a tightly plotted and suspenseful book.) Polanski's direction is great, and Mia Farrow made a perfect Rosemary. The final scene is one of my favorites ever, when she's sneaking to the Castavet's apartment to get back her baby with the knife, and all the old satanists are standing around, and she sees the baby's amber eyes, and screams, WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO HIS EYES?!? *shiver*. Beautiful. "},{"Title":"Chilling performance","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The movie was pretty good. The tone and mood is set soon as the credits start with an eery lullaby. It starts off farely normal Guy and Rosemary Woodhouse are looking for a new place and find it. The residents seem like nice elderly people. It is after the rape by Satan nightmare however that things begin to get chilling. Rosemary switches doctor by recommendation by her elderly neighbors (who have befriended her husband more then her) She begins to experience complications such as pain, and nautiosness. Her friend Hutch realises something is amiss right off the bat and points it out to her. That friend goes into acoma the next day and dies later on. However it is because of this friend that Rosemary unravels the plot set against her. She is ultimately betrayed by those she trust. It's at this point that Farrow shines beyond all belief.All in all the movie is chilling mainly because of the performance by Farrow. I am not so sure it lived up to the hype but reguardless it was worth the two hours. "},{"Title":"Chilling, frightening and yet a must see!","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is one of the most controversial films of our time. I can't stop thinking about how sweet and nice Ruth Gordon was in her Academy award winning role. I loved her as Minnie even though she proved that even appearances can be truly deceiving. Who would ever thought that you lived next door to Satanists in New YOrk City. I felt sorry for Mia Farrow's character, Rosemary, but she does give the performance of her career. The haircut by Vidal Sassoon has been etched in my memory since I saw it on television. THe conception of her baby was hard to swallow and not for the squeamish like myself. John Cassavetes also gives a memorable, unforgettable performance as her husband willing to sell his wife out for a successful acting career. You never really like the character because of his immoral actions. As Rosemary comes closer to the truth, we are equally horrified by her discovery of her husband's new allegiance and the satanists who look so ordinary like Aunt Bee from the Andy Griffith Show. You never see them as anything but ordinary and that proves that the nicest, kindest neighbors can fool you. Ruth Gordon's performance as Minnie is well chilling. I won't give away the ending but I bet everybody knows it. A Satanist was consulted on the film and he was connected to Charles Manson whose gang murdered the director's wife. It's more horrifying than the film itself. While I get goosebumps about this story, it won't just leave you. You will always wondered what happened to that baby. Polanski who survived the holocaust as a child always knows how to remind you that people even the sweetest looking people in the world can be evil too. "}{"Title":"A Perfect Film, For What It Is","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" For its genre, and really, for any genre, this film is a perfect film. Why is it so perfect? In my humble opinion, it is all in the absolutely superb storytelling. All of the dialog that slowly ensues throughout the movie offers the audience little clues bit by bit, unbeknownst to us, however. Unless you believe Rosemary from the outset at the point at which she begins to suspect what's happening to her, you really need to wait until the end of the film to see what was in store all along. And once you're at the end of the film, if you take a moment and think back of all the dialog served up by all the principles and key supporting players throughout the film...the Castevets (my work takes me all over the world), Hutch, Dr. Saperstein, Dr. Hill (I need to take a blood sample from you...uhhh, a blood test), and the sudden professional luck of Guy Woodhouse, it all becomes eerily plausible, and a perfectly (and sick, of course) planned scenario. I never read the book, but, I wonder if there are even more characters in on the whole plot. At any rate, this film presents a masterpiece of suspenseful and perfectly metered storytelling, and for this reason, I call it a perfect film. "},{"Title":"This is no dream, this is really happening!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby rules. One of Ira Levin's best stories makes an effortless translation to the big screen thanks to a script that sticks very close to the source, a stellar cast, and the craft of Roman Polanski.The weird thing about Rosemary's Baby is that it's generally considered to be a horror movie, and yet there is very little of the supernatural in it. Sure it involves a coven of witches who conspire to impregnate Rosemary with child of the devil himself, but aside from one hallucinatory scene where the devil may actually manifest, Rosemary's Baby is really a conspiracy film. The horror is not in the fact that Rosemary is going to give birth to the Devil's child; we already know this going into the film. What's scary about it is how Rosemary is completely unaware that something terrible has happened to her, and that her husband has sold her out. Even after she begins to catch on that something weird is happening, she doesn't realize how bad it really is. It's not that the witches want her baby, it's that they already *have* her baby. The baby's father is, literally, Satan. It's compelling to see the way Rosemary is deceived throughout the film. One of the most chilling scenes is when Rosemary finds someone she thinks she can confide in and then finds that they, too, have turned her over to the people that intend to exploit her. It's as if, in all of New York, she can't find a single person who isn't in on it. The ones that aren't in on it...die.Mia Farrow is the best thing about this movie, although everyone else is good, too. Farrow looks so delicate and vulnerable that you can't help but want to shield her somehow from what's going on. Watch the way the film portrays the coven, too. They're sinister, but other than their wicked intentions and the fact that they worship Satan, they're only a bunch of daffy old people.I find that many people are put off by their own expectations of the film. They go into it as if they're going to see a devil baby in it, which is simply a footnote in the film. By the time Rosemary sees the result of her unholy pregnancy, the horror has already happened to her. She doesn't realize she's been a victim until it's all over. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, scary, imaginative, and controversial","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" We can see how horror movies were evolving in the late 60s. Even so, this movie was ahead of its time. At the same time, the movie has a slow plot that gradually unfolds throughout very smoothly.The acting of Mia Farrow was half the movie right there. She is a naive Catholic girl unaware of how she is being betrayed. Nothing like watching a pretty young Catholic girl being taken advantage of. (I'm really not like that in real life. Horror movies are my outlet.) This movie is definitely worth watching for those who love imagination and a somewhat drawn-out story line. It is not for slasher fans and gore hounds, however. Sure, there are a few good sex scenes, but they tie into the intellectual quality of this movie. Not much for gore at all.The only weakness I see in this film is in the ending. (Don't worry, this isn't a spoiler.) Maybe Polanski bit off more than he could chew. I see what he was going for, but he was holding back I think. It was a little weak. It probably could have used some gore.I gave it 9 of 10. The ending, though controversial and dark, was somewhat weak and cost it a perfect 10 from me, which I reserve for the very best. "},{"Title":"A supsense thriller of the supernatural","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie.  I love it and I think its a great example of a movie made in the late sixties era.  Mia Farrow is just wonderful, I loved her style and acting in the movie.  It was very suspensful and not very bloody but it still can be known as a horror movie. Anything dealing with the devil is worse than any slasher movie b/c the devil very well exist in our everyday lives.  I do wish that they would have shown what the baby looked like b/c all you know is that his eyes must not appear normal.  If you haven't seen this movie pls rent it, and if you have seen it then pls read the book.  I was very disapointed with the second book Son of Rosemary but the first book was very very good.  "},{"Title":"Suprisingly chilling","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I managed to catch this on an AMC late-night showing as part of the Halloween Monsterfest collection of flims.  I was initially only a little more than mildly interested because of the movie's reported influence on the superb Silent Hill videogame series, but the movie drew me in, and I eventually gave my undivided attention to the television set.I'm honestly glad that I did.  What I expected to be (at least) a decent way to kill an hour or two turned out to be a well-acted, disturbing, and psychological horror film.  I won't go into detail about the plot (though many people have probably heard about it without seeing it, like I had), but I will say that Rosemary's Baby is a good example of the horror film that doesn't rely on blood and gore to make an impression.  I'm not very experienced in the genre of horror cinema, but I would recommend this to anyone who has even a passing interest in horror.Silent Hill fans will enjoy looking for points of similarity between the film and certain aspects of the game series (that's as specific as I'll be on that point).In summary disturbing in a GOOD way- intentionally so- and intelligently crafted.  I give it a 4 on a 1-to-5 scale. "},{"Title":"Classic Roman","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Took advantage of the re-release of this Polanski classic with a family trip to the Magnolia Theatre.  Tremendous script with Polanski at his finest with creepy camera angles and lighting.  Really paid attention to the performances this time and came away with even greater admiration for the one and only Ruth Gordan and her on screen husband Sidney Blackmer.  Even Mia Farrow's performance was better than I remembered.  Cassavetes was a bit stiff, but Maurice Evans was terrific. Fun to see a young Charles Grodin.  Yeah, there is a ton of interesting background info with the connections between Polanski/Farrow, Farrow/Sinatra, Polanski/Sharon Tate (who appears briefly in this one) and the subsequent horrific tale of the Charles Manson clan.  In spite of that, this is a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest films ever","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  There are spoilers in this review.Rosemary's Baby sits on the cusp of changing Hollywood filmmaking; abandoning the corny westerns and drawing-room banter of 1950s films that basically mimic stage performances, it explodes into the 1960s like some crazy psychedelic dream.  The Miracle Worker, The Graduate, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Bonnie and Clyde, Cool Hand Luke  the 1960s were a movie renaissance for the American public.  It must have been a very exciting time if you were a moviegoer, and Rosemary's Baby belongs in the same vein of exciting films.Where do I begin?  The fundamental strength of this film is its believability, and it accomplishes it with flow.  This film effortlessly captures the natural flow between man and wife, in a way that no film prior to it ever did.  Cassavettes's smoldering expression and smoky observations as Guy play so easily against Farrow's waifish, wide-eyed Rosemary that it's easy to imagine they might have been married in real life.  It is so easy to see these people as real characters, because we are given their strengths and faults, we see them quarrelling and kissing, just like real life.  It is this strength of reality that pulls along the rest of the film; when things turn unreal, that's when the real terror begins.  Polanski brilliantly takes this sense of unreality to the limit.Polanski's genius lies in taking Hollywood cliches and putting a contemporary spin on them  witches no longer wear long black clothes and pointy hats, they are an annoying old woman and a pie-faced old man living in a run-down gothic apartment building in New York.  The creepy Dakota apartment building is the iconic haunted house of everyone's collective subconscious, brought into contemporary 1960s city living.  The building is at first serene but becomes more sinister as the film progresses.  Guy and Rosemary renovate their new flat, brightening it with gallons of white paint and pre-Martha Stewart white linens, but like MS herself, there is something odd lingering underneath the surface.Ruth Gordon steals the movie.  She nails the part of Minnie Castevet with such self-assured manic demeanor that it is difficult to imagine anyone else in the role.  She gleefully destroys the cliche of the Halloween-style Margaret Hamilton witch, and instead gives us a witch who looks like a train wreck.  Dressed like a clown with too much makeup, forcing her nutrition drinks down Rosemary's throat, barging into Rosemary's apartment, displaying terrible table manners, and doing her best to meddle in every detail of Rosemary's life, she is at once annoying and fascinating; who would ever think a witch could actually be irritating?By the end of the film, Cassavettes's ambitious actor Guy Woodhouse is a pathetic, soulless automaton, clearly the film's villain for selling his wife's body to the witches in order to advance his career.  His deception is laid bare for all the world to see, and made all the more abject with his inability to see anything wrong with the unholy agreement.  I wonder how many other actors would do the same thing.There is more fear in the unknown than in the known; special effects can only do so much to capture the fear that we all share, but Rosemary's Baby, much like the Exorcist and the Blair Witch Project, uses huge doses of suggestion rather than relying solely on special effects.  The truly frightening things are left to the imagination, for instance when Rosemary looks at the baby and shrieks `What have you done to his eyes?', we don't need to see them, we know they're frightening because of her reaction. After watching this film, it's easy to see where The Exorcist gained most of its inspiration, although Rosemary's European director gives us an ending that is perfectly chilling and uncompromisingly pessimistic, while the Exorcist continues as though nothing ever happened.  This is a must-see film.  "},{"Title":"WHY ISN't THIS FILM ON THE TOP 250 LIST???","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  There are lots and lots of films on that list, but somehow this masterpiece of modern cinema, that has influenced more than any film on its genre, has not even scratched the surface of it. Why is this? How unfair! I wonder... "},{"Title":"He was in 'Luther' and 'Nobody Loves an Albatross...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Poor young Rosemary!  She doesn't have an opinion she can really call her own; lives through the impending success of her stage-actor husband, Guy Woodhouse, fills her empty days alone in their new, creepy Standard Eight apartment, picking shelf paper, designing the nursery (is there any other color on the primary wheel than yellow, egads!); and, ultimately, is seemingly betrayed by the whole of Manhattan. Ok, I've already given you more than an appetizer, if you're the last person on Earth that hasn't seen it or read Ira Levin's book on which this Polanski chiller is based. It is the first Serious Horror film, and set the precedent for subsequent films and novels on Urban Paranoia, borderline Cultisms, and whatever else shamelessly borrows from this, Levin's Opus Magnum.  Don't expect to see much blood or post natal puppets; This film's not about that, so grow up.  Rosemary's Baby is about our reactions to horror, and not the horrors themselves.  Jot this down and, should you ever enter the Bramford Apartment Building, make sure you make those corridor turns wide... you might finally get a clear glimpse of the eponymous gargoyle. "},{"Title":"Chilling tale of a woman pushed to the edge, and there's a message too.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Obligatory SPOILER WARNINGWhat would you do if you woke up not long after believing you're child had died at birth, only to find a group of mean old witches sitting around a baby cradle chanting All hail Adrian, son of the devil? Well, that's a predicament that Rosemary Woodhouse has to face at the end of this movie.Rosemary's Baby is a true classic of the horror/chiller genre, I think it's a film that's going to appeal more to women or men with children, because it taps into the fears and anxieties of childbirth. The ending of the film is a metaphor, because Adrian is the son of the Devil, it becomes a play on deformity, and Rosemary has to come to the conclusion weather or not she can still love him unconditionally.This is timeless stuff here, and people who say it isn't scary obviously should go and rent a cheap slasher movie or something along the lines of Friday the 13th, this is chilling psychological horror at it's most subtle. Polanski's direction goes in for that sixties feel, lots of colour and no-nonsense angles, it does make the film seem a little dated, but it also gives a very creepy atmosphere to the apartment (a la Repulsion).The performances are also good, the main standouts being Farrow as the innocent Rosemary, and Cassavetes is good as the scheming Guy, but all acting plaudits would go to the excellent Ruth Gordon (remember her from Harold & Maude) as the Woodhouse's nosey neighbour. This is serious and intelligent horror from one of cinemas sadly forgotten directors that I would recommend to anyone.9/10 "}{"Title":"One of the Best!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Undoubtedly, this film is certainly one of the best horror/suspense films ever made.  It is a chilling psycho-drama, a social commentary, and a good old-fashioned horror yarn all at once.  The story, of course, concerns a young Rosemary Woodhouse and her husband's journey in becoming tenants of a huge Brownstone called the Bram, where many evil, mysterious things have happened to/with its tenants over its long history.  The story unfolds, and we are caught up in what Rosemary sees, hears, and even thinks.  We feel her pain, anxiety, paranoia, and even fear.  We sense conspiracy all around us and want nothing more than security for her and her child to come.  This is due in large part to the masterful direction of one of the greatest directors of the screen...Roman Polanski.  Polanski shows us just enough and lets are imaginations kick in and conceive the horrors around us as only are minds can conjure.  The acting is extremely good in this film and it is in many ways a character actor's dream.  Ruth Gordon deservedly won an oscar for her portrayal of the nosy, loquacious Minnie Castavet.  Sidney Blackmer, playing her husband, also is equally good as an elderly man seemingly polite and good-natured but seething with hatred, evil, and delight in the pain of others.  Ralph Bellamy, Patsy Kelly, and Maurice Evans are also memorable in their roles.  Mia Farrow is very convincing as is her husband John Cassavetes.  William Castle, the great showman of the movies, produced this gem, and unquestionably it was his greatest collaborative effort.  First-rate direction, top-notch acting, one heck of a good script based on Ira Levin's masterpiece of simplicity in story-telling all lead to one heck of a good film! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Today I watched Rosemary's Baby (1968) by Roman Polański. I didn't expect much from it, but, by Jove, I was surprised. It's a masterpiece. Just like the Shining, its widely considered to be a horror movie, and it is, but, once again, its very different from what we call a horror movie nowadays. Also, very much like in The Shining, there's a good portion of the darkest humour possible and, I swear, its lovely. Its witty, its funny, well, its just natural in every aspect of it. Its definitely in my top 5. Go make yourself a favor - watch this movie, preferably in a movie theater, like I did. There's everything you can ever expect from a good movie, and even more. "},{"Title":"rosemary's baby","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When I started to watch Rosemary's Baby, I thought it was an ordinary baby story. But it was not like that. As soon as you begin to watch, you feel that some mystic things will happen. Rosemary and Guy moved a new apartment where some bad things had happened. They wanted to have a baby.And also they had a strange neighbors. Two people both of them are old. Rosemary had a good relationship with them. But after a while Rosemary learned that she had a baby. She had a good doctor. But their strange neighbor suggest them a new doctor. Guy relied on them so he accepted this suggestion. After these things, Rosemary started to have strange dreams. Everything begins with these dreams that she was confused about that. In the end she had a strange baby who was called Satan by her neighbor and also her husband. It was a group that disobey and ignore the God. She wanted to save her baby from these bad people she understood their intention but it was too late. They had already captured her baby.Actually, the movie includes something mystic and horror. You feel terrible in some spot. I was affected by Rosemary's physical appearance and also her psychology. At some point you feel pity about her due to the fact that she did not look well. And another thing that was affected me is that when rosemary gave birth they put it in a black cradle. Whatever happened, she was a mother. When she saw it in a cradle she was sorry, she shake its cradle even if it was not a normal baby.Last but not least, nobody believed her and only one person believed her.Truth was much horrific. If you like these kind of movies I mean sometimes you feel horrifying, mercy, sorry, mystic, it would be a good choice. I like its team and cast. They are good at their jobs. I give 7 out of ten. I hope you have a chance to watch it. "},{"Title":"The greatest horror film of all time!","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" by naturalACTOR- The only newer horror film (say, 90's to present) that ever even slightly scared me, surprisingly, was The Blair Witch Project. Notably, The Sixth Sense had one quite terrifying scene, but contained nothing else that was truly scary. It's so hard to find an amazing horror title today that I've almost given up trying. Rosemary's Baby (1968) is not only a film that (no joke here) cannot be watched alone, but is the scariest, most horrifying film of all time.It's difficult to break it all down, because there is so much that contributes to the sheer fear this movie gives off. Firstly, Roman Polanski directs with some magic here, conjuring a well-written script into a haunting visual masterpiece. It is creepy how this film is so real, how the idea within its story doesn't seem very fictional. Mia Farrow plays Rosemary with frightening, twisted emotion. Her character even seems a little eerie at times when she begins to go too far with her accusations, and speaks as if somebody tortured her. John Cassavetes is unpredictable, and his character unreadable. He gives a solid performance, and Ruth Gordon, in her Oscar-winning portrayal of Minnie Castevet, brings the only light to this film, brewing a mix of nosiness and hilarity to her character.I've found that films about Satanists are the very scariest, including this one and Dario Argento's Suspiria (1977). The film is shot smartly, and in a way that keeps the mystery, fear, and suspense tingling right to the very end. Again, Polanski is very masterful and careful about how he works this film, and how he directs his actors. If I had to pick the main reasons why this movie is so scary, and why it makes my hairs stick up so tall, it would have to be the camera work and directing, the story and script and how brilliantly it's played out, the simple feel and atmosphere, so unpredictable and creepy, the acting, done with malice and originality that I am still afraid to think about, and finally, the music.Krzysztof Komeda composes the most haunting, and definitive horror film score, a lullaby that produces goosebumps and that gets the mind racing through tunnels of fear, through darkness, acting as almost a prelude to what is to happen in the film. It would even be plausible to say that the wild, satanic flute music, and mainly the original score, account for almost all of the film's alarming mountain of horror.Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is a unique horror film, one that is immensely scary, and also very well made. Never again will there be a better film of its kind. Polanski creates an air of dooming, prevalent fear and musically and plot-driven terror, but the greatest thing he achieves is the surpassing of Hitchcock's greatest works, in the same style--playing his own game, and coming out on top. "},{"Title":"Proves that you don't need flashy effects or ample amounts of gore to scare your audience","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" 1968 was the year that gave us great films like '2001 A Space Odyssey' and 'Planet of the Apes.' It was also a good year for the horror genre because in that year audiences were treated to chillers like George Romero's 'Night of the Living Dead' and this film, a film that is quite different than the horror films we see now. Don't let you turn you away though, it's far from uninteresting. 'Rosemary's Baby' is a good old fashioned suspense movie with a supernatural angle and it succeeds in just about every way. As of this writing the movie is 40 years old and hasn't yet been forgotten. Now that's the sign of a powerful film.Pros Marvelous performances from all involved. Instead of using elaborate or gory/gooey effects, director Polanski focuses on suspense and atmosphere. The apartment building is so dark, eerie, and unwelcoming. There's not much music, but it's good and ranges from beautiful to chilling. Some really creepy images and scenes. Suspenseful and totally unpredictable. The pace is slow, but steady and helps in building the suspense. Some good twists and turns.Cons The clothing and furniture really date the film.Final thoughts Time has been really kind to this subtle, but very effective shocker. Jump scares and grisly violence are what seem to terrify today's mainstream audience and though I'm not totally against either of them, neither of them qualify as real scares. Check this one out if you want to see how it's really done.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"This movie is superb in every way","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby mixes paranoia with dark humor, and the result is a classic.I can only suppose that director Roman Polanski drew on the experiences of his childhood in Nazi-occupied Poland in putting his unique stamp on this movie (the murder of his wife Sharon Tate had not yet occurred.) Ira Levin, who wrote the book on which this movie is based, deserves a lot of credit. The creepy names of the characters -- Roman and Minnie Castavet,  Dr. Sapirstein -- add a disturbing sense of authenticity to this tale of old-fashioned black magic in what many might otherwise regard as the capital of modern sophistication and skepticism -- New York City.This movie is filled with ironic juxtaposition, and that is the basis for much of its humor. The choice of the Gothic and turreted Dakota apartment building (where John Lennon lived and died -- but that had not yet happened) is entirely appropriate. The folksy neighborliness of the Castavets is especially disturbing in light of their true intentions, and Ruth Gordon gives an outstanding performance as Minnie Castavet. The power of this movie lies in its many details -- the sets, the costumes, the lighting, the music, the dialog...It all comes together wonderfully -- at least until the last few minutes. At that point -- when it is clear that the very worst fears have been realized -- it is an open question whether the ending is as good as it might have been. I felt very satisfied in that regard. The impulse to love in spite of horror is very powerful if not entirely convincing. But even if you don't agree, I believe this movie is still very close to being perfect. "},{"Title":"In my top 10","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" One thing I love about this film is its strangely cosy atmosphere, and the way it's confined almost completely to people's homes (Guy and Rosemary, Hutch, the Castevets). In those homes people do ordinary things - they dish up food, they grow herbs, wash up, redecorate. It's like a page out of Good Housekeeping. And Rosemary is surrounded by sweet, kindly older people (Hutch, the Castevets, Laura Louise). But then they turn out to be... waah, waah, waah waah! On watching it again (and again, and again) I noticed that the camera is right in among the actors a lot of the time, the frame sometimes cutting off their head or half their body. This makes you feel you're really there with them, not watching them on a stage or through a picture frame. And everybody speaks naturally - not a method naturalistic mumble, but the real thing. All the characters have their own way of speaking (Call me - not your Aunt Fanny!), and for a lot of the time they are talking about mundane things like making a window seat or picking up eggs from the store. The setting is fabulous (I keep trying to work out the plan of the apartment and how it fits onto the Castevets'). The casting is brilliant. Ruth Gordon, Sydney Blackmer, Elisha Cook Jr., Patsy Kelly, Maurice Evans, Mia and John. As someone else pointed out, Guy is much older than Rosemary, and though handsome he's short, and he's never made it as an actor. Are they living on her money? Even his attempts at taking off the neighbours (on account of it's one of her specialitays) are lame. He constantly laughs at things that aren't funny. The music, even when it's just a descending chromatic scale, is brilliantly creepy, and I love the theme song (sung beautifully by Mia). "},{"Title":"memorable atmospheric horror with Ruth Gordon","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Excellent suspenseful direction by Polanksi and a great cast highlight this prototype reproduction-shocker from the late 60s, a film that influenced many horror films to follow including the inferior Exorcist. I love how Polanski lets his camera roam and linger about the massive apartment complex that is the film's central setting, making it the literal eye of the audience. I think maybe my favorite shot in the whole movie is when Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and Minnie Castevet (Ruth Gordon) are talking and she glances at the room where her husband, the appropriately named Guy (John Cassavetes) and Roman Castevet (Sidney Blackmer) are talking and we see only the vaguely sinister smoke drifting through the open doorway. I have a feeling that doorways and hallways in general have a symbolic significance in this film tied to its paranormal ruminations on pregnancy, but I'd have to rewatch it to analyze that aspect of the film.The story takes a little while to get going, but once we're into Rosemary's pregnancy the stakes begin to rise and suspense is unrelenting. There's also some great macabre humor thrown into the mix which reaches its apex in the film's famous shocker ending. It's a very atmospheric horror without any gore and with only minimal scares, to the extent that it reminds me of Jacques Tourneur's horror films (indeed given Polanski's status as a Francophile it's almost certain he had seen and been inspired by his films).The music is also very memorable; I was already familiar with the tune from the album by Fantomas with Mike Patton where they did a heavy metal cover of it, recommended for fans of this movie.But best of all are the performances from all 4 of the leads. Gordon and Blackmer are the highlight of the film for me with their wicked subversion of normal nice old neighbor type performances. Gordon of course was herself a brilliant writer and probably recognized the high quality of the material she was working with here. She's a fussy old lady who hides her true evil intent behind a blustering annoying façade of the old lady who's just a little bit too helpful. Blackmer is a good tonic to her high energy performing, projecting a reassuring feeling that greatly helps in the final scene when he gently rocks the cradle. The implication of that scene, that the maternal instinct will win out over all other reasoning, is powerful and ironic. Cassavetes isn't perfect but he is suitable in the role, the only one of the villains who actually had me guessing during much of the film's running time. And Farrow is a visual of gaunt helplessness, her eyes conveying fear and loss of control throughout the second half of the film. It's interesting that Polanksi says he initially envisioned a more corn-fed starlet in the role, specifically Tuesday Weld. In my opinion Tuesday Weld was a better actress than Mia Farrow and probably would have provided the film with an even more powerful feeling. It's true that Farrow looks perfect in the early phases of her pregnancy when she's losing weight and becoming paler, but she's already so thin in the first place that I think it would have been even more shocking to see Weld in the same situation. But I really can't fault Farrow's performance besides just the physical aspects of her screen presence which she isn't in control of. It's obvious that she and Polanski were on the same wavelength, and it's extraordinary how the male director and female star were able to make the character such a strong cipher for the audience. "},{"Title":"A creepy, slow but landmark horror film","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Before 'The Exorcist' scared the wits out of people about devil possession Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby came along in 1968 to scare the audiences then. Not your typical horror flick; this is slow and brooding and eventually leads to a shocking and terrifying finale that only few could have pulled off as flawlessly as Polanski did. This isn't cheap, schlocky horror, this is pure horror (at its best).Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and Guy Woodhouse (John Cassavettes) move into a new apartment. Across their room live two elderly people, Roman (Sidney Blackmer) and Minnie Castevet (Ruth Gordon, in an Oscar winning performance). They are very friendly people and Guy takes an immediate liking to them but Rosemary isn't so sure about them. She hears weird noises coming from their room at night, they seem to take down their pictures whenever they go over to their apartment and other things like that. When Rosemary becomes pregnant they start to become more intrusive. They convince her to switch doctor and Minnie starts giving her herbal drinks everyday. It is a rather unpleasant pregnancy, though, Rosemary is having constant pains and soon she starts suspected everyone of foul play.The mood of this film is set perfectly from the very start when we hear the creepiest piece of music (a lullaby) played over the opening credits (sung by Mia Farrow). Polanski is a genius at setting mood, throughout the whole movie their is a sense of unease that gradually builds until your on the very edge of your seat waiting for the final revelation. Polanski doesn't rely on gore or special effects, in fact, their is (save for one brief moment of a corpse) no gore at all in the film. Very much unlike modern horror films might I add!The best part of this movie, though, is the outstanding acting. Horror movies are unfortunately part of a stereotype which suggests no good acting can come out of a horror movie. How wrong those people are. Every single performance is perfect. Mia Farrow plays the naive but suspecting wife hauntingly realistic. She truly looks like she is suffering from her pregnancy. John Cassavettes is great as the self-centred Guy, an actor who never really pays attention to his wife. Ruth Gordon, though, is the stand-out performance as Minnie. Although she is a friendly, bubbly, helpful woman there is always a sinister feeling she radiates and the same can be said for Sidney Blackmer as well. Ruth Gordon rightfully deserved that Oscar for Best Actress in a Supporting Role.So, if you're looking for a horror film with real scares, top-notch performances, a creepy soundtrack and a hell of a twisted ending look no further than Rosemary's Baby.5/5 "},{"Title":"Eat Your Liver, Rosemary","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Quite simply, one of the best horror movies ever made.Rosemary's Baby is terrifying, and it remains terrifying every time I see it. I watch this, and then I watch what passes today for horror movies (The Hills Have Eyes remake is an example), and I simply shake my head in awe and dismay at how far the horror film has fallen.Everything about this movie hits the right notes. The acting is expert, especially Mia Farrow's hugely underrated performance as the impressionable Rosemary. Roman Polanski's direction is perfect; he eschews the shock horror approach used by directors like William Friedkin and instead creates a subtly creepy atmosphere, ratcheting up the tension gradually until you're ready to jump out of your skin. The production design and cinematography are off-kilter in ways you can't quite define. And the musical score, all plucked strings and jangling piano chords (except for the sinister lullaby that opens the film), is nerve-wracking.Because every element of the film comes together so well, this supernatural tale feels as realistic as it could possibly be, and one feels that if there is indeed such a thing as the coming of an Anti-Christ, it would happen something like this.With John Cassavetes, superbly slimy as the sell-out husband; Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer, as the Jewish grandma and grandpa from Hell (literally); Ralph Bellamy as a crooked doctor; and, most effectively, Maurice Evans, poor Rosemary's only ally.Any number of scenes could qualify as creepiest, but my personal favorite is the one in which Rosemary uses a Scrabble game set to make sense of an anagram. I get shivers just writing about it.Grade A+ "}{"Title":"Polanski's first true masterpiece. An unnerving cinematic experience of psychological horror.","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Pray for Rosemary's Baby...Roman Polanski's Oscar winning masterpiece of horror was the scariest film when released in 1968.Polanski doesn't show gruesome images and brutally violent scenes. He leaves it to the mind. Like Hitchcock films.The plot is classic. A young eager husband living in New York is dragged into a demonic world when he is promised riches from a bunch of satanists living in an apartment block in the Bronx. The only exchange... His wife's baby. The chosen son of the devil.Mia Farrow is outstanding as the innocent mother coveted by a bunch of insane old neighbours who continuously drug her and perform rituals on her just to get her son, the son of Satan. His name will be Adrian.Polanski's first American film is a timeless classic and one of the scariest films ever made.An unnerving cinematic experienceChilling, dark, mysterious... A masterpiece of horrorPolanski proved his film-making talents with Rosemary's Baby Terrifying9/10 "},{"Title":"Scarily Brilliant","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie means so much to me. It is exceptional in every sense of the word. It is a film that demands to be viewed more than once, and unlike most horror movies, where repeated viewing dulls the experience, this film only becomes more terrifying as you watch it again and again getting more and more caught up in the conspiracy that surrounds Rosemary.Mia Farrow is the living, breathing heart of this movie. Appearing in every scene, her delicate portrayal of the beautifully innocent Rosemary Wodehouse provides a stark opposition to the disturbing nature of the movie's true subject. How she didn't win 1968's Best Actress Oscar is beyond me, let alone the fact that she wasn't even nominated.Polanski's obsession with imbuing the mundane with sinister qualities has never been more effective than in this, his masterpiece (some may argue Chinatown or Repulsion as deserving that title, but Rosemary's Baby takes it simply for the way it manipulates its audience at the same time as forcing them to become emotionally involved in a truly outlandish plot). He is aided here by the film's setting, the creepy Bramford. The film begins with a long-shot of the New York skyline. Komeda's eerily melodic lullaby is being sweetly sung over the pink curly credits by Mia Farrow as the camera eventually settles on the Gothic Bramford building, nestled malevolently amongst the innocuous houses and apartment complexes of modern New York City. As the newlyweds Guy and Rosemary settle in to their newly purchased apartment it becomes increasingly obvious that every step Rosemary takes in search of a modern domestic bliss is in fact sucking her in to a nightmarishly evil scenario beyond her imagination.Farrow is ably supported by the wonderful Ruth Gordon as the sinisterly over-solicitous next door neighbour and John Cassavetes (who famously clashed with Polanski onset) as her devilishly handsome actor husband. But Farrow is the star, and the year IS 1966, so although we never get to lay eyes on the eponymous baby, our thoughts are never far from him, his deceived mother and, of course, the lurking presence of his father. "},{"Title":"Satanically and creepily well-made","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When I just heard the lullaby theme in the title, I freaked out. That theme alone was one of the freakiest thing I'd ever heard. Yet, I didn't know what was to come; the la-la-la was just the starting of it. I ended up watching the best horror film I'd ever seen in my life. Before that, my fav horror film was Jaws. No offense to Steven Spielburg, but not even that could top this masterpiece.I was already familiar with Roman Polanski's work before, so I knew what to expect. I was wrong about expecting a good movie. Rosemary's Baby is so much more than that. Polanski really made every scene right and good-paced so that we'd still be at the edge of our seats to the end.Mia Farrow was the perfect actress for the film's brave and young-motherly protagonist. She kept Rosemary's emotions and thoughts right on her face so we know what she's thinking at all times and we can actually join her emotionally in her desperate fight to save her baby from the coven. No one else could have done so.The ending is probably one of the best climax ever filmed in history, somewhere right below Taxi Driver. I think they made a good choice not showing the baby. Rosemary's reaction alone was enough to show that something was wrong with it. Had they shown it, all our shock would have spilled out no matter how freaky it looked and the film's macabre-less suspense would have been ruined.The shock still continues to the very end, when Rosemary decides to accept her Antichrist son. She wanted this baby her whole life and she's going to love it, even if it's the son of Satan. Everyone would gasp at this and think that surely she doesn't know what she's doing, but she does. And this makes the film's theme be not about religion or good and evil at all, but just that a true mother's love must reach beyond all obstacles, even a relation to evil itself. "},{"Title":"Roman Polanski directs one of the greatest, if not the greatest suspense/thrillers of all time!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Sometimes a film comes along that redeems the art form that is cinema.  Rosemary's Baby is one of those films.  In Rosemary's Baby the cinematic content is the priority, the auteur understands what is important is not the story as it is seen on paper, but the story as it is told visually.  Polanski proves in this film that when he is on top there is none greater.  Polanski takes a remote locale to create in a sense a claustrophobic atmosphere, and understands both cinematography and the audience so well that he uses a barrage of imagery to play the audience like a violin creating a response of pure terror.  However, the amazing thing about this film is that it does even the little things so well.  For example, this film contains the best dream sequences I've ever seen.  True, Hitchcock created some of the most fascinating and artisitc dream sequences visually, but none of them came nearly as close to creating what the dream state is truly like.  Many directors lack a sense of daring, they are so worried about appeasing the audience that they cease to challenge them.  Polanski challenges the audience ten times a frame, he creates outrage by allowing chaos to reign, and displays complete disregard for structure/order as the primary priority.  Polanski has always struck me as a balance between a director of the French New Wave style and a student of Hitchcock which supplies him with an amazing combination of freedom and precision.  The performances in this film are outstanding all around.  Polanski to me is one of the few directors who is completely fearless when it comes to taking risks.  I don't believe I've ever seen another director who possesses and expresses such dual qualities so effortlessly.  Polanski feels no obligation to tradition, but simultaneously has an enormous amount of respect for the masters who came before him.  There is also a great balance between the fantastic and the realistic in this film, drawing a very thin line between both, and forcing the audience to question the fantastic realities and the realistic fantasies.  They say that the great artists know the rules, but can get away with breaking them because they realize that it is something far beyond rules that makes their medium what it is, and I can think of few filmmaker's who exemplify this to same extent as Polanski. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror movies","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Whenever I watch this movie, I nearly forget that this is a horror movie.  It's because this is such a well-made movie...there is actually a story in this movie and it is told in a captivating way.  Nonetheless, the director, Roman Polanski added just the right amount of suspense and shock to make this a definite horror film.  He did not need to include any gory or intensely graphic scenes in this movie. Yet, the movie is scary enough. This movie stars the great Mia Farrow in an awesome, amazing performance. Angel-faced Mia, turns in a marvelous performance as the tragic heroine, Rosemary.  It was quite a feat for Mia, who was only 22 years old when she made this movie.  She's wonderful as the leading character in this movie, and her transformation in the movie from a doe-eyed beauty to a gaunt waif is startling.  John Cassavetes also does a good job playing Rosemary's ambitious husband who's willing to sell his soul to achieve success.  And, Ruth Gordon is superb as their eccentric, devil-worshipping older neighbor.  You can't help but feel for poor Rosemary. She initially believes that those closest to her are people that she can trust.  Little by little, she discovers that all those people are plotting against her, and that she's basically on her own. It's horrible to know that she's surrounded by all of those occult-practicing people, yet she can't really do anything about it...she can only accept it.  One of the best things about this movie is the editing--I really liked the way that certain images were superimposed on some of the scenes.  It was like seeing a collage come to life.  The editing is especially noteworthy during the rape scene.  The rape scene is outstanding, frightening, and spellbinding all at the same time.  It's also worthy to point out that sometimes music can do a lot for a movie.  If a movie is good, the right  music can make the movie even better; it can set the appropriate mood for the movie.  That's the case with this movie and it's theme song, Lullaby.  Overall, Rosemary's Baby is a terrific movie. One of the greatest horror movies ever made, and one of Roman Polanski's best movies. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"This is classic Ira Levin.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It doesn't suffice to call Rosemary's Baby a horror film; that implies something corny. Rosemary's Baby is anything but corny. It is actually creepy. The plot of course has weak-looking Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) getting pregnant and discovering that the father is Satan; Rosemary's husband Guy (John Cassavetes) is colluding with Satan-worshipping neighbors Roman (Sidney Blackmer) and Minnie Castevet (Ruth Gordon) so that he can get a part in a play. This has the very distinct Ira Levin feel in the way that The Stepford Wives and The Boys from Brazil did everything looks normal, but as the story progresses, you begin to get the feeling that something's not right, and then you find out the horrible truth.Here's something that I noticed about the movie (maybe it was just a coincidence) the name Roman Castevet. The first name brings to mind director Roman Polanski, and the last name brings to my mind John Cassavetes. But like I said, that's probably just a pure coincidence. I think that my favorite scene is when Rosemary is playing with the Scrabble tiles and finds out about the connection with Adrian Marcato.And one more thing. This might be the only thing in the whole movie that gives it a slightly non-horrific, even remotely silly flavor the woman who played Elise Dunstan was Emmaline Henry, better known as Amanda Bellows on I Dream of Jeannie. Ruth Gordon later co-starred with an IDOJ cast member in 1976's zany The Big Bus (which co-starred Larry Hagman). Well... "},{"Title":"The Scariest Movie Ever Made, If You're Catholic/Christian","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It was 1968. Director Roman Polanski made his American debut in cinema with this film which would turn out to be his best and the most frightening horror movie ever made. For Polanski, cynicism and a bleak world view became a trademark. He had lost his parents in the horrors of World War II concentration camps. His wife Sharon Tate, pregnant in the summer of 1969 (exactly a year after this movie's release) was brutally killed by the crazed Charles Manson cult. Prior to Rosemary's Baby, Polanski had tackled horror films with Repulsion starring Catherine Deneuve and the slightly more comedic Fearless Vampire Killers. So what makes Rosemary's Baby so frightening ? If you're a Christian/Catholic the credibility of this film is extremely disturbing, even blasphemous. The theme of the film is that evil wins over good, that Satan triumphs with the birth of his Son, and that God is dead. Is God Dead ? reads a headline in Time Magazine which Rosemary picks up while waiting at the doctor's office. In the late 60's, with the Vietnam war beginning to rage, and with the outbreak of violence and racial riots of the Civil Rights Movement and trouble at home and abroad, (at home women were rebelling and becoming independent, the pill was out, abortion was rampant) this film seems to be a symbolic/horror manifestation of the time period. Nowadays, it seems tame, and sure enough horror films influenced by this one would emerge in the 70's- The Exorcist and The Omen Series.This film put Mia Farrow on the map. As Rosemary, the heroine in Ira Levin's novel, she is vulnerable, headstrong and ultimately tragic. It is her maternal instincts that win out in the end. Rather than killing Satan's baby, she opts to mother it and let it live. This is in an ironic twist a way of saying women should always be the mother even in the worst case scenario. Remember Rosemary believes, even at the end, that her child is not that bad, that it has a human side and that it could be saved. She rebels against her husband, cuts her hair very short, and wants to get her own doctor. Rosemary represents the modern woman of the late 60's, looking hopeful toward the future. The past, with its mystery, evil ignorance and darkness, is represented by the ambiguous characters of the next door neighbors Roman and Minnie (Ruth Gordon). Are they well-meaning neighbors or are they really Satanic worshipers ? So many nightmarish, surreal elements make us believe it's all some kind of drug-induced hallucination. Rosemary's dream, in which she is aboard a ship with the Presidential couple J.F.K. and Jackie, where a monstrous Devil appears to rape and impregnate her, is so frightening, so confusing, we don't know what's what. What exactly happened to Rosemary ? We could analyze the film for hours. The idea that this could be real is what makes this film, which is otherwise slow-paced, mannered, so frightening. Its horror lies in its psychology and philosophy. John Cassevetes is doing a terrific job as the selfish, materialistic and greedy actor who makes a deal with the Devil. Poor Rosemary. We believe her. We know she is trapped in the evil cult. It is the despair, the futility of escape that makes us most frightened and uneasy. For Polanski, this movie was his emergence into mainstream, American cinema, while at the same time an expression of his own torment. "},{"Title":"We All Pray For Rosemary's Baby","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A blockbuster of a movie that still holds tremendous power today, ROSEMARY'S BABY is, along with THE EXORCIST, one of the most compelling and memorable horror films in movie history. Roman Polanski's subtle direction and the naturalistic performances are enough alone to recommend this scary ride.The plot concerns a young, naive woman (Mia Farrow, in her signature and best early performance) and her ambitious, struggling actor husband (the late John Cassevettes, ruthlessly brilliant) who rent an apartment in a Victorian building in good old New York, New York. It begins on a somewhat light note, but if you go back and look at it again, you will notice small hints that Polanski dropped. Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse become friendly with seemingly well-meaning but nosy elderly neighbors(the priceless Ruth Gordon and the courtly Sidney Blackmer). Rosemary has a violent nightmare in which she is ravished by a horned creature, on the same night (gasp) she and Guy planned to start trying to conceive a baby (coincidence? I think not). Her pregnancy does not seem to be progressing normally, and her close friends become concerned. Around this time, her husband seems to be getting his big break, and increasingly becomes less sensitive to her feelings and needs. Anyone who appears to be really worried about her or who is in Guy's way of success, becomes beset by mysterious ailments and injuries, even death. She does some detective work and learns more about her strange neighbors and her husband than she cares to know. As she attempts to escape, hoping to deliver and protect her baby, it is apparent that she can't trust anyone, not even the dream boy doctor. She learns a horrible, incomprehensible truth she is to bear Satan's child!!!!!!Producer Robert Evans called this picture, a horror movie that has no horror in it, and it still scares the hell out of you. Truer words were never spoken. The performances are all right on target. But several unnerving and disturbing coincidences and events have made viewing the film somewhat uneasy. The now infamous Dakota apartment building (referred to as The Black Bramford in the film), is where former Beatle and musician John Lennon was gunned down and killed by a deranged fan. Anton Le Vey, the High Priest Of The Church Of Satan, was reputed to have played Old Scratch in the famous dream sequence, when in actuality it is Cassevettes' face the viewer sees in the close-up shot. It still is extremely creepy, as one of Le Vey's congregation members was Susan Atkins, who assisted murdering Polanski's pregnant wife, the beautiful actress Sharon Tate, in 1969 (she supposedly can be spotted briefly during a party scene in Rosemary's apartment, but I have yet to have catch a glimpse of her). The phone voice of Donald Bomgart, the actor who went blind after winning a role that Guy had auditioned for, was Tony Curtis, who worked with Sharon Tate in the 1967 film Don't Make Waves and who was a client of Hollywood hairstylist Jay Sebring, who was also murdered that night in 1969.The DVD release has only improved the movie, and the featurettes are very revealing. It's also a treat to see so many veteran Hollywood actors (Gordon, Ralph Bellamy,Maurice Evans, Elisha Cooke Jr., Patsy Kelly, Phillip Leeds and Hope Summer) in such great roles. Charles Grodin is excellent in an early role as the cold Dr. Hill. As a Catholic, this movie struck a very responsive chord in me. Without a doubt, one of Polanski's best! Don't pass it up, but don't forget to pray for Rosemary's little Andy or Jenny! "},{"Title":"This one gave me nightmares","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I found this film disturbingly scary on a level I'd compare to The Exorcist.  It won't affect everyone the same way--I've yet to see a decent horror film that didn't terrify one viewer and humorously amuse another with indifference.  But this one should affect anyone with an active imagination.  Imagination is what makes this film so disturbing.  I know it is a cliche to say that less is more, and that scenes of horror that are implied are more successful than those that show it explicitly.  But Rosemary's Baby does more than that--it almost displays everything that is happening in front of us in a banal way, so that we accept it at face value, without shock, until it is too late.  The story starts out rather happily, and non-threatening.  A young, attractive couple is searching for an apartment in New York City.  They meet an old, eccentric couple living in the apartment above them who seem rather intrusive and annoying, but we accept these characteristics as the affects of aging and loneliness.  A series of strange events occur, some of them involving deaths.  But we are not frightened by any of them yet.  They accelerate rapidly until the now pregnant Rosemary is obviously in great danger, and so is her unborn baby.  There is a conspiracy against her, but it still is not clear exactly who is involved, who she can trust, and who is leading it.  The answers are right in front of us the whole time, with a final twist that is as disturbing as those from the great shockers of recent films, including The Sixth Sense, Fight Club, and The Others, yet it is not as abrupt.  This is because the story builds to the climax without really hiding much, for the film uses our assumptions against us.  The elderly couple CAN'T be poisoning Rosemary could they?  Rosemary's husband HAS to be the one person she can rely on, right?  Rosemary's nightmare that seemed so real was just a nightmare, wasn't it? SPOILERS AHEAD***The vague glimpses of Satan himself fornicating with the heroine are not evident to us until much later.  When we see a group of elderly, seemingly innocuous nude people gathering around and commenting on what is happening, we at first refuse to take it at face value.  After all, it is not just these weird people we see, Rosemary's husband is there (John Cassavettes, Franco, from The Dirty Dozen.)  Cassavettes actually turns out to be, in my opinion, the most evil character here--so self-serving that he actually sells his wife's womb just to further his career.  The final scene is somewhat campy, but isn't any less frightening.  It is also interesting to see that the people involved in this cult of witches (All of them Witches) are really, at heart, normal elderly people, who knit, tell lots of boring stories, enjoy having visitors out of loneliness, etc.--they just worship Satan!  ***END SPOILERSIn general, I think this film is definitely worth seeing.  How one will react to it is a different story.  I found the grainy film, toned-down special effects (the snake-eyes were very effective), the leisurely pace, and the old-fashioned style of directing by Roman Polansky to be the key factors in the success of this film as a horror movie, or thriller.  All of these elements make us think and force us to use our imagination, and then shudder with revulsion, and the end result seems very real.  If you agree on the success of these elements, watch the film, but be cautious, after all, I again admit that at 28, I had nightmares after seeing it... Grade A.  "},{"Title":"Has aged well and can still chill","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby was a shocker in 1968 when it was released.  Recently screening the film with my wife, I see it still can impart a huge psychological impact today.My wife did not find it particularly frightening.  It is true, there are no CG demons flying around cutting people's heads off ala End of Days.  It's from an age of film when people actually watched and thought about what was on the screen instead of just being wowed by eye-candy.  As such, it calls upon the viewer to be drawn into Rosemary's plight and paranoia.  And at this, it still succeeds.I was struck by the fact that, even though there are some telltale signs of it's age (guys readily smoke around the pregnant Rosemary while handing her drinks, etc.), the film holds up so well and appears even today to be remarkably contemporary.  The characters, so well acted, are timeless types of horror  The nosey old lady (Ruth Gordon) who eventually grows on you and, even after you find out what she's all about, you can't help but find her funny; the benign grandfatherly figure (Sidney Blackmer) and the trusted doctor (Ralph Bellemy) who surely wouldn't harm a fly; and the innocent Rosemary who becomes victim to a justified paranoia.  At the end, my wife asked whether the second doctor (Charles Grodin) was in on the plot. That's the whole point in a nutshell... you never know.Rosemary's Baby was a daring precursor to many films to follow including the Omen and The Exorcist.  While those films use gallons of pea soup and shocking special effects, neither works so hard on your mind as this one. Unlike so many of it's contemporaries, Rosemary's Baby has aged well and can still chill!   8 out 10 "}{"Title":"Classic 60's Polanski with Cass & Mia!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  One of Roman Polanski's best (along with Cul-de-Sac and Repulsion) that is truly a contemporary horror classic.  Mia Farrow should have won an Oscar (she wasn't even nominated) for her role as a loving bride, trusting soul, and baby-protector.  Cassavetes is great as the sly and ambitious husband, Ruth Gordon is perfection as the nosy neighbor who babbles about everything, and Elisha Cook, Jr. has a nice bit near the beginning.  The music is creepy.  This is very much a women's-lib film of the best kind and Polanski seemed to really have a grip on things as he often does.A 9 out of 10; Best performance = Mia Farrow.  Filmed at the Dakota on the Upper West side of Manhattan, this film should make you consider birth control if you're considering parenthood.  Brilliant stuff! "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Scary","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I've always been a horror movie fan. I enjoy horror movies for their imaginative takes on the darker aspects of reality, the sh*t that everyone knows but never talks about like places where tragic events have happened inviting bad spirits, death, etc. I enjoy them, but they usually don't scare me.See, the creepy feeling that I could be possessed, like in Exorcist, is a fear that typically doesn't live outside of dreams and late-night contemplation. Getting killed by Freddy, ditto. Getting murdered by a stranger, like Jason Voorhees, is about as likely as getting hit by lightning, as long as I stay out of the wrong neighborhoods. But this movie... This is a different kind of fear, one that isn't fun. It's not that there's a secret coven of devil-worshipers victimizing people and doing terrible things. It's that the movie is so incredibly well-directed that it convinces me that such things really ARE abroad in the world, and could be anywhere. And why not? There's not a lot here that's implausible. That's the problem with this movie, it's brilliant but it leaves me feeling paranoid. "},{"Title":"Constantly keeps you guessing","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is the story of Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) and Guy (John Cassavettes), a young couple who just moved into a New York City apartment. They have two elderly neighbors who appear to be friendly but a bit too friendly, Minnie (Ruth Gordon) and Roman Castevet (Sidney Blackmer). Rosemary eventually gets pregnant after they try to and this leads to the hysteria of the film as she can't trust anyone around her. She hasn't an idea of what is going on, who has done what to her, or who's side anyone is on. It's complete confusion for her. It's hard to completely describe this film without giving things away, so that's about all I'll talk about plot wise.The wonderful thing about this movie is you feel like Rosemary's character, you have no idea what the truth is, who the people around her are for sure, and up until the very end, you still aren't. The movie will make you think one way and then completely flip it the other way around. It isn't so much a horror movie as it is a psychological thriller depicting hysteria of witchcraft and what's real or isn't. And it works is the amazing part, many times films like this where they try to keep you guessing are unsuccessful where as I found this one to work nearly all of the time. Sometimes though, Rosemary is much too naïve, it can be a bit much but it's a kind of a suspension of disbelief thing where it needs to be there for the plot to progress although, Mia Farrow does a good job of playing it as well as playing hysterics. The movie is well-shot especially the simple opening credits sequence with the haunting music played over it. In addition, the ending was an interesting one, it will leave you thinking, and it left me unsure of what to think but I think I liked the way it ended because it wasn't the thing I expected which made it more interesting. Overall, this is a unique film especially considering I went into it thinking it would be Exorcist/Possession esque movie but its more of smart movie about who/what to believe. "},{"Title":"The purest psychological thriller","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is an amazing accomplishment - it manages to get under your skin and give you sleepless nights with almost no display of gore (there is one slightly gory scene), violence (there is one rape scene, but it is not very disturbing due to its implausibility) or pale ghosts with long hair. When the movie started, I was a bit underwhelmed because it seemed like just an ordinary drama. This was intentional I suppose - the director was shooting for a gradual build up of the feeling of dread. I wasn't prepared for how disturbing the movie would eventually get. As Rosemary's sense of paranoia and feelings of despair increased, I found myself empathizing with her. The tragic culmination was absolutely perfectly done, and I felt a sense hopelessness for Rosemary's situation, almost like she was a family member or a close friend. Not many psychological thrillers / horror movies have had this effect on me, and for this reason, I highly recommend it to people who are looking for horror movies that deliver more than just a few scares. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Thriller","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A young couple moves into a New York City apartment, where strange things start happening. Making his first American film, Polanski expertly creates a suspenseful atmosphere where tension builds slowly but surely in this influential supernatural thriller, helped by a haunting score. As with his earlier Repulsion, the director conveys horror not so much by what is shown as what is suggested. As a young woman undergoing a difficult pregnancy, to put it mildly, Farrow is terrific in a star-making turn. Cassavetes may be miscast as her husband, but Gordon and Blackmer are quite effective as nosy neighbors. The cast features such familiar faces as Bellamy, Cook, Henry, and Grodin. "},{"Title":"That chalky under-taste","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Hierarchy is often a way to do as efficiently as possible what ought not to be done at all; a machine for compelling people to do what they have no direct rational interest in doing, for the benefit of those with whom they have a fundamental conflict of interest. - Ursula Le Guin Ira Levin specialised in Feminist horror novels. His 1972 novel, The Stepford Wives, for example, featured a housewife whose husband colludes with a cabal of men responsible for creating a fleet of submissive, female robots. Levin's 1967 novel, Rosemary's Baby, does a similar thing. Adapted by director Roman Polanski, it stars Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes as a young couple who move into a Gothic apartment complex (The Dakota, where John Lennon was shot).From the onset, Farrow's character, Rosemary Woodhouse, is portrayed as a docile American housewife. Meek and waifish, she's a doting stay-at-home woman who's entirely dependent upon her husband. Elsewhere men are portrayed as being controlling, manipulative and aggressive, whilst women are consigned to traditionally feminine realms (cooking, cleaning, jewellery, gardening, knitting etc), infantilized at the hands of a monolithic, male dominated society.One must remember that the 1960s featured many high profile debates on both abortion and the status of women as legitimate political and legal subjects. Women's movements were gaining momentum and were beginning to repeal abortion laws, fight for the right to self-determination, and seize control of the means of reproduction from a medical profession considered to be elitist and patriarchal. In this regard, Levin's novel took Rosemary and used her as a locus for a very specific culture war. It gathered numerous examples of patriarchal dominance (religion, the medical establishment, marriage etc) and featured them repeatedly vying for control of Rosemary's body. She was then bullied into passivity, subjected to outrageous coercion and eventually pushed into madness and paranoia. Rosemary was herself an agent of her own submission, the poor girl repeatedly rationalising her suffering as being all her fault.Midway in both film and novel, Rosemary and her husband, the aptly named Guy, resolve to have a baby. But unbeknownst to Rosemary, Guy has made a Faustian pact with a Satanic couple living next door. In return for career advancements, he will turn Rosemary's body over to Satan so that she may be raped and so give birth to the Prince of Darkness. This, of course, is a perverse take on the Bible's Immaculate Conception (also featuring a Mary). The names of the devious neighbours (Roman and Minnie Castevet) themselves conjure up the other two men meta-controlling Rosemary John Cassavetes and Roman Polanski himself.With at least 12 films overtly or covertly about rape, no mainstream film director has made more films about sexual violation than Roman Polanski. Polanski would himself be charged with raping a 13 year old girl in 1977. In real life he seems to also have a sexual predilection for young girls and teenage actresses, though his films often sympathise with the rape victim (not always; at least 3 posit the rapist as being unjustly bullied and/or victimised).In Rosemary Baby, of course, Rosemary is raped. There is some ambiguity surrounding this incident &#x96; Rosemary is either raped by her husband, given to Roman Castevet himself as a sexual favour or literally raped by Satan &#x96; but most readings have the same political subtext. Another reading sees Rosemary's persecutions as being imagined and all in her head, her anxieties a result of her pregnancy, lapsed Catholicism and various domestic/maternal insecurities. The film supports this view, but accepting it turns the audience into villains, bullies equal to Guy and his neighbours. While horror movies routinely offer misogynistic repudiations of the maternal body, of the monsterous feminine (Alien, Jurassic Park etc), and while, on the level of biology alone, the foetus is literally a parasite, separate from the mother's body, taking everything and contributing nothing to her sustenance, the film itself seems to be doing something completely else. Rosemary's paranoia is valid precisely because sexist social relations are clearly conspiring against her. Her doctors, various paternalistic authority figures, her husband, her neighbours, a male dominated medical profession...they're all colluding against Rosemary. It's another of Polanski's Kafkaesque conspiracy plots; the world really is out to get you.Significantly, characters are constantly telling Rosemary not to read books or outright removing books from her possession. Her apartment bookshelf is itself filled with books which Guy strategically keeps out of reach, namely Kinsey's reports, Listening with the Third Ear and Yes I Can, all books on self-empowerment and self-understanding. The goal is to keep Rosemary dumb, dependent and isolated. And the only scene in which Rosemary is shown to mingle with female friends &#x96; boisterous feministas who rally to her defence &#x96; is precisely the scene which spurs Guy into revealing his sexism. Pain is a warning something isn't right, Rosemary says, repeating the mantra of her proto-feminist sisters. But Guy shoots her down don't listen to those bi**es! Emancipation remains out of reach.The film's title has an ironic twang (Rosemary's baby is not her baby, she didn't consent to its conception, indeed, Rosemary is herself the film's baby). Its aesthetic is Hitchcock meets New Hollywood, whilst the film itself serves as a perverse bridge from Old Hollywood to New, with many familiar faces from the Golden Age cast against type and given significant parts (Ralph Bellamy, Patsy Kelly, Sidney Blackmer, Ruth Gordon, Elisha Cook etc). Smoothly directed and misstepping only occasionally with some moments of comedy and overt gore, the film's still influential to this day. Emblematic of the film's impact, Farrow's pixie haircut still pops up in modern horror movies (Birth, The Astronauts Wife etc).8.5/10 - Classic. "},{"Title":"Unnerving viewing, more than 40 years down the line ...","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Times have changed.In it's time, Rosemary's Baby was regarded as a horror classic. It still is, to an extent. But to tell the truth, more than 40 years after its release, the definition of horror, in cinema, has unquestionably changed greatly, and, in these days, not having, as it does, any over-the-top gore or jump moments, Rosemary's Baby may no longer scare.In fact, if I found anything really unnerving in the film, it was that expression, on the face of Mia Farrow transcendentally evoking Rosemary, in the final 2 minutes. It made me grateful that the film ended there, without showing what followed thereafter ...For, as Polanski tells the story, we already know, or at least have guessed, about halfway through the film, all about Rosemary's baby, even when it is still in utero, though Rosemary herself may not. And THAT is where the supreme artistry of the film lies. Horrifying though it may not be any more, it still is chilling, and chilling to the core, as the fate of Rosemary herself always remains entirely unknown, till the very end. And that is also why the ambiguity in Mia Farrow's parting expression remains so disturbing, and stays etched in the memory much after the film itself has ended.I cannot figure out, for the life of me, why Mia Farrow did not get an Academy Award for her performance. Ruth Gordon did, of course, for playing the perfect foil, as Minnie Castavetes, to Mia's Rosemary. Mia's indecisions, her fear, her abject terror at the threat she perceives to the life of her unborn child, far transcend the limits of the script, and stamp themselves indelibly on the psyche. It is truly a bravura effort, and carries the character to a level where Mia and Rosemary become entirely indistinguishable. To say the least, it can serve as a textbook example for anyone who wants to learn what acting is all about.Equally inspired - if not, however, equally challenging - are, unquestionably, the performances of Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer as Minnie and Roman Castevet. I particularly liked the sly ambivalence with which Blakmer delineates his character, so starkly in contrast to his wife's menacingly overbearing effervescence.The premise of the film is undoubtedly far-fetched and difficult to believe or digest, and, in the hands of a less inspired cast, may have been reduced to B-grade phatasmagoria. As it is, however, as conceived and created by Polanski and as executed by Farrow, Gordon and Blackmer, it is nothing short of art on celluloid.Rewarding and memorably disturbing viewing, more than 40 years after it was made. "},{"Title":"Timeless Entertainment","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" One of the most remarkable things about this fine film is how little it has dated in almost half a century. Despite the lack of cell phones, computers and other current technology there is little to distract modern audiences from the plot. It's not like watching an old movie at all. Another phenomenal aspect is how well Polanski (a newcomer to the US at the time) conveyed such a trenchant feel for New York City. The direction is sure-handed and the action is well- paced. There are just the right amounts of humor thrown in to relieve the tension. Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown are unquestionably rivals for Polanski's best film. I think this one has the edge, as I defy anyone to not identify with the main character early on through to the end. The dream sequence is pure Polanski. In Repulsion he tried to make a whole film out of essentially a dream sequence, and it's rather contrived. Here, the surreal touches don't drive the action off course. Mia Farrow is perfect for the part and at age 23 holds her own against seasoned actors a generation or two older. John Cassavetes, who is very good as the husband, always struck me as a bit too old for the part of a struggling actor just starting out (he was 38). The supporting cast is superb, with Ruth Gordon stealing the show (and an Oscar in the process) and Patsy Kelly running a close second. Rosemary's Baby holds up well to repeated viewings and continues to entertain even after you know where all this is going. It has all the hallmarks of a classic. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby Holds Up To The Present","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In Roman Polanski's first American film that is adapted from Ira Levin's horror bestseller, a young wife comes to believe that her offspring is not of this world.The film,entitled Rosemar's Baby,features Mia Farrow, John Cassavetes, Ruth Gordon, Maurice Evans, Sidney Blackmer and Charles Grodin.Farrow plays a pregnant woman who fears that her husband may have made a pact with their eccentric neighbors, believing he may have promised them the child to be used as a human sacrifice in their occult rituals in exchange for success in his acting career.Rosemary Woodhouse and her struggling actor husband, Guy move into the Bramford, an old New York City apartment building with an ominous reputation and only elderly residents. Neighbors Roman and Minnie Castevet soon come nosing around to welcome the Woodhouses to the building; despite Rosemary's reservations about their eccentricity and the weird noises that she keeps hearing, Guy starts spending time with the Castevets. Shortly after Guy lands a plum Broadway role, Minnie starts showing up with homemade chocolate mousse for Rosemary. When Rosemary becomes pregnant after a mousse-provoked nightmare of being raped by a beast, the Castevets take a special interest in her welfare. As the sickened Rosemary becomes increasingly isolated, she begins to suspect that the Castevets' circle is not what it seems. The diabolical truth is revealed only after Rosemary gives birth, and the baby is taken away from her. This is a frightening tale of Satanism and pregnancy that is even more disturbing than it sounds thanks to convincing and committed performances by Mia Farrow and Ruth Gordon.In addition to that,Polanski's camera-work and Richard Sylbert's production design transform the realistic setting into a sinister projection of Rosemary's fears, chillingly locating supernatural horror in the familiar by leaving the most grotesque frights to the viewer's imagination. Having escaped the horrors of the Nazi Holocaust in Poland by the skin of his teeth, Mr. Polanski was well equipped psychologically to re- imagine what was, before Rosemary's Baby, a B-picture genre into an A- picture genre.And four decades later,his supremely mounted horror thriller holds up extremely well. "},{"Title":"Slow-paced but highly rewarding and chilling experience","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Moving into a lavish apartment complex, a woman becomes increasingly concerned of the elderly residents' concern of her after becoming pregnant and gradually uncovers a sinister plot to offer her unborn baby to their devilsh master.This here manages to be one of the enjoyable and entertaining classic horror efforts around. With the only real problem within being a languished pace that really draws the running time up and make it far longer than it really needs to be, there's a lot to like here. One of the best aspects utilized here is the slow-burn pacing that runs through here as the events wind themselves around her entire pregnancy and that allows for the gradual unraveling of the clues, from the older couples constant interference in their daily lives and offering pregnancy tips and advice, the constant rebuttals of anything she feels as out-of-the-ordinary being commonplace and finally the gag with the name really cluing in the final act. While none of this is really centered around a series of jolts or shocks or even anything creepy beyond the hallucinogenic impregnation, that this really remains watchable as nothing happens is a strong suit of the film and really works quite well in keeping this one interesting. Of course, the finally is all sorts of creepy and chilling, giving this another solid point about it and really generating a lot of excitement about it, making it one of the more rewarding experiences around.Today's Rating-R Violence, Nudity, Language and a drug-laced Rape scene. "}{"Title":"Remains at the high standard Polanski intended.","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby, unlike the vast majority of horror films, remains decades after its release as terrifying and unnerving as it must have been when it was first shown to audiences. This is due mainly to writer/director Roman Polanski and the universally believable and creepy performances of the cast. Having never read the book, what becomes apparent almost immediately is the overwhelming sense of dread hanging over these characters, despite the fact that the story starts out so innocently.Being Polanski's first Hollywood film, it remains astonishing how in control and consistent his direction of this film is. Never straining for cheap thrills or exploitative emotions, Polanski shows here why he is to be considered among the best of directors. Each shot sets up what will happen next and the screenplay does not create a situation in which he characters are acted upon by the impersonal force of the plot. Rather, it is the characters who inject the plot with occurrences, making the end result that much more believable and unsettling.As for the performances, Mia Farrow may never have found as iconic a role as she did with Rosemary Woodhouse the sweet, innocent, somewhat naive but very observant and intelligent young housewife who finds herself caught up in situations beyond her control. We empathize with her because her motivations are pure and she is as likable as a screen character can be. This is offset by the warmly creepy presence of the Castevets, played brilliantly by Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer. Even John Cassavetes, better known today as America's first independent filmmaker, gives a quietly disturbing performance as the loving husband who turns out to be something we could not imagine.Over forty years after its release, Rosemary's Baby continues to send chills up the spine and remains a watershed in horror film history. It needs no special effects or ugly creatures to inspire dread and fear. It does this the old-fashioned way acting and direction. "},{"Title":"Super creepy movie that is amazingly made.","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is down right creepy, which makes it an achievement. I did not think movies of this era could be so creepy (code or no code). Mia farrow does an amazing job in such a demanding role. You can see her change over the course of the film from a happy newlywed to a scared, paranoid basket case. It is incredible. You just feel worse and worse for this poor women as everything around her falls to pieces. Her husband goes behind her back but at the same time forces her into doing things she does not, the old neighbors manipulate her and almost everyone that is helpful to the poor girl commits suicide or dies. Leading up to the worst part of all, giving birth to the son of Satan! "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby Film Review","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby (1968) Film ReviewRosemary's baby is really amazing, frightening and so beautiful. I think this movie is really burrow deep in one's psyche. One can easily feel all the events in the film. The film has a potential to require me to use a night light.Roman Polanski made his American directorial debut with this wonderfully sinister film. The first hour feels like a French New Wave movie in the vein of Godard's Breathless. There's definitely a European sensibility to Polanski's direction which is understandable.Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes play young newlyweds who move into a Gothic apartment in New York previously inhabited by an old woman who recently died. Down the hall live an strange elderly couple who befriend their young neighbors. They seem like good intentions. One night, Rosemary has a nightmare in which she is raped by the devil himself. Upon waking up, she realizes that her husband was having marital relations with her at the moment she was dreaming.Soon after she learns of her pregnancy. Her husband has conveniently found success as an actor. Rosemary continually feels sharp pain. Eventually, with the goading of a recently deceased friend of hers, Rosemary begins to distrust everyone around her, including her husband, her neighbors and her doctor. Perhaps she's suffering from pericardium delusions, or maybe there is a palpable evil that's always nearby.Mia Farrow, who was known to most at the time as Mrs. Frank Sinatra, gives an amazing performance in a really difficult role. She must be likable, yet cold and distant all at once. For much of the film, Rosemary suffers quite a bit while maintaining a cool demeanor. The final scene, especially, is so over the top that I can't even begin to imagine how Farrow was able to find her motivations. The supporting cast, including Gordon who's always fun to watch on screen even if she really can only play one type of character, does fine work, especially cinema verity pioneer director Cassavetes.There are a handful of moments that are a bit too contrived to work, so the movie isn't quite a masterpiece. The whole sequence with the anagram from the book makes little sense. Further, Rosemary transitions from slightly anxious to appearing downright psychotic perhaps a little too quickly. The aforementioned climactic sequence goes down as one of the wackiest ever while proving profoundly unsettling at the same time. Perhaps it might have been even better if everything at the end wasn't so staged. The New Wave style is abandoned during the final act when the horror takes full effect, which does invite the viewer to disconnect slightly. If even these freakish moments had been played straightforwardly, the film as a whole might have proved even scarier than it ended up.Rosemary's Baby isn't just about the ridiculously impossible. It's also a scary metaphor for motherhood. Having never been pregnant myself, I can only begin to imagine the anxieties that go along with bringing another human life to term. It would only be natural to wonder if one's baby is going to be healthy, and what kind of person that baby will grow up to be. Rosemary's horror is shared by all mothers in many different ways. The responsibilities that go along with parenting are enough to make people think twice about having children in the first place. Of course, the decision Rosemary must tackle at the end of the film is beyond any mother's worst fantasies. Still, though, having children can be, among other things, horrifying.A palpable fear of Satan having tangible power in this world is an irrational one, and yet, as a cinematic theme, it's still as in vogue as it was back in the late 60's and early 70's with films like The Last Exorcism and the upcoming film Priest. Maybe it's the idea of evil itself actually able to reason independently, much like humans, that really gets to people. Rosemary's Baby won't force me to sleep with my light on tonight, but it does make me hope that my dreaming remains at a minimum for quite a while. Also, it might be a good idea for me to take a home pregnancy test, you know, just to be safe. "},{"Title":"Claustrophobia, Paranoia and Farrow Mia ...","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" No bleeding, no screaming, no killing, but an absolutely terrifying cinematic experience. In Rosemary's Baby, Roman Polanski's horror masterpiece, the terror is induced by two universal feelings that nourished the imagination of our worst nightmares being alone and being vulnerable. But what's the secret of Roman's 'baby'?Loneliness. Rosemary's Baby conveys a disturbing paranoid feeling all through the film, thanks to Roman Polanski's Hitchcockian virtuosity. He invites us to a cheerful and hospitable space while suggesting its claustrophobic scariness. Space plays a significant part to the story as it's constantly invaded by nosy neighbors and it gets more difficult to escape from it. The apartment which looked so spacious in the beginning, gets smaller as the movie progresses, increasing Rosemary's discomfort and ours. The yellow walls are like the bars of a golden cage keeping Rosemary alone in a suffocating atmosphere ... and still, Polanski's direction is so nuanced that we also consider the possibility of a simple case of paranoia.Anyway, Mia Farrow was perfect as she genuinely embodies vulnerability. She naturally plays a young and sweet woman dreaming of having a baby and living in perfect harmony with her husband, Guy Woodhouse, portrayed by John Cassavettes. But fate lead her to the apartment right behind the Castevets' walls, Roman and Minnie, a peculiar old couple with an obnoxious nosiness. And poor Rosemary is like these shy little creatures who try to remain friendly only to hide their discomfort. Her kindness rhymes with weakness, and as if she was carrying paranoia with her baby, the more certain she'll be about the conspiracy and the necessity to protect her unborn child, the weaker and more vulnerable she'll get. How ironic ... Even the evolution of her clothes, her hair style, her pale complexion indicate a progressive sickness&#x85; as if Polanski broke a taboo by depicting pregnancy with the same symbolism as for the hostile closed space. Rosemary trapped in the secret and by the secret growing in her ...Rosemary's fragility is beautifully incarnated by the feminine score that accompanies the film, a music like for a cosmetic advertisement, so inconveniently peaceful we figure that there's a horrific element waiting to provide a shocking contrast. But we're only given hints during the film ... the most eloquent being the dream sequence which is so tactfully directed that despite Rosemary's shouting, we really have the feeling that this is a dream and NOT really happening. We have in this scene an excellent direction by the precocious genius Roman Polanski who could have betrayed the movie's terrible secret had he handled this crucial part with a too ambitious approach. No, it was horrific enough to scare us, but surrealistic enough to be associated with a dream. The rest of the film keeps a realism that keeps our guard down, thinking that the secret is only on the surface, or that again, Rosemary may be victim of paranoia &#x85; such a brilliantly furnished plot has no room for obviousness.And the 'plot', in every meaning of the word, works thanks to the masterfully constructed script. I was fooled, but I'm glad I was. The originality in Rosemary's Baby is that even the lead character couldn't know about a secret that could only be revealed after the pregnancy. She's both the most and least likely person to know and this is the horrific element driving the last act. It almost starts like Polanski's Chinatown set in an apartment, where we try to put and reassemble the pieces of the puzzle together with Rosemary, inhabited by a new strength  a poignant motherly instinct inspiring her to protect her baby from the claws of the Castevets and the others. The rest is probably one of the most thrilling experiences I've ever had.The whole direction of the film consists on following a poor creature lonely and fragile trying to escape from the influence of many dangerous individuals, that 'All of Them' feeling getting more and more unbearable as no one seems to help her. And the irony is that these individuals, took alone, are quite harmless, especially, Minnie Castevet, played in a delightful performance by Ruth Gordon who deserved her Oscar as the nosy neighbor. And Guy Woodhouse is just a schmuck and an opportunistic bastard. But the strength lies within the group who's like a herd of greedy wolves with Rosemary as the poor little lamb. The story is perfect and totally fit for a horror film and I really believe Mia Farrow's performance should have earned her an Oscar nomination.And how could I describe the famous second where Rosemary's, dressed in her pajamas, sees what's in the cradle ... the way she bugles her eyes and puts her hand in her mouth as to hide a horrific scream is probably one of the most iconic moments ever captured in a horror film. It's the quintessential shocking effect, the conclusion of a great thriller masterfully directed by Roman Polanski, and the end of a torment that was less a relief, than a realization of the degree of evil that could drive people, especially Guy who didn't hesitate to sell his soul to promote his career by providing his own woman's womb for that terrific project.And yet, despite everything, the movie ends in an unexpectedly calm note as to suggest that either the motherly instinct can overcome the evil, either that Rosemary learned that the best she could do was to respond to her motherly duty and rock her baby to sleep &#x85; an ambiguity that reveals a secret to announce many others and makes the ending, despite the relief, even more terrifying &#x85;What's the secret of Rosemary's Baby? It just knows how to keep a secret ... "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is a true genre classic.Undoubtedly, this film is certainly one of the best horror/suspense films ever made. As a horror fan I thought I was missing out on a lot by not having seen this, and I was right.Expectations were high and this one lived up to them.This movie is an example of the horror genre done right; there are spine-chilling moments, satanic images and horror themes that will stay with you forever. The editing in these parts is very impressive as well, creating visual illusions without special effects. It also contains some of the damned finest performances a horror film has ever seen.Mia Farrow was nominated for a Golden Globe award for her performance, and quite rightly so.Farrow's portrayal of the helpless mother desperately seeking to protect her unborn child is powerfully emotional. Ruth Gordon also put in a splendid performance as the creepy character of Minnie.This is a masterpiece of horror. Everyday situations have an undercurrent of evil. These skillfully hid details haunt the viewer. An odd closet, a suicide, her neighbors' extreme interest&#x85; As the date of birth gets closer, the film grows increasingly claustrophobic. The development of the plot gets interrupted abruptly in the last scenes, when the intrigue is revealed.The story builds a nice conspiracy well and sustains a real creepy atmosphere all the way through to good effect.Farrow is suitable unbalanced and we feel her fear and suspicion growing during the film. Her performance is really good and the fact that she manages to balance her own doubt for most of the film is very effective.The music is also very memorable and creepy.Overall, this is a perfect adaptation of Ira Levin's book, Rosemary's Baby remains today one of the best horror movies, not for its use of gore, but for its use of tension and surprise. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie at the listening and pronunciation lesson. When I watched the beginning of the film I disappointed because the first forty-five minutes or so seem fairly normal and conventional. There isn't any interesting things . The story follows a happily married couple, Rosemary and a struggling actor Guy, looking for a new apartment. They find a very nice and large apartment that fits them perfectly well but has a rather disturbing history (And how many times have we seen that in movies?). Very soon they meet their new elderly neighbors. Minnie and Roman that seem very friendly, may be a bit too friendly. Soon, Rosemary gets pregnant and the couple celebrates this happening with their dear neighbors that are eager to take very good care of Rosemary and help her out as much as they can. They even talk Rosemary into seeing a doctor of their choosing. She starts to have strange dreams and soon she becomes very suspicious of her neighbors and their helping with the baby. Rosemary and Guy moved a new apartment where some bad things had happened. They wanted to have a baby. Everything begins with rosemary's pregnancy. She becomes alone, helpless, and trapped in her fears .Until the end, we don't know if her suspicions are valid. The main event seems to be the ending. She learns her baby is from Satan. Her husband and neighbors cheated her. In my opinion, this film is different. It isn't quite like any film I have ever seen. It is on the top horror films list but it wasn't scary for me.I think it is a drama instead of a horror.I was affected by Rosemary's physical appearance and also her psychology. At some point you feel pity about her. Even though it finished up with sadness. If one ask me about this movie, I strongly advise it. "},{"Title":"it is good movie for watching..","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby I watched this movie one month at the listening and pronunciation lesson with my friends in school. While I was watching this movie, at the first I found it very boring. It was boring because in the film ordinary things were happening. For example; Rosemary and her husband were searching home, and when they found home, they moved there. When they moved there, Rosemary met with one woman, who killed herself by jumping from the window, in laundry. After that, Rosemary met with her new old neighbors. These old neighbors were the people, living with woman who committed suicide. Like every couples, Rosemary and her husband wanted to have a baby. And finally Rosemary became a pregnant. These things were ordinary according to me. However, later film began to become interesting. It was interesting especially while Rosemary began to realize some facts about her husband, her neighbors and her doctor. The facts were that her husband, neighbors, and doctor were Satan or witches. She realized that facts with the help of Hutch. Hutch was Rosemary's and her husband's friend. In order to help Rosemary about this issue, Dutch gave a book to Rosemary about witches. However, this book did not given directly by Hutch, it was given by Hutch's friend because Hutch was died. And Rosemary read this book. While reading this book which was about the witches, she found some information about her neighbors. She said these information to her husband but her husband acted as if he had not believed her and without saying anything to Rosemary, he threw away this book. Because if Rosemary had attended to read this book, she would have understand the facts about them. However, later Rosemary bought another book which was like thrown book. And she read this book. And she understood that her husband, neighbors, and her old doctor who was advised by her neighbor were witches. I think this understanding process was interesting and very excited. And after all these things, Rosemary had a baby. However, they said to Rosemary that her baby was died. Firstly Rosemary believed that but later she did not believe. And she went one room which was full of Satan. And after she had gone to there, she both became sure about her husband, neighbors, doctor were Satan and learned that her baby did not die. This part is frustrating. Later she looked at her baby and she saw that her baby's eyes disgusting! I think that this was upsetting especially for the mother. And I think the film ended up in sadness. Finally, I think about the movie, at the beginning it was boring but later it became interesting, enjoyable, exciting. And later it became frustrating. And and and it finished up with sadness. And if one ask me about this movie, I strongly advise it. "},{"Title":"Well-acted, amazingly directed, and with an atmosphere all of it's own.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is perhaps the least violent 'horror' film I have ever seen.This is my first Roman Polanski film, and he does an amazing job. His screenplay is smart in really absorbing us into these characters' lives. The first half of the film can be seen as just a regular domestic drama in a way. He creatively directs the film so that by the time the climax comes it's just utterly fantastic. I won't say that the film was unpredictable though, partly in turns because whenever one sees a 'satan' film we hear about Rosemary's Baby. It's sort of like Psycho's big twist. It has had such a large legacy that it's shocking if you don't know what the film is really about.Saying that however, this is a meticulously detailed drama-turned mystery- turned thriller- turned horror film. It's also quite fascinating how little I got based on actual physical horror. I thought Mia Farrow was fantastic in this. "},{"Title":"rosemary's baby","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is one of the greatest horror film of that times. It was made 43 years ago, however it is rather fantastic. Rosemary and her husband Guy Woodhouse move to an apartment. They meet their elderly neighbors named Roman and Minnie Castevet who are very friendly to them. Although their friendly behaviors, Rosemary feels something strange about them. On the contrary, her husband begins to be very close to them. Rosemary and her husband wants to have a baby, and the night that they decided to have a baby, Minnie comes and brings them a desert to eat. At first Rosemary hesitates to eat it but her husband insists on her to eat. After eating that, she feels dizzy and she thinks that she sees a nightmare but she really lives it. That part of the film is really thrilling, complex and disturbing to me. While watching the scene, i felt so nervous and disgusted. Rosemary becomes pregnant but something starts going wrong. She begins to lose weight and suffer from terrible pains. She begins to complain about her pains but her husband and neighbors don't care about her discomfort. Nobody attempts to help her, even her friends, and her doctor... When she understands that all of them are witches, she wants to run away but because of her baby, firstly she has to go to her doctor and she tells the doctor that her husband and neighbors are witches and they want to harm her baby. But the doctor give her to them. They take her to home, she try to escape again but she can't escape and gives a birth. At the and of the film, we understand that she gives birth to a satanist baby. And she can do nothing in the face of such a situation. I think this is a disappointing ending. But this is not important because the film is absolutely gripping. "},{"Title":"Fame and success - paranoia and dark spirituality","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's 1968 classic 'Rosemary's Baby' deals with a subject matter that's first class horror material; the birth of Antichrist. Set in mid 60ties New York we meet the married couple of housewife Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and struggling actor Guy Woodhouse (John Cassavetes). Moving into their new apartment they befriend the old neighbor couple of Minnie and Roman Castavet, who Guy becomes unusually close to. Guy soon lands a major role and starts heading for success, and with this he decides to stop his self-centered behavior and focus on his wife and so they decide to have a baby. Becoming ill the same night, Rosemary encounters a terrible dream the night of the intercourse with spiritualistic and mythological aspects, which is the start of a slowly spiraling pregnancy towards darkness.Polanski created a shocking film when it was released in 1968. It's thematic content is frightening and obnoxious, and it certainly lead the way for William Friedkin's 1973 'The Exorcist'. Mia Farrow's performance is her best, it's a harsh performance that shows her sickening mind and body afraid of what she's facing; Cassavetes (who was the symbol of cool and daring independent movie-making as a director in the 60ties and 70ties) pulls out a strange but interesting performance, at further viewings it may you might feel that Guy knows what's going on from the very first second, but then again, he pulls out this lovable husband that shows genuine interest in her well-being. And for me, the film is mostly engaging as an interior study of marriage facing unsureness and scare, with the pure horror elements of the plot coming second rate when it comes down at the end. It's more a drama film with a dark underbelly (with certainly interesting revelatory aspects), than a full-on shocking horror film about the birth of Antichrist. Cause like in 'The Exorcist', you have a demon-possessed little girl with a transformed, monstrous face who's vomiting, spitting, squirming, attacking and shouting crude one-liners; in 'Rosemary's Baby' we're given an intensity surrounding what's going on with this bright young lady? - and the horror comes in her grueling sickening, her more and more dominant paranoia, her husband's mysterious behavior, the old couple's weird behavior, and all the subtle clues given throughout. 'Rosemary's Baby' was a daring film back then, and its own under-performance of the plot grows more and more in mind afterward. "}{"Title":"A Traumatic Trailblazer...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" THIS is the movie that made it possible to get films like THE EXORCIST and THE OMEN green-lighted. You have to be of a certain age to remember, let alone appreciate this one, because too many of today's generation of horror film lovers have been spoon-fed so much absolute crap, they won't watch anything that doesn't have limbs and blood-filled condom squibs flying everywhere. Too bad. ROSEMARY'S BABY, though somewhat dated, is still a classic case of big-city paranoia multiplied exponentially.It was William Castle who optioned Ira Levin's chart-burning bestseller, but Paramount had absolutely no confidence in his directorial abilities by this time, so the job of adaptation and direction was handed off to red-hot auteur Roman Polanski, (who - considering the tragic events that tore apart his life - was perfect for the job,) leaving Castle to produce. In hindsight, it was probably a really good idea, since the story is rooted firmly in those crazy themes that are Polanski's bread and butter - urban angst, isolation, and fear of the unknown...more the kind of unknown about your other half, your neighbors and especially yourself. Mia Farrow (whose career was practically made by this movie) and critically-acclaimed actor/filmmaker John Cassavettes were perfectly cast as Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse, blushingly naive newlyweds who move into a huge brownstone in Manhattan as Guy's acting career is just starting to take off. (The infamously famous Dakota - yes, THAT one - stars as their new digs.) It's big, it's dark and it's tremendously creepy in a way that undoubtedly inspired a lot of movies after it - think a much older version of Sigourney Weaver's poltergeist-infested penthouse in GHOSTBUSTERS. In other words the perfect place to find some supernatural mischief going on.Which is not what Guy and Rosemary find...well, not at first. The most they discover is that they have a pair of unbelievably friendly - and nosy - neighbors, an older couple named Roman and Minnie Castevet (Sidney Blackmer, and in her Oscar-winning turn, the late, great Ruth Gordon.) The Castevets are just a little too interested in Guy and Rosemary's personal life, their day-to-day comings and goings, and the fact that the younger couple is very determined in adding a third member of the family very soon. Remember how your mother told you never to talk to strangers? Let me add a new rule never accept suspicious gifts or food products from the kindly little old lady next door. Besides that, there's all kinds of strange noises and general weirdness going on, conveniently when Rosie's at home by herself and Guy's out working. The important thing to pay attention to is how Rosemary's freaked-out state of mind, combined with the creepy influence of the brownstone, plays an important part in the goings-on around her. Especially when people start dying - from the nice girl from across the hall she meets who commits suicide, to the sudden illness and demise of family friend, Hutch (Maurice Evans). Oh, and to top it all off is one of the most chilling sequences in horror, when she does get pregnant...but there's a really good chance that Guy's not the daddy. (I don't think I have to go into a lot of details - you get the picture.)Okay, so basically, the clothes, the surroundings, the pop-culture references are ancient enough to leave most newbies scratching their heads. Pay no attention to that stuff, my dears. Just let yourself soak up the atmosphere of menace and dread so superbly provided by Polanski, production designer Richard Sylbert and DP Bill Fraker (not to mention the spine-freezing score by Polish composer Krzystof Komeda). And enjoy the great performances by the leads and all the supporting cast, but especially Ms. Gordon. You'll never think of Noo-Yawk grand-bubbie types the same way again. As far as recommendations go, this is NOT a rental. If you're a true horror fan, you should already have this as an essential part of your library, in the Satanic Specialties section. "},{"Title":"Polanski's genius","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" His criminal record aside, it is obvious that Roman Polanski is a genius director. His ability to set up shots with a specific tone that grows evenly as the film proceeds is extraordinary. That is what makes this film work.Rosemary's Baby is a slow burn thriller, one that starts innocently enough, but not exaggerated to the point where it's obvious that the character's lives are about to take a turn for the worse, but ever so gradually the gears start turning and the unsettling feeling starts to build. Polanski is no fool; he doesn't try to create two hours of terror (much like Hollywood does, but can't seem to understand that it has no idea what it's doing), he knows that Levin's story isn't like that. This decision saves the film from obvious doom. Actually, he constructs this film so well, that for a good portion of the film it's hard to believe that this is going to develop into a horror film.Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and Guy (John Cassevetes) Woodhouse are a young married couple who are going to move into a new apartment. The one they pick is located next to the Castevets, a seemingly pleasant elderly couple. Guy takes an instant liking to the Castavets, but Rosemary finds them to be rather nosy, Minnie (Ruth Gordon) in particular. However, shortly after Rosemary gets pregnant, strange things start to happen.The key to the success of any movie is its credibility (I use the word credible with the knowledge that some movies, such as Lord of the Rings, have no use for believability. The audience only has to buy them within its own context). Polanski understands this, and the way he chooses to develop this is not only effective, but completely original. Bad things start to happen when Rosemary takes the advice of the Castevets, if only out of politeness. For example, when Minnie asks her what doctor she is seeing, Minnie insists that she see a different one, one that she trusts. Rosemary is already comfortable with her own doctor, but being polite she takes Minnie's advice (I suppose it helps that the doctor Minnie suggests has a good reputation too, which, in the hands of Polanski and his excellent actors, enhances the credibility instead of making it overkill).The performances are excellent. Mia Farrow and John Cassevetes make a great couple with tremendous chemistry. It's easy to believe that they are a loving husband and wife. The other two principal characters, Minnie and Roman (Sidney Blackmer) are perfect equals to the Woodhouses. They don't develop the Castavets as characters, instead they act like a real elderly retired couple. Ruth Gordon is especially good at this, but perhaps that's because she has a good deal more screen time than her on screen husband. Everyone can see a lot of an elderly retired woman with a lot of time on her hands. Someone who loves to socialize, and is helpful to the point where it is a turnoff to others (though she doesn't realize it). This level of credibility can only come from a talented director and a terrific cast of actors who really care about the project they are working on.I guess for some people, adding the element of is she crazy or is this for real gives a film another level of complexity, and heightens the level of fear. Maybe its because I've seen a number of films like this recently (the beginning of The Descent being one of them), or maybe it's just a personal preference, but I find that being able to put a face on my fear more refreshing (provided it's done well). Nevertheless, this uncertainty is conveyed perfectly, as I can say with absolute truthfulness that until the time that Polanski intended for the truth to come out, I had no idea if Rosemary was crazy or not.Kudos to Polanski for being able to hold everything together for the whole film, at least until the final shot (warning MAJOR SPOILER ahead). When Rosemary was pressured by Roman Castavet to be a mother to her child (being the newly spawn of Satan), I didn't buy her giving in. Her erratic fear that made up the majority of the film was too potent for that kind of an about face.Still, this is a good little chiller. Not too frightening or disturbing, and except for the aftermath of a suicide, there's no real violence or gore to speak of. It's the mark of a superb chiller, one that doesn't use violence and gore to make up for it's lack of ideas and skill. "},{"Title":"Mia Farrow is magnificent in unsettling film that mixes comedy and horror","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I was too young to see this movie when it was first shown, and I was not impressed when I finally saw it after a few years had gone by. But having seen it four or five times now, I actually believe it improves with age. It is subtle and low key, and quite slow paced by today's standards. There is far more genuinely horrifying action in Polanski's other Sixties classic Repulsion, which leads me to believe that Rosemary's Baby may actually be viewed better as a black comedy than a true horror film. Many viewers have commented on the light hearted opening, that seems almost like a typical Sixties romantic comedy. The gradual darkening of the story is so subtly done that it's almost imperceptible. A vague feeling of unease, with little in the way of overt violence or horror, starts to permeate the film. There is enough ambiguity in the way events unfold that it's possible to see Rosemary as becoming disconnected from reality and imagining a plot against her. The eccentric neighbors may be no more than a nosy but well meaning old couple, her husband's unexpected success due to the accidental misfortune of a competitor for an important part, the tragic death of a young woman a genuine suicide. Is there any actual proof that these things are more than mere coincidences? Mia Farrow's brilliant performance makes us experience these doubts and fears along with her.The film is very much a product of its time, the late Sixties. It touched on many ideas and events of a world increasingly chaotic and tumultuous, in ways that audiences born since that era could not relate to without direct experience. It was made at a time in which the Vietnam war was starting to become more controversial, the sexual revolution had begun, but the women's movement and legalized abortion were still in the future, along with anti-war riots and the assassinations of Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King. It occupies a place in history as a sort of time capsule of the era, just as momentous and overwhelming changes were in the offing. The  God is dead controversy that forms much of the background of the story must seem almost quaint to viewers today, but was a major aspect of the film's controversy. Viewers expecting a shocking and horrific experience will probably be disappointed, but those who can appreciate a slow building, quietly unnerving film will find much to enjoy here. Much is left to the imagination, and it requires active involvement on the viewer's part. It may require patience for those accustomed to more visceral and fast paced movies, but it is well worth taking the time to appreciate. "},{"Title":"Tannis Anyone?","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Movies were constantly raising the bar for shocking in the late Sixties but few succeeded like this one. It was one of the last films officially 'Condemned' by the Catholic Legion of Decency. The dream sequences were easily the best of their time and continue to hold up well. Polanski's delight in the medium is palpable throughout but it never distracts from the narrative. The movie's texture --sophisticated Manhattan, but attainable-- resonates beautifully in the Christmas season scenes and later, when the temperature rises and Rosemary fumbles in a public phone booth. Note the gay friends at Ro and Guy's party. All the actors are in top form. Mia Farrow, lovely and vulnerable but crucially believable. Cassavettes as an ambitious actor, young but his biological clock is ticking. Did the Catholic Church get it right? This exemplifies the subversive power of cinema. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly done","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A great film that personifies the totally and wild experimentation of the late 60's via Roman Polanksi-(that would be tame today nearly 40 years later) Which is nonetheless timeless, with great performances by all -Mia Farrow, John Cassavetes, Ruth Gordon and Sydney Blackmer.It rates with other tripped out films of the late 60's- rating with such as 2001 A Space Oydessy.Done very well filmed at the Dakota apartments in NYC and with a great late 1960's attitude, that today nearly 40 years later remains a classic Gothic horror story. One on the greatest horror films ever done, that us done with a great amount of aplomb. "},{"Title":"What a creepy movie!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't care how scary and exiting and heart-pounding movies are today This is by far the scariest! Rosemary's baby is about a couple that buys a house with a mysterious past. After becoming pregnant, Rosemary (Mia Farrow) begins to suspect that everybody in the building, including her husband (John Cassavetes), is a Satan-worshiping, anti-Christian witch. Is she imagining it, or is it real? And if it is, will she be able to save her baby? The movie does start out slow, and doesn't really pick up until she becomes pregnant. Also, some of it is boring, and not all is very scary. But the parts that are *shiver*! Roman Polanski is a good director of horror. I did not think much of the ending was good, but my favorite line is when Minnie Castavet(Ruth Gordon) remarks He chose you, honey! From all the women in the world to be the mother of his only living son! Obviously playing on the Jesus story, Minnie says this in her strong, New York accent, making the situation almost comical.All in all, a very creepy movie! "},{"Title":"A classic in the true sense of the word.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I have never been frightened by gore but can be made to jump by something as simple as a door banging (The Others and The Bone Collector for example). The mind can conjure up images which are far more frightening that anything ever seen on film and if the mind is nudged along a certain path and given suggestions then it is more than capable in filling in the gaps and creating dark and scary landscapes to get lost in.This film slowly peals away layers of normality so that it is all too easy to accept what is portrayed (or rather for most of the time hinted at) and as the layers are pealed away so more and more suspense is loaded upon the viewer.It is an extremely well crafted film (in every area the script, the direction, the cinema photography, the acting and the music score) and personally one of my favourites and in my opinion certainly one of the best of its kind. It shows that sometime more (a lot more) can be achieved by leaving things out rather than putting them in and those directors who carry on insisting to load their films with tomatoes ketchup would do well to sit down and really study this film. "},{"Title":"Pure period style suspense fun","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby (1968) Even the very young & cute Mia Farrow could barely carry off that Twiggy look of 1965-68, and yes, there are other period clues in this film the camera work has that trippiness when she's (possibly) in another consciousness, the music has a druggy sound to it at times, the high fashion was often at a low point...but this film is STILL a great exercise in PARANOIA. WHO is imagining WHAT? WHY is she suspecting THAT? Is Rosemary nuts? If not, are THEY in on it? John Cassevettes plays her patient husband, the crazy Ruth Gordon who won the Oscar for her role, as one of their neighbors, many character actors you'll recognize...and they all add up to an increasingly tense, psychological-horror film that shook up EVERYONE in 1968. Pure period style fun. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary and Guy, a newly married couple, moved into an apartment in a building with a very bad reputation. However, everything was wonderful. They wanted to have a baby and their neighbors were really kind and friendly&#133; but perhaps too much. Roman Polanski, author of masterpieces such as Chinatown, is one of the most controversial directors. He portrays an atmosphere of suspense and gives some clues as to the film's dark edges. Nevertheless, there are no sinister looking locations or creepy characters. Mia Farrow performs brilliantly as Rosemary. She is an innocent young woman who only wants to please her husband and have a baby. However, everything changes when she gets pregnant. Guy becomes distant when he succeeds in TV and her neighbors become overly caring. She grows suspicious of them because she realizes that she is strictly controlled.This is a masterpiece of horror. Everyday situations have an undercurrent of evil. These skilfully hid details haunt the viewer. An odd closet, a suicide, her neighbors' extreme interest&#133; As the date of birth gets closer, the film grows increasingly claustrophobic. The development of the plot gets interrupted abruptly in the last scenes, when the intrigue is revealed. The ending is spine-chilling but predictable due to the innocent and caring Rosemary's nature. I have seen this film many times but I always have the same terrifying feeling; the anti-Christ is ascending to power surrounded by an atmosphere of friendship and neighborliness. I would recommend it to all horror-loving viewers who are tired of inane plots and special effects.  "},{"Title":"Creepy, Atmospheric, Great Acting","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  If this movie had been made in the 1990s or even at the turn of the 21st century I don't believe it would have been as interesting or creative as it is. There is something about swinging 1960s that makes this movie a treasure -- the modern 1960s goes gothic in a way.Of course, no matter what you may think of director Roman Polansky personally, one cannot deny that he has made a mark here, showing style and wit as well as horror. It stand the test of time. Rosemary's Baby still manages to scare, not with blood (although there is a little at the beginning) or cheap shock tactics but with psychological weaving like one would not believe.Ruth Gordon, as neighbor Minnie, is both bizarrely funny and totally creepy, as is her husband, Roman, of whom you might want to call Grandpa one moment then Master of Evil a moment after that. Also fun seeing Pasty Kelly who is so out of place as a Satan worshipper that you know, all at once, that she is perfectly cast.I love this movie because it did what it set out to do, scare me (and leave a lasting impression), and give it 4 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"Horror film without all the special effects","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Most of the horror-crazed youth culture for the last 20 years would probably not get that much out of this movie, but I still find this one very intriguing and atmospheric. As in most of Roman Polanski's films, he makes nice use of rice colors and hand-held camera work to give it an authentic feel. Mia Farrow's role is atypical compared to what she played later on as a young vulnerable woman in her early twenties married to a man some 10-15 years older that is struggling in the entertainment industry (he couldn't be struggling that bad being able to afford an ornate old apartment in upper Manhattan). Ruth Gordon's character is a more serious, but still comical version of her Harold and Maude character as an overfriendly neighbor of Rosemary's. The nightmare sequence is absolutely the best part, and yes it's strange with her envisioning Jackie Kennedy as a nurturing woman, the Pope forgiving her, and imagining being on a yacht, but then again, most dreams make little sense. Only complaint, the final scene is like a badly rehearsed stage play when it comes to Rosemary.                     **********SPOILERS************Remember the dream sequence where you hear easy, you got her too high That turned out to be her being carried through the linen closet. And where she sees a church sizzling and burning and a statue of a man stare down at her turned out to be mere oil paintings at the end. But the impregnating scene, well.....All very interesting.  "},{"Title":"A Work Of Art In The Horror Film Industry!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is a brilliant Horror/Drama film. It is in the tops on my horror list. Mia Farrow, John Cassavettes, and Ruth Gordon who won a Golden Globe Award for the film, were all great. Roman Polanski has made a work of art, based on Ira Levin's classic novel. This movie is very good. I know most movies that are old don't interest people these days, but this one is a keeper for sure. I was afraid it would be too old fashioned for my taste, even thought I have seen films older than this, but it really wasn't! I give Rosemary's Baby a 10 out of 10!!!  Oh, by the way, here is my list of top ten horror films#1 Psycho (1960) #2 Rosemary's Baby (1968) #3 The Exorcist (1973) #4 Halloween (1978) #5 Scream (1996) #6 Friday the 13th (1980) #7 House On Haunted Hill (1999) #8 Carrie (1976) #9 The Rage Carrie 2(1999) #10 The Dentist "},{"Title":"A quiet, erudite chiller, but not conventionally frightening","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  If there are omens in this world, they were not heeded by the makers of Rosemary's Baby. The director would soon see his own pregnant wife disemboweled by the Manson family, the actor hired to play Satan would be revealed as a serial rapist, the leading lady would see her husband engage in an affair with someone who was effectively their daughter, and the building around which the film was shot would 12 years later bear witness to the tragic death of John Lennon. This was without a doubt a cursed film, and its sado-sexual undercurrents are ultimately made more powerful by knowledge of the evils, perversions, and obsessions woven into the myth of its making.However, do not expect to be overtly frightened by this film. Unlike more recent traditional horror films like The Sixth Sense and The Others, this film will not make you jump. It is instead a slightly comic, often disturbing psychological portrait of one innocent woman's breakdown as she comes into contact with the carnal and callous power of Satanism. Mia Farrow plays this breakdown perfectly. Her performance (easily the best she has ever given) is potently tremulous, and effectively walks the fine line between hysteria and conviction. The Satanists, into whose complete power she is delivered by her husband, possess a wonderfully concealed menace, particulaly the obstetrician, a smiling, cold-eyed fascist.The once infamous scenes, such as Rosemary eating raw liver, lack the shock value they once had, and are filmed in such a documentary style that whatever horror they could have conveyed is lost on modern audiences. Whatever power the film has is entirely invested in Rosemary's descent into madness, and that is still as powerful as ever "},{"Title":"What have you done to his eyes???","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I feel so ashamed that it took me over 20 years to see this movie. I am sure it will be stuck in my mind for a very long time. From the opening score, i could tell i was in store for one hell of a film. I just finished it ten minutes ago, so i'm pretty lost for words. It's amazing how such powerful films can leave you so breathless and speechless. I would try to write a review now, but i'm too in awe to say anything meaningful.Fans of this movie should also see Harold and Maude, which stars the late, great Ruth Gordon in another charming performance. She won an Oscar for Rosemary's Baby for Best Supporting Actress, and deservedly so.The music group Fantomas (created by Faith No More's Mike Patton) does a spectacular cover of the Rosemary's Baby score; it's eerie, haunting, and intense. Be sure to check that out! Also, for your own sanity, please try to avoid In-awe-of-the-masters' review of this movie. It is so ignorant, full of mistakes, and will probably make you really mad. This person better be a very young child who doesn't know any better.  "},{"Title":"Should be in the top 10 horror films","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I don't want to spend this review gushing about how good this film is and blah blah blah.  It is a masterpiece of cinema, bar none.  This movie is probably second only to the Exorcist because it is one of only a few films in the true gothic tradition.  Anyone that has read HP Lovecraft knows what I am talking about. Everything is designed just slightly askew, like the way the characters eat too fast or that bizarre accent of the lady next door.  Nothing is as it seems, and that is the true beauty of it. My complaint is that films like this do not receive the respect they deserve.  In today's MTV culture anything that isn't exploding every five minutes is a sleeper.  What happened to the time when people had the patience to watch a film that had depth to it?  I realize that being in the top 30 of the IMDB ranking should be quite good, but why isn't it number 2?  I enjoy comedy as much as the next person, but a film like Young Frankenstein does not deserve to be occupying spots in a serious genre.  This film is like a painting by Picasso, and the rest are just comic books.    "},{"Title":"Devastating and Horrific 10/10","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is one of the most diabolically evil and twisted films ever made.  The film is a masterpiece of sorts in its ability to be creepy and dangerous at the same time.  Mia Farrow shines as one of the most memorable female characters in film history.  The rest of the cast, from her jerk of a husband Cassavetes, to the smarmy Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer, are all perfect.  You'll NEVER forget Rosemary's Baby -- after all, he has his father's eyes.One of the five best horror films of all time. "},{"Title":"The creepiest antithesis ever made","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I have only seen two Roman Polanski films in my time and this is by far is his best effort (the other being The Ninth Gate which was also well-done).  Polanski did justice to Ira Levin's seminal antithesis to the first few chapters of the Gospel of Luke.  The name of the book and movie are just astounding itself.  Mia Farrow was well cast as the paranoid and protective Rosemary.  Ruth Gordon was excellent as the sugar-coated, sour-centered next door neighbor.  The story was provocative, spooky, and it got under my skin.  It ranks in my skin-crawling movie list.  Overall, this is a well-made creepshow that will probably make any man want to pick up a Bible and read it from cover to cover.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"perfect","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie first like nine years ago, and I was so deeply impressed that I gave it a *9* when I joined the Movie Database - an unusually high rating because thrillers are not my favorite genre. Furthermore, when I saw it for the second time - afew days ago - I remembered every detail; what a higher compliment can you make to a movie? Although you might say that the topic is - nowadays - a bit 'old-fashioned' - and object that, during the last fifteen minutes, there are some superfluous explanations, you have to admit that every little finger-movement in the film is well-thought, that the moment when Mia Farrow has the first look to her 'baby' is TERRIFIC, that Cassavete's silent metamorphosis during the film is absolutely convincing, that all the acting in its blend of everyday behavior and cruelty is simply perfect - and so is the whole movie. At the second view, it might not make you shiver as at the first time. But you won't find an 'error' nor any tastelessness. (The good taste is something of the time, I guess; despite the differences, Hitchcock has it, too.) "},{"Title":"Hail Rosemary","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  You can see what attracted Polanski to this script. It recalls his earlier Repulsion - the apartment which becomes a prison, the gradual disintegration of the young woman who inhabits it, even the increasingly unpalatable contents of the fridge. In formal terms, Rosemary's Baby is a gleefully blasphemous parody of the Life of the Virgin (whose name, of course, is entangled in Rosemary's own) - right down to a travestied Adoration of the Magi in the devastating closing scene, in which one of the wise men from the East appears as a Japanese tourist with a Pentax. But this blackest of comedies everywhere bears the imprint of Polanski's nightmarish fugitive childhood in the Poland of the Holocaust. Betrayal awaits at every turn; prying neighbours mean only harm; the uncomprehending and incomprehensible normality of the outside world seems the cruellest taunt. The evocation of evil is all the more chilling for its hilarious banality - the coven of old dears next door are as devoted to knitting and soft furnishings as to the Prince of Darkness. And at the film's heart, beyond the mockery, is Mia Farrow's harrowing transformation from Mary Quant mannequin to a gaunt and suffering spectre from the concentration camps, shorn and hollow-eyed - as if the film were haunted by the memory of the director's own mother, murdered at Auschwitz. Polanski coaxes a performance of aching vulnerability from Farrow as the not-so-bright child bride impregnated by a distinctly unholy ghost in hubby's Faustian pact - as pure in her simple, dogged saintliness as Bresson's Joan of Arc.Incidentally, the most telling shot in the film - Minnie Castevets glimpsed through the bedroom doorway as she phones Bad Obstetrician, our view disconcertingly half-obstructed by the door-jamb in the foreground - is one that Polanski used again, and to the same troubling effect, some 20 years later in the opening scene of Frantic. "},{"Title":"a true classic","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's horror classic is literally pregnant with paranoia... In the movie the colors and the places which are used by Roman Rolanski are so impressive that when rosemary gets out to the house, you don't want her to get back to the house again. In the movie the director leaves the horror part to the audience's imagination. I think it's amazing when a horror movie can be created without blood and the effects like that. Therefore the movie can terrify the audience even more so. In this movie for you a man who is in front of the phone booth can be a horror object. I think this movie has an impact on the other horror movies. The soundtracks also have haunting sides. For example a lullaby, which is performed by Mia Farrow, can terrify the audience. And also the Beethoven's Fur Elise which is used in some scenes of movie (especially in the kitchen scenes) effects audience and has a great impact on the movie. Mia Farrow acting is so perfect. In her performance we can see the catholic girl &#x96; Rosemary- clearly. She acts every emotion and thoughts well enough so one can easily understand what is she thinking or feeling at the moment. I think it is an excellent part of the movie that the baby's face isn't seen in the movie. With this detail Polanski leaves the baby to our imagination and thanks to Rosemary's reactions we can guess what he looks like. If we can see the baby that may be less terrifying. There are good scenes, and excellent camera by Polanski. I like scenes in films where the camera follows the character. There are some haunting scenes where you think about the horror of it later. Polanski did not go for cheap scares. In this case you could enjoy the movie much more than you could enjoy the cheap bloody scary movies. "}{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is one of the best horror movies of all time. Whenever I say this to someone I'm often barraged by a flurry of What?! How!? Why?! But it's not even scary! Rosemary's Baby is not a horror film! There's like barely any blood! The movie doesn't even have an on-screen death! (If there's one thing I've learned over the years, it's that Hell hath no fury like a contradicted, overly invested genre-lover.)Rosemary's Baby was not just a jolt to the horror genre upon its initial release, but it permeated popular culture in a way not seen since Psycho eight years earlier. Based on the 1967 Ira Levin novel of the same name, Rosemary's Baby is an almost verbatim recreation of its source text. Ira Levin was also the man behind The Stepford Wives and The Boys from Brazil, so something tells me Mr. Levin had a thing for conspiracy theories.In Rosemary's Baby the conspiracy's ringleader is supposedly none other than Satan himself, out to plant his anti-Christ seed into a ripe field, i.e. the as-of-yet-unused womb of some docile, domestic, husband-trusting, innocent-enough, almost ex-Catholic girl. Rosemary Woodhouse is the lady in question. Her husband, Guy, may or may not have sold her drugged-up body one night to the maybe-Satanic Castevets, the neighbors with whom the Woodhouse's share a wall, in order for her to be raped by the Devil and become a vessel for said demon seed (or was Rosemary just having a bad dream that night?) You see, Guy's a struggling actor, so you know he'd sell his soul in a heartbeat for success, so what's his wife's womb to him, right? After all, Guy is getting pretty chummy with those nosy, old, childless Castevets. Their chanting and flute-playing coming from next door, their nomadic, theatrical background, and those scathing remarks against the Pope &#x96; something just isn't right with the Castevets.Rosemary soon finds herself pregnant (but with whose baby?), cut-off from her young friends (associating only with the Castevets and their sect of elders), and getting rather unorthodox Ob-Gyn treatment from a Dr. Abraham Sapirstein (raw egg & fresh herb smoothies constitute Rosemary's diet under his care, also something called Tanas Root&#x85;hmmm, what's THAT an anagram for I wonder?) Her first trimester is nothing but pain, weight loss, anemia, vomiting, and a fondness for raw liver (yuck!) And those who come in contact with her from outside 'the group' often meet bad ends. Poor Rosemary. Is there a plot against her baby? Or is it all being done FOR the baby?With every viewing (and there have been scores of them), I see a little more, hear a little more, and understand a little more &#x96; continually revealing itself and affecting me anew like any great work of art should. I guess one could call Rosemary's Baby the horror movie that keeps on giving. All the acting is excellent too, especially, of course, the Oscar-winning performance by Ruth Gordon as the meddlesome minion of Satan, Minnie Castevet. Even Mia Farrow, whom I normally don't equate with great acting, except Broadway Danny Rose, actually holds her own in scenes with the indomitable John Cassavetes. Her finest moment in the film, if not in her whole career, is arguably the phone booth scene.Rosemary's Baby is an extraordinary picture in that it conveys so much information, it illustrates so much of its motive, and makes privy its truths long before Rosemary knows them herself, but yet somehow it can fill a viewer with constant and complete suspense. And Rosemary's predicament isn't exactly something new in the realm of storytelling; in fact it's formulaic in many ways. When you go into a film knowing it's supposed to be horrific, but are not given any strong shocks or scares for almost the first hour &#x96; that alone creates tension to me. But it is this particular fact about Rosemary's Baby that makes many question its 'horror movie' standing.So what makes a horror movie then? Is it any film whose plot attempts to elicit fright, fear or terror from its audience? Or does a horror film just need to have actual scares &#x96; something that'll make you jump in your seat, or at least make you squirmy? Does a horror movie have to be a symphony of blood, gore, constant score, and speed-of-light editing these days, a 'gruesical' if you will? Has genre, if not the entire definition of what makes a good movie, been kidnapped by technique? Less than three second shot lengths are the mean for a horror film today. Faster and faster pacing. Build-up. Viscera! The visceral. Splatter! Build-up. Gore! Build-up. Murder! Build-up. Big Splatter! Conclusion. One more scare! Lights up. Yawn.The time when Rosemary's Baby is seen as a genuine horror movie might be dead, but is that our loss? Yes. Most often, I hear Rosemary's Baby referred to as not a horror film, but rather a suspense film, and that any horror it may contain is strictly psychological, and therefore not truly scary. All I know is that Poe, Henry James, Lovecraft, de Maupassant, and Jacques Tourneur are the real forefathers of Rosemary's Baby, not Universal Monsters, Hammer Horror's bat-bitten boobies, Corman's explicitness or H.G. Lewis' gore. I believe what has come to be called psychological-horror, is in fact the purest form of horror - a majority of violence, blood, gore, and brutality does not a horror movie make.The autonomy created by city living transformed into a nightmarish, hell-on-earth conspiracy scenario is as relevant today as 1968, if not more so. The daily questioning of one's sanity. To find yourself constantly analyzing the motivations of others. Suspicion towards a loved one. To feel completely isolated and alone, yet surrounded by millions. Immersing myself into these ideas for 136 minutes is far scarier to me than any of the zombies, slashers, torturers or mutants of today. "},{"Title":"Sensational, yes, but sensationally well made...","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby (1968)Along with the Exorcist (1973), Rosemary's Baby helped shatter taboos in mainstream Hollywood. It builds around Rosemary's pregnancy in a New York City apartment building with nice but nosey neighbors, and Mia Farrow plays the growing paranoia and genuine fear perfectly. This is a psychological thriller told and filmed with naturalism (along with a few surreal dream and nightmare scenes), and editing with smart efficiency so there is no let up in our descent into horror. Director Roman Polanski also wrote the screenplay, and it's a classic construction.Face it, the story, and the willingness of the movie makers to tell it like it is, is a mind blower. Yes, we've heard or imagined such things in jokes or in our own nightmares (heaven forbid). But never spelled out step by step and made reasonable, or likely. The cast around Farrow is really impeccable. Her husband (John Cassavetes, who knows something about how to make a movie himself) and the two neighbors (Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer) are absolutely convincing in their innocent, lovable guises. Even when you start to be suspicious something is wrong, you don't realize just how wrong it can be.Thankfully this isn't a Gothic horror film, laying into the macabre and occult aspects (it brushes against them just enough). Because it's really a psychological thriller. You might even expect Hitchcock to have liked the idea, but I suspect he would have shied away from the subject matter, at least the way Polanski had the fears develop into a real horror. It's only at the end that we see a different side to the story, going beyond our worries about Rosemary and her baby. And this is the sensational part of the movie that made everyone talk about it. And for me, it wasn't necessary. It wan't unnecessary, but it ends up tilting the whole flavor of the movie a bit into something campy and even silly, though everyone plays it with perfect realism.But I think most people will just gasp and be impressed by the whole thing, including the end. It's not a fun film but it's fun to watch, a treat to really study how all the elements, including camera-work (walking down halls, peering through peepholes) add up to a peculiar, masterful, memorable gem. "},{"Title":"Still Worth A Look","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The story told in this shocker is so well-known that I'll just get straight to the editorializing.ROSEMARY'S BABY is a little too long; otherwise this effective paranoia piece plays well even decades later. Polanski again does for apartment houses what Michael Crichton would later do for theme parks. The neighbors are creepy and nightmarish even before we find out why they are being so helpful to Rosemary and concerned about the baby. By the way, would YOU rent an apartment being offered by Elisha Cook Jr.? The acting is fine throughout, with Ruth Gordon being especially memorable. The ending leaves a thing or two to the imagination and is more effective for it.One major complaint a number of unattractive characters appear naked, but Playmate of 1968 Angela Dorian doesn't. Where is the justice??? "},{"Title":"Elaborate metaphor for coming to terms with new in-laws?","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I've just returned home from a midnight theatrical screening of RB at the Nuart Theater in Los Angeles. It is early a.m. on 26 July 2008. The print shown at the Nuart was an archival print from Paramount (or so we were told prior to the screening). The print screened was flawless and well worth the $10.50 ticket price. I've seen RB before, but never in a theater. What a rare experience.I should say that I consider RB to be the greatest horror film of all time. I think this because its suspense and horror are psychological and implied rather than physical and explicit (which is what seems to be the norm in the horror genre today). You're drawn into the story because the characters are normal and everyday rather than exceptional, freakish, and/or overwrought.In terms of my perceptions/thoughts about the deeper themes of RB, on this viewing I've gone beyond the usual and more obvious viewer's concerns (the Devil; Rosemary's hysteria that builds throughout the film) and hit on what I think may be a novel take on the story.If one assumes the Castevets (Minnie and Roman played by Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer respectively) and the witch coven to be a stand-in for husband Guy's family, is the entire story an elaborate metaphor for a young wife adjusting to new in-laws? (This idea is not without humor, of course.)The (mostly) young women at the screening, in particular, seemed enthralled by the story, told, as it is, with Rosemary at its center. Was their enrapture a form of apprehension looking, as they are, ahead in their lives rather than backward? I've never read any critical analysis of RB, so it's possible that my ideas are not original.What do you think? "},{"Title":"Hated it the first time, loved it the second time","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Married couple Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse (Mia Farrow, John Cassavetes) move into the beautiful Bramford apartment building (the Dakota was used). They meet nice but pushy neighbors (Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer). Then Rosemary gets pregnant...and her life becomes a nightmare. She thinks the neighbors are witches and want her baby. Is that true or is it her imagination? Now classic horror film. I first caught this at a revival theatre when I was in college. I thought it was too long and dull with terrible acting. I should mention I had just read the book this was based on. Seeing it again (over 20 years later) my opinion has totally changed. I still think it's too long and Farrow's acting wavers (sometimes she just great, other times she's too mannered) but this time I was fascinated and the ending actually scared me silly! The setting is beautiful--the Dakota is a huge building in NY with very exclusive tenants...but it looks downright terrifying here (I have to credit director Roman Polanski for that). Inside the apartments are huge but spooky. When Rosemary and Guy hear chanting through the walls on their first night or so there it's actually pretty chilling. The scene where Rosemary gets pregnant is pretty hard to watch too. Acting, as I mentioned, wavers. Farrow is really off sometimes and Cassavetes looks miserable (I believe he later said he did it for the money) but Gordon (in her Oscar-winning role) and Blackmer are just great. Also Maurice Evans, Charles Grodin, Elisha Cook and Ralph Bellamey are strong in supporting roles. And listen for the voice of Tony Curtis in one sequence. There's also some funny black humor here--at one point Rosemary is in a doctors office. She picks up a Time magazine and the cover says, Is God Dead? Scary, well-made horror film. Decidedly NOT for pregnant women. I give it an 8.What have you done to him you maniacs? "},{"Title":"The Biggest Satanic Cult Film Ever Made?","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Guy and Rosemary move into a new apartment (the Bramford) and hope to have a baby. But Guy is having trouble finding work as an actor. Once his luck improves, Rosemary is pregnant and her pregnancy becomes more and more unbearable and her neighbors even more and more strange and intruding. What is going on in this apartment? I want to say Mia Farrow was pretty hot in this movie. I don't know why. I mean, she's really not all that hot, and for a good part of the movie she has very short hair which is generally very unattractive on women. Even Guy tells Rosemary that her haircut is the biggest mistake she ever made (and I'm inclined to agree). Yet, you got me Mia... well played.I'm also concerned about the film's anti-Semitism. I've never heard anyone accuse the film of anti-Semitism before, but it seemed possible to me. The satanic doctor had a Jewish-sounding name and the satanic neighbor lady had a very stereotypical Jewish manner about her. Now, it's never stated anyone is Jewish, but it seems to me like that is what Polanski was hinting at. Which is very odd, having Jews be running a Satanic cult to harm Catholic women. I mean, having a cult is one thing, but a Jewish devil-worshiping cult seems like a bad idea.Anyway, this film is of course very good. It's now roughly forty years old and still a classic by both horror and general cinema standards. And I'm not going to say the people who have judged it so are wrong. It really broke ground in some ways. A rape scene involving Satan? You don't see that a lot in movies, at least not in movies that many mainstream people watch. Which is perhaps too bad. I like a good bit of devil rape every now and then.But yeah, the plot is good, the acting good (Rosemary comes off as really naive and far too submissive, but it was the 1960s so I guess that happens). The suspense was very nice, and although the audience is usually two steps ahead of Rosemary in figuring things out, it's nice to see her come across the twists and turns -- is she going mad or is there really something dark lurking under every cradle? Watch this film, if for no other reason than to see D'Urville Martin (Dolemite) or hear the voice of Tony Curtis. Or wonder why Mia Farrow can maintain a hotness with short hair. There's no real nudity, no real gore (in fact, none). But this is classic story-telling at its finest. I watched it again in honor of writer Ira Levin's passing, but you don't need a special occasion to enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"don't trust anyone over 30","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is the first generation gap horror movie. 60s It girl Mia Farrow plays a sweet young thing who moves into an exclusive Manhattan apartment building with her struggling actor husband John Cassavetes, who brings his usual edgy neurosis to the part. All their neighbors are elderly, and it turns out that they are also a coven of witches whose mission is to find the perfect mother for the devil's child. Rosemary, whose name is oddly reminiscent of the Virgin Mary, is the perfect choice, and her actor hubby is quite happy to sell his soul to Satan in return for help with his career. Like The Manchurian Candidate and The Killers, Rosemary's Baby is one of those movies that captures a vivid snapshot of the paranoia and unrest of the 60s, a decade that began so promisingly but that ended in assassination, riot, and social unrest. Holocaust survivor Roman Polanski, who was soon to lose his pregnant wife Sharon Tate to the murderous Manson family, directed, closely following Ira Levin's brilliant novel and in the process creating Catholic horror. Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer are excellent as the nosy neighbors who turn out to be the devil's henchmen, as is Ralph Bellamy as the sinister doctor who's part of the conspiracy. Shakespearean veteran Sir Maurice Evans (Maurice on Bewitched) plays the one sympathetic old person in the movie. Rosemary's Baby set a standard for Hollywood horror that has seldom been equalled and never excelled. Only The Exorcist, Jaws, and The Shining come close. Of films made during the last decade only The Blair Witch Project approaches the same standard. "},{"Title":"Great fun a film that takes the best part of any horror movie and makes it the whole show","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw this at a revival theater a few years ago, and it was one of the best times I've had at the movies. I won't post any spoilers, but I recommend that you read nothing about this movie before you see it. Part of my pleasure was in expecting a certain event to occur earlier in the film I thought Rosemary's Baby was going to be about a rampaging demon baby. This misconception helped keep me gripped in suspense until the end.Now that I've watched it again on DVD, I can appreciate it as well as enjoy it. Here's why it was so fun my favorite part of any horror film is first twenty minutes or so leading up to the first appearance of the monster. It doesn't matter how enjoyable the monster is; the best part is always the wait. This principle works in such diverse films as Them! (waiting for the killer ants), King Kong (&#x85; for the giant ape), Psycho (&#x85; for the shower scene) and so on. Rosemary's Baby is all wait, and it's marvelously effective. (But does a monster finally appear at the end? See the movie.)Roman Polanski directs his own script based on Ira Levin's novel (which I read later and enjoyed); he is extremely clever at tantalizing us and dropping clues. Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and her actor-husband Guy (John Cassavetes) have moved into a new apartment in an old 19th century building which has a bad reputation for murders and strange deaths that occur on its premises. They befriend the old couple (Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer) next door who are nosy and eccentric but later seem more sinister. When Rosemary gets pregnant, she begins to suspect her neighbors are witches.The casting is important. Rosemary must be weak-willed but not so passive that she becomes irritating or unsympathetic Mia Farrow is perfect. Cassavetes plays an unsympathetic jerk yet allows us to see his moral struggle, mainly hidden from his wife (and only suggested to the audience). Sidney Blackmer seems gracious and charming, yet conveys something dark underneath. Ruth Gordon steals the show, a wacky oddball who becomes terrifying.Roman Polanski delivers a slowly-paced film that screws our attention to the sticking place for two hours and fifteen minutes. You can't ask for more fun than that. "},{"Title":"Classic Polanski still manages to chill after nearly four decades...","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" ...and despite a few chips around the edges, remains a notably strong piece of thriller film-making, certainly one of Polanski's best works. I'm not sure I can fairly rank it as a Top-100 film, except within the horror/thriller genre, or even a Top-250 film, as the IMDb voters rate it, but there's no denying that it's one of the most memorable films of the late sixties. The dexterity with which Polanski slowly ratchets up the tension and paranoid unease, the remarkable performances (especially from Mia Farrow as Rosemary, and Ruth Gordon as Rosemary's nemesis, Mrs. Castavet), the unique setting of the Dakota, William Fraker's fine DP work, Krzysztof Komeda's unsettling score; all contribute to an amazing movie-going experience that culminates in the final, shockingly maternal twist ending.Now, all that to the side, I'm going to venture into dirtied waters here and say that I'd love to see an updated version of Rosemary's Baby along the lines of The Omen remake. Audiences are more sophisticated these days, as are acting and storytelling techniques, and from this viewer's perspective, Rosemary's Baby telegraphs its eventual payoff in more ways than one. Victoria Vetri's Terry, the Castavet's original guinea pig, is introduced and killed off so quickly that the event stands out like a sore thumb. John Cassavettes' performance is, by modern standards, notably unsubtle; he is identifiably a bad guy almost from the moment he meets the Castavets, if not sooner. His behavior is decidedly sexist and domineering; no modern female worthy of the name would put up with his selfishness and deceptions. I'd love to see someone like Christian Bale or Ed Norton take on the role. Ruth Gordon's intrusive Minnie at times seems utterly transparent in her kvetching insistence on pumping Rosemary full of Satanic potions. Certainly no woman who'd ever read Our Bodies, Our Selves would give a quack like Dr. Sapperstein more than one visit. And even Rosemary seems anachronistically naive and sheltered from the grim realities of life, though perhaps I've overlooked some back story that explains that. Regardless, I'd love to see one of our recent crop of fine young actresses tackle the role Reese Witherspoon, Natalie Portman, Hillary Swank, etc., or even an unknown with the requisite talent.It's been nearly four decades, and despite all the supernatural spin-offs like The Exorcist and The Omen and The Seventh Sign and so on and so forth, Rosemary's Baby retains its vaunted position in the pantheon of top-rank chillers. I'd love to see a new version attempt to dethrone it. "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is indeed a rare film, a sublime masterpiece, Roman Polanski's crowning achievement. Based upon the likewise-flawless novel by Ira Levin and virtually unaltered by Polanski, Rosemary's Baby is a work of art, a classic which stands alone to this day, never to be surpassed.Everyone knows the story by now; Mia Farrow is the sweet and innocent Rosemary Woodhouse who, along with her actor/husband Guy, finds the perfect apartment in New York. Despite a disreputable history, it seems the catalyst of good fortune for the happily married young couple. Their friendly, if somewhat brassy, neighbors are played to absolute perfection by Ruth Gordon (who received an Oscar for her efforts) and Sidney Blackmer. Despite some foreboding nightmares and the unfortunate accidental (?) death of a young woman, life is good for Rosemary and her husband, whose acting career seems to finally be taking off. But there's always a price to pay for good fortune. Unbeknownst to poor Rosemary, her husband has literally made a deal with the Devil. Shortly after a romantic dinner, some chalky chocolate mousse and the mother of all nightmares in which Rosemary is raped by a beast whilst her neighbors and husband look on, Rosemary discovers she is pregnant. But the pregnancy is a difficult one, her neighbors are not what they seem and the inevitable closes in around her over the course of nine long months time. Rosemary comes to believe that she and the baby are in danger, that her baby is a potential sacrificial victim for a coven of witches. The truth, however, is much, much worse.I've always thought of Rosemary's Baby as the blackest of black comedies, and of Rosemary as the butt of a very long and drawn-out practical joke. Fans of modern day horror films, used to gory death scenes and disposable heroes, will probably not appreciate the pace at which this film moves or its wry sense of humor. This is indeed a shame, because this film is everything that a good horror film should be; intelligent, subtle and almost rather dismissive of its own brilliance. The films climax is practically shrugged off by the characters who have brought it about. And Rosemary finally realizes that perhaps the only way to beat them is to join them; there is no fiercer predator than a mother defending her child, and as she accepts her role as the Mary of the Profane, we must wonder; will she triumph after all?I've hesitated to review this film for a long time, simply because I couldn't think of anything to say about it that hasn't already been said. It's a masterpiece, a work of art, an inspiration for many films to come, some good and some not so good. It continues to loom large over the genre, virtually untouchable and yet always accessible. No fan of film - horror or otherwise - should miss this. It truly deserves every word of praise it has ever earned. "}{"Title":"A Thrilling-Yet-Imperfect Achievement for Psychological Horror","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Warning Spoilers Throughout This is most definitely an extremely creepy film and just about deserves each and every accolade that it has received over the years. I think that the main reason for its effectiveness is the superficially innocent layer that it holds over each horrific event as it unfolds, always suspending the audience's disbelief &#150; there is always the notion that, perhaps, Rosemary is just insane. Characters are presented as ostensibly harmless people as an insidious theme of evil lurking beneath the surface is achieved in such a subtly convincing way that it makes David Lynch's work look amateurish by comparison. The film also works well on levels of alienation and existentialism &#150; there is even some satire present (Guy's willingness to cross over to the &#145;dark side' in exchange for fame/fortune makes for quite a severe shot at the psychological effects of entertainment industry.) But the film's ever-present atmosphere of dreary cynicism eventually crosses over the realm of plausibility and into the absurd. By the end, Polanski's unwavering refusal to provide any shred of hope or optimism toward humanity becomes unnecessarily depressing and ultimately left me feeling quite empty.We're left with a cold statement basically telling us that evil is simply inviolable and will ultimately consume even the most innocent of people, in favor of an annoyingly overwrought depiction of motherly love, and in doing so Polanski appears to unintentionally glorify Satanism as well. I'm not suggesting that there should have been bloodshed to resolve anything, but perhaps this whole thing would've worked out better had Rosemary been depicted as rejecting Catholicism rather than simply ignoring it. There also happens to be a gaping plot hole in this resolution &#150; why would Rosemary show affection for the devil child if she already knows that it's going to be sacrificed &#145;by flesh and blood' anyway &#150; as revealed earlier in the film?With all of these complaints aside, I still consider &#145;Rosemary's Baby' to be one of the finest psychological horror films that I've ever seen. Polanski manages to provide us with subtle hints that never really provide clear-cut answers but allow us to think back and piece everything together quite neatly in the end. "},{"Title":"Holds up, could have been filmed yesterday.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A great film from the mind of Roman Polanski, one of the masters of twentieth century suspense. Over the course of time, this film has stood the test, remaining horrifying to an entirely new audience. The suspense is fantastic, and the characters well developed. Without a doubt, one of the films that should be on every movie fans list.Mia Farrow plays an innocent, naive woman, who mature's overnight, in lieu of her motherly instinct in reaction to losing her child. The fear of losing her baby is countered only by the realization that keeping it possibly entails endangering the fate of the human race.an interesting note about this film, Mia farrow was going to walk off the production because her then husband Frank Sinatra wanted her to quit. Robert Evans the producer told her that the buzz on the street was she would win the Oscar for best actress. Her response was Frank who? "},{"Title":"The best horror film","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Pros Comedy, Directing, Score, Script.Cons None.Rosemary's baby is probably the best horror film ever made and it doesn't use any of nowaday's horror bag of tricks to scare you. The chills generated from this movie is genuine not manufactured as you will genuinely want to know what will become of rosemary. Rosemarry is played beautifully by Mia Farrow and the part of Guy is played to a tee by John Cassavetes as he puts on a facade on rosemary claiming not to know what she is really carrying. Ruth Gordon won an oscar deservedly as her potrayal of Minnie, the nosy neighbor who cares just a little bit too much for rosemary. In the end, Rosemary's decision is understandable because she has gone through a lot with her baby and she can bring herself to kill him even though he is the antichrist.Premise Rosemary wonders if her baby is the Antichrist.Rosemary's baby was nominated for two Academy awards and won one.Grade 10/10 (Perfect) "},{"Title":"Why wasn't Mia Farrow nominated?? (mild spoiler)","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is, without a doubt, my favorite horror film.  Instead of relying on blood and violence to scare audiences it uses genuine psychological tension.  This film shows that you don't need to witness gore and violence in order to be scared.  I think what makes this movie scary and disturbing is the fact that all these terrible things are happening to such an innocent, trusting and helpless character like Rosemary.  Casting the then 22-year-old Mia Farrow was ideal.  A delicate beauty, Farrow projects Rosemary's vulnerability to perfection.  Never have I felt sorry for a character the way I feel sorry for Rosemary in this film.  The paranoia and tension she experiences throughout the film is contagious.You can particularly empathize with her at the party scene when her girlfriends are comforting her in the kitchen.  What makes this scene so painful is that it shows how truly alone Rosemary is, the way her pent-up anxiety pours out in the presence of her estranged friends.  The compassion she receives is very moving.  The scene where she contacts Dr. Hill from the phone booth is another one of my favorites, because it gives you a nervous feeling in the pit of your stomach as well as a glimmer of hope that someone may finally believe and help Rosemary.  The fact that we trust Dr. Hill the way Rosemary trusts him makes his ultimate betrayal all the more horrifying.It is too bad that Roman Polanski's most recent films aren't of this caliber.  Before he directed Rosemary's Baby he directed Repulsion, another great psychological thriller.  Both of these movies are creepy in ways most movies are not.  The apartments in both films provide great atmosphere.  To anyone who happens to read this review, I urge you to rent both this film and Repulsion for Halloween night.  They make a great double feature! "},{"Title":"Different idea about the film","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Actually, after thinking about this movie a bit more, I tend to think that this subject has absolutely nothing to do with Satan or devil worshipers. Repeatedly we are remind that Rosemary's due date is June 28 This date so coincides with the beginning of the First World War that I often wonder if that was what the author of the book had in mind. If there was one day in human history that marked a sudden and irreversible change, I would have to pick June 28, 1914Suddenly the world powers of the day begin to arm and arm heavily as they prepared to do battle. This marked the up swing in war technologies on an unimaginable scale. Airplanes were introduced, machine-guns, armored vehicles, giant battle ships and of course chemical warfare. Trench warfare and no man's land, we are reminded through Hollywood and even my own grandfather, was indeed hell on earth. Soon after royal governments ceased to exist as a new idea was born. The Tsar was disposed soon after as well as the Kaiser at the end of the war. This would not be the end of weapon research nor global atrocities on civilian populations. In less than 20 years a new idea blossomed as Fascism took hold of Italy, Germany and Japan. The end results of the Second World War need not be discussed here.So that is my slant on an otherwise interesting thought provoking film. "},{"Title":"don't watch this if you like big titty, explosion, bloody killer stuff","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  (careful of them there spoilers!)Rosemary's Baby is a standout in the genre of gothic psychological thrillers.  Hitchcock's Rebecca is the only other film I know at the top of that category, and of all Horror films only a handful can compete with it for best ever.Polanski's direction is simply amazing.  A good common description in a lot of these reviews would be hallucinatory paranoia.  The film creates a sense of dislocation, through the juxtaposition of occult imagery with a modern urban setting, and a subtle sense of building tension, through devices such as the deadline of the baby's expectancy date vs. the conspiracy being woven around Rosemary.  These devices enhance her vulnerability and sympathetic quality, and make every hinted threat feel like a threat to you the viewer.  This is a movie that you piece together with your mind but also experience with gut emotion.What sets this film apart from standard crappy blood and guts horror, besides its subtlety, is its metaphoric themes.  The Faustian bargain made by Rosemary's husband, to further his acting career by selling his fatherhood, reflects on the nature of acts of creation within the entertainment industry and traditional values within organized religion.  I would go so far as to say that this film is intended to criticize bourgeois values within capitalism, through allegory (if I knew more about Polanski's films.) "},{"Title":"It is literally impossible to describe how bad this movie is.","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This can barely be described as a horror movie. More than anything, it's a joke, and a bad one at that. There are only 1-2 parts that are even remotely creepy. Everything else is predictable and boring.I love a slow-burn, but almost nothing happens in this film. And the acting is so bad, it's hard to stay immersed. There are only 1-2 significant plot developments, and they're spaced so far apart that by the 2nd one, you don't even care. You just want it to be over.The absolute worst part of the film is that it's told from the perspective of a completely helpless person. Yeah, she gets put in a messed up situation. But she has the IQ of a 12 year old to not be able to get out of it. Literally every time she does something right, she turns around and does 5 things wrong. It's insufferable to try to cheer for this dope.And if that isn't bad enough, after sitting through this incredibly frustrating film, it gives you an ending that provides no payoff whatsoever. All it does it reinforce the moronic nature of the main character, and everything wrong with the movie to begin with.For this to be considered a classic, I can only assume there are a bunch of old timers reminiscing about the good times and living in denial about films like this. I was excited to watch this movie with all the hype behind it, and I'm not opposed to older movies. But this was just awful. Utterly awful.If you want to see a real movie focused around witchcraft that is actually a HORROR movie and not some bland genre-bender, watch The Witch (2015). It's everything this abomination isn't. "},{"Title":"Pain, begone, I will have no more of thee!","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is effective horror because it shows so little and suggests so much. Many have mistaken the brief, subliminal flash of the demon eyes near the end as the actual baby's eyes starting back at Rosemary. In reality it is the flashback of Satan himself from her nightmarish memories of the rape. We do not ever actually see the hell-spawn, but are left to imagine its horrific appearance from that classic, spine-chilling line from Farrow What have you done to his eyes, you maniacs?! In the vivid, dreamlike sequence where we first are thrust into the demonic world, the nervous, titillating camera perspective, the sound design and the way the edits jump back and forth do a fantastically eerie job of blurring the boundaries between the vision and reality. In fact the whole experience is handled so deftly by Polanski that we have a half-mind to agree with the worries of Dr Hill and call in support for this poor, deluded woman babbling about witchcraft and cultish conspiracies out to get her. Beneath the horror we also have the subtext of feminist issues which would seem a lot more apparent in the 60s. Horror has taken many elements of Gothicism but here we have Polanski (diligently sticking to Levin) channelling what Ellen Moers referred to as female Gothic, a little known literary movement depicting female heroines trapped and confined within suffocating spaces. Of course in the nineteenth century this was a reaction to an increasingly challenging and diverse literary sphere - whereas within the context of this film we have the female liberation's movement, and an issue very close to the heart of Rosemary, reproduction. So we have an overly dominant patriarchal force babying and forcing Rosemary into domesticity. She's given strange ailments that render her unable to leave the house, and it is only the strong feminine encouragement of her friends that enables her to stop the treatment. Guy's reaction is of course immediately volatile - Cassavetes' character is above all characterised by a tinge of misogyny. Who else would hand over their wife like property in exchange for fame, fortune and prestige?Another element that makes Rosemary's Baby so effective is Ruth Gordon's Minnie Castevet. She and her husband's constant flirting in and out of the frame tread a fine line between caring and bothersome until it becomes almost to much to bear for Rosemary. In fact they are almost too nice - we see how Polanski has engineered each social situation to wring every last drop of second hand embarrassment that we too want Minnie to stop bothering them because no one could be so selfless and serving. But wisely it is not taken to absurd extremes - partly because it would be overkill and partly because they want their cult to remain hidden. So she lets herself be waved off after pushing Rosemary to consume the drink soon, and doesn't barge into the party because it would be rude (and suspicious). Gordon never once breaks her doting grandmother routine, and this is key - even in the final, haunting reveal, they are all having a jovial little tea party complete with one jolly member taking pictures, and the normalcy with which they proceed draws Rosemary in. Well, it does have its father's eyes, but surely there's a bit of Rosemary in there too. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" OK, so... this is ( supposed to be) a horror movie !? A very good one since the rating is eight?! Either I am missing something or ... For me, personally, there is not a single thing that is horror about this movie. Horror of knowing that you watched a movie for two hours and twenty minutes for nothing - that is a scary thought, horror worthy. Nothing else! I am not sure what type of a movie is this. It can be a drama. Thriller is not. Even though there is a premise that the baby is devil, this can not be called a sci - fi or supernatural movie... I don't know. It is just a very confusing one with all the strange for nothing scenes/dreams. Aside the fact that it is not a horror ( which I expected and why I gave it a try) it is not entirely bad. I can appreciate the acting of the main woman character. It was kinda a bit interesting to see the fashion of the 60's ... But, no positive points aside from that. Maybe it is just that I am not a fan of old(er) movies...Though, I do know to appreciate a good one when I see, no matter when it was filmed ( I believe).This one is not really interesting ( though it is not completely boring). For the first 45 minutes or more, nothing happens. Other hour and a half, things are rather ... hmmm ... silly!? Don't know... I would definitely not recommend this movie to others. Four from me. "},{"Title":"I'm indifferent","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is an odd sort of horror movie of which I don't really know how to fully grade. I mean I liked it but to me this wasn't scary, it was subtle in conveying it's horror but it's a bit too subtle to keep everything interesting from beginning to end. The best way I can describe this to horror fans is imagine this as a quasi-prequel to The Omen and you'll pretty much have this movie in a nutshell.Rosemary and her husband Guy find a beautiful new apartment to live in, they have nice neighbours if they're a bit nosy and they seem to get along all things considered. After 2 visits to their neighbours, Guy - who is a struggling actor finds he has replaced someone due to him falling blind erratically. They then try for a baby and actually succeed on their first attempt after Rosemary was drugged, as in her husband had sex with her while she was passed out... Moving on from that awkward note that barely gets addressed it turns out she is in pain almost constantly after falling pregnant and that erratically stops. A friend finds all this out but dies before he could give Rosemary a shocking revelation about her neighbours, at his funeral however she gets it and deciphers anagrams based on what a friend says and she finds out that the entire thing, including the doctor that was recommended to her and her husband is in on being a witch cult, of whom she fears based on what she found out that they could kill the baby for their rituals.My biggest problem with the movie is for two thirds of it, the entire basis for the horror seems to be that the neighbours are too friendly with them and the husband is won over by them too quickly, that kind of thing. We have to wait over a half hour before anything scary happens if you count satanic rituals as scary, if you don't then wait for about an hour and a half. I mean, yes the audience could tell that it's not a normal pregnancy, but I think the audience could also tell people wearing red in this movie either means they're villains or something terrible is going to happen to them.Onto what I enjoyed. Even when it's not being scary, it is interesting and this does capture a kind of paranoid feeling throughout the movie of who exactly is in on it, I think it would have been better if they didn't give a definite answer to whether Rosemary was paranoid or not, that would have added a lot more to it instead of the last scene removing all ambiguity about it.This movie is one of the most subtle when it comes to how it's conveying it's horror. I wouldn't necessarily call it a good thing when it takes the lead character over an hour to work out the fact they should be afraid. I'm going to say this is good regardless but in my opinion, it could have been so much better. "}{"Title":"Motherhood and the Devil's Pact","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Motherhood plays a crucial role in the emergence of the Devil, and the Devil's Pact. Eve is the first ambitious human to be discontent with her station and strive for more knowledge. She is the prototype of the Faustian legends. She wanted to be like God, having the same knowledge as Him. In biblical terms, the Fall represents the introduction of evil and the beginning of history or temporality. This temporality introduces a line of ancestry, and the creation of humankind, who will intrinsically strive as their mother had. Maternity should play an important role in any story involving the Devil because of the concurrence of motherhood in the creation of history and the introduction of evil. Although Devil's Pact stories have typically only dealt with male striving, Rosemary's Baby highlights the importance of motherhood in the Devils' mythology.Rosemary is depicted as a figure similar to Mary, mother of Jesus. They both mother a savior who has come to redeem the world. Mary births the son of God, and Rosemary births one of Satan. While Rosemary is juxtaposed in name and motherhood to Mary, whose son would reverse the effects of the Fall, it is evident that the son of the Devil would continue the effects. This film replicates the occurrence of the Fall. Eve eats of the apple and leads Adam to eat also. Here Rosemary leads her husband to eat with the Castevets, serving as the serpent's temptation of which he bites.The presence of the Devil and evil are as plain upon her as a piece of jewelry. The necklace that Rosemary receives indirectly through Satan contains Tannis root, later referred to as Devil's pepper. This has a bad odor that Rosemary, Hutch, Sapirstein's nurse, and Guy notice and comment on. As Mephistopheles says, a whiff of anything makes plain whether it's holy or profane. Motherhood is clearly linked to the jewelry since Rosemary puts the necklace on the first night she finds out she is pregnant.The nativity scene of Mary alone in the stable becomes important in viewing motherhood in this work of art. Motherhood as it relates to the Devil is very much an individual endeavor. Minnie tells her to go home when she spies her waiting for Hutch. Dr. Sapirstein advises her not to speak to any friends, or her Aunt Fanny. Satan only rapes her once her wedding ring is taken off, and from the first day she knows she is pregnant, her body language in the bed makes her an isolated mother figure talking to her unborn baby, while the unresponsive Guy sleeps. The mother is always a solitary figure.And she is an ugly, insane solitary figure. None of the typically beautiful descriptions of motherhood apply when related to the Devil. After Rosemary becomes pregnant, everyone she meets tells her how awful she looks. Guy thinks it is her haircut, which was the worst mistake (she) ever made. Hutch asks in shock, My God what's wrong with you? and tells her she looks terrible. Her friends at the party tell her that she looks like chalk and that she looks tired. The party takes place at the time of her greatest pain, and the uglier she gets the more she desires the day's brilliant light. She is also depicted in a negative light when seen as insane. According to Guy, she has the prepartum crazies. The Pact is strongly linked to motherhood because the striving male sacrifices the woman he loves to attain his goals. Guy is not satisfied, and in order to attain his dream of acting fame and fortune, he sacrifices his wife to the Devil. Literally having life's blood painted on her for the rape ceremony very clearly depicts the connection between the role of motherhood, the striving male and the Devil's Pact. It is the ambitious male who sacrifices the woman, thereby aligning himself with the Devil. Woman is left to breed more males to continue the process.In relation to the Devil, the mother's only role becomes that of breeder of evil. She initially begins the Fall, and she continues the evil through her offspring. A drinking metaphor is one that emerges with the mother and Devil theme, played out with all of Rosemary's drinks, morning pills, and Adrian's drinking her milk. Instead of the nurturing role motherhood has typically embodied, here the mother is reduced to a very physical base level of need. The Tannis root drinks keep Rosemary unconscious so Satan can rape her, and the morning pills keep her unconscious so the coven can raise Adrian without her interference. All that remains for her is to give birth to him, and provide his milk. The Devil's work is to swell the ranks, and motherhood fits in by breeding the evil through each generation.A sense of impending doom arises with the arrival of each progressive generation being born. Adrian Marcado conjures up the Devil, bears a son Roman, and he lives on to consort with the Devil just like his father. Roman Castavet aids the begetting of a mortal son of Satan to reap vengeance on the world. The inevitability of creating the Devil again is central in the maternal theme. Woman is inextricably linked to the Devil and the Devil's Pact. She created it and she will continue it. "},{"Title":"Seriously?","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" How is it that this is the scariest movie? We never get to see the devil's child. That in itself would be scary! I laughed more at this movie then I was scared of it. Rosemary seemed so naive to allow the things those people did to her. I'd prefer more to the movie that was scary. But I guess back in those days, they didn't develop what we call scary now, like the Saw series or the scenes that you don't expect. So I guess all in all it was an OK movie. Mia's character was a good actress, but I can't get over her being so silly about her pregnancy. Who goes to a doctor and listens to other people? I would go to someone who I like. She was treated like a child and that's just dumb of her to listen to people she didn't know. "},{"Title":"slow, plot isn't much, but well done","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I love it's use of long takes. It just feels so natural, for the camera to be right there with them, effortlessly tracking them through the apartment, city, wherever. The plot was meandering, not doing much of anything more large chunks of the movie. Rosemary feels like an impossible character, just with the way she speaks and thinks. I don't think they could have made a more innocent, naive sounding person if they tried. Lighting and set was great, that apartment really felt like a real place to me.I wish we got to see more of Rosemary's friends, I didn't even know she had any until the party. "},{"Title":"A Political Allegory","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is a political allegory. A young woman (Rosemary Woodhouse), symbolizing the youth of America, struggles with a powerful, charismatic older man (Roman Castevet), symbolizing America's Establishment (what the power elite were called at the time), for control over a child (whose identity remains a mystery until the end of the film), who symbolizes the future. The older man wins the struggle. The timing of the film was remarkably fortuitous as 1968, the year of its release, was the turning point of the 1960s, the year that power was wrested from the largely youthful, political left of the country and, with the election of Richard Nixon as President, returned to the power elite, who have been moving this country further and further to the political right ever since. Seen in this light, Polanski's 1974 film Chinatown is essentially a remake of Rosemary's Baby. A young woman (Evelyn Mulwray) struggles with a powerful, charismatic, and in this instance very rich older man (Noah Cross) for control over their child (Katherine). Again, the older man wins. This ending was Polanski's idea, which suggests that he was aware of the political significance of his earlier film. Here, it suggests that the New Deal would only be allowed to go so far before the power elite seized control again. In this film, the seizure of power is more literal, as the Los Angeles water supply that Noah Cross finally controls is the actual source of life. "},{"Title":"A lacking classic","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I vaguely remember watching this film.I know you're gonna hate me for it, but I wasn't blown by the film. Something was missing for me. Perhaps with a better score (I wanted SO MUCH to hear Wojciech Kilar's The Storm track from Dracula during the rape scene and the scene at the end we she approaches her baby for the first time) or more suitable actors. Maybe it's the script that is lacking. I think the psychological element should have been handled better, making the ambiguity (of whether this is real or all in her head) a lot more prominent for Rosemary and for the viewers.IMO, the best thing in the movie is Ruth Gordon, who does an excellent job as Minnie, the old neighbor (and won an Oscar for it). "},{"Title":"Decent Film But The Scare Value Is Massively Over-Hyped.","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby has been out now for 47 years and I finally decided to see what all the hype was about by recently watching it, and I must say that it is indeed not too bad of a movie. I actually had this pinned down as (probably) being one of the most over-hyped films ever made but it's actually a very decent and intriguing psychological thriller (this isn't a horror for me).Is it one of the best horror films ever made? Not even close, and I do think the scare factor it's been given by people definitely is over-hyped, but like I say, it is a very decent film that is worth watching.It's also a pretty slow-paced movie, but because the story is told well and it holds your interest decently enough you don't really feel the lack of pace, and you do get drawn into it all. Story is obviously the main element here, and it's that, along with the acting & atmosphere, that keeps you watching.Speaking of acting...there are some moments where it's a bit dodgy or over-the-top, but this film was made in '68 so some of the performances will seem a touch melodramatic by today's standards. In saying that, however, I do think Mia Farrow gives a great performance as the sweet & innocent, yet somewhat naive, Rosemary.As I mentioned earlier, I think the scare factor hype has been amped way up and I always scratch my head in wonderment when people say they found it extremely scary/creepy as I personally never found it to be either of those. I guess it proves that different people find different things scary. I mean I know of people who have said The Exorcist isn't creepy/scary yet for me that film completely pacifies Rosemary's Baby. I wasn't expecting a boo! or gory film, and a film doesn't have to have those elements to be scary for me, but while it was disappointing on that side, other aspects held my interest enough for me to enjoy it.Definitely worth a watch if you've never seen it, especially if you enjoy films that cater more towards the psychological element. "},{"Title":"Slow burner but time passes by quickly","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I must have been a teenager when I saw this one for the first time. I remember it made quite an impression on me. Now 20 years later it still manages to do so. The movie takes a long time to build-up. It isn't gruesome in your face horror, much more psychological. The devil scene (obviously the most horror of the whole movie) I think is very well done, unsettling just like Rosemary (wonderfully portrayed by Mia Farrow) being put on drugs and slowly feeling how she is alone in her fight against those witches or satanists whatever you want to call them. Despite its slow pace the movie never bores me as I think every scene has its importance. There really isn't a scene thrown in to entertain or to regain the focus of people who might been dozing of. What I also like about these older movies is looking at it in its time period. What did they have back than what they don't have now any more and vice versa. It's a nice trip back into the time, a piece of history. Granted the ending was a bit silly with the photographing Asian guy (a bit stereotypical) but that the mystery remains of what the baby looks like is certainly a good thing. "},{"Title":"Un-Immaculate Conception","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" One of the all-time, classic thrillers of American cinema. It's, as many people have said in passing in regards to the film, the un-immaculate conception of the Antichrist on an innocent married woman. But the story isn't that simple. The great director, Roman Polanski, keeps you second guessing yourself the whole time. Is it all the work of witch craft? or is Rosemary just crazy? Was her visit from the devil just a dream? or did it really happen? You're left on edge, until the very end, when it all tragically makes sense. Polanski's direction is startlingly good. The dream sequence is nearly the best scene in the whole picture. It demonstrates Polanski merging his avant-garde roots within his first contemporary American film. Such creepy fun. "},{"Title":"Classic horror","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A classic horror movie. Those are words you don't hear often, because horror movies are generally dime-a-dozen formulaic crap. However, with Rosemary's Baby Roman Polanski crafts a slow-burning, horror-as- undercurrent, drama that defines how horror movies should be made.Polanski's script is subtle and his direction even more clever. The movie starts slowly, and very innocuously, but you can sense the gathering momentum and evil. The final scene brings everything together, and justifies the horror tag.Great performance by Mia Farrow in the lead role. John Cassavetes gives good support as Rosemary's husband. Ruth Gordon almost steals the show as the elderly, seemingly-innocent, neighbour. She well deserved her Best Supporting Actress Oscar. "},{"Title":"A Classic Horror Movie","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I had seen Ira Levin's 'Stepford Wives' and came across this. It's an excellent little movie with all kinds of horrific elements that keep it thrilling the entire time.Rosemary is the beautiful wife of a not-so-popular actor, Guy. They rent an apartment and meet the old couple living next-door, Minnie and Roman two elderly but helpful people. One day Rosemary discovers she is going to have a baby and finds herself doted on and watched by an assortment of odd friends of the elderly couple, but when her best friend Hutch dies, he leaves her with a little book about witches and she learns the true nature of her pregnancy, suddenly finding herself being hunted down by her husband and her obstetrician.One of the best parts of this film is the Sixties-style soundtrack. The acting was great and the plot was very creepy, also it raises the question, do you really know who your family and friends are when you aren't around? Sadly its sequel and recent 2014 miniseries remake were pretty pathetic, but this one remains a classic, it's a really great movie, especially for its time. "}{"Title":"One of a kind/ Classic according to 1970","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Some important facts before watching it - Rosemary's Baby is a 1968 American psychological horror film written and directed by Roman Polanski, based on the bestselling 1967 novel Rosemary's Baby. @ Today, the film is widely regarded as a classic; the review of Rotten Tomatoes gave the movie a 98% and IMDb 8%. The scene in which Rosemary is raped by Satan was ranked Bravo's 100 Scariest Movie Moments and won so many awards like Bafta, Kansasa city,Academy awards etc. The American Film Institute ranked the film 9th in their 100 Years...100 Thrills list. @ Thirty years after he wrote Rosemary's Baby, Ira Levin wrote Son of Rosemary, a sequel which he dedicated to the film's star, Mia Farrow. Reaction to the book was mixed, but it made the best seller lists nationwide. In January 2014, NBC announced an upcoming four-hour Rosemary's Baby miniseries with Zoe Saldana to portray Rosemary. The miniseries will be filmed in Paris under the direction of Agnieszka Holland. Plot- A young couple move into a new apartment, only to be surrounded by peculiar neighbors and occurrences. When the wife becomes mysteriously pregnant, paranoia over the safety of her unborn child begins controlling her life. "},{"Title":"Watch it","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I wish I had of watched it sooner. I wanted to but never felt in the mood to watch an old, scary movie. Eventually I just put it on. Farrows voice immediately unhinged me with the strange la la la la laa tune. This tune was even more haunting when played during the final credits. What I was expecting to see was not what I saw. I thought I had it all sussed out and thought I was in for a few jumps and creepy noises and ultimately a victory in the end. Eh, no. The music had me on edge throughout, I felt wary of any music at all throughout the film. My initial thoughts were banished as the movie progressed, however, my one critique would be that I wanted it to confuse me. I wanted to be unaware as to who was right and who was imagining the strange goings on. I knew from the start that Rosemary was right so I didn't find this film to be a psychological thriller. It was thrilling but I sort of knew what was coming after a few deaths and a smelly charm. What got me up in arms was the ending, eh what?! No. Fix it. Fix it now. Make a sequel and make it all go away.... Is this where The Omen came from? Why won't these evil children go away in films. . . Farrow is the face of innocence as she tries her best to keep on the right side of everyone. She tiptoes into a dark and evil downfall before she is all but lost. Her shocking deterioration in appearance is almost sickening as you desperately want to get her far away from the strange world she has stumbled upon (and get her some cake). Her desperation becomes heart wrenching as the realisation hits home that she is trapped. Completely and utterly trapped.Cassavetes is completely believable as the desperate, in need of a big break actor. He has the anger and charm perfected in equal measure! When he is charming you almost believe that he is nothing more than a stressed, over-protective husband, unsure of what to do during his wife's first time expecting. Ruth Gorden is superb. She is that real old lady who lives nearby and can't help her interfering nature. Yes you want to tell her to leave but you can't, she just wants the company, you tell yourself. Her rash voice and busy body mannerisms are perfect for her nosy neighbour and devil's aid persona. Blackmer is intriguing. He could be that friendly old grandfather with the gentle demeanour who lives with his overly talkative and irritating wife in the apartment next door, or he could be the son of a witch and has the mischievous twinkle in his eye when he smiles..I wanted slightly more of a psychological maze but I got more than I bargained for so a 8.2 would be fitting for Polinski's great adaption. "},{"Title":"Classic Modern Horror.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Mia Farrow & John Cassavetes play Rosemary & Guy Woodhouse, a young married couple who rent an apartment in a fancy old building with an interesting past. The previous tenant died suddenly, and their new neighbors the Castavets(Ruth Gordon & Sidney Blackmer) are very friendly and gossipy, but things take a dark turn when Guy becomes closer to them than she would like, and when his career takes off, and she finds out she's pregnant, does the increasingly sinister events begin to take hold in her mind as a conspiracy to take possession of her baby...Frightening and extremely well directed shocker by Roman Polanski, based on Ira Levin's novel, creates an effective mood of paranoia and deepening dread, well acted by a fine cast, and leads to an unforgettable end... "},{"Title":"Great Old school Horror","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is a cinematic version of what we believe many births have resulted in during this present day. As the woman should feel happy about the new which she will birth into the world, she is plagued with he child being the son of evil. As I stated just like children born today. Watch in suspense and horror. The build up of negative energy around the happy couple is trumped by their intrusive neighbors. The elderly actors will not allow for personal space that continues to escalate the expectant mother's, Rosemary, depression about her unborn child. The story line is long. Yet the buildup of the climax is worth it. The husband, who we finds out things about later, presents as the typical husband of a hormonal woman. You can see he harbors more in allow the continued intrusiveness. Finally Rosemary gives in. The result is a wonderful horror. It is classic to be cherished as films today only classify as semi-horror. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Unnerving","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" If I had to pick a horror flick that perfectly captures that disturbing feeling of paranoia, then 'Rosemary's Baby' would be a perfect example. It's the type of paranoia of which things are not really what they seem or if you're just thinking way in over your head by creating this make-believe scenario.What I love about this film is that it perfectly captures this despondent atmosphere as the story progresses with the subtle nuances of the music, but to me, I think it mostly boils down to Mia Farrow's performance of Rosemary Woodhouse. She consistently conveys that paranoid feeling and you can feel her emotions when she is dealing with surroundings that are progressively provoking her suspicions, based on her perceptions.And that is basically where the 'horror' of the movie comes from which is the mood and it takes a lot of work just to use that as the only source of causing a feeling of dread in the viewer. It perfectly falls in line with the New Hollywood genre in that it relies on subtle nuances instead of huge melodrama, surprisingly creating something that is far more effective than your average blockbuster affair. There's only some disturbing imagery, but as Rosemary grows more weary of the other characters, you can feel that same dread as well. Other than that, there are no special effects, cheap high volume scares, or fast paced horror, just outstanding performances, especially from Ruth Gordon.Rosemary's Baby is a work of art in that it shines in creating horror that is bare and minimal, yet surprisingly still being able to retain a strong, brooding atmosphere that pulls you in and never lets you go until the end of the movie. 5/5 "},{"Title":"What a horny devil!","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Pretty housewife Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and her husband Guy (John Cassavetes) are over the moon when they secure a spacious new apartment just right for starting a family. Not long after moving in Rosemary suffers a horrific physical assault that leaves her a shadow of her former self she's given a dreadful pixie haircut by Vidal Sassoon that makes her look like a young David Bowie. Oh, and she gets knocked up by Satan as well.Roman Polanski's faithful adaptation of Ira Levin's bestseller Rosemary's Baby is an unmissable treat, a slow-burn classic of the Satanic horror sub-genre that builds inexorably to its chilling climax with class and style, never resorting to cheap scare tactics (which some might find surprising given that producer William Castle is renowned for his schlock horror B-movies).Polanski's approach is all about the foreboding atmosphere and mounting tension, building slowly on the sense of dread first triggered by a potted history of the infamous Bramford Building (given by Rosemary's friend Hutch) with a series of bizarre incidences that eventually have Rosemary believing that her neighbours are witches aiming to steal her as-yet unborn baby. Of course, Rosemary is not far wrong but Polanski cleverly toys with his audience right to the finish, almost having us doubt her sanity towards the end despite all that we have seen.Barring a brief glimpse of a bloody corpse&#x97;a suicide victim who hits the sidewalk with a splat&#x97;the film is totally devoid of gore, but even if you usually prefer your horror drenched in red, this effective chiller still comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Accomplished psychological thriller...","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" French-Polish screenwriter, producer, actor and director Roman Polanski's fifth feature film which he wrote, is an adaptation of a novel from 1967 by American dramatist, author and songwriter Ira Levin (1929-2007). It was shot on locations in Los Angeles and New York City in USA, produced by American producer, actor, director and screenwriter William Castle (1914-1977) and is the second part of Roman Polanski's Apartment Trilogy which was preceded by Repulsion (1965) and succeeded by The Tenant (1976). It tells the story about Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse, a married young couple who despite being told some horrible stories, moves into an apartment building in New York City during the late 1960s called the Bramford. The happy couple who is planning on having a baby gets a bad start when Guy doesn't get the acting part he has been auditioning for, but their luck takes a sudden turn when they meet their neighbors Minnie and Roman Castevet, a lively elder couple who has lived in the apartment house for a long time. Shortly after having befriended Minne and Roman, Guy coincidentally gets the part he auditioned for and Rosemary finds out that she is expecting a child. Life has suddenly improved for the struggling actor and his wife in their new apartment, but as Rosemary's pregnancy evolves, she begins to experience weird dreams that seems to be related to the life that is growing inside her.Distinctly and precisely directed by Roman Polanski, this sharply narrated horror story which was the first feature film Roman Polanski adapted from a novel and his first Hollywood production, draws a somewhat surreal, incisive and disquieting portrayal of a young American woman who after having gotten settled in a new apartment with her husband and become pregnant, begins to question her neighbors overstated consideration, the strange dreams she's been having and eventually her own sanity. While notable for it's naturalistic milieu depictions, ardent production design by American production designer and art director Richard Sylbert (1928-2002), cinematography by American cinematographer, producer and director William A. Fraker (1923-2010), the cogent use of sound and the fine editing by American film editor and director Sam O'Steen (1923-2000) and American film editor Bob Wyman (1931-1998), this character-driven and somewhat theatrical drama which examines themes like marriage, pregnancy, satanism, witchcraft and deception, contains an increasing underlying tension and a great score by Polish composer Krzysztof Komeda (1931-1969).This rhythmic, absurdly humorous and constantly intriguing mystery which is set in New York City in 1966 depicts a condensed study of character about an alienated and deceived woman. This foreboding and atmospheric independent film which has some strange characters, including The Dakota apartment house where most of the story takes place, is impelled and reinforced by it's quick-witted dialog, rigorous narrative structure and the empathic and engaging acting performances by American actress and singer Mia Farrow, American actor, screenwriter and filmmaker John Cassavetes (1929-1989), American actress and writer Ruth Gordon (1896-1985) and American actor Sidney Blackmer (1895-1973). A memorable and accomplished psychological thriller which gained, among other awards, the Prix Léon Moussinac for Best Foreign Language Film at the French Syndicate of Cinema Critics Awards in 1970, the Fotogramas de Plata Award for Best Foreign Movie Performer Mia Farrow at the Fotogramas de Plata Awards in 1969 and the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress Ruth Gordon at the 41st Academy Awards in 1969. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's baby is a very good movie but had some wake points.Mis farrow is wonderful here.The movie started with the scene that Woodhouse is looking for an apartment and the liked it. then they rented that and rosemary met girl who was adopted by a couple named Castavet.the rosemary see a girl whose name is Terry.viewers have no idea that what's going to happen.then we saw that Terry die and we don't know how she died.Then the Castavet's family who are so strange arrived.then the Catavets and Woohouses see each other repeatedly.we saw that Woodhouse are going to have baby but before having sex rosemary drank something and got dizzy and went to bed then his husband had sex with her but while they had sex she had hallucinations then castavets with their controversial behavior and rosemary doubted that if they are honest or not she even doubted about her husband.she talked to Huch 'her friend' and gave her a book that was about witches.the movie ends while rosemery had a strange baby who they said that it's a Satan's baby.director didn't show rosemary's baby while they talked about him so we couldn't understand what goes wrong with him. "},{"Title":"Still a classic!","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby may have been released over 40 years ago, but I can still see why it is considered a classic horror film. For me it is definitely a classic, containing all the usual horror clichés (family moves house, hears haunted stories, woman goes crazy and runs round with a knife etc etc)but with added twists and interests, through the form of artistic dreamlike sequences that even Dali would be proud of. I think this definitely saved it from becoming boring; it was a very long film and, for me, seemed to take a while to build up to a climax, had it not been for these surreal moments pulling me back in.Polanski's use of direction and editing cleverly built up the tension and foreshadowed the traumatic events ahead. He used slow tracking of the camera forward and backwards to create suspense, as well as a lot of close ups, and there was a lot of the usual high pitched tense music that no horror film would ever be the same without. I also noticed a discreet ticking noise in the background every now and then, subtly creating suspense. Every scene featured Rosemary, the title character, meaning the audience was always on her side, which I think is very clever.Although I may have been 40 years late in seeing this film, I'm glad I did. Everyone loves a classic horror and I think Polanski did a fantastic job. It may be long but if you keep with it I guarantee you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Rosemarie's Baby","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A comical yet suspenseful movie that makes you want to keep your eyes closed is what Roman Polanski achieves through Rosemarie's Baby. In this comical thriller Roman Polanski has Hollywood starlet and Frank Sinatra's wife, Mia Farrow play a young wife who comes to live in New York City with her husband Guy (John Cassavetes). They move into the Bradford, a luxury apartment based community. While there they meet Minnie and Roman Castavet a very odd couple that wear some intriguing outfits which easily conceal their inner personalities. Rosemarie (Mia Farrow) doesn't want to become too attached to the Castavets because she hears chants from their suite. However, Guy becomes attached to the Castavets after a dinner, then SURPRISE all of a suddenly Guy starts to have major breakthroughs with his acting career. Later on Rosemary becomes pregnant after a mousse-provoked nightmare of being, the Castavets and their friends start taking good care of Rosemarie. Now most of us know that during a pregnancy the wife and maybe the husband gain weight. Weirdly enough, Rosemarie has the exact opposite difference and starts feeling pain and loses weight. We witness Rosemarie's life becoming a roller-coaster. She becomes confused and the only person she can fully trust is dead. As the film unravels Rosemarie becomes paranoid, attempts murder, and then she finally succumbs. This masterpiece leaves the viewer to their own grotesque imagination and paranoia. It makes you want to close your eyes and release a pathetic laugh at the same time. "}{"Title":"A True Thriller","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched this film in class for my German minor requirement, and it definitely exceeded my expectation of the intensiveness of this class. The theme of Faust is quite vague in this film. However, the ambiguity of the director's view towards Satanism and Catholic makes the film less comprehensive but more interesting, as the story of Rosemarie's pregnancy unfolds. I will recommend this film to those who are interested in thrillers but are afraid of blood or corpses. This film does not contain any, however, will make you, very afraid. I do not understand why a review has to contain at least 10 lines, since I think this is a free country where people can write as long, or, as short as they want. But I will follow the community guidelines. "},{"Title":"pretense of reason","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Drawing upon a feminine sense of horror, the film adopted the axiomatic horror film principle never trust intimacy. The betrayal was conducted by Rosemary's husband in pursuing personal fame, while the completion of this Faustian Pact thoroughly destroyed the intimacy displayed from the beginning of the film. This typical element of contemporary horror/detective films was remarkable under Polanski's direction hitherto, for it directly attacked the pretension of an age of innocence, in which the feminine sensitivity of truth should not only not be deserted, but trusted by themselves. A fascinating demonstration against the cult of truthfulness and the pretense of reason. "},{"Title":"A Truly Horrifying Horror Movie","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" An hour in and the viewer is wondering when this classic horror film is going to get scary. Even the infamous dream sequence, i.e. the climax of the movie, does not instill the fear of God in the viewer the way the bathroom scene of The Shining does. But it is this covertness that makes the film so creepy. There is nothing popping out at you, nothing even obviously scary. You never see the evil nature of the coven members; in fact, they seem good-natured always treating Rosemary with care and politeness, even when she confronts them with a knife in fist and yet they manage to steal away her first-born child. It's easy to make the disconnect when monsters and murders are involved; we don't see these things on a daily basis so why relate to them? We do however see nice but annoying old people and domineering husbands with Donna Reed type wives. With its element of paranoia Rosemary's Baby is the precursor to the psychological thrillers of today but without the twist ending of a character being clinically insane. Rosemary's situation is real, just as it seems, and that's what is so disturbing. We cannot write the story off as being imagined so it sits with us long after the credits. The illusion of reality never seems like a pretense, never seems like a basis of suspense but Polanski manages to deconstruct it right beneath our feet. "},{"Title":"He who doubts the pope must be the devil","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Is God dead? asks the cover of the Time Magazin Rosemary is holding in her hands while she's waiting for the doctor. And really, this question is the undertone of the whole film. Other reviewers mentioned the biblical references in the movie, so I don't need to get into that.But what is if God's dead? Of course, Satan will rule the earth according to Mr. Polanski. The nice old couple next door is taking the holiness of the pope in question? Well of course they do, cause they are evil witches serving the Beelzebub. Because there's nothing in between, there's just black and white. If we stop believing in God and Christianity, Rosemary's Baby will show us what we get.So one might call this a fundamentalist masterpiece. It's true horror not because there's gore or in my mind maddening suspense but because it deconstructs an idyll. A young couple moves in a new apartment wishing to multiply. As Polanski said himself, the film basically starts out like a Doris-Day-flick, but boy doesn't it end that way. The slow pacing, the creepy undertone behind the pretense of normality and the great acting, especially by Mrs. Gordon, make this a masterpiece that contradicts almost everything that passes as horror these days. If you notice a simple cheap effect in this, give me a call.Of course there's an enormous gab between the subtle ton of the film and its loutish message. But I guess that's what effective propaganda is all about. Relucantly acknowledging 8 out of 10 stars for my money. "},{"Title":"The father, The son and the Holy Spirit","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The film start's in a peaceful way, hence given us the impression of a mainstream love story. Gradually, the plot evolves to the more darker aspects of Polanski's state of mind.Polanski, in his best horror apartment trilogy (Repulsion and The Tenant) film shows us the young and beautiful couple (Farrow and Cassavetes)and their relationship with the next door neighbours, an old, childless and tend to be neurotic, the Castevets (Gordon and Blackmer) intrude to the young couple life and give us a somber essence to life in the heartbeat of every metropolin lifestyle. As much as the movie continue we can feel the suspense in the air through Farrow magnificent performance that enable us to experience a good horror movie from a fine director. A must see movie! "},{"Title":"Polanksi's Masterpiece? Maybe...","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" 'Rosemary's Baby' (1968) was master director Roman Polanski's first American film and is a thriller/horror based on Ira Levin's novel of the same name. The film follows Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) as she moves into apartment 7-E in New York City with her actor husband Guy (John Cassavetes). After making friends with elderly couple Minnie (Ruth Gordon) and Roman Castevet (Sidney Blackmer) who also live in the building, Rosemary falls pregnant, to the delight of many. However, as Rosemary's health begins to deteriorate during pregnancy she starts to become suspicious about the actions and behaviour of those around her.Staying extremely true to Ira Levin's novel, Polanski has created a slick, smart thriller that is, at times, genuinely terrifying as we follow the tale of the beautiful and perfectly cast Mia Farrow as she strives to protect her unborn child. Ruth Gordon, gives an Oscar winning performance as the nosy Minnie, and while you become more and more concerned about the safety of Rosemary as the film progresses, there are still genuine funny moments to be had, a credit to Polanski's script and Mia Farrow's timing. Right now I am still debating whether to give it a 7 or 8, as there are certainly problems I have with it. Most notably I felt John Cassavetes was not as convincing as the other 3 main cast members, which lets down the story slightly as he is integral to the final scenes. I am however to give it the latter score, mostly because I saw this film having been given a full description of the film and its climax beforehand, which, undoubtedly lessened the impact. Overall, 'Rosemary's Baby' is a must-watch, as it shows how true terror can be created without the need of blood and gore, a feat that horror/thriller directors of today have struggled to achieve. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Horror Movie","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is a brooding, perfect film, filled with the sense of unthinkable danger and horror and thought one of the most successful of its kind. The brilliance of the film is that it takes this realistic basis and builds on it with supernatural metaphors that make pregnancy a rich and strange condition. I think this is a very powerful, and really strange, horror movie. Every horror fan who loves such kind of films should see this film at least once. This film is a horror classic tells the story of a young woman who is manipulated by her husband and neighbors until she carries Satan's baby. These films reinforce the concept that evil is inherently outside of us. It nameable, definable, and recognizable, rather than extreme result of human stupidity. In such movies, these films demonize sex and science. All of these themes are present in this film. The film is really well-planned. Rosemary throughout the film allows her doubts to be our doubts, her suspicions ours, and ultimately her horrors ours. The clues are so well-placed that we can't be entirely sure who to trust until the evidence helps us to do. Her performance is incredible, as she embodies this character with a commitment that we rarely see these days. The way that Rosemary's Baby exposes male dominance over women's reproductive systems certainly puts it in that canon. and Mia Farrow's soft, high-pitched voice and vulnerable performance make her character's rape, both literally, physically, and emotionally. This is a fantastic film, but it as everyone think this film culturally performs in dangerous and insidious ways. Throughout the film, you sometimes feel confused but as the events grow, you begin to understand what is going on in the film. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror and thrilling movie","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The movie is a masterpiece in the category of horror and thrilling movies. The film made me excited from the begging. When I was watching, I always tried to figure out what would be happen in the end of the movie and I think everybody who watches the movie did it, too. After I had watched the film, I searched it from the Wikipedia and I realize that it is originally based on a book which is published in 1967. I think the leading actress Mia Farrow, called as Rosemary Woodhouse in the movie, acted successfully and makes me satisfied with her acting. And the other thing is that the sound of the movie affected me deeply. So, I think one of the reasons that the movie influence audience is its awesome sound.The movie centers on Rosemary Woodhouse whose husband is a struggling actor. This young couple move into the Bramford which is mentioned that there was a disturbing history involving witchcraft and murder. In spite of this rumor, they determine to stay there. After they move, they are welcomed by Minnie and Roman Castevet, an eccentric elderly couple. Rosemary finds them strange and absurd, but Guy is happy with being them and frequent visits them. Rosemary has wanted a children but her husband thinks that it is early for this responsibility. And he tells to Rosemary that they will make children after he is more established. After receiving a warning from a friend, who also becomes mysteriously ill, Rosemary investigates and confirms that her neighbors are the leaders of a coven of witches, and she suspects they are after her child to use it as a sacrifice to the Devil. However, she is unable to convince anyone else to believe or help her and soon becomes certain that there is no one actually on her side, not even her own husband. She is wrong about the coven's reason for wanting the baby, but the truth is even more horrific than she imagined. "},{"Title":"A misery between real and imagination","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" From the beginning of the movie to the end, it is a kind of movie that you can watch it curiously and emotionally. When you start to watch the movie, you may think it is like just another movies that make itself ordinary. But the scenes in the movie were successfully filmed and got me to the different thoughts in every second of it. Content of the movie is mostly related to a drama and a mystery. Rosemary and Guy who are a happy young couple look for a flat and they move into a flat that Rosemary likes. After moving into the flat, they meet their neighbors who are a old couple. Although Rosemary likes them, she has suspicious thoughts about them. After a while, one night Rosemary has a scaring dream that evil rapes her and she gets pregnant at that night. She learns her pregnancy when she goes to Dr. Hill. They tells the old couple this happy news, but they advice another doctor. The other doctor recommend a mixture to drink. Minnie of the old couple prepares it for Rosemary. But Rosemary has pain more, the doctor says to her that pain is temporary and stay strong. Later, she research her pain's and things' going wrong reasons and realizes her husband makes a deal with the witches and her baby will be given to them. After baby is born, they says the baby dies but it is a lie. Rosemary finds her baby in the neighbors' flat. They says her baby is the son of the evil. At the end of the movie,it can be understood the movie is really mysterious. I can say only thing, it is worth to watch. "},{"Title":"it is very good","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I do not have any idea about the movie but I saw Polanski's name, I think who is the best director, I say I must watch this movie.Then I watched the movie it was some times very boring and dark.It was adapted from Ira Levin's novel.Maybe it was not good adapted from novel. So what is happening in this film? Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse move to a new apartment. Their neighbors are Roman and Minnie Castevet, an elderly couple.They are very friendly but there is something strange things about them - the sounds that come from their apartment.Rosemary tries to keep a certain distance from them, Guy is very fond of their relationship and especially Minnie becomes more and more annoying, especially when Rosemary says she is pregnant she recommends her another gynecologist's and mixes a herbal drink for her every day. The pregnancy, however, develops rather unpleasant.It happens many strange things Rosemary keeps feeling pain in her stomach and she becomes thinner and their friend 'Pregnant women are supposed to gain, not lose weight. And when the pain doesn't stop after several months, she begins to believe that her neighbors, her gynecologist's and even her husband plotted against her and want to harm the baby. Film shows a stereotype of devil it describes scary face, dark and messy.It is also restricted my imagination.It is not horror film it is a triller movie.Roman Polanski conveys the audience the tension actually that sometimes you feel you are in the movie.After the pregnancy Rosemarry's (Mia Farrow) physical appearance changes very strangely especially when she has cut her hair..Mia Forrow performance was very good she acted perfectly lonely and deserted women.The ending is very good.I think not showing the baby is very good choice.Rosemarry's reaction is remarkable that she accepts the son of Satan and she loves him her whole life although everybody don not believe her.In conclusion this movie is worth watching. "}{"Title":"Mystery is what I like!","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This film was quite beautiful. In fact, it is the best old movie I've ever watched. In my opinion old movies are not worth to watch. But this is quite different. Some scenes made me excited and some scenes made me upset. Also, its mystery was a breath taking thing. Plot was quite good. There was a woman named Rosemary and she was pregnant. She was married with a man named guy. They are happy with their marriages. This film also shows marriage relation. In the beginning I suspected old couple that are neighbor of Rosemary. That turned out to be true. They were some kind of witches. She was used for satanic rituals.what I didn't like in this film is that when Rosemary learns what happens, she goes to Dr.Hill. Going to the police or her family town would be more reasonable. And the other thing, she didn't realize anything when she lost too weight. And she didn't realize anything until she read the book. Furthermore, I was excited when Rosemary started to do some research about what was going on. I was curious whether she could find or not. she found but it was late. The ending was so bad. There was no sign about what happened when Rosemary found her baby. Did she attend the group or what? Divorcing her husband and leaving the city with her baby would be a good end. I suppose this movie is useful because it shows old times, old people, old houses etc. While watching, it takes us to 1960s.I was thrilled, I was excited and I saw that the people around us even our partner may have two faces. Not suspecting everyone but being careful is important I think. Thats what I have learned from the Rosemary' Baby.. "},{"Title":"rosemary's baby","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The song at the beginning of the movie evidences that something mysterious will happen, but not frightening. Therefore, I do not agree with the statement that ıt is a horror movie. And also I found the acting a bit lacking for such a scenario. Even though the plot includes many emotions and thoughts, some parts, requiring a bit greater acting, is a kind of failure.No matter how many faults the movie has, the fiction is still one of the best. If you do not have any information about the film, you can expect a movie depicting a happy family with their baby. And when I started to watch it, I also expected something more normal. But during the movie, the clues help you to figure out what will happen. The house, the old couple, being blind of Guy's colleague, the death of old couples daughter, their friend's (Hutch) death, and then some troubles even a pregnancy may not include These are the clues that help us to find out what will happen. A statement like even though it was made in 1968,...  is only an excuse.It is because humankind is always the same humankind. All the people have been sharing the same feelings for ages. So the movie is very successful in portraying anxiety, suspect, duplicity, mercy, and many more. You can be mixed up with your ideas, for example, you can think Rosemary is really getting mad, and she is just making up absurd stories, or you can really be aware of everything and whisper Rosemary! Hutch is right. or Poor Hutch, he couldn't tell everything, if so happened, Rosemary would be free now. Yes, the movie urges us to think like that. As I said before, the movie is very successful in depicting, so we can even find ourselves thinking and justifying Rosemary's behavior right. Or we may find ourselves saying that even it is for an unbelievable creature, it is still maternal instinct. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" At first sight movie seems very ordinary and conventional, but after watching for a while, it is easily noticed that it has a very different topic. It is really an interesting movie and I watch it curiously and excitedly. At the beginning of the movie, a young couple whose names are Rosemary and Guy look for a new flat to move into and they find one which Rosemary likes very much. They move into this flat and meet their neighbors, an old couple, whose names are Roman and Minnie. Rosemary finds Minnie strange and funny and Guy gets on well with Roman, but Rosemary is little uncomfortable about their neighbors. One night, Rosemary has a different and terrifying dream, and she becomes pregnant at this night. After a while, she goes to Dr. Hill and she learns that she is pregnant. Rosemary and Guy share this news with Roman and Minnie, and they recommend a different doctor who is their friend and very famous. Her new doctor does not give her vitamins and pills, and instead of these he says she should drink a mixture which is prepared by Minnie. Rosemary has pain and Dr. Sapirstein always says it disappears coming soon. Later, thanks to her friend, Hutch, she realizes that some things do not go right, and she starts to research. After researches, she realizes that her husband makes a deal with witches and he will give their baby to them. She tries to escape, but Guy and Dr. Sapirstein find her and take her home. After baby is born, they tell her that baby dies, but she does not believe them and finds her baby in Roman and Minnie's flat. She looks baby, and his eyes are very different. Witches say he is son of devil, and she sits and starts to cry. At the end of the movie, when baby starts to cry, she cannot wait for his crying and gets near to baby. This is really different and effective horror movie. It has a mystic topic, and I advise it everybody loving watching different and impressive movies. "},{"Title":"whose baby?","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby and I think it is one of the best horror films I have ever watched. It has well organized subject that may attract anyone else watched this movie. When we look at 1960s'movies, we should put this movie apart from the others. As Rosemary's Baby's images and musics are perfect.While watching the movie;I ,as a female,put myself in Rosemary's shoes. I understood her very well,because being a mother only special to women.When we think about Rosemary's husband named Guy,he sold his upcoming child for his career. He did not challenge for his wife and baby. The point that we should understand here is not to trust even your wife or husband. Guy preferred to believe in people who live in his apartment instead of his wife. I want to mention another topic about the movie,Rosemary's Baby.While watching the movie,spectators like me,notice that there is not blood that generally used in horror films.Also the film does not contain violence like the other horror films. One of the most marked points in the movie is that the wicked characters of the movie are not scary face as usual.On the contrary they have kind words and a smiling face.In recent days'films have also bad characters.They can be easily realized that they are really bad.For instance; Rosemary's neighbors Minnie and Roman are seen very helpful,very kind and generous people.So they managed to affect Rosemary and especially his husband,Guy.Guy believed them easily but not Rosemary.To sum up, the film is very nice as a whole.However I expected the ending a bit different from the real.I was not shocked because the film did not finished as I supposed to.The film should shock the viewers at the ending part as they want to know whether all these things is genuine or just a Rosemary's dream. I recommend this movie to be watched by everyone. It has its'own history. "},{"Title":"anything","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" first of all, the movie was impressive. i think a lot of people liked it. for example my classmates loved it. but when we review,the bargain guy makes involves Rosemary's Baby.unfortunately for the viewer,we see very little of people acting strangely.there are very little indications of this in the movie.i watched to the end,hoping there would be a pay off that would have made it worth watching and explain some things.maybe tie up some loose ends.there is a scene toward the end,involving a group of people,which instead of having an impact,was laughable,with pathetic acting.the ending was anti climatic,but then so was the entire movie.there was actually a pay off,and that was end credits finally rolling.i can't tell you how disappointed i was with this effort.this movie came out in 1968 and i thought it might have been in the same vein as The Omen,which came out 8 years later.and roles of course, there are good supporting roles, but another performer who stands out is RALPH BELLAMY as the doctor Rosemary confides in when she begins to suspect things are wrong.f you can accept that, and watch this movie, then maybe you will see why this movie is a cult favorite among many horror movie buffs. and you can watch this film for fun or you can watch Exorcist D "},{"Title":"the movie is about to one women and her baby she is expecting","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" First of all I should say that I don't like horror movies because they always give me horrible nightmares. That is why I usually avoid from watching horror movies. However this time I had to watch Rosemary's Baby because we watched it at the school for listening and pronunciation lesson. I shut my eyes at some scenes and my instructor blurred one scene. However I was able to watch most of the movie and I found it nice, to my surprise. While we were watching the movie, one of my friends said that she had read the book of the movie but the ending was different from what she said us. It made the end surprising for me although the plot was predictable.According to my opinion this movie is about the unreliability of people and that the true self of people is how different from their appearance. Although I have met with similar plots before, I found the plot creative and intriguing. The ending was sudden and weird. I think I expected a different ending, maybe something is more usual. I found the acting successful especially Ruth Gordon's. In my opinion she deserved the Oscar which she was given. I think I am going to remember Mia Farrow's desperate face for a long time.The music was good in a way that frightened me who prefer to watch movies while the sound is off and read the subtitles. Especially the lullaby which plays at the beginning and end of the movie made me think that something bad and mysterious was going to happen in this movie. I also liked the poster which was suitable for the atmosphere of the movie. All in all do not marry to an ambitious person and rent an apartment in an infamous building just in case you found yourself in Rosemary's pitiful position. "},{"Title":"busra soyleyici","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It is a horror film which was directed by Roman Polanski.In fact , Rosemary's baby is a 1967 best selling horror novel by Ira Levin.According to me , Roman Polanski is a successful director.His first known film is  Knife in The Water .But the doors of Hollywood open with his film Rosemary's Baby .This film creates an air of dread which points jinxes.The film is centered on Rosemary Woodhouse.She and her husband ,Guy , moves into an apartment building .Her husband is not so famous to earn enough money for them , but their new city will create so many problems for them .Altough they still don't realize the real danger , everything happens in quick time.They are surrounded by the church of Satan.Their old friends from apartment are witches.They convince rosemary's husband to have rosemary on.Rosemary's husband finds a work with the help of the witches .but they want a baby from Guy in return for this help. so after he accepts this offer , he try to make bad things to rosemary . After the time passes , everything is organized by her husband and her old friends from apartment.They plan a night between the Satan and rosemary .after this night , rosemary falls pregnant.After this event , rosemary doubts about the events which happens a night before.but she cant find a clue about it .at first , she asks about it to her old friend. The Satan group kills her friend and rosemary feels herself as if she is in a trap but whatever she does , she cant find the way out.Finally she has to have the baby. Although it is the baby of the Satan , she has to get used to it.because she has never a baby before this baby. and film ends like that. in fact it is said a horror film but i did not feel frightened.Because generally when it is said horrow film  you expect that u will feel very scared but in this film , as ı said before ı didn't feel scared.and ı want to mention about some parts of the movie , for example , i was very angry with the doctor which rosemary wanted help at the end of the movie. The film can be interpreted as a simple horror film at first sight , but it is my opinion that you can not always guess what will happen next. "},{"Title":".. the moment that breaks my heart is Guy helping Rosemary to bed after the poison dessert and she falls in the hallway.","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched Rosemary's Baby film in the listening and pronunciation lesson the instructor of which is Mustafa Tekin for the first time. The director Roman Polanski's most famous film The Rosemary's Baby is one of the most effective horror films ever made. This really is a creepy little film and well worth a watch even now. It is disturbing, thought provoking, and incredibly well written movie and it is a good example of horror done for the sake of story rather than a few simple scares. It has a terrific cast, and amazing story. This movie is a horror classic which tells the story of a young woman who is manipulated and subjugated by her husband and ultra-creepy neighbors until she carries Satan's baby to term. The final scene is one of the more disturbing in any film and there is not a true hero, leaving the world in doubt which is rare for a film like this. Furthermore, it was directed brilliantly for optimum suspense. Although it was made in 1968, scenes of films are very effective. For example; the moment that breaks my heart is Guy helping Rosemary to bed after the poison dessert and she falls in the hallway. It is the most dramatic and effective scene of the film for me. In addition to these, families should keep their children away this scary classic movie. Because this film deals with pregnancy and adult sexuality. The characters practice satanic rituals, make bargains with the devil, drink alcohol. If you have not watched Rosemary's Baby, you should watch it right away. This film should be watched. Do not ask me why I should watch this movie. Just watch that ending though and you will understand why it is worth watching. I am sure that you will like it! "},{"Title":"A 'must see' for cultural enrichment","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's baby is definitely a movie that fits in my list of 'good movies'. Even though horror and mystery are not my favorite genres. And I don't like open or semi-open endings.The actors did well. Most of the time, I don't like the acting in old movies. Because it just looks fake to me. But in this movie I could follow the acting very well. The lead role was portrayed by Mia Farrow. I have to say that I don't like this type of women in real life. This is my personal opinion, of course. Her way of communicating with others is so childlike. But I guess that was the role she played. She was a fragile woman. She almost never left her apartment, and when she did, she looked very vulnerable.The old neighbors were played by some good actors. Their behavior was very stereotype. But I can appreciate it. It was fun to compare them to my own grandparents. The little quarrels they had and the habit of giving a lot of food to people and visitors.The plot was well thought of! It was always a bit mysterious and there was that certain tension that you get when watching horror movies. You can feel that Polanski, who made the film, has a dark kind of humor. There is a lot of cynicism in the movie and also paranoia is a very important aspect. Not that it would be wrong to be paranoid in Rosemary's situation.The movie gives a good view of the lessening popularity of the church during the sixties. Not much people really believed in the church. Rosemary was one of the few people who kept loyal to the church and to God. This makes a big contrast with her husband and the neighbors, who make jokes about the pope.At first I thought the movie was non-fiction. I thought that the neighbors were just part of a sect that believed in Satan. I was really surprised that it was fiction after all. Especially at the very end. But even then, in a certain way you can still look at it as non-fiction.The scenes in the movie were chosen very well. There was variation in locations, different kinds of light, and movie techniques&#x85; This makes everything a lot more interesting. Also the music suited the movie, which is very important, especially for horror and mystery. Music or the absence of it makes a big difference in the atmosphere.I can conclude that this movie is worth to be seen. Even if this genre is not your style. It is definitely a 'must see' for cultural enrichment. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" İt's very interesting film, with its topic and events acted in movie. Also, the acting efficiency of actors is perfect. While watching this work, I easily imagined myself in the screenplay, I felt pessimistic, scared and curious about the subsequent events. I think it's the result of the actors' fantastic acting performance. Furthermore; passages are prepared carefully, anyone watching movie doesn't able to predict what's going to be in movie and waits the next scene. With these aspects, Rosemary's Baby is really a successful drama, horror and mystery movie. If we talk it's another aspects, the characters in the movie are good organized so, roles are generally comprehensible. Besides, the feelings of Rosemary and Guy can easily be sensed. You can feel desperately sad as if you were the parents of the baby. Roles are generally understandable but I think some scenes can be eliminated, in these eliminative scenes I was bored and these parts can be seen as really complex scenes. Other than this complexity, movie begins in slow pace, and you start to identify the characters. After this identifying process movie becomes to be interesting and mysterious, from this part on you cannot be distracted, you totally focus on the events. During this passionately watching period, facts are started to shown and they surprise the viewer. Then, on the movie finale, all facts are clarified. I can frankly say that the ending of the film is terrific. Finally, no matter how old the film is, with its plot and all the things it makes feel it can be figured out that Rosemary's Baby is really fantastic movie. Also it is on the top 250 list of Internet Movie Database and I think it is one of the most worth watching films. "}{"Title":"shpitspingboya","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This film is great... until the end.I love the fact you never really know whats going on. even when you watch the film again, your questioning everything and everyone.But the ending... for me, ruined the film. maybe because I didn't watch it until 2008 and by then i expected more.I do wish i was around when this first came out so i could see the reaction of people, maybe it was shocking at the time, but unlike other films of its time, that 'shock' now seems dated and unforfilling to todays audience.still a great film, and i hope its never remade. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's baby","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is one of the masters of twentieth century suspense and it is described as a product of the counter-cultural movement during the Vietnam War in the 1960's, a time when The Establishment were viewed with suspicion and hostility. During this time, the largest movement of modern satanism start.The director Instead of use blood and violence to scare audiences he uses genuine psychological tension. It is the differences between Rosemary's Baby and other horror films. The cast is fantastic for example Mia Farrow who play a leading role was ideal.she has got delicate beauty. She kept Rosemary's emotions and thoughts right on her face so we know what she's thinking at all times and we can actually join her emotionally in her desperate fight to save her baby from the witches. I think what makes this movie scary is the fact that all these terrible things are happening to such an innocent, hopeless character Rosamary.If needed to explain,Rosemary(Mia Farrow) and her husband Guy (John Cassavetes) move to an apartment but they have strange neighbours Roman ( Ruth Gordon) and Minnie Castevet( Sidney Blackmer) they seem to be very good person even though pull a trick to Rosemary . Guy likes them and spends a lot of time with them whereas Rosemary does not like them . When Rosemary become pregnant everything start to get strange.She begin to suffer and she start to understand something is wrong about her baby. But couldn't to anything because of her husband.After getting a a book which is called all of them are witches then she realize the deal between her husband and the elderly neighbours about the baby. İnspite of her struggle, she couldn't escape from the witches. And she gave birth to her weird, Satan baby accepting the baby as her child. All in all the movie is interesting but some scenes are distracting and hard to follow. At the same time it is gripping. "},{"Title":"Effectively unsettling","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I've always thought that horror films work best when we aren't fed all the details. Spielberg did it in 'Jaws' - we never really saw the shark until the end, but we still held our breath as we heard John Williams' chilling score when someone was in the water. We don't have to see something in order to be frightened of it. Don't get me wrong - I love a good slasher film, but they don't affect me as much as psychological horror films. In most slasher films, we get used to the killer's technique; we know when they are about to claim another victim. A film like 'Rosemary's Baby' shows us that murders aren't necessary to provoke fear from an audience. Rather, we learn that mystery is the source of fear the things that we can't see, or don't know about.Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse (Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes) are a young couple who move into a New York apartment building, with plans to start a family. Their neighbours are Minnie and Roman Castevet, an elderly couple who are strangely fascinated by Rosemary and Guy. They are nosy and a bit stubborn, however they seem like very kind and generous people on the whole. They are not without their eccentricities; for example, Minnie gives Rosemary a 'charm necklace', which contains a mysterious herb known as 'tannis root'.After Rosemary falls pregnant, the film takes a rather ominous turn. Rosemary unusually loses some weight, experiences sharp pains in her abdomen and develops a taste for raw meat. It becomes clear that Guy and Rosemary are having some marriage problems, and we are led to believe that this is because Guy is struggling with his career as an actor. The Castevets become increasingly concerned with the progress of Rosemary's pregnancy. There is an extremely disturbing rape scene which occurs within a dream, whereby it looks like Polanski experimented with surrealism, as if he filmed a scene out of a Dali painting, and added his own sinister touches to it .Polanski does an outstanding job at creating an uneasy atmosphere for the audience. Rosemary's complexion becomes rather pale, as does the film's colour palette. Rosemary no longer wears the bright, pretty dresses she wore before her pregnancy; instead she begins to wear a lot more light blues, whites, greys and browns. One of the most effective devices in a horror film is the 'Me versus the rest' storyline. That is, when one character believes in something, but practically every other character in the film thinks that they are delusional, even though these characters are well-aware of the truth, and are all conspiring against the lone person. A common convention of this plot device is the 'false friend' - the person who you think is there to help the lone person, but is actually 'all in on the act'. Another convention of the device is the 'glimmer of hope' character - the one person who listens to the lone person, who finds some truth in what they are saying, and is of some assistance to the person. Usually, this person will meet some sort of fate throughout the film. 'Rosemary's Baby' is a 'Me versus the rest' film, however not from the beginning, but after Rosemary falls pregnant. Mia Farrow's performance is outstanding. We see a lot of films about the trials and tribulations of motherhood, but not as many about the up-and-down process of pregnancy. Rosemary becomes Polanski's plaything once she falls pregnant. Even as a male, I felt as if I WAS Rosemary, as if I was going through the same harrowing experience as she was. We witness her decline from a beautiful housewife to a paranoid and lonely house...(we begin to get the impression that she isn't married, even though she is).I didn't give this film 10/10, as I thought the ending could have been so much better. The payoff will either shock you, or be exactly as you expected, depending on how you follow the film. I just thought that such a chilling atmosphere was built up, only to be let down by an ending which had me confused over whether I should fear for Rosemary, or whether I should have one big laugh. The film ultimately preaches that a mother's love for her child is unconditional. I admire Polanski for expressing that message in such a daring way. In essence, 'Rosemary's Baby' works because every character is used to their fullest potential, and they don't look like they know they're in a movie. The film plays on our innate fear of the unknown, and doesn't rely on blood and guts or special effects, but rather on a young woman who is fearing for her own wellbeing, as well as that of her unborn child. "},{"Title":"potential alternate ending?","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" i really wouldn't change a thing about the movie.. except for a possible alternate ending that i think could have worked really well to further the film's success. I enjoyed the original ending, however, i thought it would have been really interesting to see Rosemary take action into her own hands and destroy the devil child as opposed to be a pussy and let it slide. What the old witches did was pretty effed up, and it would only be fair for Rosemary to FSU and grab the baby out of the black bassinet and maybe make a run for it, sacrificing her life as well as the demon child's life and possibly jump out the window considering there was no where else to run without someone grabbing her. Great film, great ending.. i just thought that this was a good idea to 'spice' things up! "},{"Title":"The best aspect of Polanski's film is that it is plausible enough to be taken seriously.","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Lured to America to direct the screen version of Rosemary's Baby, a novel by Ira Levin, Roman Polanski took the opportunity to launch himself as a star director in Hollywood. Famous in Europe for his thrillers such as Knife in the Water (1962), Repulsion (1965), and Cul-de-sac (1966), Polanski's work in Rosemary's Baby is hailed by critics as pitch-perfect. The film is also consistently mentioned as one of the scariest horror films of all-time and a horror classic by film magazines and polls.Now, I am not quite favorable with these lavish praises on a film I would classify as a psychological drama rather than horror (in the purest sense of the word). But really, what is horror? What makes a film horrific? Is it scares that make you jump? Or is it the dreadful atmosphere of suspense? Or is it a conceptual idea that chills you? Are these definitions so subjective that it is only right to discount them? Or are they distinct parts that describe an increasingly vague genre?Rosemary's Baby tells the story of Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) who lives with her husband, Guy (John Cassavetes), in a newly bought apartment flat. Guy is a struggling television actor who, to the delight of Rosemary, finally wants a baby. They have an old couple for neighbors who are caring and generous, but their actions become more suspicious over time. Soon, a pregnant Rosemary starts to hallucinate, feels pain in her abdomen, and begins to suspect a cultish plot against her baby, or does she not? The horror comes from elements of Satanism and witchcraft. In a dream sequence halfway into the film, Polanski employs surrealistic images of what I would describe as the ritual raping of the protagonist by the Devil. In the final act, which I will not reveal in its entirety, Satan is hailed. However, it is important to note that Polanski's film is not a glorification of evil, but an inquiry into a person's psychological well-being and self-awareness.Polanski's fine direction allows the film to grow in psychological creepiness, and he does a steady balancing act attempting to suggest supernaturalism while retaining a strong sense of reality. Perhaps the best aspect of Rosemary's Baby, apart from the very faithful adaptation of its source material, is that the film is plausible enough to be taken seriously.The all-round excellent acting by the cast plays a large part in creating believable characters. Farrow, especially, gives us a character whose fears we can relate to. We are with her till the very end, to that famous and ambiguous last scene of her rocking the cradle. What lies inside the cradle is clearly the stuff of nightmares, but Polanski refuses to give us the money shot &#x96; the devil baby &#x96; which makes it all the more scarier by leaving it to our imagination.Generally, Rosemary's Baby is a decent film. But moments of cinematic brilliance that we have come to associate with a skillful director like Polanski are few. I find something lacking overall, of which I can't quite pinpoint. Perhaps it didn't live up to my expectations of a horror masterpiece. Or maybe the feeling of satisfaction was replaced by a sense of queasiness I felt towards its ambiguous ending.In a nutshell, Rosemary's Baby is good but not great. For some reason, it didn't haunt me as much as it did for many others.SCORE 7.5/10 (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved! "},{"Title":"The most skillfully executed Horror Film ever made","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" An incredible film with masterful performances from everyone involved The story, the writing, the acting, the direction, the cinematography, All are of the the highest possible standard. Mia Farrow gives the performance of her career, in fact its one of the best performances by any woman on film. ever. John Cassavettes as her husband is, as always, a class act, but the supporting actors are all at the top of their game too, particularly Ruth Gordon who won an Oscar for her role. But the direction by Poloanski is quite simply a masterclass. The more I watch this movie, the more I find 'moments' that I'd missed that last time round. In short a masterpiece by any standard and proof that a Horror film doesn't have to be cheap with bad acting "},{"Title":"Michael Bay, don't tamper with a classic...","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" At first glance, as a young child I was intrigued by this movie. I had no idea what it was about and by the time I had turned 18 years old, I took great pleasure by buying this movie and watching it for the first time. I must say, I am very impressed by it. Indeed, the film can be a bit slow in some areas. For example, when Rosemary and Guy first move in, you sit waiting, eager for the drama to continue whilst they sit silently eating their dinner. Also, the audience might find the progressing pregnancy in the film to be quite tedious, however, the building tension in the drama was very well done. The rape scene was iconic, however when Rosemary cried, This isn't a dream, this is really happening!, I couldn't help but feel disappointed by her reaction to being raped; not a reaction we would normally have should we be raped by a demon. The ending, however, was worth the wait. The climax in Rosemary's line What have you done to him, you man-n-i-i-i-ia-cs?!, was phenomenal, and even I felt the confession of the baby to be the spawn of the devil to be very shocking. It was absolutely brilliant! When I heard that Michael Bay was considering doing a re-make for this movie, I felt horrified. Indeed, I am very much looking forward to his adaption of 'A Nightmare On Elm Street', but has Bay adapted old horror movies in a very dangerous way? I did love his version of 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre', but the re-make of 'Friday The 13th' was a huge disappointment. It is like asking a director to create a re-make of 'Pulp Fiction'; it just can't be done. So, Michael Bay, it is great that you are trying to regain the hearts of millions of horror fans to creating re-makes of classic horror films, but I think 'Rosemary's baby' is one horror film you can do without adapting, for it is too professional and brilliant to be tampered with. Again, it was a brilliant film which does explore the genre of psychological horror in many aspects, this is truly a horror film for horror fans anywhere "},{"Title":"I heard so much about it until I finally saw it...","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Have you ever heard about a movie so much that sometimes even pretended to have watched it while you haven't yet because you made up your mind to but kept waiting for the right moment. The right moment came at last and I finally watched Rosemary's Baby which to my surprise was a delightful one.I don't consider it a horror specially that I am a huge horror fan but it is definitely a good movie that has to be seen. However, it should be seen way before you have seen The Omen, It's Alive, Grace, and all the movies that came within this same line. Trust me you will be bored if you have seen all these movies and then you do Rosemary's baby unless you paid attention to the smart details inside this movie. The casting of the old neighbors is just brilliant. For me, they're the best element in this movie. The first time Rosemary and her husband are invited to the old couple apartment for dinner, I wondered how would I have reacted if I were in there shoes trying to eat that disgusting food cooked by that old lady... it surely needed lots of guts.The movie is an enjoyable experience because it's original. "},{"Title":"Good, but no masterpiece","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This film led to an different direction than I expected. Not knowing very much about the film , I thought it was going to be extremely dark and eerie. For an horror film, it contains very little horrifying scenes . But saying this, the film instantly grabbed my intention.More of an supernatural thriller, Rosemary baby starts off very much like an soap opera, starting off with an couple finding an apartment, inviting guests for dinner. Nothing particular horrifying so far. But the scene that I see Rosemary baby being known by is the hallucination part. The first scene that makes you feel uncomfortable. No doubt is this the best hallucination I've seen so far in any film. It was chilling and eerie. Not once do you believe Rosemary is safe. Polanski creates the perfect atmosphere. Just like Rosemary, you feel trapped and surrounded by monsters all the way through the film.The acting is top notch. Mia is brilliant as Rosemary and Cassavetes plays the perfect husband. But its Ruth Gordon who shines. At first I found here rather annoying but as the film progresses you come to accept here and enjoy here character , who always liven up the scenes .Even though the film is great is watch , it can come tedious and slow . This mainly because after half an hour, you know who's who . I guessed the ending very early on. Despite all the positives , it not a film which I would want to watch again and again . I could watch it a second time but it not that great. "},{"Title":"They Don't Make 'em Like This Anymore","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It may not be the scariest horror/thriller visually but it definitely leaves you feeling like you can't trust anyone! Any film that changes the way you were feeling after watching is definitely a good film and that's what's missing in modern day horrors. It's all about the gore and the language and misses a real dialogue. Rosemary's Baby has a fantastic storyline and keeps you guessing and wondering right up until the end.I don't really have much else to say about this film because I can't really find anything bad to say about it. The reason I gave it a 9/10 is because it is quite long... In fact sod it it's a perfect film! I just hope they don't re-make it. They will probably make it a crappy 15 and they'll put random swearing in and gore. Overall great film! "}{"Title":"Timeless horror","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski arrived in America with 'Rosemary's Baby', a classic horror (about a woman who fears that a satanic cabal want to steal her as yet unborn child) that relies on no special effects but entirely on the mood of paranoia and suspense it manages to create. The idea of pregnancy as a time of special helplessness is skillfully exploited; the brilliance of the piece is that it avoids commitment as to whether anything supernatural is actually happening. In places, the 1960s-ness of it all makes it a bit hard to watch, but one really only notices this in the scenes that are filler; when the tension rises, the feeling is timeless. Mia Farrow does well as the eponymous ingénue, and while some of the other actors are more wooden (another fine director, John Cassavettes, plays her husband, yet his acting feels as if it belongs from the 50s not the 60s), but it doesn't really matter, so masterfully does Polanski turn the screw. It's an irony that Polanski's wife subsequently died at the hands of a cult; Polanski himself returned, much less convincingly, to Satanic themes with his lame movie of 'The Ninth Gate'. "},{"Title":"Masterwork of suspense and paranoia","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Pregnancy and eventually the bond between mother and child is a powerful thing. Hormones, attachment, sometimes postpartum depression -- even the mystery of what's growing inside -- Roman Polanski channels all these things into storytelling elements of suspense and paranoia in his superbly written Rosemary's Baby.Played by a 22-year-old Mia Farrow, Rosemary is the young wife of a struggling actor (John Cassavetes) who moves into a new apartment house in New York next to some strange old nosy neighbors, Minnie (Ruth Gordon) and Roman (Sidney Blackmer). Under strange circumstances she becomes pregnant and starts to believe there might be some conspiracy surrounding her baby.Rosemary's Baby is not really a horror movie. There are no frightful images, only the illusion that you might see one, which is Polanski's best trick. Its chock-full of suspense and creates the helpless feeling of not knowing what to believe half the time. The French-born and currently exiled director delivers his first big hit with this plodding script that is never too challenging but takes hold of its audience.Farrow as Rosemary is this wonderfully cheery and naive spirit who we see crumble before our eyes as her intuition and gullibility are at odds with each other. She does the first half- Rosemary quite well but shows some room for improvement in the more dramatic half of the film. Ruth Gordon is an effectively irritating scene-stealer, helping build Polanski's slow dramatic momentum by arousing our suspicions early.It's not altogether poignant other than underscoring this precious bond between mother and unborn baby, but the execution of suspense is second to very few other films of its kind. "},{"Title":"A different twist on an old theme","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The story is as old as time itself a man sells his soul to the devil in order to attain the unattainable. One can argue that it's your soul and you can do what you want with it and then it's just you who has to suffer the consequences of your decision.But what makes Rosemary's Baby so disturbing is that a man doesn't sell his own soul, he sells someone else's soul. Guy Woodhouse makes a pact with a coven of witches to have his wife become the mother of the devil's child and in return he becomes a success. He reaps the benefits of the deal he makes, yet it is his wife who suffers for it.Rosemary tries to stop all the things that are happening to her but she is stymied at every turn; the witches' power and scope is too broad and far-reaching. She doesn't know who to trust. Anyone who tries to help her gets struck down. Her husband, who should be the one she can trust the most, turns out to be the one she should trust the least.Once her baby is born she is initially repulsed by its appearance when she realizes who this child really is, but then the oh-so-strong maternal instinct takes over and she sees him only as her child, whom she loves, regardless. It makes you wonder if things might have been different had Rosemary been in on the plot all along.Younger folks today will find all sorts of problems with the story why didn't she just stop drinking that awful stuff? Why didn't she just go to the emergency room? It's easy to make these comments now, 40-some-odd years later, when we have patients' rights and privacy acts and information at our fingertips from webmd.com, but I can tell you that when this film first came out it was very scary. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere of dread","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Like all directors of great thrillers, Roman Polanski understands that our greatest fears rest in the unknown. In Rosemary's Baby he preys on these fears by showcasing the mind of an uneasy young pregnant woman who has just moved into a new apartment full of kooky strangers. Everything around Rosemary appears okay on the surface, but gradually little clues begin to indicate that something more sinister may actually be taking place behind closed doors. Or perhaps it isn't. The scary thing is that Rosemary doesn't really know, and perhaps she can't even trust her own mind.I have heard allusions to Rosemary's Baby for years, so I had some idea of what it was about, but I wasn't really prepared for this film. Most of the terror in this movie lies in what is not seen but only suspected. Rosemary's fears seem justified, but are they? The tension builds as we realize that Rosemary is completely alone and doomed in her struggle against something which is possibly unspeakably evil.I wonder if religious and nonreligious people view this film differently. Well, as a Christian, I could accept the premise as possible and truly revolting. Days after seeing this film, certain scenes still come to mind which make me shudder.As a movie devoid of gore but nevertheless successful in creating an atmosphere of dread, Rosemary's Baby is the most elegant horror film I have ever seen and one of the very best. I can't find a reason to rate it less than a 10. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When people ask me what my two favorite films are, Rosemary's Baby and Carrie always come to mind. The fact that they are both supernatural in subject matter is a coincidence, I love them for other reasons first.RB is a brilliant example of a movie that is so faithful to the novel that it becomes a great work in and of itself. I can't help but think William Castle (the original choice for director) would have done something entirely different with it. Polanski saw the possibility to make something grand and timely out of it, it's practically a detailed time capsule of the year it was made. In a way it represents the cultural upheaval America was going through and the director makes a definite statement, casting senior citizens as evil doers. (He tried it again later with The Tenant, and it doesn't work nearly as well) Rosemary is modern in a naive way, she goes for all the current styles and trends, most notably evident when she redecorates that huge apartment (symbolic of covering over old ways) and the Sassoon hairstyle she gets, which makes her look even more gaunt and drawn as her pregnancy wears on.Polanski specifically wanted familiar old Hollywood actors in the film and drew sketches based on what he thought they should look like. When they showed up, each character actor resembled his sketches in a bizarrely coincidental way. Just the fact that Patsy Kelly and Hope Summers (Clara on the Andy Griffith Show) are both wicked witches along with their Queen Bee, Ruth Gordon, gives it an added depth and contributes to the blackest of humor that runs throughout the film. One of my favorite scenes is when Farrow and Gordon are doing the dishes after dinner. Gordon is asking her innocent questions on the surface, but her intent is pure malice.Farrow was a trooper to say the least. She was served divorce papers on set by Sinatra who hated the idea his little weak waif of a wife was working.The entire thing could have tipped over into camp very easily, but it doesn't. Everyone concerned gives it their all. Somehow Polanski managed to make us believe; we're genuinely terrified for Rosemary in a situation that if looked at objectively, is ridiculous. The end scene, rather than tie everything up in a neat little bow, careens off into a horrible outcome, as if to say You thought the part you saw was bad, just imagine what it's going to be like Brilliant, brilliant film.Among the thousands of tidbits of trivia about the film, I love the one about Tony Curtis being the voice of the actor on the phone that's struck blind. During filming Farrow didn't know who it was on the phone, and Polanski wanted her reaction to be puzzled in trying to recognize it. "},{"Title":"A pretty good, faithful adaptation of the novel","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby, adapted & directed by Roman Polanski, is based on the classic novel of the same name by Ira Levin. In the film, a young couple move into an apartment building and are soon befriended by an elderly couple. However, when Rosemary (Mia Farrow) becomes pregnant and things do not go smoothly she begins to suspect that there may be an evil conspiracy at work.The cast is a pretty good one, including Ruth Gordon in an Oscar-winning supporting role. Personally, I thought that Mia Farrow delivered the best performance and was an inspired choice for the role of Rosemary. The rest of the cast is solid but not really worth remarking upon.Polanski's script sticks pretty closely to the novel both in terms of plot and dialogue. I would have rather had some variation from the novel but I'm sure that others will appreciate the script's faithfulness to the source material. Polanski's direction is ably handled as well though I wouldn't hold this film alongside later efforts like Chinatown & The Pianist. I also have to admit that the score (by Krzysztof Komeda) is memorable, though it isn't quite to my tastes.All in all, I think that this is undeniably a worthwhile horror film but I don't agree with the current top 250 rating. That being said, perhaps I would feel differently if I hadn't already read the very similar (but superior) novel upon which the film is based. "},{"Title":"A child is born","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary Woodhouse and her struggling actor husband Guy move to an apartment locating in New York City.There they have peculiar neighbors, including an elderly couple Roman and Minnie Castavet who seem awfully nice but very nosy.Soon strange things start to happen and Rosemary finds out she's pregnant after she has a dream where a devilish looking creature makes love to her.Roman Polanski is the director of Rosemanry's Baby (1968).He also wrote the screenplay of this movie that's based on Ira Levin's novel.It's a classic horror film with a great cast.Mia Farrow plays Rosemary while John Castavetes is Guy.Their neighbors who could be devil worshippers are played by Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer.Abraham Sapirstein, the doctor they recommend is played by Ralph Bellamy.Charles Grodin plays Dr. C.C.Hill.Phil Leeds is Dr.Shand.Elisha Cook Jr. plays the most sympathetic character in the movie, Mr. Nicklas.The voice of Tony Curtis is heard on the phone as Donald Baumgart.This movie can be pretty scary from time to time.When Rosemary has the dream where she's been begetted by the devil.There's just the right atmosphere that a good horror movie needs. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I have watched this film so many times and never get tired of it. It is a perfectly executed horror film where the best material met the best director. Polanski can suggest menace with just an open doorway and a cloud of cigar smoke. He lets the audience imagine, which is what computerised terrors never do. Mia Farrow was the epitome of vulnerable beauty. Ruth Gorden is malevolent and funny, grotesque but believable , like some awful clucking hen that feeds on human flesh. Of course Polanski was handed a brilliant idea, but he tells the story with such craftsmanship. The supernatural enfolds within an everyday domestic setting but still remains credible. Brilliant. If you have never seen this movie you are in for a treat. As time goes by and we see so many poor horror films, this movie just gets better and better. "},{"Title":"Dramatic Horror","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It scares without being scary.Usually films of the current generation,especially the new breed of Asian horror movies rely on a lot of jump scares,check out two of the best known that is Ju On and Ringu for reference.Here the movie relies more on a gradual buildup of atmosphere and eeriness.The premise is simple,and the film assures that it is not a mind game with the female(a pleasing change from most horror flicks)protagonist,rather its a intricately woven plot by the seemingly urbane witches.The film scores by showing the mental expectation,trauma and later resignation to the entire ordeal of rosemary.She expects to get relief from Dr. Hill,and just when the viewer feels alls well that ends well,its not to be. Further a few artistic touches are impressive,the pseudo Dali like dream sequence,the haircut signaling a transition,and in a terse scene where while having dinner Rosemary bluntly sayslets make love. This chiller is a must view for anyone interested in dramatic horror movies. "},{"Title":"All of them witches...","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I recall first seeing this film in the 1970's on television, with my Mom. She used to act and always recommended Roman Polanski, and in those days you could actually see very good film on television.Mia Farrow is very believable as Rosemary Woodhouse, struggling actor husband is Guy Woodhouse. New York City is also the backdrop, and Polanski utilized it to fullest advantage.Ruth Gordon and veteran actor of the stage, Sidney Blackmer as nosy neighbors Ruth and Roman Castevet. (The name is an anagram!).The problem is, they aren't just nosy neighbors. They appear to be part of a coven, which is interested in Rosemary's baby, and not for good reasons.John Cassavetes is, as usual, menacing and excellent as Rosemary's husband, a man who needs a break in show business, and will need to make a deal with Satan to get it. Congratulations to Polanski for an excellent theme, suspense and acting which conveys perfectly to the screen. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Riveting modern day horror chiller from Polanski","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby, adapted by director Roman Polanski from Ira Levin's (The Stepford Wives) novel, tells the tale of awe-inducing, mind-numbing witchcraft in late 60s Manhattan. Guy and Rosemary Woodhouse (John Cassavetes and Mia Farrow) move into the grand Dakota, and are immediately seen as the All-American couple He's an aspiring actor, and she is a dutiful young woman hoping to conceive a labor of love. They are immediately befriended by the Castevet's, Roman (a terrifically menacing Sidney Blackmer) and Minnie (Best Supporting Actress scene-stealer Ruth Gordon), who lead the pregnant young woman through dis-invigorating hell. A terrific script, score (by Krzysztof Komeda), and minor supporting roles from Patsy Kelly as childish Laura-Louise, Charles Grodin as Dr. Hill, Rosemary's seemingly good-natured obstetrician, and Dr. Sapirstein (a stern, Ralph Bellamy) round out this incredible ensemble. Only complaint Where was Mia Farrow's Oscar nomination? Or Best Picture? ****of**** "},{"Title":"Staple Horror Film","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A great Polanski film, especially for his first American one. Rosemary's Baby is a classic movie for the genre, and has created a story for horror movies to leech from for decades. Mia Farrow is outstanding in her performance as Rosemary, seeming completely genuine in the role; the film is ripe with great supporting cast members. Eerie music that rises and falls with the scenes creates a perfect tension that fills out the 'scary' aspects when nothing truly frightening is happening; a great touch that keeps the viewer in suspense throughout the piece. A fan of the genre may not appreciate the film as much because of a lack of true gore, which seems to be all too common in movies now, but the way that Rosemary's Baby was shot is well-crafted, and well-suited to horror; Polanski helps add himself to a list of horror fore-fathers with this one. "},{"Title":"ahead of its time","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I watched this with one of my buddies one night. He fell asleep and anytime that he woke up, he kept telling me that this is the slowest movie that he had ever seen. i have to admit, it was a real slow movie but does that really matter? i don't think so... not if the story is compelling. The problem here is not that the movie is boring or slow. the problem is that people compare it to movies that are coming out today. In a world of high speed chases and incredible special effect its no wonder that people think that this movie is slow or boring. people just don't have patience for slower movies. one thing is for sure, this is a very good movie.one thing i gotta say Mia Farrow was HOT. i give the move a solid 8/10 and i give Mia Farrow a very solid 10/10 "},{"Title":"la la la","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Today, Satan has become boring.  His name no longer sends shivers down your spine because you know next week, something far scarier will be mentioned.  This movie's different, I watched it alone and it touched me eerily.  I've been told when you have a baby, some women grow so attached to their lump they never want it to be born.  Can you imagine figuring out that the being inside is evil, before it has said or done anything.  That it belongs to that biblical monstrosity you hear about everyday?  I couldn't, I've tried, but it is basically impossible to fit into those shoes.  Rosemary is having a baby, one great milestone in your life.  She and her husband Guy move into a beautiful apartment and she just befriended the neighbour girl.  The neighbour girl commits suicide a few days later.  She has a strange nightmare about being molested by a beast, and the neighbours who were taking care of her friend are visiting daily, dropping off special herbs to eat while she is pregnant.  During her pregnancy, she starts to get suspicious of the helping neighbours, she hears them chanting at night, Guy is always next door and she is getting unbearable pains everyday.  Could it be Satan at work, see for yourself.   "},{"Title":"Classic Horror, Polanski at his best","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A movie that grips you from the first second, and takes you with it through two hours of subtle horror. In my opinion, how a horror movie should be...the more I think about it now, the scarier it gets.Sans all the blood, gore, hairy one-eyed creatures or naked big-breasted women, the lasting effect the movie left on me was astounding. Mia Farrow fits the role perfectly, well supported by John Cassavetes and Sidney Blackmer; Ruth Gordon's irritating and befitting performance; the occasional Fur Elise in the background; to finish things up a good ending.What more can you ask for? 9/10 and a must watch. "},{"Title":"Great scary movie with a small budget","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's one of the scariest movie I have ever seen. Directed by Roman Polanski.I like his films. I was mad at myself, why i had waited for a long time to watch this film.  Also, you see in the film that they didn't spend tons of $. The theme music is just great, I won't forget the melody.  "},{"Title":"Polanski's work of art","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I love horror movies.  I love this film.  Maybe you love horror movies. You will love this film.  First off, this isn't The Shining, 28 Days Later, An American Werewolf in London, or The Omen scary.  The frights are much deeper, but not as good.  But, you won't care.  Because you'll still be scared to death.  This movie is so scary, it's fun.  Watch it, love it. Pure and simple. "},{"Title":"Thrilling and Engaging","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is a truly original horror film by director Roman Polanski. The  acting is terrific (Ruth Gordon turns in an Oscar-Winning Performance), thescreenplay is great, and above all, this movie is very original.My Critique ****Rating R Rating Reasons Some nudity and violent images.**I created this because this movie was too old to have one. "},{"Title":"Masterly","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Seen several Polanski films and this is undoubtedly his best apart from Chinatown. Nothing to complain about here, really. Amazing acting, photo, suspense, dialog, sound... A thrilling story too. I couldn't stop thinking about it for days.5 / 5 "},{"Title":"extraordinarily atmospheric horror classic!!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  super!! roman polanski has got it down perfectly in this engrossing thriller. the build up is beautiful, suspenseful, sparse movements, slow but sterady mounting of the thrills establish this movie as a masterpiece in the thriller horror genre.mia farrow looks fetching and her expressions are a delight, ruth gordon ofcourse thoroughly desrving of her oscar.the movie in its psycho analytical viewing is a beautiful account of motherhood. but lets just leave that nonsense aside and hail it for the horror classic that it is. dont miss this one.a chilling 9! "}{"Title":"A Chilling Masterpiece of Horror","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Really Creepy. Even Today.  This 1968 Roman Polanski directed classic of the macabre is a brilliantly terrifying excursion into modern day NYC & the lives of a newlywedded young couple.  What makes this movie work so well is the off-beat, hippie-ish way in which its told. It made it seem so much more believable & it made the commonly seen, cliched horror films of the day looked uninspired & unsophisticated by camparison. Both this film and the best-selling novel by Ira Levin were phenomenally popular with the masses back in the late sixties. I can remember my mom reading the book & telling me how scary the movie was - which I was too young young to see owing to its rating.  I thought Mia Farrow's portrait of the title character was finel y etched and that she put a lot of feeling into her unusual role.  John Cassevettes does fine as Guy.  Ruth Gordon, hammy and hilarious, steals the show as Minnie Castevet, the eccentric nosey neighbour. She won her best supporting AA for this I can't tell ya how encouragin' a thing like this is at my age should told the academy during her acceptance speech.  Her playing of Minnie, when seen today, borders on being overdone in some respects, especially when she makes those animated faces while eating & serving up cake in her apartment.  Her apathetic attitude toward the death of the dope addict girl cracks me up Oh, yeaah * but her nude scene is a creepy turnabout for her character. Sidney Blackmer is excellent as her fascinating husband while Ralph Bellamy easily gives his finest latter-day performance as Rosemary's concerned doctor.  A MUST for horror fans! "},{"Title":"The way a REAL horror movie should be","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I watched this on Bravo last week after wanting to see it for years, and I have to say that I was very impressed. The acting is wonderful - Mia Farrow is superb as the terrified Rosemary, Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon are wonderful as the enjoyably evil (or is it evilly enjoyable?) Roman and Minnie Castevet. Rosemary's Baby is, like I said, the way that a real horror movie should be. There's a story, a plot, and not a bunch of blood and gore, along with a big-breasted girl who can't act running up the stairs when she should be running out the front door. The movie grabs you in, and it doesn't let you go until the end.Rosemary Woodhouse is fragile. She's a scared young woman who's not sure of what's going on inside her. She describes the early stages of her pregnancy as 'feeling like there's a wire inside her that's tightening'. Minnie, the sweet old lady across the hall is nurturing and maternal, bringing Rosemary an herb-spiked drink every day. She's seeing the best OB/GYN in New York, the kindly old Jewish doctor. But things aren't right...This is a wonderfully delicious horror movie, a pleasure to watch. Just don't watch it when you're pregnant...because who knows what you'll be giving birth to?  "},{"Title":"The best viewings are the ones AFTER the first. (spoilers..sorta..)","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Seeing 'Rosemary's Baby' the first time is an interesting enough experience, regardless of whether you come out of it having enjoyed the movie, or come out of it feeling disappointed at the ending.The reason this is so is all the detail, all the tiny things that lead up the the climax.  Note the times when Guy Woodhouse comes and goes. Notice how Guy and and Roman go off and have their little chat (that we never see) while the focus is on Rosemary and Minnie, and how Guy's attitude changes after that.  Notice the way Roman stares at Hutch so much so that he ignores Rosemary when Hutch asks about the authenticity of Tanis Root .Of course, there's much more than these, and the subsequent viewings are such fun because you can spot all these things that passed you by intially.  "},{"Title":"Great occult thriller!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary´s Baby is a highly scary film that deals with the elements of paranoia and occultism perfectly! It is far better than the overrated The Exorcist, because the dark menace of the omnipresent Satanism is much better developed and more frightening. There´s no gore or explicit violence, but the suspense is murderous! One of those films that hold you in its grip from the first to the very last minute! I really enjoyed the great performances of actors like John Cassavetes, Maurice Evans, Ralph Bellamy or Ruth Gordon, but outstanding Mia Farrow has the role of her life time with playing the innocent victim! Sometimes her part reminded me on the one of Catherine Deneuve´s in Roman Polanski´s Repulsion, because both women suffer from urban fear, neurosis and an invisible danger. The scene when Rosemary´s raped by the devil is a classic! A film a could watch again and again!  "},{"Title":"Great horror film.","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Slowly percolating tension in the first two thirds of the film gives way to nightmarishly terrifying last third in this Roman Polanski's highly effective horror film. MIa Farrow and John Cassavetes play newlyweds Rosemary and Guy Woodward who move into an apartment in New York where their seemingly happy lives take a strange turn when they befriend kooky old neighbors, Minnie and Roman Castavets. Polanski does a great job of creating an ominous atmosphere throughout, with a  disturbing sense of unease in the viewer created by a series of strange events and suggestions via subtle shifts in the characters' moods and behaviors. Mia Farrow is perfect in the role as Rosemary, innocent, vulnerable and uncommonly fragile. Ruth Gordon is fantastic as the garrulous and nosy old neighbor with an annoying habit of inviting herself unannounced and uninvited to her new neighbors. There are some interesting dream (or are they?) sequences in the film that are surreal and highly symbolic. They are effectively employed at right moments in the film, punctuating the increasing dread in the unhinged world of its protagonist. Excellent.       "},{"Title":"Really scary to watch nowadays!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Ordinarily, this would be a fairly spooky film to begin with.  But ever since one night in early December 1980, and thanks to a man we all know and love named Mark David Chapman, this film will be even scarier, especially for a young man named Sean Lennon and his mother Yoko Ono.  Unless I am mistaken, at the very beginning of the movie, in the scene where the apartment manager is showing Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes around, we get to see the very spot where, about 12 years later, John Lennon would be savagely gunned down.  Sean Lennon was deprived of his father, and Yoko Ono was deprived of her husband. So we can now all thank Mr. Chapman for making this movie even scarier for us.  Thank you, Mr. Chapman, and as Mr. Lennon asked in one of his finest songs How do you sleep at night?      "},{"Title":"Truly a Fine Classic","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A Very Original and Clever Movie that Grabbed onto Me From Beginning to End. The Acting and Script were just as Good as the Well Thought out Plot. Although Many Movies have tried to Recreate the Pleasure and Enjoyment Found in This Masterpiece of a Movie, I Personally Doubt that Any Movie Will. In Addition, the Musical Score at The Beginning and End is in my Opinion as Much of a Classic as the Movie Itself. Also, Very Well done for Being Made in 1968.The Picture and Sound Quality is Very Well Perfected. Why would Someone Not like This Movie? They Watch it and Expect Blood and Guts. People! Do Not Watch this Movie expecting a Blood Bath or anything like It. This Films Masterpiece Lies in It's Script, Plot, and Originality; Not How Gory it is!Why Would Someone like This Film? Too Many Reasons to List! If you are Doubtful, just Read the Plot or View the Trailer, Which should help A Lot.10 out of 10.Also Recommended Puppet Master, Carrie, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Halloween, Friday the 13th, Blood Dolls, Hideous!, Head of the Family, Scanners, House on Haunted Hill, Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, Castle Freak, and Slumber Party Massacre. For More Recommendations, Please check the Other Movies I Have Commented on By Clicking on My Name Above this Comment Section.  "},{"Title":"genuinely unsettling and uncomfortable to watch, but great","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  there's something about rosemary's baby that makes it hard to articulate and yet elevates it to the level of one of the best horror movies ever made, if a little slow paced and at times monotonous. as with all polanski films, the movie has a weird flavor to it and at times makes the viewer really feel uncomfortable. the plot is relatively simplea young couple, rosemary and guy, move into an apartment complex with very friendly and, uh...unique, neighbors. the first time rosemary gets the sense that's something is not quite right is after a neighbor's seemingly motiveless suicide, and her husband's odd rage when she mentions that she wants another doctor to replace the one he chose, a strange dude who gives 'natural' prescriptions for rosemary's occasional physical pains stemming from her pregnancy. one of the most terrifying scenes is a 'dream' sequence that may or may not be a dream, although it is very likely that it isn't, in which rosemary is undressed and surrounded by her buck naked neighbors on an altar to satan while they chant and hover over her. she is also very disturbed when her husband decides that since they had planned to make love on a certain night and she fell asleep prematurely, he'll go ahead and do it anyway. the ending is the most horrifying and fearful part in the film, even surpassing the dream scene, and rosemary finally learns what her husband and her neighbors have known all along, although i won't ruin it for you. let's just say that her husband's self interest and long standing ambition to be a famous actor motivates him to make a less than savory deal with someone you probably shouldn't bargain with, whatever the reason. this is an absolute must own for serious students of film and casual fans of the horror genre. surreal, stylish, and geniunely disturbing, rosemary's baby is undoubtedly one of the best horror movies ever made.  "},{"Title":"Imaginative, if slow, film making","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is a story about a woman named Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and her husband named Guy (John Cassavetes). They have moved into a new house, and decide to start a family. Their neighbours Roman and Minnie Castevet (Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon, who won an Oscar for this role) at first seem nice, if not overwhelmingly so, but eventually Rosemary suspects that they are up to something... something evil.Not far into Rosemary's Baby, we see a chilling sequence of Rosemary having satanic nightmares. This sets us up for what we think is going to be a terrifying and intense movie.Then something strange happens nothing. The momentum is killed by nearly an hour of meandering as Rosemary argues with her husband, visits her friends, throws parties etc. etc. It is not until late in her pregnancy that she begins to suspect something is up. She begins to put together pieces that add up to something very wrong with her baby. Perhaps her neighbours are preparing to sacrifice her baby in some sort of satanic ritual... or worse, maybe the baby is Satan himself.The final act of the film is some kind of genius. Throughout the movie little things provide Rosemary with theories about her baby. Roman Polanski leaves us in suspence because the ending is always in doubt. Her stories make so much sense, but at the same time, its hard to believe such evil could be occurring right under their noses. The final scenes are chilling and ominous.Rosemary's Baby has sustained periods of brilliance, but there is an hour long void in the film. Is it worth seeing? I think so. A lot of people walked out due to boredom. I thought about doing that too, but the fantastic ending made me more than happy to have stuck it out. "},{"Title":"A horror film without any Hollywood horror!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is a classic because it goes against the classic horror genre. The start of the film, the story, the characters, the plot, and the ending are original. The ending alone grabs you because it is left so open to the audience to draw a conclusion. Even the climax is unpredictable because they never show what the baby looks like and it scares the crap out of you. Even the situation that Mia Farrow is in is horrific. No monsters or gore is needed with s story line like this one. This film is a must see for recent married couples. "}{"Title":"Classic horror, but not really scary","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is certainly a chilling tale, but don't expect to jump from your seat or scream.  It is scary in a different fashion, because you know what is going on, but all of it is not displayed on the screen. Rosemary's Baby is a very odd, but brilliantly unfolded story revolving around a young New York couple (Farrow & Cassavetes).  She is desperate to have a baby, he desperate for success as an actor.  Their neighbors are a lovable, but peculiar couple, who just happen to be Satan worshippers. You can figure the rest out without me spoiling it for you.  Ruth Gordon, in an Oscar-winning role as Minnie is just one reason to watch this.  Earns 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A non-gory B horror flick.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  They have flipped the Jesus Christ birth story. This time the devil selects a earthly woman to impregnate with HIS baby so that the kid can go on to fight for HIS cause. They brought the controversial idea into the modern day (1968) which increases the scare by half and used an underground society of aged pagans to set the situation up. Given this obvious 'Stephen King' type reversal the creativity ends.The Husband as audiences see half way through or earlier chooses a successfull career in the movies with the assistance of the group over a love for his wife a first born of his own, not to mention the ethics involved in knowingly bringing about the son of the hadies lord. When the idea was first conceived by the author of the book they knew they would get praise from the people who would not pan the daring concept. This flick was nominated for it's writing adaptation and the sour life-offputting performance of the head pagan lady won for her Supporting Role.This is maximum negative mind candy, the base idea for which is an obvious concept, neither profound nor moving and if you are willing to play along with it, it can be a little scary, the ending also is just anti-pleasant, I can see little justification for it. For a non-gory B flick I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Finest Horror Film Ever Made","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby, in my humble opinion, is the finest horror film ever made. While staying true to its genre and certainly scaring its audience, this movie is great for a number of other reasons.  It possesses some intagible quality that is difficult to explain or express.  The film has an erie tone to it that certainly adds to its spook factor.  However, it is also a very clever and funny picture at the same time.  In short something just feels askew thoughout the whole movie, and this is what makes it such a uniquely fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly believable","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A wonderfully disturbing story about a woman who fears she is carrying the Devil's child, it sounds a difficult task to make a convincing movie out of it, but under Polanski's direction and with an amazing performance from Mia Farrow as Rosemary, this is an absolute gem.Tales of witchcraft are as old as the hills, as are many of the witch-type characters whose heads surface during the course of the just over 2 hours running time.  The claustrophobic atmosphere and paranoia that engulf Rosemary as she realises exactly what has been going on is palpable.  This is a definite precursor to The Exorcist in terms of brooding suspense, and although there is very little visually that is horrific, I came away from Rosemary's Baby with a real feeling of sickness in my gut and feeling genuinely unnerved.Excellent 9/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent film with great performances","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A near-perfect adaptation of Ira Levin's book, Rosemary's Baby remains today one of the best horror movies, not for its use of gore, but for its use of tension and surprise.  Of course a lot of credit for this movie goes to Mia Farrow who makes Rosemary a very real person, not to mention good performances by John Cassavetes as Rosemary's shady actor husband, and Ruth Gordon, as the overly nosy neighbor (who won an Oscar for this performance).  The story itself is simple, a young couple moves into a New York apartment building with a very sinister past, and after the wife becomes pregnant she begins to suspect her neighbors are more than just friendly old people.  The film does a great job playing up Rosemary's isolation and the creepiness of the apartment building.  Many scenes and dialogue are taken directly verbatim from the book.  Be sure to go out and rent this one.           "},{"Title":"One of my favorite horror films!!","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's one of those movies which is scary, but not really scary. It's like...creepy. You start to feel like the main character because you know about as much as her when it comes to what's going on. There are little clues here and there, certain looks characters give each other, and it just unravels slowly. If I had to be critical about anything, i guess it would have to be the end, because I wish there was more, but maybe i just wanted it to go on and on. I also recommend the book by Ira Levin, which is very similar to the movie... so if you are more into reading, or you don't like scary movies.. try the book!  "},{"Title":"Psycho Horror with Style","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Such an excellent movie. It has the grace and flavor of the hip late 1960's and Mia Farrow, as well as the psycho and drama of a horror film. The movie centers almost entirely on Mia and her struggles as a wife, being pregnant, and being taken advantage of.  A 10/10! "},{"Title":"one of the best in horror/suspense...(spoiler)","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  i love the pace of this film. it starts off slow and innocent then steers itself through the the lives of rosemary and guy in a spiraling parranoia.after rosemary gets druggedand raped by the devil, the surrealism of the drug induced dream-state is chilling ciematography at its best. the ultra close-ups and cubist editing is well used here. rosemary wakes up to a world now invasive and evil.the rest of the film moves with this parranoia in mind.her constant need for religious forgiveness tells us more of her uneasiness and fears than the rest of the film.this isn't a dream... this is really happening! luckily, this is only a movie... "},{"Title":"Oh my (God) ... Satan!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Normally, I'm not very keen on diabolical films, but Rosemary's baby WAS a good film and if possible a classic in its genre.  Talking about genres, this is definitely NOT a horror picture as there's simply NO gore to be found whatsoever.  Roman Polanski made a fine thriller in which a young woman experiences the great but somewhat mysterious hospitality of her neighbours.  At first she accepts everything what has been offered to her.  But after a while (and certain suspicious happenings later) she starts to reconsider.  The storyline of Rosemary's baby isn't bad, but there are other and far more impressive things about this film.  For example the way how Polanski builds up the tension by adding some very nice twists to the story now and then.  Not to mention the great camera work as well as the use of different colours to create a certain atmosphere in the film.  Much of the film is shot in close-up.  This is another typical Polanski characteristic.  By doing so, he points out the expressions on the faces of the different characters in this film.  This is done in a truly magnificent but nevertheless dramatic way.  Another aspect of the Polish director is the way in which he represents a dream or a hallucination by the use of amateurish images; this all brilliantly mixed with a dreadful silence that lasts through the whole sequence.  These are often the most realistic scenes in the whole film as no steady-camera is used for such shooting.  Polanski's directing is one of the main reasons why this film was so successful.  He's really made a difference here.What about the acting then?  John Cassavetes is all right and Ruth Gordon as the nosy and annoying neighbour is even better.  But the star of this film is, beyond any doubt, Mia Farrow.  Her acting is so life-like that I felt sorry for her at times; even when I knew that she was only playing a character in a film.Tragically enough, Polanski's wife was murdered right after this film was released.  I guess some people shouldn't watch films at all. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I watched Rosemary's Baby for the first time last night. I was surprised to find that it surpassed my original expectations. The film is very creepy, emphasizing psychological fears, but not violent or gory at all. Mia Farrow looks so small and frail, almost deathly and I really felt sorry for Rosemary. I liked the ending, but I still wished we could have seen Rosemary's baby. Overall, this is one of my favorite horror movies, but The Exorcist remains my favorite Devil movie. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Not a light comedy","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film in the States when it first came out.  In a rush to get into the cinema (and having read no reviews), I misread the title as Rosemary, Baby & therefore imagined it to be a light comedy.  No surprise to me, then, when the opening scenes had all the hallmarks of a typical American married couple light-hearted romance.  Imagine my surprise, as they say, when the film started its descent into paranoia and worse.  Truly remarkable - Polanski at his best. "},{"Title":"A subtle and creepy horror movie, much imitated, never equalled (SPOILERS)","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  The most truly scary thing about Rosemary's Baby is that everything in the film, no matter how strange, is always completely possible. The paranoia of Rosemary is truly terrifying, her neighbours, her friends, and her husband surrounding her are extremely convincing as omens in Rosemary's life. Rosemary's Baby contains many scenes that have been imitated, Rosemary's  dream in which she is raped by a huge demonic beast, only to wake up and find scratches on her back, Rosemary using her Scrabble board as a cypher of messages, and the disturbing implications of the ending. Much of Rosemary's Baby resembles Polanski's 1965 masterpiece Repulsion (strange dreams, the tension built in the apartment, etc). Rosemary's Baby is a very gothic, intense and creepy horror movie which packs a real sense of dread from beginning to end. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Most horror movies wish they could be this creepy!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Tired from all the recent slashers, this classic is a breath of fresh air. Although there is not much blood and gore, is is suspenseful and that is what keeps you glued to the screen. As far as I am concerned, what makes a great horror movie is the absence of blood and gore. Take for example The Exorcist- a great movie filled with suspense and insanity, yet it also didn't have any unnecessary graphicness. Mia Farrow portrays Rosemary with just the right amount of fragility and Ruth Gordon is goofy & insane as oversolicitous neighbor Minnie. Polanski's direction leaves the image of the baby open to the imagination, and the characters develop when you don't expect it. This should be on everyone's top ten horror movies of all time list.   "},{"Title":"stunning, but give the author his due","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  rosemary's baby remains a brilliant crafted, beautifully acted and shot work..a thoroughly haunting and riveting modern horror story. my only quibble...literally every line,  character and production design detail from the film is lifted directly from ira levin's novel.  shouldn't he have been given some credit on the screenplay, along with roman polanski? i don't think there's a word in this one not taken from the book. bravo, levin! and how wise of the filmmaker to realize it so faithfully. "},{"Title":"Friends don't understand","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've had friends complain that this wasn't a horror movie because there was no brutality or gratuitous bloodshed. They also complain that they don't get a look at the baby. I tell them that they have to leave that part to the imagination, and they always say that they don't have imaginations, and that's why they watch movies, so they don't have to imagine anything. I'm really not sure how to argue that. If anyone can help me on that, I'd be much grateful to you. About the movie? It was satiric, sardonic, sexual and eerie. And whenever those four words come into decribing the same movie, it's a special gem for sure. "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time GREATEST; or How To Make A Real Horror Film In One Easy Lesson","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ****  out of  ****Forget today's music video style of filmmaking, and all the unnecessary junk that goes into it. This indisputable classic from the ingenious Roman Polanski is a vital lesson to be learned, and the direction Hollywood needs to go in if they are to save a dying genre.This is one of the best Horror films ever made. PERIOD. It's flawlessly scripted and directed by Polanski, with dead-on performances by the entire cast, not just Ruth Gordon (who won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for this).There is no need for gore and blood here; the terrifying story is told with reliance on the conspiracy that develops in the magnificent Dakota apartment building in New York City. The seemingly normal, average people living across the hall from the innocent Rosemary are actually cult leaders, and very undetectable given their advanced ages and grandparent-like qualities.John Cassavetes is perfectly smug as Rosemary's husband - a struggling actor desperate for success who throws all loyalty and decency out the window by allowing himself to become tainted by his neighbor's sinister influence.There is an aura of evil that permeates throughout ROSEMARY'S BABY. We identify with Mia Farrow's unsuspecting character as she gradually becomes the only sane person amidst a den of hungry satanic lions.I'd like to praise Ralph Bellamy here as well. A mainstay of the great old Universal Horror Classics, he is outstanding here as the pricey and reputable doctor with a decidedly morbid idea of leisuretime activity.A perfect film, from opening credits to closing credits. If you're one of the growing many who only want exploding heads with rock or rap music in your horror movies, you're better off watching c**p like FROM DUSK TILL DAWN. If, on the other hand, you have the capacity to enjoy a well-thought-out exercise in suspense and terror that doesn't cater to the Dumbing Down Of America, you will absolutely adore ROSEMARY'S BABY.  "},{"Title":"He has his father's eyes.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  ROSEMARY'S BABY has been with us for a very long time. But it remains to be so creepy and funny and satirical and sexy and very real and very 60's and just a load of fun even if it does keep you distressed throughout over poor, lovely Rosemary being taken control over outside forces. I don't think Mia Farrow has done anything to surpass her performance here. Great, great heroine. And I love John Casavettes, he's a bit scary himself. But the scene-stealers are, of course, Ruth Gordon and Sydney Blackmer as the eccentric neighbors. When you first see them walking up the street with their tacky, colorful get-up you never stop grinning.  Of course, all the old people are devilishly odd and creepy. You can never trust someone who smiles for 24 hours. Witches. All of them! Roman Polanski is a great director and his genius use of narrative really fuels the film. It opens up like a Doris Day-Rock Hudson comedy, and it all corrodes from there. Are you trying to make me be his mother? Aren't you his mother, Rosemary?CAUTION No first-time expecting mothers should watch this movie until the baby is born. And when that does happen... check its eyes!!! "},{"Title":"Terror and irony","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film is quite scary even today.  It's the mysteriousness and the fact that everything seems normal on the surface that makes this movie so riveting.  It's more of a psychological movie than a run of the mill horror film.  If you want to see a real horror classic, I recommend it. Ironically added to all that was the murder of Polanski's pregnant wife Sharon Tate by Charles Manson followers, which in ways mirrored the film itself.  "},{"Title":"Film perfection in every sense...","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I just saw this movie yesterday, and it would easily rank high on my top ten films of all time.  Every line of dialog, perfect.  Every note of the soundtrack, perfect.  Every move of the camera, perfect.  Every scene, no, every frame, perfection.  This is *the* horror film masterpeice by which all other films of suspense should be measured.  Just thinking of the opening and closing lullaby gives me chills.  Must be seen as soon as possible. GO! NOW! RENT! "},{"Title":"Classic chiller","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Adapted from the book by Ira Levin, this film is so scary and suspenseful that it becomes nearly unbearable to watch. Production values are extremely high; the direction is just about as good as it gets and the performances are brillant. A very well done horror film which deserved to win more than one Academy Award. The best film in the horror genre. 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Good Horror Film!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"   When I first saw this film it scared the hell out of me! I ain't kidding. Especially when Mia Farrow was being raped by that animal-like creature(Devil)!! But eventually I bought it at my local video store and I wasn't scared ever since. Anyway, I liked this film because it gives you the chills and it isn't as violent and overdone like the Exorcist was. I don't understand Mia Farrow's voice in this picture it so mousy and sounds like an English accent. There is an inside joke when Mia is in the basement doing the laundry when she says to Angela Dorian that she looks like Victoria Vetri, when it is Victoria Vetri! Angela Dorian is Victoria Vetri's psuedonym and Playboy Playmate Name!!!!! I will always watch this at midnight in the dark living room and fall asleep. I agree with most people, that this is better than today's Horror films. I highly recommend this film for a true horror fan. Watch it alone though.10/10 "},{"Title":"Horror, horror everywhere and not a wink to sleep","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I don't think I've ever seen a more unsettling film.  From start to startling finish, Roman Polanski's dark classic gives you that ill feeling in the pit of your stomach.  Everything's off-kilter about the apartment building which unsuspecting Rosemary and her husband Guy rent, from the red wall-lights to the large chest a dying woman somehow managed to move all-by herself in front of a closet which contained only a vacuum cleaner and some sheets. There are so many elements to this film that Roman Polanski uses in presenting the eerie tale that whole books can be (and have been) written about it. One of the most appalling things is Polanski's realistic understanding of motherhood that produces the shocking final turn in Rosemary's trial.  A very unpleasant film to watch, but undeniably great, completely redefining the horror genre and starting horror's reign in the box offices lasting up until the 80's.  "},{"Title":"Satanic!!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I just finished reading Ira Levin's novel and I think it's really groovy. I'd say as good as the film, maybe even a bit better. In the movie I love Ruth Gordon as Minnie. She is THE actress of the 60's. But also Mia Farrow as Rosemary is a reason to love that film! Sometimes you're asking yourself how somebody can be so pretty but then, in the middle of the film, she scares you - so skinny! But I love that film! 9/10! "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is my favorite horror movie--actually one of my favorite movies, period. It features fantastic direction and performances (special kudos to John Cassavettes, who never gets the proper recognition for just how good he was here), a wonderfully 60's-sounding music score that goes from frothy to sinister in mere seconds, and of course there's the intricately brilliant story, faithfully adapted from Ira Levin's 1967 novel. It is one of those movies that effortlessly absorbed and channeled back the tenor of the times in which it was made (for example, the storyline clearly demonstrates the youth movement's late 60's rallying cry of Never trust anyone over 30, and in one pivotal scene there is a glimpse of the Is God Dead? tempest that was a hallmark of the times as well). Enormously influential, Rosemary's Baby is an acknowledged classic, and a paranoid delight from start to finish. It gets a 10 out of 10, no question. "},{"Title":"Great Horror Flick","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is easily one of the best films I have ever seen, Mia Farrow was great at playing the paranoid, and curious Rosemary Woodhouse. It was really freaky how all of her neighbors were like God is dead, Satan lives! That was pretty scary, but still this is one of the best films I have ever seen. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Astonishing!","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is absolutely breathtaking.  Mia Farrow is so easy to identify with.  There were times when I wanted to scream at the characters on the screen.  That is how well-acted this movie is.  Some parts may seem a little campy by today's audiences but for me there was not an unreal moment. Ruth Gordon definitely deserved that Oscar, as did Mia Farrow and John Cassavettes. I absolutely loved that Scrabble scene.  I found myself thinking 'Come on, Rosemary! Figure it out!' This is my favorite horror movie. "},{"Title":"Frightening!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I read the book for the first time when I was fifteen. And then I waited about ten years until the film was shown on TV so I could see it at last. And it's great! One of the few movies that is as good as the book! You're always wondering, if she's right when she's worrying about her husband, her neighbours and her doctor or if she's just stressed because of her pregnancy. The actors are very good although I think that Rosemary's husband should seem more harmless than Cassavetes is (he's always a little bit too demonic).And the end of the film is better than the book you never see the child, you only see how Farrow nearly loses her mind when she sees the baby for the first time. In the book the child looks like a devil en miniature red hair, long fingernails and little horns. I always wondered how such a goat-looking-baby should be raised up without the whole world watching it! Polanski made it better than the author.AND ONE LAST WARNING Never read the Levin-Sequel Rosemary's Son! It's the worst sequel with the most idiotic end I've ever read! "},{"Title":"true fear","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  the film is indeed a masterpiece, but you must agree that the true basis for the fear created by the film.....is the deception carried out/ and lived through of GUY, Mr. Woodhouse  only by watching the film over again, (and knowing the outcome) can we really begin to understand the lengths he is willing to  go to. to achieve his success , and of course fulfill his obligation to Roman & Minnie Castevet.     real life  folklore of the film, and it's location only add to the thrill  "},{"Title":"Well done!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby stands as possibly the best suspense/horror films of all time and is frequently referred to as such for good reason.  Director Roman Polanski clearly knows his audience and how to keep us entertained as he artfully transforms Ira Levin's novel without missing a beat.  The scenes are brief and to-the-point which keeps the pace enjoyably taught.  Mia Farrow was ideal for the role of the young and gentle Rosemary Woodhouse; in fact, I can't imagine anyone else playing the role.  John Cassavettes is also phenomenal as Guy Woodhouse, the impetuous struggling actor who becomes willing to undertake desperate measures in order to save his waning career.  Of course, Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer turn in stellar performances as the nosy neighbors who are actually more imposing than Rosemary initially suspects.Set in Manhattan, the movie has a very realistic base that fares well with the enigmatic witchcraft elements that gradually creep out of the woodwork.  Polanski invites us into a believable situation involving a likeable young couple.  We can all identify with the process of choosing a new apartment, putting up with annoying neighbors, coping with career related stress, and the prospect of bringing a child into the world.  Rosemary is not the typical helpless idiot prevalent in many of today's horror films, but is, instead, headstrong and determined not to succumb to her surroundings, even as they become overwhelming.  We can see ourselves in her situation and feel for her as she is made to feel isolated.  The supporting cast is also highly talented.   "},{"Title":"Horror classic","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is still unique and incredible.  Mia Farrow should have received an Oscar nomination for her fine performance as a woman who endures not only Satan, but Ruth Gordon as a next-door neighbor!  I don't know which prospect is scarier.  This movie is a landmark in the horror genre, and hold ups extremely well. "}{"Title":"truly, truly creepy","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie truly frightened me.  What was so interesting about it, though, was that the true horror of the movie (disregarding the ending, which I simply could not watch the first time) is totally understated, yet there the whole time.  The horror comes with the audience knowing what's happening, what really is going on with the neighbors and with Rosemary's demise, and not being able to do a thing about it.  In its own way, this movie is incredibly tense and nerve-racking.  It's the ultimate last word in I have a bad feeling about this movies.  Roman Polanski is great at creating that underlying horror -- I can't even THINK about the opening and closing music without a shiver.  The music in general was effective, and the direction, especially the dream sequence, was dark and very Polanski-esque.  The acting was good, understated, exactly what the movie called for.  So much scarier than any of the teen horror movies out lately. "},{"Title":"It's not Gothic Horror, it's a Severe Black Comedy!","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Everyone has it all wrong. It's not a Gothic Horror movie at all....although it has all the elements on the surface, sure. But if you look at it from the screenplay and situational side you'll notice a lot of stuff that's just evilly hilarious, and smartly adapted for the screen too. I think Cassavettes decided to play his role really smug because he just got finished shaking everything up in the film world all over again with Faces, and Mia Farrow's downward spiral was really cool to watch unfold up until the very end, where she just decided, probably after going catatonic, to keep the demonspawn. Everybody's said enough about Ruth Gordon's great performance already. But this movie really is black comedy, from the stereotypical (at the time) asian-with-a-camera, to the scrabble piece fun, to the hilarity of a 75 year old woman screaming Hail Satan!...It's just funny. Really. "},{"Title":"Gothic Gold","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is Gothic Horror at it's best. The fact that as a viewer you never see any thing actually horrifying is what makes this such a scary film. Mia Farrow puts forth her best performance by far. Then there is of course Ruth Gordon who delivers one of the greatest performances ever by an actress on the big screen.  From her first scene right up to her last (check out how she uses  her finger to try and remove the knife mark from the floor). Rosemary has no allies on her side except the viewer and there is nothing we can do to help her.  Roman Polanski's greatest achievement.  "},{"Title":"A unique horror classic.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This film was boring at times but the ending was so dramatic and interesting that it can never be forgotten.  The movie is filled with confusing yet eerie scenes and I would suggest the book before diving into this film.  However,  the second time I watched it,  I could understand the parallels and the curses that were placed and I fully understood what John Cassevetes did for his successful career. The last 30 minutes of the movie was exciting and suspenseful and it is something so unique that it can never be duplicated--sorry Hush.   The performance of Mia Farrow was marvelous.. She was beautiful,  innocent,  dramatic,  and it was someone that the viewers could really sympathize and excite for.  The motherly song sing by Mia herself seemed so bizarre--the innocent lullaby was turned into such a question and the fact that they placed that motherly song in between all the witches and pills was so bizarrre.  I would agree that Ruth Gordan certainly played up her part over the top but I liked Mia so much she seemed somewhat of a distraction.  Kind of like a cranky neighbor from The Simpsons that you just want to go away--you're too cookey and you bother me. This movie really presented the question of what will happen now but to make a sequel could certainly not be as good as this.  God is Dead,   All of Them Witches, curses, Satan,   and a world full of drugs and cultist and motherly scheming make this one of the most interesting horror films ever created.  "},{"Title":"Ruth Gordon's great performance makes this film unforgettable!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Believe me, after watching Rosemary Baby there won't be any more ghosts or vampires in your most horrible nightmares, there will just be satan! Mia Farrow's acting is really good but Ruth Gordon's performance is so strange and weird that you will never forget her! Well done, Roman! "},{"Title":"This film is eternal","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I have read the novel and seen this film at least 8 times, yet it still has the power to unnerve me the way few films can.  Most people my age who would look at this film would throw it off as a cheap attempt at a horror film because of the lack of gore and violence, but I think it is the restraint in its execution that makes it so effective.  So to all you young people out there...see this movie NOW!! I won't reveal anything at all about this film..I think it far better to know nothing at all about it and just jump in.  I will say however that Mia Farrow is amazing in her feature film debut here. "},{"Title":"Stunning. Stands the test of time&#133;&#133;","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Strangely, I'd never seen Rosemary's Baby until recently. On reflection, I can imagine that at the time of its initial release it was viewed as scandalous, outrageous, horrific.I'll admit it doesn't compete on the same plain as the high-tech CIG assisted horror films of today for out and out blood and guts, but I don't think that was ever its intent.This movie is haunting, unnerving, subtle, and seductive.Roman Polanski  wasn't just playing the kazoo here. Every shot is styled, timed, and positioned meticulously, and beautifully to craft an ingenious adaptation of the Ira Levin novel. It's not without Polanski's own subtle touches. I love the &#145;aren't you Victoria Vetri, the actress?' question Rosemary (Mia Farrow) asks the &#145;real' Victoria Vetri (playing a bit part in the film's opening sequence).Ypu may recognize Samantha Steven's father,  Maurice (Maurice Evans) as &#145;Hutch'.Ruth Gordon is a scene stealer as the nosy neighbor, and John Cassavettes' shines in a very subdued and strong performance as Rosemary's husband, Guy, a man with a hidden agenda.A masterful piece of work, today, or tomorrow.  "},{"Title":"Take a good hard look","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  OK, short and sweet, SCREAM is a great film, but it's now created a genre whereby the ironic awareness of, and emotional distance from, the scary stuff is heightened (along with the gore and cheap shocks), and the plot, character, and atmosphere is lessened. ROSEMARY'S BABY maintains a growing paranoid creepiness that builds to a horrifying climax, with no tongue-in-cheek hipness, MTV soundtrack, or digital effects. You never even has to show you the devil baby, just Mia Farrow's reaction. Gee, what was Polanski thinking? Please-more films like this, less like I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU BLAH BLAH BLAH. "},{"Title":"Acclaimed, yet underrated urban horror...","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  If there is one talent Roman Polanski has, it is creating confusion on-screen.  Chinatown is littered with moments where you're not at all sure what is what or who is who.  Rosemary's Baby, his first major American work, is a masterpiece of gothic horror primarily because of the confusion the lead character faces throughout.  Are her neighbors witches?  Could her doctor be evil?  Is her husband a part of it? Even though we pretty much know these answers ourselves, the web of intrigue created by Polanski, and Farrow's convincing performance, makes everything that happens seem all the more creepy.Based on Ira Levin's bestseller, the film no doubt exceeds the novel.  There are no ghosts, poltergeists, or possessions.  Just the overwhelming presence of evil in the Dakota apartments where Farrow, with her husband played by John Cassavettes,  live in what should be a safe-haven.  Farrow has nowhere or no one to go to in the biggest of cities.The rape scene is one of the most spellbindingly scary scenes ever done.  We never do see the creature in full view or on top of Farrow, we only see the eyes.  They say it all.  Most horror films would use a quick long shot for a scene like this.  The sequence is very much like a nightmare Farrow believes she only had.  The scenes shot in the huge entrance to the Dakotas are accidently eerie because we know this is the exact spot where John Lennon would be murdered within 12 years.One final note  According to Roger Ebert, the voice of the blinded actor on the phone with Mia is that of Tony Curtis. "},{"Title":"Maybe Satan's not so bad after all","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Of course it looks bad at the outset young Rosemary is unwittingly impregnated by the Prince of Darkness. In the end, is it really so different than the immaculate conception story associated with Jesus? Sure, he probably had better spin doctors, so of course his tale sounds a little more wholesome. What this film seems to say is that Satanism is just another choice of belief. For worshipping Satan, the cultists do very little that is egregious. Their sneaky behavior looks bad because they had to be sneaky, since such momentous events as the birth of Satan's son is apt to be misconstrued by polite society. What I'm saying is that the reason this film is so creepy is that the characters are all so normal (if a bit eccentric). Revealing to mainstream America the concept that even Satan worshippers are not so different from the culture at large is perhaps more disturbing than a film like The Hills Have Eyes, because there is no safe distance for the audience from the material.  "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  The only thing wrong with this movie is that it ended, and the ending, even though it was her baby, I wouldny have kept that demon child! Anyway it was a very good movie, with lots of scary parts, and I bet the audience who went and saw this movie was surprised with the nudity and sorts. I give this gem of a movie a 9 out of 10. Rated R for violence, some sexuality, and nudity.  "},{"Title":"30 years later and still one of the best!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is quite simply an incredibly engrossing film.  Easily one of the best films of the horror/suspense genre, it benefits from a strong cast and enough time to flesh out the story.  There are not a lot of films of this genre that can maintain a level of suspense past the 100 minute mark, but this film at nearly 2 hours and 20 minutes has no problem what so ever with that.  If one did not know what the film was about when they first started watching, one would think it was about a young couple beginning their life together (kind of like Barefoot in the Park), but when the mysterious circumstances begin to take place and the strange neighbors come on the scene, one knows they're in for a rollercoaster ride of suspense.  Quite simply one of the best, if not the best horror film ever made. "},{"Title":"Modern Gothic at its best","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Possibly the best horror movie ever made, Rosemary's Baby still holds its spell even after 30 years. Polanski's razor sharp direction, Ira Levin's magnificent Gothic novel and Mia's vulnerability and surprising scenic domain (as well as Ruth Gordon's scenery chewing, bombastic performance)make this a real film gem. "},{"Title":"All that build up to an unsatisfactory ending....!","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I was searching for some great horror movies, and this name recurred in several lists, so I went ahead and saw this movie and was bitterly disappointed to say the least. The plot is engaging and intriguing on the onset, and the movie has an overall vintage kind of feel which raises your expectations from the film. But as the movie proceeds you will think like you are up for some unforeseen magic on the celluloid, like someone is lifting you up in the air to exalt you but in the end that someone will let you go, and you will fall flat on the ground utterly dissatisfied and dejected.When it comes to acting in the movie, Mia Farrow has done a fine job. John Cassavetes on the other hand is very unconvincing. The chemistry between them seems forced rather than organic. Other actors have done their bit satisfactorily.The story is suitable to be told in novel format only. Although the movie kind of grows on you, like someone taking you to the edge of the mountain just so you could appreciate the view, but then instead that someone pushes you off the cliff, the ending of the film does that pushing off the cliff thing here. The ending just blows a blatant hole in the entire plot and you end up thinking Did I just watch the entire movie for this..?Being so highly rated in so many lists on IMDb and elsewhere I expected a lot more from the movie, but it fell miles short of my expectations. "},{"Title":"Horror film without all the special effects","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Certainly one of the best horror/suspense films ever made. It is a chilling psycho-drama, a social commentary, and a good old-fashioned horror yarn all at once. It's difficult to break it all down, because there is so much that contributes to the sheer fear this movie gives off. The story takes a little while to get going, but once we're into Rosemary's pregnancy the stakes begin to rise and suspense is unrelenting. This movie is an example of the horror genre done right; there are spine-chilling moments, satanic images and horror themes that will stay with you forever. The editing in these parts is very impressive as well, creating visual illusions without special effects. The important thing to pay attention to is how Rosemary's freaked-out state of mind, combined with the creepy influence of the brownstone, plays an important part in the goings-on around her. Especially when people start dying, from the nice girl from across the hall she meets who commits suicide, to the sudden illness and demise of family friend, Hutch. Oh, and to top it all off is one of the most chilling sequences in horror, when she does get pregnant...but there's a really good chance that Guy's not the father. The performances are excellent. Polanski did not go for cheap scares. In this case you could enjoy the movie much more than you could enjoy the cheap bloody scary movies. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby is a brooding atmospheric horror film.","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A young couple move into a new apartment, only to be surrounded by peculiar neighbors and occurrences. When the wife becomes mysteriously pregnant, paranoia over the safety of her unborn child begins controlling her life. Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse move into an apartment in a building with a bad reputation. They discover that their neighbours are a very friendly elderly couple named Roman and Minnie Castevet, and Guy begins to spend a lot of time with them. Strange things start to happen a woman Rosemary meets in the laundry dies a mysterious death, Rosemary has strange dreams and hears strange noises and Guy becomes remote and distant. Then Rosemary falls pregnant and begins to suspect that her neighbours have special plans for her child. Roger Ebert wrote Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is a brooding, macabre film, filled with the sense of unthinkable danger. Strangely enough it also has an eerie sense of humor almost until the end. It is a creepy film and a crawly film, and a film filled with things that go bump in the night. It is very good. But Cary Grant in Suspicion was only a bounder and perhaps a murderer, and we didn't even really believe that (since he was Cary Grant). Rosemary, on the other hand, is forced into the most bizarre suspicions about her husband, and we share them and believe them. Because Polanski exercises his craft so well, we follow him right up to the end and stand there, rocking that dreadful cradle. Rosemary's Baby is a brooding atmospheric horror film. "},{"Title":"Very good thriller","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a very good thriller with top notch performances. But it is not really a horror movie. In fact, I think it will disappoint many horror fans. Blood is kept to an absolute minimum, same for the supernatural element, although the whole movie is about some supernatural occurrences. So, don't expect the chilling atmosphere and the very scary scenes you find in normal horror, like the Woman in Black, Ju-on or The Changeling. These movies are really intense, eerie and frightening.Rosemary's baby is not the same kind of movie. It is about the agony of a woman that planned to have a baby but got pregnant under some strange circumstances. It is a stylish movie where all the actors deliver very nice performances. The dream scenes are really, well, dream-like. They make you lose touch from reality. There is quite a mystery too but no plot twists or unpredictable turns.An overall solid supernatural thriller with some disturbing elements. "},{"Title":"Yes, Sir, that's Satan's Baby....","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When a movie opens with Mia Farrow singing La la la la over the credits to spooky music, you know it's going to be a strange film, and with Rosemary's Baby, not only did she become a star, but the supernatural Satan worship film craze began. Yes, there were movies about devil worshipers before, but they were usually Z-grade low budget films that had little commercial release other than drive-ins and underground theaters. Rosemary's Baby was a mainstream film produced by the king of shock schlock (William Castle) and directed by the controversial Roman Polanski.Finding the perfect apartment in Manhattan has been tough in any decade, but in the 1960's, it proved to be demonistic for young housewife Farrow whose out of work actor husband (John Cassavettes) literally makes a deal with the devil to insure his success. Once you find a perfect apartment in Manhattan, you also hope for perfect neighbors, ones who are friendly and helpful without being nosy. Guess Who's Coming to Dinner! Katherine Hepburn says in a Turner Movie Classics montage of 100 years of film, which is immediately followed by a shot of a peephole focusing on the obviously eccentric Ruth Gordon. Minnie Castevet is one of those neighbors one dreads but can't help but not like. She's a little too helpful, always a bit too cheery, and a lot interfering, if well-meaning. But there is obviously something up with her and husband Roman (Sidney Blackmer), and it will come to a horrific discovery for Farrow, especially after a nightmare that leads to her becoming pregnant.Ira Levin's best-selling novel was one of 1968's most popular movies and made a cult movie star out of the elf-like Farrow who is unlike any other movie star before or since. Even with all those classic Woody Allen films of the mid-late 1980's, this will be the film for which she will always be remembered. She's just slightly neurotic enough to be compared to the boy who cried wolf, which in this case would make her the wife who cried Satan! Nobody's going to believe that the nightmare she had was actually reality, that is except an old friend (Maurice Evans, ironically the warlock Maurice on Bewitched) who finds out that his interference isn't without consequences.On the side of Satan are such memorable character performers as Patsy Kelly, Hope Summers, Elisha Cook Jr., and Phil Leeds. Kelly is hysterically funny as Gordon's pal as they arrive at Farrow's apartment and start knitting up a storm for the unborn toddler. Later, she rocks the cradle as if she was churning butter, making her distaste towards Farrow obvious and childlike. The film is mostly serious, especially as Farrow meets and befriends young Victoria Vetri who meets a shocking ending. This alerts her to the dangers awaiting her, especially when she meets Gordon and Blackmer upon returning home to find a crowd in front of the apartment building on Central Park West. The suspense grows and grows, exploding into spooky consequences as Farrow tries to escape her fate. The film is guaranteed to keep the audience riveted, and the ending leaves the viewer's imagination open as to what would happen, although a rarely seen television sequel would take the story down stranger paths. "},{"Title":"Bad Seed, indeed...","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's version of ROSEMARY'S BABY isn't quite as subtle as some have led others to believe when the father begets The Child, for instance, we actually SEE Big D in action and he's a scaly, monstrous creature. In the hands of a lesser director, the scene could've been ridiculous, but Polanski manages to pull it off without too much fanfare. Cassavettes is good as the actor willing to sell not only HIS soul but the souls of every member of his family to get what he wants, but it's Mia Farrow as Rosemary who makes the movie a classic she never once strikes the wrong note, and her reactions at the end of the movie are particularly noteworthy. There's a subtlety to her final scenes that can't be overlooked or denied- she MAKES the movie (with a little help from Polanski). Horror fans could conceivably view ROSEMARY'S BABY as a prequel to movies like THE OMEN and THE EXORCIST (to name but a few). "},{"Title":"Classic Horror  Masterpiece","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Before Misery and The Silence of the Lambs, this was the only other horror film after 1932 to win an Oscar, a well deserved acting Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for Ruth Gordon. Top notch psychological thriller. Mia Farrow gives an amazing performance. She should have been nominated for an Oscar herself. The entire cast was phenomenal. It was scary, not in the special effects (although they were excellent), not in good makeup(also well), but the story was compelling. Roman Polanski really knows how to make a film. It makes me want to read the book. Very very scary, but very very well done. They don't make scary movies like this anymore. "}{"Title":"Superb Supernatural","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" ***User reviewer Vince-5 (One of the ultimate horror classics, Vince-5 from northeastern PA, 2 May 2001) has a well-written review worth a look. Tedg (Devils, tedg from Virginia Beach, 15 March 2001) brings up Farrow, Polanski, Lennon and Manson. Reviewer Violetmoreviolent (Terrifying, A Timeless Horror Classic That Still Evokes Chills, violetmoreviolent from Portland, Oregon, USA, 30 August 2007) has a good commentary that parallels the review below. Finally, reviewer Poseidon-3 (Virtually flawless piece of storytelling with Farrow's best work, Poseidon-3 from Cincinnati, OH, 16 August 2005) has good background about the casting.*** Rosemary's Baby (1968, Roman Polanski﻿), a chronicle of the arrival of Satan's spawn conjured up by a witches coven﻿, is sublime. Polanski's film is an elite supernatural experience. With only two major scenes of genuine horror, most of the tension is building around moments, if removed from context, might otherwise seem banal. This is possibly why Rosemary's Baby has so much public appeal It teases us by delaying the switch from the conventional to the surreal. Also, the central betrayal on display smacks harder because we are living with these characters.Rosemary and her struggling actor husband Guy Woodhouse (John Cassavettes), move into a centrally-located, New York City﻿ apartment. (The building is the Dakota, where John Lennon﻿ later lived and was assassinated.) Guy's difficulty in getting his career established is postponing their intention to raise a family. While doing laundry, Rosemary makes friends with a recovering drug addict who also lives there thanks to the generosity of the Castevets, an elderly couple. The untimely demise of this laundry friend leads to Rosemary and Guy forming a relationship with Minnie and Roman Castevet. Rosemary finds the eccentric pair intrusive, particularly Minnie (who among other transgressions is always handing her mysterious concoctions to drink). Although he is initially reluctant to meet him, Guy immediately takes an interest with the worldly Roman (Sidney Blackmer). As Guy and Roman become close buddies the chief obstacle in Guy's acting career is suddenly removed. Tasting success, Guy and Rosemary decide the evening she is most fertile that it is time to create their baby. Minnie interrupts (yet again) by providing the couple a chocolate mousse. Rosemary doesn't like hers and shortly afterwards passes out. She then has a very odd nightmare where she is being raped by a demon while her husband and her neighbors watch. She wakes up, and imagines she has uncovered a Satanic conspiracy which involves everyone around her.The dream sequence is incredible, one of cinema's best. Rosemary's Baby is great visually. Polanski superb color choices throughout. He blocks actors superbly. While never appearing staged, his mise en scène is very detailed. The result is uniquely watchable, and can only fully be appreciated in a movie house.The cast, led by Mia Farrow as Rosemary, is excellent. Farrow deserved (but did not receive) Oscar recognition as the resilient young wife with a penchant for noticing small details. Farrow handles the task of conveying Rosemary's encroaching madness exceptionally well. She accomplishes this performance despite her real-life husband, Frank Sinatra, serving her with divorce papers which were delivered by a big-shot lawyer with the cast and crew observing. (Polanski offered her a day off to compose herself but Farrow gamely refused. The party scene where a crying Rosemary is on the kitchen floor being consoled by her friends was apparently filmed shortly after she was humiliated by Sinatra.) Another standout cast member is Ruth Gordon (who won an Oscar) as the scene-stealing Minnie Castevet. Minnie simply won't say no; she is the epitome of annoying friend who Rosemary knows she will never be able to get rid of. Sidney Blackmer as Roman is a very convincing Satanist. Ralph Bellamy is also effective as Dr. Sapirstein, a charismatic and manipulative physician who does not actually relieve Rosemary from the unusual, recurring pain of her pregnancy. Reviews are a bit mixed on John Cassavetes as Guy, with some complaining that he appears about 15 years older than his character. However, Cassavetes is a convincing betrayer. By the way, when Farrow phones the actor who had the role that suddenly fell in Guy's lap, she recognized but couldn't fully place the voice (Tony Curtis). Polanski kept the surprise from Farrow to bring out more confusion in her voice.Cinephiles should wear a good luck pendant containing some musty (but charming) Tannis Root and head over to revival theater showing this to observe this exquisite horror classic unfold on the big screen. "},{"Title":"More Than A Newborn Child","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A creepy class horror film full of mystery and suspense. A must see for those that enjoy movie surrounding evil religious cults! It's not a slasher film - it is a good horror story classic! The scariest part of Rosemary's Baby is the fact that Rosemary's life is being ruined and completely controlled by others for their own wicked purposes. Rosemary cannot even get help from the police or other professionals (like a psychiatrist)... for one thing her story is unbelievable and the other problem is they are a part of the scheme; for you see there is something special about Rosemary's Baby - something more than just a newborn child.10/10 "},{"Title":"More creepy than scary","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and struggling actor Guy Woodhouse (John Cassavetes) are a young married couple who move into an old apartment building. Their neighbors are an elderly couple name Roman (Sidney Blackmer) and Minnie Castevet (Ruth Gordon). A young woman named Terry is staying with them. She shows her necklace to Rosemary, a gift from Minnie. Then one night, she jumps out the window in an apparent suicide. There are noises coming through the wall. The Castevets are overly helpful to the Woodhouses. Minnie keeps giving Rosemary things to drink, and she gives the same necklace that she gave Terry. Rosemary has strange erotic dreams, and she finds herself pregnant. She suffers pains and looks sickly. Her doctor Sapirstein does nothing but reassures her. Guy is acting stranger and stranger.This is Roman Polanski's iconic horror classic. It's not a scary movie. It is much more a creepy movie. It's a slow build. At over 2 hours, it takes its time. Mia Farrow puts in an iconic performance, and it's not simply because of her haircut. She projects a very fitting fragility physically but also mentally. Her powerlessness is at the center of the movie, and that's where the power of the movie comes from. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie!!","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" So I just recently got around to watching this classic horror? film. I don't know that I would consider it horror exactly..psychological thriller maybe? Either way it's a great movie. Love the way it kind of gets into your head and makes you think. Those are my favorite kinds of movies. Though the baby being half devil half human is obviously not realistic and therefore not believable, it still gets into your head. You really feel for Rosemary as she starts to realize what is going on and tries to get away from her husband, then her doctor..And when Dr Hill turns her over to her original doctor and her husband and they hold her down sedating her, I found myself getting genuinely angry at them. And empathizing with Rose. And when a movie can make you feel genuine emotions, that its clearly a well made movie. Its not a normal horror movie sans all the gore and jump scenes, but it definitely gets in your head. Definitely worth the time!! "},{"Title":"Not Perfect In It's Screenplay But So Much Of It Is Done Right That It Shouldn't Be Missed","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby wasn't the film that introduced me to the works of Roman Polanski but rather it was Chinatown. So I came into this with very high hopes and thinking it may even top the previous film I have watched, due to the hype and the intriguing subject matter. After watching it twice already, I can clearly say that Rosemary's Baby isn't perfect but it has a lot to offer that proves that it cannot be missed.Rosemary's Baby was based off the novel by Ira Levin and was adapted to the screen by Roman Polanski. I haven't read the novel so I cannot say whether or not the film drives away from the source material but what Polanski has given us here is quite interesting with only minor trips that prevent this from being a perfect film. The film mainly follows through Rosemary's experience during her pregnancy and as she gets closer to the end, she also gets closer to the truth. As much as I enjoyed seeing this concept being explored, it was dragged down by the lack of incentive to keep us emotionally engaged throughout, instead all that was bottled up for the second half of the film once the tension started to build. This made the first half felt a little stretched out and at times feeling unnecessary. Polanski cleverly avoids giving any confirmation of our suspicions until the last few minutes of the film as throughout the film we follow Rosemary alone, along with her paranoia and stress, and never gives us any moment of peace from it.Rosemary's Baby is Roman Polanski's fifth film. Polanski creates his first hour of the film to feel like a play, with characters just talking to one another in a confined space and allowing the actors to completely use their surroundings in order to gain a natural performance. The last hour of the film is where things start to pick up and the horrors of the situation emerge and have us feel stressed for Rosemary. Though I thought highly in Polanski's efforts in creating the first half of the film, regardless I felt that it was quite slow and lacked a bit of a visual or mental incentive to keep us completely invested. It becomes much more enjoyable in subsequent viewings when we already know what happens to Rosemary and understand what every character's motives were.The cinematography of the film was handled by William A. Fraker, who later on in his career will be nominated awards for his work but for Rosemary's Baby it was under-appreciated. Which I found understandable because this film did truly feel take an amateurish style of photography, with shots only showing what it needs to show you in order to move film along. Fraker for the most part has his camera constantly moving, it is not so obvious as it only really moves because the actors are moving or are doing some action and the audience needs to see it in order for us to gain something from it. As we get closer to the end, Polanski and Fraker allows us to get closer and closer to Rosemary emotionally supported with tighter close ups and using the camera as a shadow following her wherever she goes.Krzysztof Komeda is the film's composer and what he has created is hauntingly beautiful. Komeda's score rarely is in display as the film uses silence to create tension at the start and allows the dialogue more to be in display and not have us be too distracted from the actors. The lullaby chant at the beginning of the film is one of the most frightening things I have heard as it has this undertone of evil under it, but if it is just heard as the lullaby alone without the instrumental or Fraker's photography it would just sound like a mother singing to her child with no dark undertone. I wish that the film did contain more of his score as it was truly well crafted but I guess it would have interfered with Polanski's vision.The film's actors truly have to work their asses off for this film, as it demands so much from them, Rosemary in particular. Mia Farrow as Rosemary Woodhouse was so great as she portrays this character who is suffering such elevated stress and who feels alone and lonely during her pregnancy even when there are people around her. Farrow makes us feel like we're the only one who is there for her. John Cassavetes was great as Guy Woodhouse. Cassavetes was able to play a man who doesn't come off at all as unlikable, even if certain events and motives may seem to fracture his character. Ruth Gordon has impressed me on a little film called Harold and Maude, and I think for Rosemary's Baby she is playing a less complex and interesting character, Minnie Castevet. Nevertheless, Gordon doesn't disappoint here with her character rambling on and on, never seeming to give Rosemary or Guy a window of opportunity to even react. Though probably faithful to the novel, I felt that her character needed a bit more for me to truly enjoy watching the character.Rosemary's Baby may not be a perfect film in my eyes but it gets so many things right that I can't help but go back to this when I feel like watching a film that can terrify me and keep me engaged with the technical aspects of the film. The acting is, for the most part, a joy to watch and the film contains patient and subtle cinematography. Polanski has made something wonderful that should at least be given a try even if the subject matter may be too dark for some. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Recently I have discovered a new found love for the horror genre and have been building up my collection of horror films. I had heard about Rosemarys Baby before but it was never really on the top of the list of my films to watch, however after watching it I must say I was pleasantly surprised. The film isn't the scariest of horrors but there is a feeling of impending doom from the start after Rosemary moves into her new apartment with her actor husband and is befriended by her neighbours who just don't seem quite right. What I enjoyed about this film is the fact you can sympathise with Rosemary and her feelings of isolation as she starts to realise that there is something more sinister going on and you are in suspense of what is about to happen next. Warning Spoilers Ahead I think the ending of the film is very fitting and disturbing as Rosemary walks into the room to find all the members of the cult that have come to see her baby, also the fact that you never see the babies face, yet you get to see Rosemarys shocked reaction leaves everything to the imagination. I recommend everyone especially horror fans to watch this film. "},{"Title":"A top 25 classic","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" If you look up any Top 25 Horror Movies of All Time lists, you are guaranteed to find 'Rosemary's Baby' on every single one of them. This 1968 classic takes on a subject that is already terrifying to most of us and makes it just that much worse. Rosemary is expecting and as her due date approaches, she knows that something is just not quite right. Roman Polanski brought a whole new kind of horror to the table that just wasn't that accessible at the time. Visionaries like Alfred Hitchcock, George A. Romero, and Polanski showed us that horror movies didn't need to just be about Frankenstein and Dracula. These men pulled horror out of the gutter and off the tail end of a joke and sparked a revolution that brought a legitimacy to the genre. Mia Farrow is perfect in this role. Her helplessness and innocence built up the suspense throughout the whole film until it was boiling over by the climax. Polanski gives us very good insight into the struggle of women's rights through this film as well. Farrow's character isn't able to think for herself. Much like Romero's main protagonist in 'Night of the Living Dead' (also made in the same year), both characters show how helpless women were made to feel back then and the struggle they had in just being able to voice their own opinion about something. If this film was made today, or remade, the inner struggle that Rosemary goes through wouldn't have the same impact as equality has strengthened the female vigor. However, if anyone could step into the shoes of Mia Farrow, it would be Gwyneth Paltrow. I do believe that she is this generations Farrow. It's ironic that Paltrow also starred in a Thriller in 1998 called 'Hush' in which she is pregnant and struggles with forces beyond her control. Paltrow was also born in 1971, so maybe she in fact Rosemary's baby. I loved this classic horror. I can't believe it took me this long to watch it. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Creepy, Creepy and Then Some","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Gotta be one of the creepiest films ever made! Even though I have seen this film time and again it still has me sitting at the edge of my seat chomping on my finger nails. And some scenes even had the hair on my neck standing up. Wow! This film is scary. Mia Farrow is shatteringly good, bringing you squarely into our orbit as the tortured wife married to the creep of all time. How any actor could survive the husband's part is anyone's guess but John Cassavetes manages it seems since his career apparently was helped by this showy part. But it is Mia Farrow's film alone and she is utterly captivating and utterly ravishing. You cannot take your eyes off her. She demands your attention in every single scene. The supporting cast is also very strong with Ruth Gordon being so annoying you really want to bag her. You know she's up to no good yet there's nothing poor Mia can do about it. It's like you want to scream at her, slug the bitch! "},{"Title":"An under-taste of terror is deadlier than an overdose of thrills","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The chalky under-taste in Rosemary's soufflé is the best way to describe the fear in Rosemary's Baby. In the 130 minute run-length, Roman Polanski sketches a story that could have been said in ninety minutes or even less. We know what will happen in the end way before Rosemary's confrontation itself, but we still follow Rosemary's abject situation intently because we have become attached to her and pitied by her condition. The most terrifying elements in the film do not call for creaking doors or vanishing figures, but use the most unpleasantly calm manner for inducing terror. The first haunting lullaby, with the piano keys connotes the mood of the film, and we know that this Doris Day movie-like sequence that follows will not remain this placid. Rosemary, a bonny housewife and her husband Guy, a struggling actor move to a Gothic-inspired apartment in New York after marriage. The couple redecorates the place to suit their lifestyle since the house was previously occupied by an old lady who had died under mysterious circumstances. Soon, Rosemary befriends another lady in the laundry who lives with the Castevets, Rosemary's neighbors. But the girl is found one day lying on the pavement outside the building, she had apparently jumped to her death. This is when Rosemary and her husband get acquainted with the Castevets, who seem like a typical old couple, kind and helpful. Guy and Rosemary are invited to dinner where Guy has a private conversation with Roman Castevet until the ladies enter. Rosemary maintains her distance from the couple, especially the prying Minnie Castevet, who begins asking the price of her furniture; Guy however keeps visiting them often and seems quite preoccupied with 'work'. Rosemary, feeling alone and aloof, bites her tongue, fidgets, and then visits her doctor to share her woes with him. But the couple make up when Guy announces that they should have a baby, but maybe because of the half-eaten 'chocolate mousse with a chocolate under-taste', Rosemary feels enervated and faints. This is when her visions become all the be more surreal and puzzling, as Rosemary is not able to decipher whether it is a dream or it is really happening. Rosemary gets pregnant and informs this to Guy, who seems to be more relieved than excited and quickly, informs the Castevets. Rosemary, under the oldsters' suggestion or rather insistence, seeks help of a renowned doctor, Abraham Sapirstein, who in turn tells Rosemary to stop seeking advice from others, discontinue reading pregnancy books, and take a health drink prepared by Minnie, which is supposedly more effective than any goddamn pills. Rosemary undergoes a drastic weight-loss where she begins looking 'chalky' and her young friends begin worrying about her health. Apart from this, people begin dying or getting blinded or paralyzed under mysterious circumstances and Guy suddenly begins getting offers. Rosemary starts suspecting everyone around her and this leads to an unforgettable climax that you may have known beforehand but never expected to be like this.Rosemary's Baby succeeds not just because of the fear that keeps looming at a distance, ready to strike us anytime, but also because of the ensemble's near brilliant effort at capturing the spook of homely horror- I don't know how else to describe it. The horror that is so close to home that Rosemary can see it coming but cannot help herself at getting away from it requires total unpretentiousness from the character's that establish this horror. This nosy hag Minnie and her striking husband Roman seem so unlikely to do any harm that when the truth is revealed, it brings double the chills than it would have with a long-haired, crazy looking couple with gaunt eyes and shaggy looks. Ruth Gordon is a gem, portraying her Minnie with tempered eccentricity while Sidney Blackmer is the perfect choice for Roman. John Cassavetes does his job well but could have explored his character more in terms of the guilt that Guy would have felt at committing the actions. The supporting cast is equally strong in keeping the movie alive but it is Mia Farrow, the disarmingly attractive model-actress who gives one of my favorite performances and probably one of the best of 1968. Her acting is not perfect, and neither does she pretend it is, but she is able to submit herself to her director and perform with instinct and understanding. Take the scene where she obtains the book on witches from Hutch and begins working on an anagram; you can see the excitement, tension and apprehension on her face &#x96; she wants Hutch to be wrong and the book being a hoax, but in the back of her mind, she knows that there is some connection between the book and her current situation. Mia does this and the rest of her scenes wonderfully; it's a shame the Oscars did not nominate her.The DVD has bonus material, one that has the director, writer and producer of the film talking about their idea formation and decisions regarding the cast. There is not much information regarding technique as much of the runtime focuses on Mia and Roman (Polanski's) magical rapport. But we do see some behind the scenes footage, and we realize how flexible Roman is as a director. A random thought It's funny whenever I think of the name Roman, I hear Nicki Minaj's 'Roman Holiday' in my head; Roman Zolanski had his exorcism on the Grammy's recently while Roman Castevets brought the devil's son Adrian to the world in 1966 Year 1. Roman Polanski on the other hand is battling some very serious allegations in USA. Discard The Woman in Black, throw away Paranormal Activity 2, and ditch Grudge; Rosemary's Baby is watch you should be watching.My Rating 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Consummate Thriller and Mystery Story","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A movie that was born out of greatness; the distinctive element that makes this movie quite good is that everything is all questioned. It gave me a real feeling of the Eyes Wide Shut story on how everything was staged, how everything was denoted and how people were discerned in the unfolding of the tale (of course, Kubrick's movie was years after this one).It stars Mia Farrow as Rosemary, who with her spouse Guy (played by John Cassavetes) are investing in an apartment; unbeknown-st to them, the apartment is adjoined to the most peculiar and mystifying of old people; Ruth Gordon plays Minnie Castevet, a rather benevolent and well meaning person, who is the typical all kind and all helpful and attentive neighbours, who out of their kindness, give a sort of longing for distance. Her husband is played by Sidney Blackmer as Roman Castevet. The Castevets are part of a certain group of people; the gut grinding feel to the movie give it a reminiscence of Hammer Movies, with the essence of a Hitchcock Thriller; but all in all, giving a genesis to a new entity of film. My gripe with the movie is that I felt the focal point was actually different from what I had expected; don't get me wrong I thought what my mind presented was not what it was all up to be. And my other gripe is that, like the character, you get frustrated towards the people. But as soon as the plot is ignited, it really does really blast into it. The relationships are laid out in a cliché way as I have explained; however, with that in mind, it is also very ghoulish and you can feel the vividness from it. For example, the satanic silhouette from Theresa (the girl from the beginning's body) is already a real foreshadowing to the theme of the film. That's the power of it &#x96; without the context backing it up &#x96; it feels Satanic and this is one of the horror trademarks that doesn't always execute it with subtlety and with enough suspense, into that fierce territory of being as surprised as the lead character (Mia Farrow). The motif of the pendant is powerful, surprising and enough to capture your attention. However, when you peg people in the movie, it can really put your mood into a spiral essentially transmitting the idea that everybody is in on it.My favourite scene is the dream/reality of Farrow's intoxication as we're exploring the deep darkness of sexual violence, sexual lust, sexual passion or just all things sexual; it scared me and creeps me out much more then things like The Exorcist (1971) and even The Shining (1980).The SFX is the best thing about the movie; the ambulance, screaming and chanting sounds through the use of music is absolutely liberating in that state of uncertainty about what you're watching and what's being described.The scrolled walls, the landscapes, the god like feel to it, the idea of creating the baby and the conspiracy behind that carriage, not just two, but all or possibly even being submitted to more than just one? Wow. It puts you outside of perceptual and mental ideas, forcing you to psychologically take everything in. Like what babies are used for and whether or not that mythology is true or not....Another thing that is quite annoying though, is the typical denial dynamic used in the movie, when you clearly know that they know. Even with the Baby, as if to try and creep you out, when you know it is alive or when that book is being impugned as nothing more than a fairy tale; however predictable that was, the ideas behind it were still giving you a great sense of being detected at every moment and ceased at every act with no escape.Basically, this movie is a solid movie; it adopts some of the older conventions of movies, but what the movie does unique is that it has a grittier darkness then other movies of its contemporaries and it also diminishes all humour, subjecting you to Polanski's vision and the rituals of another force to compel you to keep watching as if what you're concentrating on is destiny which is a very scary notion. "}{"Title":"Rosemary's baby","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's baby This film is certainly horror for me. First of all the soundtracks of movie like Krzysztof Komeda's Lullaby make me irritate. The movie is extremely complicated and full of secretive scene.İn fact Rosemary's Baby is one of the masters of twentieth century suspense and it is described as a product of the counter-cultural movement during the Vietnam War in the 1960's, a time when The Establishment were viewed with suspicion and hostility. During this time, the largest movement of modern satanism start.The director Instead of use blood and violence to scare audiences he uses genuine psychological tension. It is the differences between Rosemary's Baby and other horror films. The cast is fantastic for example Mia Farrow who play a leading role was ideal. She has got delicate beauty.She kept Rosemary's emotion sand thoughts right on her face so we know what she's thinking at all times and we can actually join her emotionally in her desperate fight to save her baby from the witches.I think what makes this movie scary is the fact that all these terrible things are happening to such an innocent, hopeless character Rosamary.If needed to explain, Rosemary (MiaFarrow) and her husband Guy(John Cassavetes) move to an apartment but they have estrange neighbors Roman ( Ruth Gordon) and Minnie Castevet( SidneyBlackmer) they seem to be very good person even though pull a trick to Rosemary . Guy likes the man spends a lot of time with them whereas Rosemary does not like them. When Rosemary becomes pregnant everything start to get strange.She begin to suffer and she start to understand somethings is wrong about her baby. But couldn't do anything because of her husband. After getting a book which is called all of them are witches then she realizes the deal between her husband and the elderly neighbors about the baby. İn spite of her struggle, she couldn't escape from th witches. And she gave birth to her weird, Satan baby accepting the baby as her child. All in all the movie is interesting but so scenario are distracting and hard to follow. At the same time it is gripping. "},{"Title":"one of the finest examples of modern horror","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" If the period of the film is taken into account I can say that the film is quite successful. This film is also included among history's most horrific films. Events in the film is moving slowly but I think most of the old movies is same. In the film there is just a happy young couple expecting their first child. Rosemary and an unemployed actor Gus have just moved into their new apartment. They have some neighbors and they are friendly. Rosemary learns that she is pregnant but she feels a strange sense of anxiety. She seems to remember a vague dream and she has mysterious stretches on her stomach. So, events are developing in this way. The film is truly frightening and I think it is one of the finest examples of modern horror. Although the subject matter is supernatural the treatment is very realistic but I think that film's most disturbing aspect is that the fears and anxiety. You should make many sacrifices to see the end of the film. Because the film's time is too long. The film can be seen as a simple movie but some details have surprises. Most of the music in the film was very beautiful and impressive. I think, especially playing music at the end of the film can not been forgotten easily. Mia Farrow exhibited a great acting. The film is based on her performance and I liked it. Also, Roman Polanski who is director and writer of the film, is a talented and intelligent person. As a result, I can say that I admired writer's imagination and you should watch this film. "},{"Title":"rosemary","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The movie is accepted a classic horror movie. At first it came to me a really old movie but after watching and finishing it, I admitted the Rosemary's Baby is a true classic. The events in the movie look like it is all about Rosemary. The near shots and creepy scenes make its quality even better. While you are watching it you really become suspicious and it truly gets you nervous. Mia Farrow's acting her character is really great. You can read her thoughts and it makes you feel she is a naive person. I must admit it is a little bit different from these days' horror movies. But I think these kinds of movies just followed path which Roman Polanski created with Rosemary's baby. In this movie Mia Farrow is acting a newlywed who discovers that her husband and her neighbors are Satanists. Before watching the movie I didn't know that Farrow earned raves for her performance. The lullaby at the first scene of the movie is sung by Mia Farrow. And the other songs of the movie are marvelous. The most effective scene of movie is when Rosemary stops the cradle with a knife and the scene which she saws the baby. The director &#x96; Roman Polanski- lets us imagine the baby. The movie is not thrill you with the easy tricks it lets the horror part to your imagination. Everything in the movie is controlled by the Satanist friends and husband. Rosemary is the one who is in the center of this chaos. The end of the movie is leads you to think about the decision of Rosemary. While you are watching this movie you can realize that the other horror movies followed the path of this movie shows. You can enjoy the director's aspect on this story. "},{"Title":"The high Tension","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When published in 1967, Rosemary's Baby was one of the first contemporary horror novels to become a national bestseller. And that's why this film related to novel. Actually I did not read the novel but I watch Rosemary's Baby in the university ( in pronunciation and listening lesson ). And now I have a comment about that movie.This film about a woman who discovers that her pregnancy is not actually normal. Rosemary ( that woman ) and her actor husband moved into the Bramford (a building in New York). Then The family meet some neighbors who are part of a satanic ritual. And strange things start to happen  She is raped by a man who is not human. But Rosemary think that it is a dream and than Rosemary falls pregnant but she think that she is pregnant by her husband. Then she begins to suspect that her neighbors have special plans for her child.If we talk about the place which is shown in movies are good and interesting (exp.the building). But I cannot say the same about the musics. They are not good for me. And also the end of the movie is not good actually. But in the movie sometimes the tension heightens, we feel what Rosemary feels. Therefore you should watch this movie and add your comment. "},{"Title":"Madness and the Devil","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's classic Rosemary's Baby remains not only one of the best horror thrillers I've ever seen, but one of the greatest movies. In the horror genre, one needs to watch The Exorcist to come across a movie that matches the quality of Polanski's masterwork. The more one peers into the past, the more one comes across good horror movies. For all their tameness by modern standards, the truth is these classics are better written, plotted, acted, paced and scored.The story is by now universally known, having seeped into popular consciousness in all sorts of parodies, homages, spoofs and imitations. Let it just be said that the use of demons and the Devil has seldom been so well used in cinema. Again, one must watch The Exorcist, or perhaps its knock-off The Omen, to see it so it used with novelty and artistic quality.Mia Farrow plays Rosemary in a very seductive way, that makes it impossible for the viewer not to sympathise with her from the start. She's such a good-natured, happy woman that it's more tragic when she becomes the target of evil forces trying to control her and her pregnancy. John Cassavetes plays her husband, Guy, an apparently average joe, who's darker than she ever imagined. Ruth Gordon plays a chattering, busybody neighbor, a seemingly harmless old lady, secretly scheming against the innocent Rosemary.Polanski was at the top of his game in 1968 and directed this movie in a very elegant and innovative way. For instance, the movie is bright and colorful. When Rosemary and Guy arrive at their new apartment in the Bramford building, it's a desolate, sinister place, evocative of countless haunted houses of the past. But then they remodel it and it becomes a light, pleasant place to live in. This is one of the many departures from old movies, the idea that horror can happen in the most mundane places, by the most vulgar people.The score is harmonious and peaceful, with a lullaby as the main theme; it's a far cry from the distorted garbage that poisons so many horror movies today. Rather than highlighting the tension, it lulls the viewer into a sense of peace and safety. It's wonderfully manipulative, as horror should be.The story develops at a rational place, slowly building on the strangeness around Rosemary, introducing her to a secret world that isolates her from any help. Rosemary grows more helpless as the movie goes on, and it's a joy to watch Farrow descend into terror and despair little by little. I think this was a major improvement on his previous movie, Repulsion, in which Catherine Deneuve's character always seemed a bit crazy from the start.Although Polanski reached the zenith of film-making with Chinatown, that perfect gem of cinema, Rosemary's Baby stands as one of his best efforts and remains enjoyable and innovative after several decades. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Polanski film","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" No matter how one feels about Roman Polanski's personal life, one has to admit he has moments - sometimes days and months - of sheer genius. 1968's Rosemary's Baby is one example. A psychological horror film, Polanski depends on the power of suggestion and elements of mystery to build the story, which is very faithful to Ira Levin's novel.It's very hard to write a review from the perspective of someone who has just seen Rosemary's Baby for the first time and has never read the book. I've seen it countless times, so I can't remember now what I thought originally. But a first-time viewer, I guess, wouldn't actually know whether Rosemary was paranoid and hysterical or, in fact, if there are really strange goings-on. This makes the story all the more potent.In the book, Rosemary isn't the frail-looking woman that Mia Farrow is, but Farrow is perfect as the fragile, passive Rosemary. Cassavetes as her actor-husband does all the actor-y things of imitating different people, etc., and is great. Of course, Ruth Gordon is a standout as nosy Minnie Castevet, every mannerism, from looking at a soup can label to dropping by with chocolate mousse, is fantastic, and she deservedly won an Oscar and a Golden Globe for her performance. Polanski called on a cast of experienced stars for the supporting roles besides Gordon, there is Maurice Evans, Sidney Blackmer, Ralph Bellamy, Patsy Kelly, and Elisha Cook, Jr. Tony Curtis is the voice of the unfortunate actor whom Guy replaces on Broadway.Polanski sets up a compelling tale of religious conflict, ambition, terror, and isolation with the backdrop of New York City and the exterior of the famous Dakota (where John Lennon was killed) as the infamous building where Rosemary, Guy, and the Castevets live.For those who are interested, Ira Levin wrote a sequel to this, Rosemary's Boy, I believe, that takes place in 1999. But for my money, nothing could ever beat Rosemary's Baby. "},{"Title":"Bathed in a creepy, brooding atmosphere. See it!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Is the occult enough to frighten us in this day and age? Rosemary's Baby, The Exorcist, and The Omen may all be considered classics, but after all we've seen in real life since those films were made can the occult really still frighten us? Since the 1970s we've lived through wars, endless terrorist attacks, serial killers more gruesome than any Hollywood writer could imagine, you name it. So can someone just sit down and view a movie like Rosemary's Baby and be frightened by it? The answer is a definitive YES.I had seen parts of this before, but never the conclusion until sitting down and taking it all in the other evening. Though very heavily dated in terms of just about everything you'll see, Rosemary's Baby is still very suspenseful and just downright eerie. In the tradition of great horror films before it and a few since, this movie doesn't rely on buckets of blood, severed limbs, or cheap shocks when someone or something jumps into the frame. This one has a compelling story, and it lets its atmosphere smother the viewer in a cloud of doom and desperation. The story deals with a young couple moving into an old but stately apartment building on the Upper West Side of New York City. It is clear from the get-go that the other tenants of this building are just not right in many ways. Particularly the elderly couple next door as they have soon insinuated themselves into the young couple's lives in every way possible. After a while, the young woman finds herself pregnant, and things pretty much go downhill from there for her. By all means watch this film to experience the particulars for yourself.The writing, acting, directing and production design are top notch. Polanski was only getting started at this point, but still this is one of his best efforts. As the conclusion was approaching, there were three logical ways I expected this film to end. They chose my second ending. The first would have been the obvious choice of having Rosemary jump out a window to her death like the young woman earlier in the film. The third choice would have been for Rosemary to use the knife to stab the infant to death. But that would have been maybe too macabre. I think they made a good choice, but I don't really want to see the sequel which has nothing but poor reviews and was made by inferior talent. 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Terrifying","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is directed by Roman Polanski and stars Mia Farrow, Ruth Gordon, John Cassavetes, Sidney Blackmer and Maurice Evans.Roman Polanski's masterpiece is a must see for several reasons,not least of which is for Mia Farrows unforgettable lead performance as the young woman who gets caught up in a nightmare.The horror in this film is psychological rather than visual horror.There is no gore instead what is more scary here is what you think is happening or could happen. That's what makes the shocking ending all the more effective.Young married couple Guy and Rosemary Woodhouse(John Cassavetes and Mia Farrow)move into an old apartment building in New York and begin to redecorate their new apartment.Rosemary pays no attention to the horrific history of the building, that is until they meet the creepy but charming older Minnie Castevet(Ruth Gordon)and her husband Roman(Sidney Blackmer)they befriend the younger couple and when Rosemary becomes pregnant they take an even greater interest in her.Rosemary soon becomes hysterical with her fears about how she became pregnant and due to the warnings of her only friend in all of this, the kindly EdwardHutchHutchins(Maurice Evans).Edward is very concerned for her and becomes her only confidant in a frightening situation.She soon learns the Castevets are members of a Satanic cult and that her child may not be ordinary.Shocking and chilling Rosemary's Baby is one of the best horror films of all time and still stands up well against todays more gore filled horrors. "},{"Title":"David Jeffers for SIFFblog.com","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Tuesday October 31, 730pm, The Historic Lynwood TheaterMonsters, monsters, unspeakable, unspeakable!Guy and Rosemary Woodhouse are average, happy newlyweds, until they move into an imposing, fortress-like apartment on Manhattan's upper West Side. Everyone else at The Bramford (Manhattan's notorious Dakota) seems oddly out of step with the world, older, a bit too friendly, and not quite what they seem. Roman Polanski's first American production, Rosemary's Baby (1968) is the story of a young woman (Mia Farrow) who has either become the innocent victim of a depraved Satanist cult, impregnated by the Devil himself, or has lost her mind to the hormonal ravages of pregnancy. Polanski's great delight in presenting stories from the point of view of the central character leaves the viewer wondering to the very last ambiguous shot. What remains indisputable however, is this films place as the finest, most original and frightening example of psychotic-nightmare horror to come out of new Hollywood and the inspiration for countless other films. "},{"Title":"windows of the soul","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" the most successful trick employed in all of 'rosemary's baby' is in polanski's decision to not show the viewer exactly what has happened to rosemary's newborn baby's eyes. when she walks in and finds that her neighbors have kidnapped/bought from husband her newborn child instead of hiding it, rosemary is allowed to go to her baby and pick it up. lifting the child up in her arms, rosemary looks down and begins to scream, 'his eyes, what have you done to his eyes' as the movie ends. i love that we have no idea exactly what was done. maybe they were removed and she is staring down at the empty hollow sockets in her child's face? maybe they are hideously deformed, or cat shaped with sharp oval-shaped pupils? not showing allows the viewer to speculate and to tap into what it is terrifies them most, not be shown someone else's fear in the hopes it registers with them. "}{"Title":"THIS will make you NEVER want kids","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's baby is downright creepy.Mia Farrow plays a frail woman who unknowingly becomes the woman who will bear Satan's kid. And she finds out only when it's too late... I was disgusted when I first saw it, but a second watch made me see it's brilliance. The whole movie has a creepy, suspicious atmosphere,which puts you in the same scared place as Rosemary.None of the characters in this movie are the stereotypical EVIL characters which can be pointed out right away,there's no mise-en-scene to point out 'scary place!' for the audience. You really feel like there is no one you can trust, which is why this movie is so scary.The movie is also a good comment on a Catholic upbringing's effect on women. Rosemary is devout and goes along with what the Church and men say is best and right. A subtle hint is the fact that she uses the calender method, which is known to be very risky and unreliable. The best example comes with her submission during her pregnancy- It's 'take the pill, don't ask questions,don't worry your pretty head'. her dream also implies that the church considers you a sinner if you are raped. But whatever- I was scarred by my catholic upbringing.The best part about this film is the end. Rosemary has the baby, only to have it taken away by the satanists. But she accepts the child, thinking that god will triumph, and that she can change her child's fate. It attacks religion and motherhood in one blow. But evil wins, and that's refreshing for a movie. "},{"Title":"What is a horror film?","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's really ironic that Rosemary's Baby is so often cited as one of the greatest horror films ever made. Because, when you watch it, it doesn't really share much with what many consider horror films. There is not one menacing villain versus several main characters, of which those with faults succumb to grisly deaths, while those with virtues survive to the end. In fact, there is hardly any violence, or even scenes of immediate tension, such as those when a victim hides out in some dark area, isolated from the rest of humanity, with no weapon, while a violent, supernatural murderer haunts (usually her) the victim. The horror in this type of horror film is of course short-lived and short-lasting. Thus, a modern horror film generally comprises several such scenes where the tension is permitted to artificially rise and then is released when the violence occurs. I say artificial because the formula is so known to the audience that the audience members can practically predict where the tension will rise, though they may still experience it. The tension in modern horror is formulaic and often constructed out of absurd situations.Rosemary's Baby, Polanski's first American film, is different. It is the story of one, fragile individual who, at her most vulnerable (during her pregnancy), descends into psychological hell. The tension here is absolutely real, even though the premise is absurd. (The premise, by the way, is that Rosemary's husband agrees to let his wife be host to the son of Satan in exchange for a successful career). However, the realism of the general premise is absolutely unnecessary for the film to work, precisely because it is psychological.Rosemary's Baby begins like a bad romance film. A couple buys an apartment, chats with the neighbors and talks of making a baby. Then, Rosemary, in a nightmarish vision gets impregnated and things start to go wrong. She has dreams though she feels they are real. Her neighbors persuade her to switch to another doctor, one who ignores her complaints about the pain she feels. She finds mysterious scratches on her arms. A friend who had something important to tell her ends up dead. She hears voices and slowly, but surely, the coincidences start to add up in her head. They form a *believable* reality - and the reason it is believable is because we follow Rosemary's logic and fears. We can't help but draw the same, terrifying conclusions.Thus, Rosemary's Baby terrifies precisely because it makes an absurdly-horrific situation believable and genuinely upsetting. A lot of factors, of course, aside from the story make this work. No doubt, Polanski's expert direction helps visually and psychologically construct a claustrophobic, alienating and alien world. John Cassevetes is great as Rosemary's husband, Guy, who's masculine innocence carries dark undertones. And Mia Farrow, or Rosemary, is the perfect victim for this little scheme - innocent, naive, steadily growing more exhausted, more paranoid, Farrow plays Rosemary perfectly. And, without Rosemary's believable psychological reaction to the events unfolding around her, the film would lose half its strength.In Rosemary's Baby Polanski explores some of the themes that would preoccupy him for the rest of his directorial career. The idea of alienation, de-humanization and schizophrenia (the ultimate psychological fracture and collapse) in the face of a gradual advent of evil is the central theme in the story. Rosemary's environment, for reasons unknown to her, becomes inimical and harmful and she is helpless in the face of it. And it happens so gradually and subtly, it's easy to forget that everything used to be peaceful in the beginning.Upon a third viewing (I believe) Polanski's direction still appears expert. However, I realized that Rosemary's Baby is simply extremely well-made pulp. It's at the top of the pulpy scale and it almost approaches art, but not quite - Chinatown, however, does. Rosemary's Baby is a film about paranoia and perhaps feminism, but it doesn't come close to the existential horror of Chinatown.And it isn't Polanski's most terrifying pulpy horror. I do put it above Repulsion of which I was never a fan, but Rosemary's Baby pales in comparison to a much darker, later film, The Tenant. The Tenant stars Polanski himself and is a story not unlike the story of Rosemary. A man rents an apartment in Paris and things around him go very wrong - the apartment, Paris and humanity turn against him. He is a victim of circumstance, coincidence, much like Rosemary, but the ambiguity of The Tenant leaves far more terrifying implications. It leaves the viewer wondering whether the tenant is actually sane and whether what he witnesses is real or only a schizophrenic hallucination. Rosemary's Baby has similarly ambiguous elements, but I think the question of Rosemary's sanity isn't as central to the film as the change of her physical and psychological reality. But in The Tenant you never really do know. Whether the tenant is sane. Whether you're sane and what sanity is anyway. It's all stripped to terrifying darkness, in which you can't see anything. And that darkness, losing one's mind, is far more terrifying, and realistic, than giving birth to Satan's child.  "},{"Title":"Skillful Horror","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Roman Polanski has used very skillfully methods to make a creepy horror film. Excluding the ending of the film, Rosemary's Baby reminded me of Hitchcock's brilliant horror and thriller films. But I should watch this movie twice because after just one view of the film I can't think of anything lousy in this film. And no film is perfect.But as I mentioned, I have watched this film only once, so I have only good things to say about this movie. So the actors and actresses are great. I like movies which don't have dozens of characters. This movie hasn't got too many characters. When there are only few characters it is easy to learn to know them better. I liked especially Mia Farrow. She was great. Also the title music was fantastic!Rosemary's Baby shows how to make a good horror film, without any cool special effects. Many movies have been spoiled with too many effects so I'm glad this one is made in the 60s when it was impossible to make decent effects, at least compared to what you can do nowadays. Well, I don't want to write all day. I gave this movie 9/10 points and recommend it to everyone who likes Hitchcock-movies. "},{"Title":"An unwitting essay in NY weirdness - no wonder she married Woody Allen","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. Some nice acting, pre-Woody Allen speakingallatthesametime ensemble realism and some lovely cinematography. Why is it so hard to make a 21st century picture look this beautiful?I didn't enjoy this film. It is a unique example of a brilliant psychological thriller; characters who might be creepy, acting in a way which might be creepy, but you never can tell. Worst of all, there's very little music to tell you how you ought to be feeling; there's no comfort to be had!Essentially the narrative is the Faust story, John Cassavetes' struggling actor Guy Woodhouse making a daemonic pact to further his career. The joy - almost comedy - of the film is that, by the end, it almost seems as if that's OK by the liberal standards of a 60s Big Apple. In fact, I suspect the reason for centring the film on Mia Farrow's (excellent) Rosemary is that there is no tension surrounding Woodhouse after the first 20 mins. He's already made his choice, and we'd probably have come to accept the outrage by the first pre-natal class.By the end you will have bitten your fingernails to shreds, but you will also have laughed. Extraordinary 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"CLASSIC SUSPENSE!","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Woah! What a suspenseful movie. All the acting was great. This one is up there with Psycho, The Man Who Knew To Much, & The Birds. It came on one night late on AMC. By the time it was over it was 230 am. It made me think. Oh, my moms birthday is also on June 28th,so we kiddingly call her Adrien. "},{"Title":"One of the great horror movies!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) and her husband Guy (John Cassavetes), a struggling actor, move into what would seem to be the perfect apartment in New York City. Things seem to be going well for Rosemary; she meets some new friends in Roman and Minnie Castavet (Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon) though she does find Minnie a tad annoying at times, her husband's career starts to take off even though as a result of a fellow actor's ill-fortune and on top of it all, Rosemary becomes pregnant much to her delight. However, Rosemary eventually starts to suspect that all is not what it seems and rapidly starts to believe that there is a fiendish plot against her, and her unborn baby.This movie, adapted from a novel by Ira Levin, was Roman Polanski's first American film and arguably one of his best. There is a certain intelligence to &#145;Rosemary's Baby' that is rarely found in a horror movie. Polanski is able to gradually call the audience's attention to the horror in the movie, instead of throwing it in our faces. Whereas other classic religious horrors such as &#145;The Exorcist' (1973) climaxed, if you will, part way through and then sought to underline the horror with multiple shocking sequences, this movie is different, in &#145;Rosemary's Baby' there is no real climax. Instead we have a gradual realisation of the truth developed wonderfully through some great direction and a remarkably strong screenplay (written by Polanski). While there can be no doubt in the audiences mind that something is indeed amiss, the feelings of fear are generated simply by the unknown. There are so many things that can lead you to a conclusion, but until the final twenty minutes there is no indication as to why these things are happening. Astonishingly the movie lasts in excess of two hours and yet does not feel as if it is dragging once. The opening fifteen minutes may cause the viewer to question where the movie is heading but after that &#145;Rosemary's Baby' becomes one of the most enchanting and engrossing horror movies ever made. Polanski created some rather disturbing nightmare sequences early on in the movie which mark the beginning of Rosemary's nightmare but are far from the end.Mia Farrow was nominated for a Golden Globe award for her performance, and quite rightly so. Farrow's portrayal of the helpless mother desperately seeking to protect her unborn child is powerfully emotional. Ruth Gordon also put in a splendid (and Oscar-winning!) performance as the creepy character of Minnie. Gordon's performance gave an enormous realism to her character and portrayed her as being strange, but not in a necessarily evil way. Minnie's busy-body persona comes across as just that, a busy-body persona. The way Gordon plays her character shows an incredible tangency with similar people in the real world. Sidney Blackmer was also impressive as Minnie's husband. He portrayed the character as a kindly elderly man, so much so that during the final scenes his comments about the situation almost come across as making sense. The dying moments of the film are certainly dramatic as Polanski is able to play on maternal nature to finalise the horror aspect. The closing scene has an exceptionally eerie tranquillity to it and the viewer is left with a very strong thought in their mind. Undoubtedly, &#145;Rosemary's Baby' has one of the greatest endings in horror history and purposely fails to answer every question, which leaves the viewer to make their own mind up. The film's tangency with the real world, even though the movie's premise itself is somewhat absurd, allows for a rather chilling finale as the viewer is forced to ask - `what next?' &#150; and only the viewer can answer the question. In some ways the cryptic ending of &#145;Rosemary's Baby' is one of its finest accomplishments.&#145;Rosemary's Baby' is one of the finest horror movies in the history of cinema and I highly recommend it to everyone. The movie is paced very well, impressively acted, strikingly scripted and very entertaining. This is not a particular bloody movie but maintains a sinister atmosphere throughout and the nightmare sequences are some of the most powerful I have seen. My rating for &#145;Rosemary's Baby' &#150; 9/10. "},{"Title":"Dated But Disturbing","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  34 years after the fact, ROSEMARY'S BABY is still a disturbing masterpiece of the demonic. But sadly, time has not been kind to this film. Throughout most of it's running time it all looks so 60's the clothing, the hair, and most noticably, the music. In fact, a scene near the end that should be edge-of-your-seat terrifying ends up becoming merely nerve-wracking due to the distracting music.The plot, however, remains razor sharp. As Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) and her husband Guy move into a new upscale New York City apartment, strange things begin happening all around them, things that may in some sinister way be related to Rosemary's budding new pregnancy. Equally perturbing, but not as obviously demonic are Rosemary's new neighbors, a nosy and intrusive elderly couple who seem determined to interfere with her personal business.The movie moves at a very slow pace, (in fact, for the first hour and a half it's difficult to accurately describe this as a true horror film) but everything in this movie has a purpose. Scenes that seem to have no relevence come full circle by the end. Despite it's plodding storyline, ROSEMARY'S BABY almost demands a repeated viewing.All of this builds up to the terrifying climax that is undoubtably one of the most disturbing and horrifying in cinematic history. But, in another way, this movie is a portrait of a simpler time. When it was released in 1968, ROSEMARY'S BABY was a shocking and contraversial movie like nothing that had been seen before. Over the decades, much of the shock has worn off. And maybe what's more frightening is that the notion of a ritualistic Satanic cult is no longer packs the shock value it once did.(***/****) "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  But has anyone noticed the similarity between Mia Farrow's performance hereand Milla Jovovich in the unwatchable Fifth Element? The white face, theorange hair, the twitchy gawkiness? I don't like to see a grown womanimpersonating (badly) a young child.It was the fashion of the time, though - look at her flat Maryjane shoes, her  short baggy dresses - and she was a bit of a style icon. But look at the way she  cutely clutches her address book with her whole hand as if it was too big for her,  and listen to her high, piping voice. Having said that, she's the central character and I'm rooting for her all the way.  But you do long to shout 'look behiiiiind yoooo!' xxxxx "},{"Title":"Evil, but okay","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  As soon as I saw a clip of this movie on a TV show,I had to see it for myself.  After watching it I was just a little dissapointed by the ending.  Well, I was very dissapointed by the ending.  I don't want to spoil it for anybody else, but you will know what I mean if you ever see this movie.  It's pretty evil in regards of Satanism, and I felt sorry for the woman.  I thought this movie was just okay, but I don't think it's one of the best horror movies of all time.  Some of the movie I really liked and noticed.  I really liked how the husband and wife were sometimes sarcastic to each other and jokeing around with each other all of the time.  This movie really kept me guessing and that's what I liked about this film.  Just when I thought that I knew something might happen one way, happened in another way.  The dream seqences added a weirdness to this film.  Not a bad movie though. "},{"Title":"See it whether you want to or not!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I own this movie and I hve seen it hundreds of times. By now I've seen it so many times that I can say, with the confidence of a major film critic, that this is the most meticulously planned movie ever filmed. Literally every frame is highly stylized artwork. Even scenes that appear to have nothing to do with the movie i.e. the These are shelves scene, really have everything to do with the story, you just haven't realized it. The running theme in this movie is obviously...the shelves! They hold the key to everything else in the movie. Even if you've seen this on before, see it again and pay attenetion to the shelves! "}{"Title":"Ira Polanski ?","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's incredible how Polanski shaped Levin's text comma by comma, with  fidelity and dynamism making a thrilling movie until the unexpected and sorpresive final. "},{"Title":"A psychological horror that chilled me to the bones...","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" For me, alongside Chinatown, Rosemary's Baby is one of Roman Polanski's best films. As with all of Polanski's movies, it is very well-made and directed. The cinematography is both striking and atmospheric, with lighting that always helps to enhance the mood, while the music and sound effects are haunting and the story is compelling.The script is yet another strength, all the psychological horror is there and done with genuinely unnerving effect, it has plenty of paranoia mixed with the odd bit of morbid humour. I couldn't have asked for better acting either. Mia Farrow is in I feel her best performance here, and she is an ideal satanic foil.John Cassevetes is suitably selfish and frustrated, and then there's Ruth Gordon who is wonderfully eccentric and in a menacing sense. Overall, a chilling psychological horror that to me is still very effective. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Devil you know ...","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Ira Levin's novel about a girl impregnated by the Devil may have been a cut or two above the usual 'schlock-horror' fiction of the day but it was hardly to be taken seriously. When Roman Polanski set his cap on it he was already established as an 'art-house' director with a strong critical following. It may have seemed like dumbing down. Of course, as I've often said, hindsight is a wonderful thing and knowing what we know now of Polanski's ability to skip fairly effortlessly between genres and to make movies of artistic merit as well as appealing to a wider audience, we ought not to have been too worried. Rosemary's Baby is a cracker.It's the story of a susceptible young bride with an active imagination, (some might say, over-active), married to a struggling actor who, to anybody should be instantly recognizable as something of a sleaze-ball, (John Cassavetes fitting the part perfectly). They move into one of those large brownstone buildings in New York where they quickly make friends with the nice, if a trifle interfering, old couple across the hall. Soon Rosemary is finding out all about her building from her old friend Hutch who has. perhaps, an unhealthy interest in the occult. It seems that a coven of devil-worshipers once lived there and her nice old neighbours, Roman and Minnie Castevet, may still be carrying on the practice.Before you can say Beelzebub, Rosemary's husband Guy has sold his soul to Satan and is helping to hold his drugged wife down while someone or something large and scaly is mounting her. Soon Rosemary is about to have Rosemary's baby, (well, Rosemary's and the Devil's), and naturally, considering who or what is inside her, the pregnancy doesn't go according to plan. Rosemary starts to fear for her health and the health of her baby, (well, she was drugged at the time; how the hell does she know who the father is!). She also starts to put two and two together and comes up with the notion that Roman and Minnie and their band of witches and warlocks want her, as yet unborn, baby as some kind of human sacrifice. Little does she know! So far so 'schlock-horror', (subsequent movies cashed in on the theme with a lot less subtlety), but Polanski stuck to the old adage that what is truly terrifying is what is left to our imagination. With the exception of the conception we never actually see the demon, (and even there only glimpsed, only suggestively). And when finally Rosemary does give birth, the monster is shielded from our gaze.The movie also plays beautifully with another kind of fear, that of any expectant mother for the safety of her unborn child. Had Polanski not chosen to show the drug-rape we might have gone along with the theory that everything that was happening to Rosemary was a figment of that over-ripe imagination. Indeed there were times when you thought that maybe everything was, that Polanski was going to pull the rug from under us and tell us it was all a bad dream. Instead he serves up a different ending, one that is all the more disturbing, (and one which posits a game of 'what if's ...).As Rosemary, Mia Farrow, (at the time mostly untried on the big screen, a gamine-like elf of a creature), is terrific. She is so good at getting inside the character of Rosemary, with her mounting hysteria and her physical deterioration, that you begin to fear for the actress herself. At times Farrow seems to be taking method acting a tad too far. As if to counter the 'realism' of Farrow's performance, Ruth Gordon is gloriously over-the-top as Minnie, the old witch next door. Gordon knows she has the part of a lifetime and she milks it for all it's worth, (listen to how she makes Lipton's tea sound like the most sinister drink in the world). Gordon won an Oscar for her performance and richly deserved it; (Farrow failed to get a nomination).The movie itself was very successful and it opened the floodgates for so many inferior movies on the same theme that its own reputation has tended to suffer. It isn't the best film Polanski has made and in the end it never quite goes deep enough but it's a good frightener and a deliciously dark comedy with one of the best performances of the sixties and that's good enough for me. "},{"Title":"For 1968, this movie is a riveting shocker","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In reviewing Rosemary's Baby, a movie that pretty much led to movies like The Exorcist, I have to think back to the year it was released. And upon realizing this, I must say that Rosemary's Baby is a horror movie in the psychological sense. There is no gore whatsoever, but none of that makes this film any less a horror movie.I'm not even sure todays generation of horror movie goers would be able to watch a movie like Rosemary's Baby. It moves very slow and builds tension subtly, leading to the horrifying climax. There are a few shocking scenes, but nothing that would sicken anybody. Today's generation of horror movie buffs might even find Rosemary's Baby to be rather boring, but then things have changed since 1968. You do not have the same audience in 2006 that you had back then. But in watching movies, particularly horror films, for years, I can accept the horrors that Rosemary's Baby brings to the table.Director Roman Polanski directs this movie perfectly and gets incredible performances from his cast, especially Mia Farrow (Rosemary) and Ruth Gordon (Minnie Castavet). From the beginning, this film starts with a gnawing horror that slowly builds throughout, leading to the surprising ending. It is the acting by all the participants as well as clever direction that makes all of this work wonderfully, and like I said above, it does not use gore at all to get its point across.I see that I have not summarize the plot, but if I did, I believe it would only lessen some of the movie's surprises. Let's just say that if you are a horror movie buff, and enjoy slow build-up in your horror movies which leads to a surprising conclusion, then Rosemary's Baby is the movie for you. As I've emphasized above, this film has no explicit gore whatsoever. There are some mild violent scenes but nothing that would gross anybody out. You've got to realize this movie was released in the late 60s, and that was five years before The Exorcist. If you can accept that, and watch this movie, then maybe you will see why this movie is a cult favorite among many horror movie buffs. "},{"Title":" It didn't die! You took it! You're Lying! -x 3","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When Mr. and Mrs. Woodhouse (Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes)bought an apartment, they were warned about the weird doings that went on in the apartment. As soon as they spruced the place up, a friend that they just made who was Teery Gionoffrio (Victoria Vetri) was found dead outside the block of flats (appartments).Not so soon, Rosemary planned on becoming pregnant and she soon received a Tanis Root , which was a necklace that bought good luck. And when she discovered it was Terry's necklace, she put it away. Suddenly, when morning came, a person the couple knew named Donald Baumgart (Tony Curtis) went blind. And followed by Rosemary having a dream about a black magic ritual that was performed on her she saw witches, she was naked, she was hearing witch craft music, she was bitten by a mouse and she saw DEMONIC EYES! And after that, Rosemary was pregnant.When Rosemary threw a huge party for her pregnancy, the pains she had since November 1965 wouldn't go away! It was currently 1966. And when she had organized the baby goods, she received a call that said , Donald had died! And she later found out that people who lived next door found baby's flesh and blood were best for any Black Magic ritual. Rosemary didn't want these people coming near her apartment.Soon, Rosemary threw her Tanis Root necklace down the drain and she went to go see a doctor in connection with having a baby that day. And after the surgery, she was told that the baby didn't make it and she dismissed it. She knew the baby was alive, but where was it? And that evening, she heard a baby crying from next door and when she went to go see it. Everyone she knew was there. And when she looked into it's crib, she discovered it was a little devil named Adrian. and she was told that Satin was it's father, not Guy! And Satin chose her to be Adrian's mother and everyone yelled God's dead! Satin lives! And that baby sure was UGLY! And you could see the cross was upside down as it dangled above Adrian's crib. GOD SPARE ME!! THIS WAS ONE MESSED UP HORROR FILM ! "},{"Title":"Rosemary in Chinatown.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski used to be great then;and it seems that his latest movie is a return to outstanding form.Rosemary's baby is a movie I've been watching for years,always finding something new.I'll never grow tired of it,it's definitely my all-time terror favorite movie (with Robert Wise's the haunting (1963))There are strong connections between Rosemary's baby and Polanski's film noir Chinatownin these two masterworks,there are two worlds which coexist and there are tenuous links between themin Rosemary the mysterious cupboard ,the Chinese area in the 1974 work.Pregnancy and search for water (in Chinatown ) show strange analogies too.And two monstrous unions in both movies the incestuous affair in Chinatown echoes to the satanic coupling in Levin's story.Although adapted from Levin's novel,Rosemary's baby did not come out of the blue.In his first work,Polanski already showed his irrational world ,his claustrophobia in his knife in the water ,soon followed by repulsion which heralded what was perfectly fulfilled by Rosemary.Those obsessions emerged again in POlanski's best works such as the tenant (1976) and death and the maiden (1975);and the pianist  seems to walk that fine line ,it thrusts RP into the small circle of the most ambitious directors again.But Rosemary's baby is perfection itself a screenplay most of horror movies can only dream of,an absolutely faultless cast-even if Ruth Gordon steals the show- the rest of the cast should be praised to the skies-,a haunting soundtrack including Komeda's magnificent lullaby,and a first-class director ,whom a lot of horror movie makers should study in detail.They should study,particularly,the last scene ,the strongest of the fantastic genre;no one has ever been able to mix horror,emotion (yes emotion!) and ambiguity all at once.You're all at once bewildered,scared to death and on the verge of tears.Great great movie! "},{"Title":"Out and out horror classic","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Based on a novel by Ira Levin, Rosemary's Baby is a slow building and suspenseful tale of horror based on Satanism. Rosemary's Baby is often cited as being one of the best horror films ever made, and there is a good reason for this. The genre is famous more for blood and scenes that make the audience squirm - Rosemary's baby doesn't feature any of that, but it does feature an atmosphere of constant dread and a plot that always remains interesting even when the pace is rather slow, and that more than makes up for any gratuitous scenes of gore. The plot is fairly simple and focuses on young couple, Guy (an actor) and Rosemary Woodhouse. They move in to a new apartment building and meet a friendly elderly couple living next door, Roman and Minnie Castevet. Guy begins to spend a lot of time with the couple next door, and before long Rosemary has become pregnant - strangely around the same time she has a dream about being raped by something inhuman. As soon as the neighbours realise she pregnant, they take a keen interest; and strange things start to happen.The rights to Ira Levin's novel were originally acquired by William Castle; and while I don't mean to discredit Castle as I do love most of his work, I have to say that I'm glad that Polanski was brought in to direct as this is not the sort of plot that Castle would have done well with. This film is the second (and best) part of a trilogy of films by Roman Polanksi focusing on Paranoia - the other two being Repulsion and The Tenant. Polanski's direction is really what makes this film what it is; while the plot often plays out like a soap opera and there are periods where nothing really happens, though the atmosphere hanging over the mystery of the story - as well as the fact that we know certain things that are unknown to the central character - ensure that the film is always interesting. I wont spend too much time talking about the actors; but suffice to say, all four of the central performances are excellent; Ruth Gordon's supporting role representing on the few times that a horror film has been recognised by the Academy. It all boils down to a fantastic final ten minutes, which manages to be chilling while still following what has gone before it - i.e. not showing the audience everything. Overall, it's impossible to deny that Rosemary's Baby is a masterpiece and also one of the true 'must see' horror films. "},{"Title":"Pray for Rosemary's Baby ...","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I heard so much about ''Rosemary's Baby'''that I needed to watch to see with my own eyes if the movie was great or not. And to be honest, I didn't find this movie a big deal like many people told me. The plot is interesting, but I find the first 50 minutes of the movie extremely boring, showing Rosemary and her husband Guy in their daily lives, as well as meeting their new neighbors.(I only started to enjoy it when Rosemary starts to read about witchcraft, that is after 1 hour and 20 minutes of movie) Rosemary being so naive all the time is something that annoys me as hell and I missed more tension and horror in the movie.(I thought that it would scare me as hell!)What I found interesting that I read in the trivia section''According to Mia Farrow, the scenes where Rosemary walks in front of traffic were spontaneous and genuine. Roman Polanski is reported to have told her that nobody will hit a pregnant woman.'' And ''Mia Farrow actually ate raw liver for a scene in the movie.'' "},{"Title":"Feel let down","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I was really looking forward to watching this and expecting a slow drip of a horror that builds and builds into a terrifiyng conclusion. I didn't get that. What I got was a the slow drip, the build up was great and little things being added making you constantly guess. The ending however was just plain awful, I really expected something MAJOR to happen to bring this to a close and I was given the very obvious twist if you can even call it that. When the music kicked in I was just saying to myself no no no, this cant be over here, that cant be it! then the credits rolled on and I'm afraid it was.This really is a film that lets you down when it did such a great job of building you up. Its like lighting a huge firework, the largest in the box. Reading the instructions, setting it up, lighting the fuse, covering your ears... then it doesn't go off. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's daycare","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski has made many, many movies that are unexceptional. His fame bewilders me. Nothing stands out as a high point except Chinatown (I haven't seen 'Knife in the Water' or 'Tess'). Any contribution he's made to film concluded more than twenty years ago; his work is just embarrassing, safe and/or dull (The Pianist, Frantic, Oliver Twist, The Ninth Gate, Pirates).R's Baby must have signified the end of the establishment at the time it came out. It's lux-produced and fairly high concept for a 1968 'horror' movie (never show the baby). But this is just misconceived horror sap. Everything is arty to the point that the plot line becomes hopelessly clear very early (Um, thanks for that finale-destroying title), and on a clear day you can see the twist ending coming for days. It did not sustain my interest. I find that whatever this movie might have been, it is utterly derailed by the 1960's version of what femininity was. Farrow is such a chronic distracted, helpless waif/housewife. Her frailty is oversold... she's irritating in the extreme. There's no real ideas in it... nothing to consider except being the mother of the devil.The Dakota is barely exploited for it eerie potential. "}{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby starring Mia Farrow, John Cassavetes, and Ruth Gordon was a great film for many reasons. This was a good horror film for the 1960's considering what they had and what they were working with. They made it work though because this was a great horror film especially for this time period. The setting in this movie was great and the acting was excellent as well. Everything that happens in this movie is what you would expect to be in horror films. The objectives that Rosemary has to go through are extremely haunting. This horror film kept you on edge at all times and that made it really exciting yet really suspenseful. This movie was excellent and I would highly recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"Ruth Gordon is Mesmerizing","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In the prime of a sexual revolution and an institutionalised fear of a crumbling of morals, Rosemary's Baby must have been terrifying, exciting and extremely relevant when it came out. It's one of the most bizarre horror films I've ever seen as it meanders between a top-notch soap opera, an art-house piece and an eastern horror film from the silent era. Mia Farrow is sweet and vulnerable as Rosemary and her descent from an up-and-comer into a paranoid young lady, terrified her neighbours are casting spells on her and her unborn baby. Whilst its extremely frightening, the performances and unorthodox direction is what carries the film. Ruth Gordon is mesmerizing. "},{"Title":"In an Era of 'Go-Boo' Horror, Polanski's Baby Endures as An Unnerving Tale!","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is an ingeniously deliberated dramatic thriller that delivers the slow-burn, taut story of a young couple that has just moved into the upper class sector of New York. Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and husband Guy Woodhouse (John Cassavetes) land a spacious apartment in a building with an extensive history of ghoulish occurrences. No sooner have they been acquainted with their eccentric neighbors Roman (Sidney Blackmer) and Minnie Castevet (Ruth Gordon) than Rosemary gets pregnant and the couple sees an up-tick in their fortunes, both professionally and personally. Very soon, every old crone in the building starts intruding Rosemary's life, from steering her toward their chosen obstetrician to forcing down her throat a vitamin drink of their own concoction. Just a few bites of their chocolate mousse give her woozy nightmares and start a hellish tempest in her womb. She has strange dreams of participating in arcane rituals. Soon a horrifying sexual fever dream renders her incapacitated by fear and paranoia. She begins to suspect that her neighbors have nefarious goals and are planning to harm her baby and gets curious why her husband is allowing them to do so.The apartment takes on an entire life of its own that hides its own pulse and underbelly but is completely free of exposure from the outside world. All the while once Rosemary catches on to her neighbors' ploy and decides to flee for her life, there's the sense of claustrophobia as she discovers everything she assumed she knew in her life has been a facade right from the word go. Rosemary's Baby is inundated with Polanski's trademark style and preoccupations. It draws viewers gradually into considering the possibility that the movie's series of strange coincidences and accumulating sense of dread are only subjective representations of Rosemary's unraveling mental state. And Polanski's ability to prime the audience into questioning Rosemary's suspicions gives it an unnerving quality. Polanski (who also wrote the screenplay) is more interested in creating a crawling sense of discomfort by making everything seem plausible. He expertly winds up the paranoia with spooky atmospherics and morbid humor.Cassavetes is deliciously smarmy as struggling actor Guy who will do whatever it takes to become a famous. Gordon plays the garrulous, nosy menace Minnie in her inimitable style. But the real star here is 23-year-old Mia Farrow playing the mousy title character, who uses her timorous space-child vulnerability remarkably to underscore her terror and solitude. Even after all these years, the movie is still a terrifying thriller that is held up by its incredible ensemble cast, and clever premise. In this era of go-boo and CGI suffused horror movies, Rosemary's Baby continues to be celebrated as a cautionary tale. "},{"Title":"As frightening as a movie can be!","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is a gruesome and intense story adapted for the big screen by the Polish director Roman Polanski, from the novel with the same name by Ira Levin. Although it does not contain the elements that traditionally compose a horror movie (blood, sudden shock-moments, etc.) this film is a masterpiece of its genre because it does not depend on these same elements to create a truly frightening and unsettling atmosphere.Guy (John Cassavetes) and Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) are a young couple facing a promising life together. Guy is an actor looking for his big break and Rosemary longs to be a mother. The two just moved into an apartment in the heart of Manhattan where they have as neighbors Roman (Sydney Blackmer) and Minnie Castavet (Ruth Gordon), a caring but nosy elderly couple. Guy develops a close relationship to his neighbors while his wife does not feel very comfortable around them. Finally, Rosemary's much desired pregnancy happens but brings unexpected complications the young woman begins to lose weight and to feel excruciating pains in her stomach. A series of unusual events, strange noises coming from the apartment next door and a strange obsession revealed by Minnie for her pregnancy, lead Rosemary to a state of complete distrust on those around her and fear for the baby that she's carrying.This whole storyline is framed perfectly by Polanski. The unsettling and gloomy atmosphere present throughout the film is immediately introduced by the strange lullaby sung by Mia Farrow during the opening credits. The architecture, decoration and lightning of the settings create in the viewer a constant sense of claustrophobia and the confusing succession of screenshots in some moments - particularly during the odd nightmare of Rosemary - implement in the public an almost asphyxiating feeling of anxiety that lasts for several hours after the end of the movie. In general, all the actors are very convincing in their roles and contribute a lot in creating a great familiarity between the viewer and the scene. However, there are two representations that stand out Mia Farrow is brilliant in the role of the innocent young pregnant woman, fragile and submissive, personality to which his avant-garde pixie hair cut offers an interesting counterpoint, and Ruth Gordon offers a sublime interpretation of the comic yet sinister Minnie Castavet. Roman Polanski leads the suspense masterfully, revealing the whole plot progressively, creating a very intimate connection between the viewer and the main character. This turns to be particularly brilliant when, instead of ending the film with some unexpected and shocking happening, he chooses a predictable but inevitable conclusion, as if we all knew bad things were meant to happen and there was no way out. This makes the story even scarier.Personally, I don't like to feel anxious and scared, so to say that I have suffered every second of this film is the best thing I can say about it. It is undoubtedly one of the greatest masterpieces in the history of horror cinema and a must for all lovers of the genre. "},{"Title":"Fear and loathing . . .","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I have a feeling that if the academy had opened the category to six nominees, then my choice would have been nominated. By 1968, Mia Farrow was best known as Mrs. Frank Sinatra and by the time of the academy awards, she was better known as the former Mrs. Frank Sinatra. That wouldn't deter from the fact that she gave her single best performance in Roman Polanski's moody adaptation of Ira Levin's novel Rosemary's Baby.Farrow plays Rosemary Woodhouse a semi-newlywed looking for an apartment with her actor husband Guy (John Cassavetes) find the perfect place in Manhattan's Bram Building, a large odd, elder-tenement that is strange even before we realize why. There is a closet that seems blocked off for no reason, all of the other tenants seem to be in their 70s and on their first night, there is odd chanting coming from the apartment next door. The oddities are there but they don't seem to shake Rosemary even as she begins having bizarre dreams about ritualistic sex.Her neighbors are not exactly threatening &#x96; they are older grandparent-types who always come by with caring smiles, warm tea and desserts. She and Guy have their closest relationship with Roman and Millie Casavets (Sydney Berman and Ruth Gordon), a childless old couple who treat Rosemary like the daughter they never had. It all seems normal. Rosemary and Guy have the usual husband and wife conflicts, but they remain a loving couple and soon after they settle into the tenement, they decide to have a baby.This is where things turn bizarre. On the night of the conception Rosemary has a dessert given to her by Mrs. Casavets, becomes dizzy and passes out. She enters into a bizarre dream in which she is raped by a demon while her neighbors stand around nude watching the act (for some reason, one of the onlookers resembles Jackie Kennedy from that day in November). When she awakens, she finds scratches on her body and Guy apologizes that he was such an animal in bed. Things surface that seem to conform to her dream, Mrs. Casavets keeps bringing tea and desserts and new people keep showing up. There is an odd sense that the people around her seem off-kilter, somehow askew; they don't look as we expect from our fellow human beings; there is a look in their eyes that seems strange. She visits an elder doctor who seems to take her; suspicions and turns them on her, he is more interested in prescribing medicine than caring for his patient.All of this is played, more or less, through Rosemary's eyes. We never leave her side and, for most of the film, we don't understand what goes on when she's not around. The best note that Farrow brings to the performance is a naive sensibility. There's a wide-eyed kid still lurking in her, the sensibilities of her teenage years haven't completely left her, even though she is now in her early twenties. If she had allowed Rosemary to be stronger, more confident, then the performance wouldn't work. We have to believe that she is naive enough to think that she is caught under someone's spell and that she is susceptible to suggestion; if she contained a strong mind that could piece together the puzzle, than we would believe that she could work her way out of this situation.The final image of the film in one of the most striking as she looks into her baby's bassinet. She realizes that every suspicion was correct, that everyone around her had a hand in the deception and the conception, we realize that Rosemary has now fallen under the spell and as the image quietly fades out and into the Paramount logo, we realize that this story has no happy ending. "},{"Title":"Psychological Horror At Its Very Best.","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is a masterwork of outstanding direction, polished screenplay & stellar performances that may lean towards the supernatural in small doses but what truly makes it an enduring masterpiece of its genre is the seamless manner in which it employs the psychological elements of horror filmmaking into its premise by creating a chilling sense of dread, paranoia & suspense over the course of its runtime.Based on the novel of the same name, the story of Rosemary's Baby takes place in the year of 1966 and concerns a young couple; struggling actor Guy Woodhouse & his lovely wife Rosemary, who move into a notorious apartment building in New York and are gleefully greeted by their elderly but eccentric neighbours. The main plot concerns Rosemary's pregnancy as she becomes more n more paranoid & suspects her neighbours to be a part of an occult society.Written & directed by Polanski, the film marks his American film debut & he really couldn't have asked for a better start. Rosemary's Baby works as an effective thriller in the first watch but it's the next viewings where one truly discovers just how expertly the director has managed to make the smallest of details play a crucial role in shaping up the whole picture. Deftly scripted by Polanski in his first stint as a writer, the film follows the book very closely and is one of the most faithful adaptations in motion picture history.Cleverly shot from start to finish and employing excellent use of long takes & camera angles, Cinematography beautifully serves its purpose of encapsulating the entire feature with an eerie, tense & insecure atmosphere which escalates further as the film progresses. Editing is immaculately done as every sequence feels relevant to the plot. And the lullaby that bookends the film is a haunting piece while the other tracks have an unusual presence that ultimately works in favour of the film.Coming to the performances, Rosemary's Baby features a very reliable cast & benefits greatly from their committed performances. Mia Farrow is immensely convincing as Rosemary & her gaunt appearance only adds more flesh to her character. John Cassavetes doesn't get enough credit for his role but if one looks closely, his action kind of hints at the sinister ending this film has in store for the viewers. Sidney Blackmer & Ruth Gordon capture the essence of their characters in an authentic manner and the contribution from rest of its cast is no slouch either.On an overall scale, Rosemary's Baby remains one of the most unsettling films of all time that still hasn't lost much of its potency despite being over 45 years old & continues to reveal more of its brilliance on subsequent viewings. Its real strength lies in its ability to keep the viewers immersed into its intriguing story that wonderfully balances its elements without ever relying on any sort of gore or violence. And the final payoff is absolutely worth the wait. A laudable work of precision craftsmanship & a timeless classic in every sense of the word, Rosemary's Baby comes strongly recommended. Multiple viewings advised. "},{"Title":"Not so scary now, but, a genuinely good film","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I recently watched 'Rosemary's Baby' while I was having a Horror movie phase, watching movie's I hadnt seen before. I settled on this one hearing many people state it is their favourite horror movie. Having now watched it, I would definitely recommend this movie to any horror fan. The story is well played out, and is a pretty simple concept that while not flat out terrifying still manages to evoke a feeling of dread throughout. Mia Farrow is brilliant as the mousy Rosemary, she is incredibly likable, and you really do feel for her throughout the entire film. I wouldn't state this as a horror classic, more of a thriller with occasional horror moments, but still a brilliantly creepy film. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is an older movie starring Mia Farrow. The plot is somewhat interesting. I was told back in the day that this was considered very scary, but I did not feel that. I did like the setting of the beautiful apartment that the young married couple choose to live in. The makeup when Rosemary was at the beginning of her pregnancy was great, she looked very sick. The neighbors are crazy, they are your typical nosey older neighbors that stick themselves in the life of Rosemary and Guy. I don't like how Guy ends up turning on his wife just for fame and fortune. I also did not like the end with Rosemary and her change of mind, that we never really know what is going through her mind. I did enjoy watching this movie, whereas who I watched it with thought it was very boring. I would recommend this movie for people who actually like to sit down and watch an interesting plot. "},{"Title":"Classic Gem ;)","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby is a classic example on how to make a horror film realistic and super natural, all at the same time. It's also been a really long time since I've seen an excellent classic, and Rosemary's Baby did it for me. I started watching it at 12 in the morning and I was in shock, all the way till the end, wondering and thinking about what I just saw.Being brief, the film is about a woman and her husband who move to an apartment where the man becomes an actor but struggles with it, and the woman soon becomes pregnant. The apartment is also filled with crazy people and Rosemary's nightmare becomes a deranged reality. Even the husband starts going cuckoo.I really enjoyed this a lot. It is a classic and I don't think it needs to be remade. I love how we go through the perspective of Rosemary in her dreams and her wildest, darkest fantasies as she can not tell what's going on or what is happening around her. I also like the sense of dread throughout as that the neighbors become much more evil and more psychotic as we look at them more. Even the husband, Guy who suddenly goes crazy, day after day reminded me of The Shining when Jack Nicolson's character went ballistic. I also like the unreal aspects like when she got pregnant, witches and demons.This is a masterpiece and possibly up there with some of my other favorite horror films. It's creepy, eerie, dramatic, horrifying and sometimes dark in every way.I also thought that the actors were excellent in their roles. Each actor was very believable. Mia Farrow as Rosemary is superb in every way possible. She makes us feel sympathy and sorrow for her. It's like we are really with her, trying to fight off all of this nasty evil which is attacking her.Another thing to give thumbs up to is the amount of violence referenced or shown throughout. There is one death, but it is never shown, nor are there are anymore deaths occurring throughout. No BLOOD or GORE is reveled which is FINALLY good because it leaves us to the mystery of how and why these strange things are happening.Even my friend told me about this film last year and I rejected the film (silly me). After people kept telling me about how classic it was, I am glad that I gave it a try. I do wish I could have believed him ages ago though.I've heard Platnuim Dunes is gonna remake this and say they're gonna be extra careful since it's a classic. We'll just have to wait and see. I mean I don't mind some of PD's films but Rosemary's Baby doesn't need to be touched.I'm gonna top this review down, giving Rosemary's Baby a 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Short Summary of the Rosemary's baby","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The film is based on the best-selling horror novel Rosemary's Baby (1967) which is wrote by Ira Levin and Roman Polanski shoot-ed the novel as a film. the movie consists of satanic material. Thinking of the earlier era this film is so good we don't compare the old fashioned movie with movies in these days. But ı think this movie isn't kind of horror ı think it is thriller. the scope the director and the cast of the film is remarkable. especially Mia Farrow's performance is good everything happens to her happens me. she acted so real with the help of the Polanski. Polanski is brilliant director. Polanski creates a gloomy, isolated and chilling mood especially with the scary lullaby. Rosemary's dreams are so creepy. . The finest ever part is ability to attract the attention without blood and violence. . Roman Polanski has made many, movie like Chinatown the pianist Oliver twist the ninth gate. I envy of him because he is a genius. I wanna tell u the scope of the film a little the movie about a new couple Rosemary Woodhouse and Guy Woodhouse move into apartment in new York. The apartment name is Bramford, which is a Gothic, 19th century New York City apartment building with a history of unsavory tenants and mysterious events. They meet new people who are their neighbors on a sudden rosemary is a pregnant. Due to old couple neighbor her pregnancy is so painful. After the painful pregnancy she learned everything about this oddness. She learned the truth which was shocked her Guy who is her husband joined the satanic group for the money and fame and he allows the wife has a devil's son. Unfortunately I don't like the last scene of the movie it didn't satisfy me enough. I wanna see more shocking scenes at the end of the movie but I offer everyone to watch this movie because it is a classic=) "}{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In my opinion old movies are not worth to watch. But after i watched this movie i become interested in old movies because this is quite different.The director Roman Polanski shows why he is seen as one of the best directors in the world with this movie.Its now scary but breathtaking.The events are mostly about Rosemary.Satanism is one of the main themes in this movie and Rosemary's husband and their neighbors are satanists.Rosemary gives birth to Satan's baby.I wish i could see the whole face of the baby but i could only see his eyes.Mia Farrow(Rosemary) is acting quite good in the movie.She is a new couple with Guy Woodhouse(John Cassavetes).Instead of blood and violence swift scenes are used to scare the audience. When I started to watch it, I also expected something more normal. But during the movie, the clues help you to figure out what will happen.The movie was made in 1968 but its very successful in portraying anxiety and suspect. The characters are so different from recent horror movies.In recently horror movies we can realize who are good and who are bad but in this movie Rosemary's neighbors Minnie and Roman are seen very helpful,very kind and generous people.To sum up if you are interested in strange movies Rosemary's Baby is so appropriate for you. You could enjoy the movie much more than you could enjoy the cheap bloody scary movies. What's the secret of Rosemary's Baby? It just knows how to keep a secret ... "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby In my opinion, this movie doesn't suffice to call Rosemary's Baby a horror film; that implies something corny. Rosemary's Baby is anything but corny. It is actually creepy. The plot of course and different scenes of this movie have weak-looking Rosemary Woodhouse getting pregnant and discovering that the father is Satan; Rosemary's husband Guy is colluding with Satan's beliefs neighbors Roman and Minnie Castevet so that he can get a part in a play. Everything looks normal, but as the story progresses, you begin to get the feeling that something's not right, and then you find out the horrible truth.Most notable of course are the character portrayals, and those many special moments one immediately realizes were created not to drive the story, further the potential success of the movie or the fame of anybody involved, but to plainly create atmosphere and entertain us. Rosemary's Baby is an extraordinary picture in that it conveys so much information, it illustrates so much of its motive, and makes anxious its truths long before Rosemary knows them herself, but yet somehow it can fill a viewer with constant and complete suspense. And Rosemary's predicament isn't exactly something new in the realm of storytelling; in fact it's formulaic in many ways. When you go into a film knowing it's supposed to be horrific, but are not given any strong shocks or scares for almost the first hour &#x96; that alone creates tension to me. But it is this particular fact about Rosemary's Baby that makes many question its 'horror movie' standing. "},{"Title":"Tormenting and agonising in all the right ways, Polanski's chiller about a woman's forlorn descent into grim territory makes for slow burning, strained viewing.","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is imbued with this underpinning sense of terror; this sense of dread or horror at what 'might' be, it is a remarkably well played horror/thriller near faultlessly encompassing both the natural and the supernatural within one realm of a world but always playing everything straight-faced and in a gruesomely suggestive way. The text is a pure and unadulterated piece, so much so that it is living proof that precisely why it is that keeping everything in suspense and refraining from necessarily showing your contents in all its inglory is a million times more effective than full on, bloody horror violence and petty 'jumps' along the way to an obligatory genre denouement. The film's top trump might very well be in the way its director flawlessly maintains that balance much later on in the film by the time certain reveals and revelations have unfolded; in a lesser film the foreplay and suggestion prior to the shocking disclosure might very well have been the film's substantial core, but instead of wilting for a final act of frills-and-spills of whatever nature, Rosemary's Baby arguably pushes on from its provocative routes and steps up a gear into more agonising territory, in what is rather-an impressive demonstration of construction and tempo to a film of this ilk. The film is a quite engrossing drama, a film teasing and bedeviling the audience with two realities, one of which would lead one to assume it is a gritty, urban and somewhat everyday drama set in New York City about a woman slowly loosing her mind as she balances the moving into a new apartment; the pressures with some neighbours she comes to be wary of and the desiring of motherhood which leads onto pregnancy. Is it the bustle of the city driving her mad, or is there something seedier going on; something more broadly linked to things of a more unworldly nature unfolding within this very worldly zone. The film begins with the Woodhouse's searching out a new abode within which to live, with the aim to turn their family of two into a family of three. The Woodhouse's are made up of the titular Rosemary, played by Mia Farrow, and her husband Guy (Cassavetes); people with the ability to, we feel, afford the high-life given the exquisite nature of the apartment they are shown around a porter in the elevator complimenting the Beethoven music playing somewhere within the complex once inside the apartment proper and the generally rich nature of the interior furnishing. But we are all informed of some prior nastiness that once happened in the apartment and a wardrobe seemingly blocking something to great convenience offers slight distrust.There is a moment, eventually doubling up for the catalyst of what later transpires, in which Rosemary will admit to those listening of a terrifying dream she had; a dream in which she was situated on a dock wearing next to nothing as a ship about to set off on a doomed cruise sat perched awaiting boarding just ahead of her. The notion of feeling bare or vulnerable whilst situated at a locale upon which the beginnings of what are usually long, arduous journeys appearing prominent; the ship itself appearing metaphorically as the literal apartment purchase, those of whom are allowed on linked directly to class and those within a class able to afford to move into such spaces &#x96; the underlying factor being that what lies ahead on this cruise or journey is mandatory trouble and strife, the precise things which plague Rosemary's life once she has gotten herself into this true-to-life nightmare. Ploanski allows for things to brood before hitting us with any counter punches he mostly certainly has up his sleeve; a young girl named Terry bonds well with Rosemary, but this is not a character study between two girls and the quaint friendship they strike up; the Castevet family neighbours named Roman (Blackmer) and Minnie (Gordon) come to infiltrate the lives of Rosemary and Guy, much to Rosemary's disdain; but this isn't necessarily a character drama about numerous people whom live and integrate with one another in a jolly fashion on grounded terms within a mere New York apartment block. The film allows for raw human behaviour, Guy's attitudes and reactions to the Castevet's presence or demands shifting naturally enough without bringing to awares any seedier side to the agreements he's actually striking up with them, the likes of which subsequent viewings might reveal more clearly, as intense or obvious underhanded tactics. By the time Rosemary's titular baby has been conceived and is known to be on the way, natural human behaviour is captured as somewhat unnatural, or at least made so that the audience might be drawn towards assuming it to be unnatural &#x96; cravings for specific foods; immense weight loss; pains and paranoia each straddling a fine line between what might be uneasily typical or just disturbingly atypical behaviour going on to contribute to a nastier cause. Polanksi keeps the tension, terror and paranoia wrenched up to some near-unbearable levels; the fact that certain people around Rosemary, whom she's known for varying degrees of time and most of whom come into contact with the Castevet's, appear to come to sticky ends is a predominant item; the working out of various clues and the shifting of different notions into place occupying most of the film's somewhat agonising crucible. The end result is a superior thriller revolving around the potentially distressing, but with the underlying source of terror being the fear of one's accuracy in seeing through such matters and where that would then place them; culminating in a distinguished piece. "},{"Title":"Polanski's Best","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The movie starts with a very soothing lullaby which has a very calming effect on the viewer - but that is the only thing 'calm' about the movie. Once Again, a psychological thriller, Polanski style, this movie is the very best in it's genre. The plot revolves around Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and her struggling actor husband Guy (John Cassavetes) who come to live in an apartment which has very strange neighbors, one of them being the old couple of Roman and Minnie Castevet( Sidney Blackmer, Ruth Gordon). Initially, they appear to be very good as neighbors, almost playing the role of parents to the young couple. Guy likes them and spends a lot of time with them whereas Rosemary does not like their constant intervention in their married life.Things change drastically when Rosemary becomes pregnant. Certain things and events happening to and around her makes her believe that her baby is in danger. Her fears, her attempt to save her child and the end outcome constitutes the movie.The movie is a pure Polanski style master-piece. His obsession of seeing woman naked and raped (Even though it is a hallucination or a nightmare) is continued in this movie. But all this perversion is for a reason which makes the viewer truly understand his intentions. On the acting front, Mia Farrow has done a superb job. After watching the movie, I felt no other actress could have played Rosemary better than her. The other actors fit the bill perfectly. Overall, not suited for all, but one of the greatest movies ever.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"A more grounded horror film","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby was recommended to me by a friend who is fan of horror cinema. I am personally not a horror fan, but this does have Roman Polanski directing it, and I do like films like The Exorcist and The Omen. I prefer those films, but Rosemary's Baby is still pretty good, taking a more down to Earth approach, despite its more supernatural themes.Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse (Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes) are a young couple living in New York. Guy is an actor, who had some work in plays and in TV ads. They find a nice large apartment in a more historic building and move in quickly. They befriend an elderly couple, Roman and Minnie Castevet (Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon). But Rosemary's old friend tells them of weirds things that happened in the building. Rosemary and Guy try for a baby. She becomes pregnant, and ends up seeing one of best doctor's in New York. But it is a difficult pregnancy, suffering a lot of pain, becoming very weak and pale and Rosemary even ends up doing strangle things like eating raw meat. Rosemary ends ups suspecting a conspiracy, hearing weird chanting and seeing people getting hurt. She does whatever she can to protect her unborn baby.Rosemary's Baby is a watershed film in the world of horror cinema. It proved that horror films could be very well done, and led to The Exorcist and The Omen being made film following similar themes. It also shows that proper filmmakers can do horror films. Polanski takes a more subtle approach to the film, making it more as a thriller then a horror. Most of the supernatural elements can be logically explained. This is a film that makes you think and linger in your head rather then getting scared throughout it. The ending has an excellent twist ending to the film, giving Rosemary's Baby a haunting quality. Like any good horror film, there is a major fear that people could relate to. The theme out this is about what could go wrong with a pregnancy and doing everything you can to protect your child. I sure any parent could relate to that. There is also the theme of paranoid, with the feeling that the world is out to get you. There is also the use religious ideas, like Catholicism, the Occult and Witchcraft, and of a marriage which isn't that stable. Another major feature of any good horror film is compelling characters which you actually care about. You do care for Rosemary who is a nice woman who is forced into a dark world. You want her to succeed in protecting her child. You know something is wrong with the other characters in the film, and slowly see their game. They are villains you can truly dislike.There are good scenes, and excellent camera by Polanski. I like scenes in films where the camera follows the character. There are some haunting scenes where you think about the horror of it later. Polanski did not go for cheap scares.A pretty good film. 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"At it's time a haunting foreshadowing tale that was symbolic and visually explicit.","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In his day the legendary and controversial director Roman Polanski made some of the best and most cutting edge films of the day. And with this horror mind drama classic Rosemary's Baby it proves with his use of symbols and foreshadowing combined with the creepy music his films kept you on the edge of your seat. Many may say during the 60's this was the best horror film made maybe in terms psychologically, yet my pick is 1960's Psycho.Anyway the story is set in New York city a couple Rosemary(Mia Farrow)and Guy(John Cassavetes)just have moved into a high rise luxury apartment building and Guy is a struggling actor trying to make it from commercials and plays to the big time of studio pictures. As like all couples settling down they want to start a family only soon they realize after being taken in strange things happen like unexpected tenants deaths. Most striking which foreshadows the viewer and shows symbols so well is the weird and frightening dreams that Rosemary starts to have as is it confusion and worry for a first time mother just who's baby is it she's having.Overall pretty good film that keeps you intrigued with the crazy and foreshadowing type dreams proving that really a lot in life can be strangely cursed. This was clearly a film that was cutting edge at it's time as Polanski pushed the envelope to audiences so their imaginative fears could be sent thru the mind. "},{"Title":"Nearly as good as The Exorcist....","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I thought that Rosmary's Baby was a really great film. It is about a couple called Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse move into an apartment, in New York. They discover that their neighbours are a very friendly elderly couple named Roman and Minnie Castevet, and Guy begins to spend a lot of time with them. Strange things start to happen a woman that Rosemary meets in the washroom dies in a a mysterious death, Rosemary has strange dreams and hears strange noises. Then Rosemary falls pregnant and begins to suspect something is going on with her neighbours who may have something to do with her unborn child have special plans lying ahead. I felt that this film had a good phsycological feel to it, and it was a well told story. "},{"Title":"He chose you, honey! From all the women in the world to be the mother of his only living son!","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's brilliant direction and outstanding performances by Mia Farrow and Ruth Gordon made this creepy film a real pleasure to watch.It is not really a horror film, even though there was a rape by witches and warlocks or something, as the rape scene was so stylized that it was not horrible at all.What is creepy is the was her husband (John Cassavetes) seems to be a part of what is going on.Sidney Blackmer was also very effective as the strange husband of Minnie Castevet (Gordon). The two of them made a weird pair.Strange things happen to anyone that gets in the way.One knows what is going to happen and there is nothing we can do but watch as Rosemary suffers. "},{"Title":"A Complex Scare","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Understanding that the horror is internalized within the story itself and expressed through the mundaneness of the actors' expressions, I was not successfully horrified, yet I was successfully enthralled. I found the villainy and situations to be tense and even irksome, which is a word one doesn't often use when referring to a reaction to a film. The film's later revelations are not necessarily scary but alternately intense and almost humorous, almost like a Charlie Kaufman script.Whatever the intentions of the film, whether to be a horror film, an off-putting blend of genres and techniques, or a thriller, it has an effect above that of many of the scariest horror movies, not because it's a more consuming effect that being genuinely scared in the way that Psycho or Saw scare, but because it's an effect that is more complex, thus more complex to achieve. At first, I was put off by the scale of the film-making, which expresses its big budget, large cinematographic scope, and less of an insular or atmospheric environment one would imagine being necessary to be successfully creepy. Now I can see that it was all a part of Polanski's vision. "},{"Title":"Well some people say","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" that this is not a real horror film, because it has nothing in it that makes a real horror film, a real horror film. No gore, no slashing, no blood, no scare tactics. Then again I have to say, this is just graphic BS that doesn't really help develop and carry the story. That's why most horror films of such nature are naive and barely watchable.There are only a few real horror stories out there. Now horror takes place at the same location that sex takes place in your head. The question is what do you need to get stimulated? To get the ball rolling? The Exorcist and Rosemary's Baby are by far the best horror films ever made. They stimulate you on the intellectual part of the spectrum and create an unmatchable horror experience within you, there where it hurts the most. Not the outside, the flesh and gore part, but the psyche, that part that never rests. The part that haunts you at night when you're all by yourself, all alone. Rosemary's Baby terrifies you long after you've watched the film. And it'll come back to haunt you again and in reality it will never disappear.As opposed to gore stuff, which you forget within the next few days after watching such a film. Visual effects are very weak compared to psychological effects. In my opinion every film company should have a psycho-FX department, because that's where the story really lives, the horror, the nightmare, the possibility of such a horrible thing actually being real.Save your pigs blood and use your imagination, just like when you think of some one else while you're having sex with your girlfriend. Isn't that the best? That same place is where the true horror takes place. And this film totally hit the bullseye!(To finish the comparison gory, graphical films are like masturbation. This one is like having sex -just because on this board I can't use the graphical term for it -. You decide whether you do it yourself or whether you do some one else...) "}{"Title":"definitely holds your attention.a-one movie; excellent acting.","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" i love this movie; it's one that can be watched again and again.some movies are the best only the first time you see it; not this one. the acting is phenomenal by every actor in the picture. Ruth Gordon most deservedly won her academy award. it's a masterpiece of work on every level of production...wonderful musical theme, and Roman Polanski put together a great ensemble and body of work; i think the best movie he was ever involved in. Everyone was perfectly cast in their roles. i can't imagine anyone but Mia Farrow as Rosemary; the emotion she exuded on screen had an authenticity that looked like she wasn't acting at all.then the haircut we saw was only a preview of what was to come... "},{"Title":"A view to a ... up to you to decide","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I could wonder if the film is a psychological drama with the hints towards the maternity psychosis or a mainstream horror movie. But why should I ? All included is the load impressive enough to make an interesting reading /a quote from Basic Instinct; words of sympathy for Mr.Eszterhas, he's made me quit smoking/. I cannot sympathize with girls like Rosemary, because it's in row with my convictions, but the actors are really good here, and all of them. The theme of love was overpowering. Love for husband, child. Hmm, the child above all. The independent love with the sacrifice of the very own personal grounds upon which all had been built in past, was touching and hurting. It's so hard to bring it here in our lives. Farrow and Cassavetes made me believe they were in trouble as well as their support did /Gordon, Blackmer, Evans/. Occasionally Mia Farrow was overly realistic so that I was ready to sign off but I didn't. /though I must confess, the name, Mia that is, has a reservation for a soft spot in my heart/. And the final moments, with the baby crying in the cradle, were tears bringers as no other film had done so. With Krzysztof Komeda's lullaby came comfort and ease. A great movie mostly underestimated. "},{"Title":"The Cinema of Roman Polanski","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby (1968) was a film that's based upon a best selling novel written by Ira Levin. Unlike most novels that were made into movies, this film follows the book very closely. They're very similar except Roman Polaski adds an aura of paranoia and isolation to the film. Mia Farrow stars as a young bride who's dealing with her marriage and her husband (an aspiring actor played by John Cassavetes) who's looking for the right apartment for the young couple. They find the right place in an old complex that caters to older couples. John falls in love with the odd elderly neighbors and becomes friends whilst Mia is a little leery at first but becomes friends with them as well. But when a series of strange occurrences that seem to benefit John and the weird homemade brew the neighbor women bring Mia to drink when they learn about her pregnancy gives her second thoughts about the new apartment and their ever so friendly elderly neighbors.When Mia begins to hear strange sounds and waking up during a very bad dream drives her to the brink of madness. The isolation she feels because of the age differences of her neighbors, the pregnancy and John's new attitude towards religion and life in general pushes her further and further. Soon she learns about the awful truth about the tenants in her building from an old friend (who's illness and death drives Mia batty). She tries to leave the circle of her husband and neighbors but she realizes no matter where she goes they always manage to find her. By the end of the film she's too far gone and can do nothing more but accept her fate and learn to live with it. Classic horror. Paranoia and the occult has never been captured like this before. Roman Polanski redefined the genre with this movie and it's success has catapult him even further up the Hollywood charts. That is until personal tragedy brings him back down to reality.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Chilling and effective horror film, one of Polanski's best","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" After putting this film off for some time, mainly due to my strong dislike for any religion-related material, I finally pulled myself together and watched it. I'm glad I did. Very, very glad. From the opening credits, which feature a chilling lullaby, I was hooked. The film is effective without actually showing us anything particularly scary... which is quite an achievement. I don't believe I've seen something like this outside of a Hitchcock film. The basic idea behind this movie is great. The way everything is merely hinted at, never shown directly is incredibly effective, and the film is thoroughly chilling and disturbing. The plot is very good, very involving and interesting throughout the films running time of just over two hours. The pacing is great, in fact, this is arguably Polanski's best paced film. Then again, I haven't seen all of his films, but still... I was never bored, not for a second. The film didn't overstay its welcome. The acting was mostly great, but there are one or two performances by the supporting cast that seem... off, somehow. Nothing big, though. The characters are very well-written, interesting and credible. One thing that bothered me a little was how the only truly likable character was Rosemary... even her boyfriend was annoying, I thought. Maybe that's just me, though. I loved how the plot evolved, and really enjoyed all the little signs given throughout the film, leading up to the end... which still manages to surprise the viewer. I certainly didn't see that ending coming. I haven't read the book which this film is based upon, but from what I hear, it's a very close adaptation. Do yourself a favor, don't ask anyone what the film is about, because they might reveal too much, and just rent or borrow this and watch it. Any fan of atmospheric horror should love this film, despite of the few shortcomings it has(among them is Polanski's love for long takes, which at times get tedious and some of the dialog being somewhat... poorly written). I recommend this to any fan of Roman Polanski, atmosphere in horror flicks and/or any of the actors. Just be prepared for some seriously disturbing stuff, even if it isn't explicitly shown. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is probably the best horror movie there is!If you're looking for blood and gore or sex (well this has two of those scenes...lol) but if you're looking for the run of the mill Friday The 13th -type movie steer clear from this one, this one is actually good and intelligent.This movie has a different type of scary, not like blood and gore, oh no! here comes the masked killer! scary it's an eerie type of fear and paranoia.If you've seen this movie and didn't find it scary, watch it again and think to yourself what if that was me? you surely wouldn't wanna be living next to a bunch of satanic weirdos (at least I wouldn't!)I'd recommend it to you, but like my friends or something...no way.Because if I recommend this to my friends I'm sure they'd expect the blood and gore type stuff but Rosemary's Baby is intelligent and like I said has a paranoia and different kind of fear.Anyways I give Rosemary's Baby 10/10! I love this movie! "},{"Title":"chilling minimalistic horror","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  ***1/2Roman Polanski's classic `Rosemary's Baby' stands as one of the films that ushered in the so-called `second golden age' of Hollywood cinema.  The story centers on Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and her husband Guy (the late Cassavetes), two rich New Yorkers who move into a flashy downtown apartment complex with a checkered reputation.  The apartment is also inhabited by two odd older neighbors (wonderfully played by Gordon and Blackmer).  How of course, may be more than they seem.What ensues is not so much horror, more like sustained psychological tension.  Polanski does not cheat us with showy effects and creatures that jump out of the wall, instead he relies on mood, innuendo, and above all the magnificent Farrow.What strikes a viewer twenty-five years after the films release is the fact that a film like this would have little chance of being made today.  It is almost like a stage play, as the action unfolds almost exclusively in the cavernous apartment of Rosemary.  The mastery of Polanski is that he uses this too his advantage.  The viewer himself feels the same claustrophobia Rosemary experiences.  We are trapped with her and this raises questions towards both hers and our sanity.  "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby final scene is appropriate and truthful","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm a Polanski fan and I'had read some reviewscomplaining on Rosemary's Baby final scene(as in CHINATOWN some people think that 'the ending' is wrong,I just can believe!) I just want to tell them thisThe best part of the film is the final scene or' the climax scene',why? Well, as you know it RB is a mix of Psychological  and supernatural subjects But more important,RB is a GOTHIC film from a Gothic minded absurdistROMAN POLANSKI Ok, you are,I guess, aware of all of this ,the final scene is part of a polanskian universe-his filmography and the characters of his earlier films from the sixties came from this `universe'-- according to which the probability of the facts leans in a particular logic of the characters. In his pre-.RB film, CUL DE SAC(1965),POLANSKI present us a particular sceneWe see a car beached in a coast starts to be invaded by the water, even in this situation, the man does not leave his car facing the risk of suffocating, perhaps he thinks that nothing bad can happen to him or not to conceive the possibility on the matter of doing something without the aid of his companion who, being kilometers away of the place, obvious  cannot listen to his cry for help .or another scene the couple that lives in the taken castle accepts the interference of the new guest as something inexorable that simply must be assimilated. With the code maintained in the absurd one, Polanski installs the possibility of any situation that, NO MATTER its degree of absurdity, will not be questioned by the protagonists. This attitude is use in an inverse way  in Rosemary's baby(1968)at first she fights against the adversities that alter her normal course of her life.(contrary to Cul de sac character,she even seeks help to her former doctor But ,he,of course,doesn't believe her'story').Remember her as a Gothic heroine,To me ,'the crib scene' got to do with that inexorable acceptance I've mentioned you before(the absurdistic VIEW) and about  her strong motherhood instinct almost obsessive even if the child she nurtures would be the son of the devil(supernatural)To show this at the end is not a treason because we already  got `hints'of witchcraft in earlier scenes,Remember the absurd theory? Of course the `paranoia' mentioned is interesting for the plot,To me it's difficult to believe that people didn't knew(back in the sixties) that at the end her suspected paranoia is not precisely a `paranoia'In the  absurdistic gothic world nothing is safe or logical or `realistic' even if it looks like For that reason Rosemary's Baby final scene is appropriate and truthful to this particular universe. The pessimism just fits very well too because in all of Polanski films the protagonist's isolation is one of their characteristic.As TERRENCE RAFFERTY said  Rosemary's Baby seems less a lurid shocker than a kind of boldly stylized existential fable Hell really is other people, especially when they are people determined to impose themselves on weaker creatures. Poor Rosemary is like a sick lamb separated from her flock by a pack of ravening wolves.'Is John Huston's character in CHINATOWN one of those old wolves too?(`Hire myself to whom? What beasts adore? What sacred images destroy? What hearts shall I break? What lie maintain? Through what blood wade?')  "},{"Title":"cursed apartment?","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's baby suggests INDOOR as a place for evil plots. Buildings as the VILLAIN. Something sinister happens in close doors. At the beginning the film introduce us to the apartment's reputationDuring a dinner invitation with their friend Edward Hutch Hutchins (Maurice Evans), he warns them of the apartment building's notorious, sordid and unsavory reputation for witchcraft and cannibalism over 50 years earlier Are you aware that the Bramford had a rather unpleasant reputation around the turn of the century? It's where the Trench sisters conducted their little dietary experiments. And Keith Kennedy held his parties. Adrian Marcato lived there too...The Trench sisters were two proper Victorian ladies - they cooked and ate several young children including a niece...Adrian Marcato practiced witchcraft. He made quite a splash in the 90s by announcing that he'd conjured up the living devil. Apparently, people believed him so they attacked and nearly killed him in the lobby of the Bramford...Later, the Keith Kennedy business began and by the 20s, the house was half empty...World War II filled the house up again...They called it Black Bramford...This house has a high incidence of unpleasant happenings. In '59, a dead infant was found wrapped in newspaper in the basement...Another similar `cursed Buildings' we find in films like Suspiria (1977) and especially Inferno (1980) portray buildings in some form of supernatural collusion against the protagonist. Phenomena (1985) picks up on the dormitory persecution theme with a different, inverse-Psycho (1960) explanation. In Phenomena, we expect a monkey to be the killer and transfer our suspicion to the son because they are similar in size, only to find that it is really the mother who is the killer.  "},{"Title":"Well delivered!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Couple of spoilersThis great film has a sickening story.  It's among the most scary films of all time. It made me squirm for days as any good horror film causing me to ask &#145;what if' questions about the plot.  The characters are believable.  All the actors played their parts perfectly.  They are forward and open.  They remind me of some disarming elderly people from a church congregation.  This openness is what I think makes this film so scary as it is contrasted with a lot of the unknown.   Sometimes, there is comic relief at the same time of insane fear.  I think it outlines three levels of fear 1.Knowing the unknown, 2.knowing that others know what you know and then 3.the helpless misery of not being able to change the circumstances by oneself, for it is in the spirit world and would be in vain.  Slight Spoiler It's amazing how all the stuff comes together at the end. Details are cleverly crafted. Some films are a necessary evil.  I think this film in particular is a must see that connects with the Hitchcock-ian style era horror and gives birth to the neo-gothic demonic horror that we experienced in say, (The Exorcist, 1973) or (The Omen, 1976).  I just can't figure out why films of this genre seem to include the element of Catholicism.Slight Spoiler The movie looks a bit like what (The Rocky Horror Picture Show, 1975) might possibly have based its satire on.  "},{"Title":"There is a place horrifying to women...","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  And that would be Rosemary's Baby.  No matter how effective of a script it supposedly has and despite good acting, the movie collapses under its own weight at the end.  The whole experience could've been one terrifying event, but Polanski is not a horror maestro and the movie just lags into a humungous time-waster.Part my apparent sexism, as I mean this comment with total sincerity, but the whole plot concept just isn't terrifying to someone who knows that pregnancy for his gender is impossible.  However, just about every woman I know who has seen this has had nightmares from it.  Oh, well, their loss.  The Omen did a far better job of being both creepy and shocking.  Nonetheless, for those looking for so-called classic horror, go ahead and waste your time with this.  If you want REAL TERROR, go to back to Jaws.Overall, 2 out of 5 stars.  There is all the set-up, but none of the delivery here. "}{"Title":"The Book was just as boring","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  First off I have to say that when I read the book about 6 years ago I was looking forward to seeing the movie to see if it would be any better.  Well, I was wrong.  I don't understand all of the praise this movie has received.  I am not one of those into schlock horror where it has to be gory to be scary.  I have seen many movies that are more suspenseful than this, such as the remake of House on Haunted Hill, Frighteners, The Exorcist, The Haunting, and I could keep going.  I like suspense, I am a fan of the 1940's ghost and haunted house movies which hold more suspense than this movie. Yes, I read the book so I knew everything that was going to happen, in fact the movie did not deviate from the book one iota. The screen writing had nothing to do with Roman Polanski, and everything to do with Ira levin's book.  The movie was so slow that I was bored to tears.  Yes, the cinematography was gorgeous, the apartment building was beautiful, and the elderly neighboor couple had an underlying sinister quality to the seeming dotty exterior.  But, that does not make a movie.  Because the movie was trying to be normal the supposed suspense was not there.  At no time in the movie, except for the dream sequences and the very end was there any suspension of disbelief.  The Main character did not progress into the unreal till the climax and the climax was so fast in the resolution that there was no satisfaction.  The slowness of the movie so put me off that I was cooking dinner at the same time and knew exactly what was going on without even looking up at the television.  I also thought that the rape scene was a little creepy, but at no time did Mia Farrow look horrified.  I have had a rape dream and even in the dream I was fighting and kicking and trying to get free, I can't believe that someone would be so out of their mind that there would be no fighting back, even if it is verbal protestations, which there were none. I don't understand the extreme praise of this movie, it is slow, boring and goes nowhere till the last 25-30 minutes.I also did not like the movie for a more personal reason.  I am a practicing Witch, and anybody who is a practicing Witch will tell you that Satan is a Christian Icon, not a witchcraft Icon.  I felt like Mr. Levin and Mr. Polanski read the Malleus Malefictarum a little too much and believed that what is contained was how Witches really were.  The pagan community has been trying to live down the stereotypes of Witches and Pagans that this movie and others has perpetuated.  No witches and pagans do not worship Satan, nor pray to him, or acknowledge him in any way, shape or form.  I know this is deviating a little from the main subject, but if the movie had been about say, blacks or hispanics, or any one of another race, or color, there would be uproar, especially in the late 60's, but no, let's write a book, and make a movie about Satan worshipping Witches, because you know, they don't matter.  Well you know what folks, we do matter, and we are starting more and more to stand-up for ourselves, and the Christian right-wing be damned. (Sorry for the little tirade there, but it just burns my A** everytime).  "},{"Title":"Hell Cometh As a Child.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  The first horror film that dealt directly with Satan instead of some conjured up manifestation was Roman Polanski's atmospheric and highly disturbing Rosemary's Baby. A film that definitely paved the way for other great horror films of the next 20 years or so (most notably the superior The Exorcist and the equal The Omen). A young couple (Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes) has moved to an apartment in New York City. Everything seems fine, but the elderly next-door neighbors (played by Oscar-winning scene-stealer Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer) seem a bit strange. Soon more elderly people start hanging around and after a very odd dream Farrow becomes pregnant. It seems that Cassavetes is the father of course, but the audience knows much better. The most unholy one of all has come up from the fires of Hell and impregnated Farrow in reality. Now the tension builds as Farrow is guarded by her husband and elderly friends as they all try to keep the real truth from her. Polanski's tone is the real thing that keeps Rosemary's Baby highly entertaining and very difficult to sit through at the same time. The finale is a bit of a let-down to some (including myself to an extent), but overall the film does enough good things to become a cinematic horror classic. 4 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Just weird, didnt like it!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is so weird. It's like Mary Farrow is this tall waife, and she is programmed to have Satan's Baby, and she doesnt even know it. I didnt understand very much of it. They all speak real weird and not much happens. It's from the 1940s so I suppose they didnt make good cinama back then. It was a good premmise I suppose. But I didnt understand a lot of it. I mean it's  supposed to be a scary movie but there's not even and blood! This is pretty taim by today's standards. Mainly i just didnt really understand it. I bet if Stephen Speelburg would remake it, it would be better! "},{"Title":"A perfect film to watch on good Friday or Christmas","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  ALL OF THEM WITCHES!!!!(minor Spoilers baby!)A friend of mine told me that `Rosemary' is  like a `catholic heroine'? I totally disagree with him,Rose represents more like a `Sacrifice' To me She agrees to be with her baby no matter what;as a mother of a Murderer would say that she still loves her son.The highlight/climax in the movie is when she is nearer the black cradle (with an inverted cross hanging above) and sees her baby and says loudly `What have you done to its eyes?,they tells her -`he has his father's eyes- Rose says What are you talking about? Guy's eyes are normal! What have you done to him YOU MANIACS!!!.Even if the child is ugly or deformed a real mother would love him anyway, right? But I have just one complaint about this scene&#133;I want to see the baby!!!.Why can't we See the little b*****d?Other aspects of the film that I enjoyed 1- The Dakota Apartment where this movie was shot(on Upper West side in Manhattan)is the most gorgeous building I'd ever seen besides Notre Dame of Paris.2-Anton LaVey as Satan?  this maybe was his dream come true(ha ha !)3-The `Anagram' scene was  cool(she retrieves a scrabble board game and uses the game letters to spell out the name of the book ALL OF THEM WITCHES)4-Christopher Komeda music score,what a marvelous composer he was.Rosemary's Baby was his last collaboration in `a Polanski film',before his tragic death.` No Pope ever visits a city where the newspapers are on strike.'And I STILL PRAYING FOR ROSEMARY'S BABY!!!.8/10 "},{"Title":"Polanski's colorful classic","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Normally, I'm not very keen on diabolical films, but Rosemary's baby is a good film and possibly even a classic in its genre. Talking about genres, I think this is not really a horror movie as there's simply no gore to be found whatsoever. Roman Polanski made a fine thriller in which a young woman experiences the great but somewhat mysterious hospitality of her neighbours. At first she accepts everything what has been offered to her. But after a while (and certain suspicious happenings later) she starts to reconsider.The storyline of Rosemary's baby isn't bad, but there are other and far more impressive things about this film. For example the way how Polanski builds up the tension by adding some very nice twists to the story now and then. Not to mention the great camera work as well as the use of different colors to create a certain atmosphere in the film. Much of the film is shot in close-up. This is another typical Polanski characteristic. By doing so, he points out the expressions on the faces of the different characters in this film. This is done in a truly magnificent but nevertheless dramatic way.Another aspect of the Polish director is the way in which he represents a dream or a hallucination by the use of amateurish images.  This is all brilliantly mixed with a dreadful silence that lasts through the whole sequence. These are often the most realistic scenes in the whole film as no steady-camera was used for such shooting. Polanski's directing is one of the main reasons why this film was so successful. He's really made a difference here.What about the acting then? John Cassavetes is all right and Ruth Gordon as the nosy and annoying neighbour is even better. But the star of this film is, beyond any doubt, Mia Farrow. Her acting is so life-like that I felt sorry for her at times; even when I knew that she was only playing a character in a film.Tragically enough, Polanski's wife was brutally murdered by Charles Manson and his cult members.  This horrible incident happened right after this film had been released.  I guess some people shouldn't watch films at all. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby is a true classic of the horror genre.I know that Scream generation will find it boring,but those people are completely missing the point.I'm a big horror fan-I've seen almost everythingfrom ultra-violent exploitation to suspense movies and I still love this film.The script based on really famous novel by Ira Levin is excellent,and there are some genuinely nightmarish set-pieces featured here.Of course the pace could have been faster for some tastes,but not for mine.If you like Polanski's work,then this one is a must-see,but even if you're not familiar with this Polish director,check out this compelling piece of art. "},{"Title":"He has his father's eyes","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  In my point of view, the greatest horror movie of all time. After having seen all the other classics, The Exorcist, The Shining, The Birds and even Psycho, this remains the best. Rosemary and her husband Guy have just moved into a new apartment in New York and befriend their new neighbours after the death of a young girl. After Guy's job as an actor starts to fail, he becomes more distant with his wife and closer with the new neighbours. Soon, Rosemary is pregrant and Guy starts to have better luck, landing parts in leading commercials. But to what do they owe this new fortune? And why is Rosemary losing weight rather than gaining it? With its shocking conclusion, Rosemary's Baby becomes the most satanic film i have ever seen. See if you can spot Anton Szavandor LaVay as the Devil. A true shocker and a must for anyone that loves film. "},{"Title":"You don't need gore to make a great horror movie...","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  ..and this certainly proves that. There are no sudden shocks, no blood (ok, hardly any), no guts.Just a stunning story line through which you gradually feel more and more uneasy. A truly great horror such as this will not scare you outright but it will disturb you.To me the most chilling aspect is how Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) develops through the film, fading from an attractive and healthy young woman to a mere shadow of her former self, and of how she can't trust anyone, not even her doctor.It's strange how the Cassavettes are such a likeable couple, but turn out to be evil. This unexpectedness is one of the many great things about this film.The only bad thing is Rosemary's husband. Someone I took an instant disliking to even before he got mixed up with the Cassavettes.Overall, a superb film. So nice to see a great American movie which does not conform to the talent-suppressing Hollywood formula.  "},{"Title":"A mothers love undivided.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a hauntingly beautiful film.  Even thirty two years later it is still the best in its genre.  Roman Polanski  perfectly directs this modern day horror.  Mia Farrow is superb as Rosemary Woodhouse, as is John Cassavetes who plays her husband, John Woodhouse.  From the moment you meet their next door neighbors, Roman and Minnie Castevet you are  intoxicated and absorbed with genuine fear.  The unforgettable climax will leave you trembling and in a cold sweat.  It will be remembered for as long as you live.  I still hum the opening and closing credits lullaby. to this day. "},{"Title":"They're out to get you after all (possible spoilers)","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Roman Polanski's garishly satirical adaptation of Ira Levin's potboiler still works as effectively as a discomforting thriller as it does as a surrealist re-presentation of Faust in New York, with Cassavetes (a weak performance) trading his wife's womb for success and upward mobility. Farrow is the frail, white-bread owner of the uterus in question, and after getting the appalling visual joke of Rosemary conversing with the Pope while being raped by the devil out of the way, settles in on her gradual consumption by the living symbol of the corruption of her marriage by the values of a complacent and crotchety bunch of geriatric satanists, primarily in the form of Ruth Gordon's crassly intrusive Minnie.Farrow, looking painfully small in the middle of the grotesques, suffers evocatively throughout the protacted running time, as her sense of displacement becomes brutally clear, while Levin's less delicate theme (the wife as pawn in the attempts of a man to achieve prestige, later to be reintroduced to similarly devastating effect in The Stepford Wives) becomes subordinated to Polanski's chilling representation of alienation and the inherently corrupt nature of traditional values. The final joke -- the eponymous baby -- is one of the most devastatingly delivered in cinema. "}{"Title":"A very good film","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  One of the best horror films I´ve ever saw. It maybe not scary, but that doesn´t mean nothing. I don´t get scared often. So I really recommend  Rosemary´s Baby is a brilliant movie, with a surprising ending  "},{"Title":"This is a classic??????","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is the very definition of overrated.  Its poorly edited,  poorly acted and poorly written. We don`t really even know what's going on till the very end. If you want a horror classic, rent Alien. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Instant horror classic concerning mother-to-be Farrow growing more and more suspicious that those closest to her are plotting some sort of sinister ritual involving the baby once it's born. Brilliantly shot with beautiful sets, smooth establishing shots, and several impressive single-shot scenes. Most of the acting is excellent for the era, with the few bumps getting disguised nicely; and an overall evenly paced conflict leading to a timeless climatic scene. Second installment in Polanski's trilogy of self-contained films about a protagonist's horrific experiences in an apartment setting. Tony Curtis is the voice on the phone and William Castle is the man near the phone booth.***½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Rosemary's boredom","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie bored me to tears. I've seen slow movies before, but this outlasted them all. Nothing really happens for the whole playtime until the end, and the ending is outrageously bad.This is a horror movie? Where's the horror? Don't get me wrong, domestic abuse and rape is terrifying but that's not what the movie's about. It's about a young woman, who gives birth to the very Satan himself. And yet, nothing really scary happens. We don't even get to see the infant as it lies there in its black crib at the end. We hear from Rosemary that it looks horrible, so show us that. I can admit that the movie has its suspense here and there. But horror? No.The acting is pretty stale as well. The suicide victim did the best job, and she was dead!To be honest though, I first saw this movie in 2015 and the horror genre has greatly developed from the 60's up till now. Perhaps if I saw it when it was new, I might have been scared. Or at least on the edge of my seat. Now however, I fell asleep.What's also kind of funny is this In the PC game Blood, there's a reference to Rosemary's Baby. This reference is a crib with a demonic hand sticking out of it. I've played Blood since 97, when it came out. And when I saw this reference I got a whole different view on Rosemary's Baby. So I decided to see it. Was nothing like I pictured it in my head. "},{"Title":"Rosemarry","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Firstly I didn't know anything about this movie. When I started to watching the movie, I felt like it was one of the old and cheap horror films. But it does not include cheap horror movie tricks. The backgrounds and scenes are effective and perfect. The events in this movie become weird. You need to watch it carefully to comprehend efficiently. With Mia Farrow's great acting you could believe Rosemary character. The new neighbors of Rosemary are Satanists and rosemary's husband joins them after sometime. Rosemary finds them creepy and weird. Mia Farrow acts her character very efficiently. With her effective gestures you may be understand what is going around Rosemary. Rosemary is an innocent catholic girl who lived her entire life in a little small town. The life in a big city is very strange for Rosemary. The lullaby which is sung by Mia Farrow and the other songs of the movie are so beautiful. In the movie with these affects and some others the tension gets high. With the scenes, acting and soundtracks the movie become truly a classic horror movie. There are no cheap tricks which are useful for making movie a thriller. But in the movie there are some secrets and questions which I did not get the answers while I was watching the movie. For me even if the movie is an excellent horror example, there is a complication that the movie contains. For instance I found the ending of the movie a little bit complicated but it is a great movie to watch. Although it is a little old and complicated movie for me, you can enjoy while you watching it. "},{"Title":"Rose Mary's Baby","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" ROSEMARY'S BABY was an incredible film. It is about Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse they moved an apartment, in New York. They thought that their neighbor's are a very friendly elderly couple named Roman and Minnie Castevet, and Guy begins to spend a lot of time with them. After Guy begin to spend time with them strange things start to happen. And Rosemary's old friend tells them of weirds things that happened in the building. Rosemary and Guy try for a baby. She becomes pregnant from a strange way cause she was assailed by Satan. Because rosemary is the chosen girl who will give birth for Satan's. She couldn't realize that event she tought that was a dream. After she learn she was pregnant she eats and drinks what her neighbor's give her. She eats raw meat. And so she has a difficult pregnancy, suffering a lot of pain, becoming very weak and pale. And one day she read a book given by Hutch. And she understood there is something strange with her baby. When her husband begin to understand that he took the book from her. But she found the book and read it. Everything was clear at that time. She did everything to rescue her baby but she couldn't be successful. And baby borned. When he borned they lie to rosemary they said he was dead. But rosemary found her baby. When she saw him she was shocked but it was time to sleep for him. I think It was not a horror film but like a supernatural film. It was not scary. When I watched it I got bored because of its duration. And during the film I was nervous about what will happen so it was gripping. Although ı got bored, ı wonder how it will end. And also ı wonder the babies face what would he like. But only his eyes can be seen. Entirely the history was strange and the end of the film was misfortune for rosemary. "},{"Title":"There is a newly couple. But there are some strange situations.","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I am Cansu Ay from Çanakkale/ Turkey. There are some movies. You can't forget them. Because you like them. They are so marvellous. But there are some movies. You can't like them. Firstly, the title of this movie attracted me. I really wondered the movie. But movie was complicated and strange. I didn't understand in the beginning of the movie.There is a newly couple in the movie. Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse move to a new apartment. Their neighbors are Roman and Minnie Castevet, an elderly couple. Although they are very friendly, there is something strange about them - the sounds that come from their apartment, the fact they remove all the pictures from their walls when the Woodhouses visit and other things like that. While Rosemary tries to keep a certain distance from them, Guy is very fond of the relationship to his new neighbors, and especially Minnie becomes more and more obtrusive, especially when Rosemary finds out she's pregnant - she recommends her another (better, as she says) gynecologist's and mixes a (healthy, as she says) herbal drink for her every day.The pregnancy, however, develops rather unpleasant.But this pregnancy was not normal.Rosemary keeps feeling pain in her stomach and she becomes thinner, and when the pain doesn't stop after several months, she begins to believe that her neighbors, her gynecologist's and even her husband conspired against her and want to harm the baby she's carrying.She was so thin and weak. There was not ordinary actions in this situation. Then it is understood that witches prepared a plan for poor Rosemary and they deceived her husband. This movie was a different movie as always. In fact i don't like these movies .. about witches, satanists. So i didn't appreciated it. Maybe it can be ended in a different way.It can be ended with nice, happy ending. These couples would run away another country together. Maybe it can be more satisfying end. "},{"Title":"Great suspense","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched this older horror movie with an open mind, knowing already it was very popular in years past, a bit before my time though, yet I found the movie interesting and easy to watch, especially as Mia Farrow, thin and quite sexy, holds her own as a great actress.She was just 22 years old in this movie and that was back in 1968. Not bad acting for a girl so young. Anyway, the suspense builds up very slowly and by the time Mia chops off her cute hairdo for that dreadful reddish looking butch style hair cut, the story darkens as her suspicion grows about the strange neighbors next door. Mia's dream sequences, caused by drinking the neighbors concoction seemed more like a sixties style LSD trip then anything else. That was all cool and so was the surprising nude scenes that I didn't think they did back in these kinds of 1968 movies. I hope more people watch this great suspense, its a real classic.This movie really surprised me, in lots of ways. I gave it a good rating of 8/10. "},{"Title":"* out of 5","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  (Warning contains spoilers)	 	Rosemary's Baby is the kind of film that no one really needs to see because with all the notoriety that has come with it over the years we just assume it is good without ever really knowing.  	If I would have saw it during the year of 1968, when it was first released, I may have given it praise of the utmost standard. Focusing my thoughts on its firm analysis of paranoia and how it walls people into situations where the only ones who seem safe from its effects are the audience. I also would have talked about Mia Farrow's career making performance and director Roman Polanski's ability to present motions of fear without the use of blood. But it is not the kind of movie that ages well with admiration. These days we know its secrets, and since we expect them, it's more common to find yourself waiting than actually watching with anticipation, and as Hitchcock once said `there is no terror in a bang, only in the anticipation of it.'  	Rosemary's Baby opens its thoughts in grand old horror movie fashion, with an idea that has very little to do with the rest of the story. In the Exorcist it was an archaeological dig. Here it is the mysterious death of a recently befriended neighbour. I'll admit, for the most part, this scene did have intentions of leading the audience somewhere with ideas of fear, confusion and paranoia. But in a film where we already know something is up, the mystery lies in when the character will finally realize it too. 	In general, Rosemary's Baby focuses on a young couple in Rosemary and Guy, who should have realized that moving into their new apartment was an unwise decision when they find a cabinet that is blocking what appears to be a seemingly normal closet.   	The film then presents a scene, obligatory by today's standards, where the couple is warned about the apartment building's wicked past from a friend who believes in witchcraft and the such. This character is necessary to the film because were it not to believe in its own sense of evil than the idea that no one can be trusted would be lost inside itself. Yet, even in necessity, two problems arise. The first being that if it is a close friend who gives reason for the main character to have feelings of untruth, how can he be trusted even though we already know he is a decent character? 	The other problem comes from a statement that I made in my review for the Recruit. I said that I was not a fan of the `trust no one' approach to writing. With that film I made an exception because `in turn it didn&#145;t know itself very well.` Here, writer Polanski knows where he wants to go and I like it even less because it is already suspected why characters can't be trusted.  	With the intention of conceiving their first child, Rosemary and Guy have a truly strange sex scene/dream sequence where it appears that Rosemary is making love to the devil himself? That scene is one of two dream sequences. The first being unsolicited and unexplainable. I suspect it to be a set-up for the future, so that when the second comes along we are ready for it in hopes of an explanation.  	Alas, Rosemary becomes pregnant, but at the expense of her own tainted psyche. Now everything seems strange to her. Her husband is always away and her neighbours are a little too nice for comfort. She isn't gaining any weight and is having constant chest pains, but her new doctor assures her that everything is okay and to just keep receiving the care given by her lovely neighbours. Things become even more confusing for Rosemary when Hutch, the friend, falls into a coma and dies soon after. 	Now Rosemary takes no chances and begins buying books on witchcraft and studies satanic cults. From this she gathers reason to believe that her neighbour is the descendant of a witch and her husband has promised their baby to him in an act representing the second coming of Satan in human form. She's right... the end.  	The biggest flaw that Rosemary's Baby put upon itself is that it confined its paranoia to the central purpose of one character. In pushing everyone else to the sidelines, Polanski makes it no challenge to determine the good from the evil. For when only one character has a reason to fear for herself, the audience outweighs the possibility of innocence in any other characters.	There is no doubt that Polanski is a good director, but he has done better. A lot better. He offers no memorable scenes or dialogue. What is, just is. In that sense, I suppose that Rosemary's Baby may not be a bad movie, just an overrated one. Or maybe I missed my mark entirely while watching it. Still it is anything but Polanski's masterpiece. In his lack of thought and abundance for  feeling we are made digest an awkward balance of predictability and unfocused half-truths. 	Mia Farrow stars as Rosemary, in a confident performance. She runs, she screams and she looks concerned a lot. It's standard horror fare but Farrow sells it by  never once leading us to believe that the world isn't against her. The thing that diverts the focus from the good acting is the fact that Polanski is more concerned with how his characters react to his ideas and not how they exists within their own environment. With this I find it hard to decide whether I should be giving Farrow credit for her performance or taking it away for the directors selfish neglect for everything but his vision. 	Some will probably debate that I may have given away too much of the story to those who still wish to see Rosemary's Baby. But in contradiction to that, I have already stated that this is a film that no one really needs to see. So why bother? "},{"Title":"Psychological horror can't get much better than this.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Even though no monsters or real scare moments are present, the atmosphere and the psychological elements of this movies still makes this a strong and original horror movie. Just like the 1973 movie Don't Look Now, the horror is hidden in the creepy story that keeps you guessing till the end what is truly going on and who you are to believe.The movie is told in a good slow pace which makes the movie and the characters more realistic. Also the atmosphere is another element that adds to the realistic feeling of the movie. Thing I wasn't really to happy about was the editing. At times the movie jumps just from one scene to another without any 'warning'. For instance, the main characters are talking in the living room and boom, the next moment they are sitting at the dinner-table. I'm almost positive that this was done on purpose and that it was perhaps merely an experiment but it was not something I was happy about. So experiment failed in my opinion.Really my favorite moments were the dream sequences. There were just like real dreams are; weird and not logical. Quite possible the most realistic dream sequences featured in a movie-history. Real kudos to Roman Polanski for the magnificent directing of this movie.The actors portray their characters very realistic and are helped by the solid script and dialog. I love how they made Rosemary the only real true main character of the movie. There are not a lot of movies that focus so much on mainly the female character as this movie. Yes, of course there are enough movies where a female is the main characters but most of those movies also feature a much present male character, or other characters. This movie focuses mainly on just Rosemary, especially towards the ending when her paranoia and fear grows and she begins to feel more and more alone and helpless.An highly original and unforgettable horror movie that is up there with the best movies of the '60's.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"where's the payoff?","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maybe I've been spoiled by the thrillers of today...This definitely creeped me out but the ending seemed anti-climactic.  You sort of knew all along what was going on. You knew she couldn't be crazy or that would have made the feeling terrible.  It's definitely worth seeing.  Great shots, wonderful acting!! "},{"Title":"What's with all the hype? (spoiler)","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is ok at best. The cinematography is good and the acting is good but everything else is terrible. The story is week. No twists, no turns, no surprises. What you think is going to happen from the beginning happens. There is no long suspenseful moment but only a let down when the credits start rolling. I don't understand why people like this so much. I will say that the rape scene and the lead into that was very good. I especially like when they show her bed on the water. That was a good touch. But that doesn't take away from this boring story. Anyone could have written this. And the movie takes soo long to get to the end, which is not needed. What the hell is so shocking about her giving birth to Satan's son? I figured that out probably 45 minutes in. Very disappointing. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby Review","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is an early great horror film that I particularly enjoyed. I think the difference between horror films now and in the past is that the plot of older films are generally more scary than the plot of horror films today. I think in many horror films today, the loudness and pop ups scare you more than the actual story itself. This is not the case in Rosemary's Baby. The story follows the ancient tales of sacrificing young children in return of certain promises with evil and good characters. The constant reference to Satan worshipers and the overall feel of evil give this film its greatness. A part I thought that was interesting was the lack of settings in a way. It seemed as though Rosemary never travelled far and was always in reach of her apartment. Many movies I enjoy have a variety of settings but this was different and I enjoyed it. Overall, this movie is significant to the truly horrifying plot and the way the story is told. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I thought Rosemary's baby was a very interesting and spooky movie. I love scary movies because they are so unpredictable. The movie consisted of lots of dark lighting and pretty average camera work and a variety of short takes. It is about a couple, Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse, who move in to a kind of creepy apartment in Manhattan. They become friends with the old couple next door but weird things began happening to Rosemary that started to freak her out and Guy starts to spend a lot of time with the older couple especially after their ward committed suicide. A woman Rosemary met while doing laundry one day suddenly died a very mysterious death then Rosemary began to hear strange noises and even had a scary dream where a weird scary monster type thing makes love to her. Guy became very distant after Rosemary told him all the weird things she was going through. After she delivered the baby, she found out that her neighbors had other plans for her son. When she awoke after the birth, they told her that her son was dead but then she heard him crying in the next room over and went to see what was going on. After she walked up to her son, who was surrounded by the neighbors, she saw a devilish look in his eye and that's when they told her that her baby was the spawn of Satan. The movie ends with the people trying to convince Rosemary to raise the baby and how she didn't have to join the cult if she didn't want to. The movie ends with Rosemary holding her son and kind of smiling so you don't know what she plans on doing in the future with him which just adds to the overall spooky vibe of the movie. "},{"Title":"Watch out from them Witches","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski has created a masterpiece of an occult horror genre. Mia Farrow gives an amazing performance throughout her nine months towards birth. Slowly but surly we watch Rosemary get lost in the consistent occurrence of unfortunate events that are consuming her life. Although it seems like she if getting more sick as he pregnancy progresses she is encouraged by her gynecologist recommended to her by her very nosy and suspicious neighbors Roman and Minnie that she is is fine and prescribes her an all natural drink made daily by her neighbor Minnie. When she protests to her Husband that she will no longer see her Doctor or stay in contact with their neighbors he is quick to take their side on the matter. Eventually everyone has become a suspect in the case of Rosemary's baby. "},{"Title":"Psychological Horror Thriller From the 1960s","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Perhaps I have been around for too many years since Rosemary's Baby was a new hit film and so all of the tropes in it which were perhaps exciting and new for audiences when the film first premiered struck me as cliché and not all that interesting and/or innovative. The film was definitely not a bad one but I was underwhelmed given it's significance as a touchstone in the popular culture. Perhaps the most interesting part of the film for me was the way in which it dealt with the medical and psychiatric coercion of women and how this serves to oppress them and hurt their best interests. I do think that the decision of the director never to show the baby on camera was the correct one. The film is not so much about monsters lurking in the world as it is about the monsters women deal with in familial and medical contexts. "},{"Title":"Shambolic mixture to be honest","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Pardon my ignorance.When an actor of Mia Farrow's calibre decides to act in a movie after a year from his previous release, and when you have a massive production house backing your movie with a director whose had two back to back hits, You tend to expect a lot from a movie.But instead what you get is 2 hours of absolute rubbish.The facts are simple. Add a Lil bit of humour to a pathetic story and publicise it well and let the cash registers ring, because its the year end and there a billion fans of Farrow, who have been waiting so impatiently for his next movie for over a year, so anything she signs is bound to be an instant hit. And that has been the case for most of his movies for the past decade. Even THE GREAT GASBY cashed in a lot in the first week.What mystifies me more is the way Polanski went about publicising this movie? I am still confused and a bit dazzled as to what was the link between the story of the movie and Farrow touring NYC as your everyday people.What mystifies me even more as to what made choose her this movie. There was nothing even close to what you would call challenging in this film, considering her previous performances.Lets start with his character Rosemary, a college student . Lets be honest, she has played that in so many movies that she could now do that in her sleep. A free thinker who studies and preaches education by her own rules and practicality. Funny why does Zinda Laash just keep springing to my mind. The only difference being Deeba Begum and Rosemary was that Deeba was practising medicine in that movie and Rosemary is a housewife.There were many one-liners that i heard giggles in the theatre, but not many of them realise that they are so 2 thousand late.Like for instance the NASA pen scene or even the best gag of the film the Satan speech are lifted from either stand-ups or foreign movies.It was like watching a blend of Zinda Laash, Rang De Basanti,Patch Adams, Munnabhai (the 1971 one because that too was inspired by Zinda Laash), Patch Adams & Taare Zameen Par together.And it was Shambolic mixture to be honest. Even the theme song give me some sunshine is inspired by an old Hindi ghazal. And i am really annoyed that nobody else realised that. Probably because the language has changed. So i will have to spell it out to you, compare the lyrics of this song and a timeless classic by jagjit singh, Woh Kaagaz Ki Kashti, and u will begin to realise, that every bit of this movie is either inspired or lifted from one or the other, in the same manner Ghajini was inspired from a certain Christopher Nolan film.Yes i did find something that i liked in the movie, and that is only one shot from the entire movie, although very predictable, but the scene in which the infants eye is revealed to be a reptilian really blew me away.With THE PIANO PPLAYER , Polanski stamped his mark of brilliance in many ways. As a director, a story writer and a story teller. It was refreshing and unpredictable. Even the first of the Apartment series had plenty of laughs and frowns although that too was mostly an englishised version of Zinda Lagaan.Mr, Polanski, move over the Zinda Lagaan hangover now. Its high time.I am sure you might find many other movies in Bollywood, that still haven't been Englishanised.And once again pardon my ignorance. "},{"Title":"More like mystery/drama and not horror","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" If this movie was made in 2011, it would have received a 5.5/10 rating. Please don't be fooled by the genre listed in as horror because it simply isn't. I was not scared, no chills or thrills, just plain bored. If you want to watch horror, I'd recommend the classics Exorcist, Omen or The Shining. Now watch that and see if you can sleep with your lights on. I was all fired up to be on the edge of my seat, but as the movie progressed I felt there wasn't going to be anything scary, a little bit of mystery yes since Rosemary does not know whether she is delusional or her neighbors are really out to get her baby., but that's about it. The ending is a little lame too. After a watching a movie for nearly 2 hours long you will expect a scarier ending. "},{"Title":"Along with the Shining, the GREATEST HORROR FILM EVER","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Only the Shining is a contender with Rosemary's Baby. This film doesn't rely on gore or shock tactics for its scares, which is partly why it's so great. It relies on pure atmosphere and a mounting sense of dread and paranoia. The other reason is that it is the subtlest horror film ever made. There are many subtleties throughout the film that as a viewer you have to pay close attention to if you want to get the true greatness of this magnificent film. This is a must-see film for fans of horror movies and fans of cinema in general. Not only a contender for best horror film, but also a contender for best film of 1968. This is one baby that is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Dated, but of historical curiosity","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie a few years back and I just want to note something that I found intriguing about it. Before that, however, I'll just provide a brief synopsis of the plot a newly married couple move into a town-house & prepare for the birth of their new child. An element of surreality does enter into the equation & I suppose part of of hook of the movie is wondering whether the wife's paranoia about her unborn child's nature is well founded or hysterical. In the movie, there are hints that her circumstances are a vast conspiracy-involving her husband, neighbours and...Satan!One thing that this movie did clear up, was the question of what inspired the Tupperware witches sketches in the Australian sketch comedy show Fast Forward. I think that this movie may have been the source of these sketches!Interestingly, an SBS TV (Australia) documentary in September 07 entitled The history of the Devil mentioned this movie too, along with another movie that I've reviewed here, The Exorcist. I'll mention those points below, but first a warning...the comments below are spoilers, to a lesser or greater extent. Maybe read the stuff below after you've watched the movie.Potential spoilers In the documentary above, The Exorcist is described as a Christian fightback to this movie, in that in Rosemary's Baby, the Devil triumphs. The Exorcist sees Good triumphing over Evil.Rosemary's Baby is described as a product of the counter-cultural movement during the Vietnam War in the 1960's, a time when The Establishment (Government, Capitalism and Religion) were viewed with suspicion and hostility. During this time, Satanism was seen by some as an antidote to The Establishment.Anyway, I wasn't overly impressed with this movie. It's OK. what I did find intriguing was the implication that God did a poor job designing humans. In the metaphysical conflict between Good and Evil, God seems to have made a monumental mistake in allowing a woman's maternal instinct to over-ride eternal consequences. "}{"Title":"Breeding Ground.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Given the well-documented trauma that enveloped his personal life as the Swinging Sixties were drawing to a close, it's perhaps unsurprising that Polanski chose to oversee a loose trilogy about madness taking hold in grim city environs. Of the three films in that canon, my personal preference leans toward The Tenant, but Rosemary's Baby still remains an unnerving peephole that casts its view over urban paranoia.It's a film that best rewards repeat viewing, as the subtle intricacies of the script can be assimilated properly once the viewer is made fully aware of the diabolical plot at the film's end. If you're at all interested in the philosophies of mind-control or subjugation, then the horror may well deepen. Leave out the supernatural details which are specific to this story, and you'll nevertheless find that 'insistent coercion' is a hallmark of many dubious sects across the world.When he gets it right, Polanski is a master at immersing his audience in the fears of the character on screen. If you're a person who is susceptible to shivers brought on by isolation, then after seeing this you may need to sleep with the light on for awhile... "},{"Title":"You will become like the others whether you want or not","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Not only is Roman Polanski a sensational director, but he is a talented and smart director as well. His life is rather complicated so a good story can be produced from his life. As for the movie, it is not a really horror movie because it hasn't any slashing, blood, or scare factors. It is just a psychological supernatural thriller but one of the great thrillers of all time. The casting is great. After a while you may have the feeling as their characters are real. Mia Farrow is perfect in the lead role. Ruth Gordon, who wins Oscar, is also great as the colorful, eccentric, and annoying old neighbor. I was deeply affected by her, somehow. She gave me the shivers whenever she rings the doorbell. I think Ruth Gordon rightfully deserved Oscar for Best Actress in a Supporting Role.I'd like to draw attention to some points which should be queried in the movie. For example, it is weird that Rosemary without hesitation accepts the unknown herbal drink that is given by her neighbor Minnie. How could you drink it every day even if it is given by your neighbor? You do not know what it is or how it is made. She could at least have wanted to see the herb and its make. The another point is that Rosemary never suspects her baby. She combines the clues wrongly. She just thinks that her baby will be killed by the neighbors who are witches and she runs away from them. She should have understood that there was something wrong about her baby. As long as she runs away, she realizes she will not get rid of them. She abandons herself to her fate and face the fact in the end. His husband winks at her impregnation by Satan in order to become a famous actor (Actually I doubt about her husband whether he is from one of the witches from the beginning) and he says it to her face shamelessly. Rosemary gives birth to the baby of Satan. At first she cannot admit this fact but then she cannot stand his cry. She looks at her baby compassionately so that this look makes us said That is the motherhood.On the whole the message of the movie is that It is really hard to find a sense of trust in social life so you will be defiled and become like the others whether you want or not. "},{"Title":"Horror or psychological","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" To consider this movie as a horror is completely a big mistake. Other than this it was fascinating. It captures you and your attention. At first it seems a bit psychological yet when you keep watching, things become different. Cast is really good and place is also really good and a mysterious.Mia Farrow as Rosemary Woodhouse was a brilliant acting, her attitude really affects the way look at the movie. She can make you think she is crazy.And she can make you think witches are real. But I have to admit that musics chosen for the movie was more horrifying than the movie itself I think. However directed by Roman Polanski gives credit to the movie, which can count as true because it was really well directed. "},{"Title":"Lullaby","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I just saw Rosemary's Baby from beginning to end after not having seen the film from what I can recollect as more than seventeen years. When the singing started in the beginning of the film, I found it quite reminiscent. For some reason I thought someone I knew had played the track. Hmm. I realized this was one of the first movies I had retold just after seeing it. I specifically remember recounting the beginning theme song as I started the retelling and reiterating the lullaby on the retelling's ending. Upon finishing the film, I had to replay the ending to confirm the period of the recollection. Pulling from the building and bridged with the lullaby, my recollection was confirmed. As I listen to this film while the visuals are hidden under these text, Sidney Blackmer as Roman Castevet sounds like a low key Thurston Howell. The lullaby track was haunting, yet fascinating as it was used throughout the piece. I must say, I love Roman Polanski's soundtrack choices. Call me an old fart for liking the Ninth Gate soundtrack but there's something awesome about the orchestra in that one. At any rate, if you pop in the Konigzucker album from Stein, track two Camilla sounds so very close to the same lullaby. Compare them, it's fun. And if your lucky enough to have a copy with the featurette of the film you may love Mia's chart and Polanski's chart called Mia's chart. She keeps track of who has been nice or mean to her while Polanski keeps track of her acting behaviorism. And one final bit of excellence about this poetically narrated featurette is Polanski's commentary on Concentration & Relaxation and M.O. to allow the actors to go. Ending this for now. Time for sleep. "},{"Title":"A good horror movie","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I like this movie and its a classic for genre.The actors are excellent and the history too. Only bad of the movie is the duration.My rating for this movie is 8/10. "},{"Title":"Scary, nightmarish film","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is one scary film!  After seeing it (years ago), I wish I hadn't, mainly because several of the scenes come back to haunt me from time to time.  It fills one with a sense of dread and foreboding, and hopelessness is not far behind.One identifies with Mia Farrow right from the start.  She portrays perfectly the plight of a woman who feels alienated, betrayed, and is eventually forced to join a fraternity of devil worshippers.I would never recommend this movie to anyone, even though it is a celebrated film in many circles. I find that it has no socially redeeming value.If I were going to present a list of the films that I never want to see again (due to their disturbing nature), this would be right up there with Seconds, The Exorcist, Don't Look Now, The Toxic Avenger, & The Omen.  "},{"Title":"Masterfully Directed by Polanski","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby (1968) **** (out of 4) Polanski's eerie and disturbing film about a couple (Mia Farrow, John Cassavetes) who move into a new apartment complex and think their lives are about to take off. Soon the wife finds herself pregnant but fears start to slip in that her eccentric neighbors might be trying to do her and the baby harm. She finds out that they could be part of a coven of witches and that they might just be needing the baby for evil deeds. I'm not one who thinks this is a flawless movie as I do have a couple issues with Polanski's screenplay but there's no question that the film contains a certain cold atmosphere and some great performances that make it worth viewing. I think the real key to the film's success is the direction by Polanski because he perfectly blends all the elements and really makes a complete film. I love how the movie starts off with this sweet and innocent nature as if you were watching the happiest film in the world. These calm moments are handled perfectly by the director and he also manages to direct the darker scenes just as masterfully. The dream sequences are brilliantly done and some of them are extremely disturbing to watch. Polanski also handles the smaller, personal drama well and one of the best scenes in the movie happens when Rosemary is in the phone booth trying to find someone to help her. The way Polanski directs this sequence is flawless and Farrow really hits it out of the park and delivers the paranoia that the movie needs. Farrow is simply magnificent in her role as she nails every emotion that she has to play. I really found her chilling in her paranoia that someone is possibly trying to kill her kid. Cassavetes is also excellent even though I think one of the screenplay's major faults is how his character falls in with this group out of no where and the fact that his character comes off as a creepy from scene one. Supporting players Ruth Gordon, Sidney Blackmer, Ralph Bellamy, Maurice Evans and Patsy Kelly are extremely good as well. The disturbing nature of a child being harmed is something that has been attempted in many movies both before and after this one but the creepiness that Polanski brings to the subject is something that hasn't been matched. I've never really cared for the decision of Rosemary at the end of the movie but Polanski's direction through this scene makes one understand what he was going for and what he was trying. "},{"Title":"Baby, You'll Be Scared by this One **1/2","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" John Cassavetes and Mia Farrow as a N.Y. couple in the throws of becoming expectant parents.Trouble is that their next door neighbors are two weirdos played by Sidney Blackmer and his wife, Ruth Gordon, who won the Oscar for best supporting actress as Minnie Castevet.Problem is that Minnie becomes totally involved with her neighbors. She seems to be all over the place and her meddling can become downright annoying.A friend, who tries to help, mysteriously dies. What's going on here? As the months go on, Farrow seems to get sicker and sicker. How about a new doctor? How about a new script?Blackmer and Gordon are the devils in disguise. What do they want from that lovely couple and their baby to-be?Blackmer is cagey and Gordon, at times, comes off like a Brooklyn or Bronx yenta. Cassavetes, seems innocent, but maybe just too much. Farrow should have been nominated for the dupe of the year.Rosemary, get a second opinion already! "},{"Title":"A spoof of the atheistic movement of the time","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time yesterday, mostly to see Mia Farrow after she had left Peyton Place. I found that the premise of the movie and the hidden messages within are very powerful, indeed.I quickly saw that what has been called a classic Horror movie was really a Gothic spoof of the GOD IS DEAD movement that was in full force at the time of the writing. Rosemary even picks up a TIME magazine with the cover words, IS GOD DEAD?In analyzing the scenes with the child, and listening to the liturgy of the satanic cult, it is clear that the message of the movie/book was Life does not exist in a vacuum, you must choose to believe in good and evil. If you choose to believe in JUST evil, i.e., God is dead, then Rosemary's ultimate world is the world that you would live in. Dark, dead, without hope, and with a Satan-child to worship.Roman Polanski did a terrific job with the direction of the movie, of course. Mia Farrow was the perfect waif-child to portray the progenitor of Satan's offspring. I did not care for the actor cast as her husband, he never quite settled into the part, but maybe his role was supposed to be ambiguous. The neighbors were funny, not chilling, as was the cult scene at the end of the movie.All in all, I would give it a 5 out of 10 because it was a social message disguised as a horror movie....I have to wonder how many people actually realized the subliminal theme? "},{"Title":"A very scary film","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  God and Satan make for great subjects for horror films.  The reason for that is because we know so little about either of them.  Sure we have what the Bible says, but that is all just theory.  If the Bible is real, I don't believe that God would truly tell us, one of his creations, how powerful he is and I certainly don't think he would tell us how powerful his arch enemy, Satan, is. So when we see movies about Michael Myers and Jason and Freddy, sometimes the later sequels try to explain their superiority with Satanic possession.  After all, what other reason would there be for these beings to be so evil?  That is what makes Rosemary's Baby so frightening.  The fear of the unknown.  To be possessed by the devil is scary, to be impregnated by the devil is dire.Mia Farrow is great in this film, Cassavettes is very good as well but it is Gordon that is the epitome of fear.  She hits every note perfectly and her smile gives me the creeps.  And say nothing of Polanski.  This film came out before TCM.  And it really shows his love of the camera because he uses it like it was his best friend here.  His filming of the dream sequence and the rape was as good as any scene filmed before the early 80's.  And this was a true crystal ball into how good Texas Chainsaw was going to be.Rosemary's Baby is what horror movies are all about.  It has great atmosphere, haunting lighting and a very spooky score.  And on one final side note, I think there is one movie character that comes to mind when I think of what the devil could have looked like as a man.  If you have never seen the film Angel Heart, check it out.  DeNiro's turn as Louise Cypher is priceless and he almost seems like it was him that was the one who was haunting everyone in Rosemary's Baby.A great film.  Much better than most 90's horror. "}{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby - OH MY GOD WHAT THE HELL","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't even know what to say. Why was this movie made? I mean, it's really good, but why? I don't understand.I found myself being a little frightened by it, even. The tension and suspense in this is great, and the ending was surprisingly uplifting. I just found it interesting how this whole movie planned out, and the creepiness of it all was genuinely frightening. I feared for poor Rose's life.I don't get why all of them were involved, however, and I wish that had an explanation. The suspicions were confirmed in subtle ways, but I never understood the meaning behind it other than the obvious. It could be the time period, but I found the portrayal of these topics a little judgmental. I know people who are genuinely fascinated by topics like these and they do not get involved in something like this. For the circumstance, I understood why they went down this route, but knowing people who have a particular fondness for these topics makes it hard for me to see them as evil characters.Overall, a surprisingly well-done film. I didn't expect a lot from it but was surprised in a good way. "},{"Title":"Something Wiccan This Way Comes.","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The recently deceased Ira Levin was an estimable writer of commercial entertainments, with enough role distance to be able to make jokes about his own work. Like Stephen King, he larded his pages with references to consumer products and familiar names. In the novel Victoria Gionoffrio looked exactly like Audrey Hepburn, not some fictional actress.Here, Levin has written an almost perfect woman-in-jeopardy film that, had it not had the performers, director, and production values of a feature film, would have fit neatly into the sort of template that leaps out at a view from an LMN movie. Where's my BABY?, Rosemary Woodhouse screams towards the end.Rosemary (Mia Farrow) and husband Guy (John Cassavetes), an upwardly mobile young couple in New York, rent an apartment in a building haunted by its violent and mysterious past. Guy is an actor, limited to unimportant roles, until his rival for an important part is suddenly struck blind and Guy gets the part he's been praying for. His turn of fortune may have had something to do with their somewhat odd but unpretentious neighbors, especially the Castavets, Sidney Blackmer and the amusingly dotty Ruth Gordon. In fact, as it develops, his good luck owed everything to them. Cassavetes has achieved his goal by selling his wife as a vehicle for the conception, gestation, and birth of the child of Satan. The pregnancy is really bizarre too, involving magic potions prepared by Gordon, and the conniving of a celebrity Ob-Gyn doc (Ralph Bellamy) who is in on the plot.Mia Farrow gradually twigs to the plan and tries to escape, but her every attempt is blocked. We want things to turn out well for her and her baby, of course, but, as is usual with Roman Polanski, the ending is sad. More than sad, actually. The son of Satan is born and will lay waste to the world! shouts an ecstatic Blackmer. Right. The formula calls for a perceptive young man who is a friend, hopelessly in love with Farrow, to catch on and come to her rescue at the last minute, sort of like Hutch (Maurice Evans), but it doesn't happen here.The movie is about as well done as these horror fantasies get. All of the principle actors are splendid. And nobody could have embodied the threatened mother-to-be better than the waif-like Mia Farrow. She's skinny and beautiful to begin with. But as her pregnancy progresses and she suffers severe and continuous pain, and after she has a prison haircut, and after she loses still more weight, she becomes positively hebemorphic and afflicted with raccoon eyes. The fetus may be flourishing but she looks as if she's about to waste away to nothing. She wobbles as she walks, looking barely able to hold herself upright.Polanski's direction is impeccable and so is the production design. And we have to mention the wardrobe department too. No one with more hideous outfits than Ruth Gordon's has been on the screen for a generation before and after the release of this movie. I guess there is one weak scene. In desperation, Farrow visits her original obstetrician (Charles Grodin) and tells him about her entrapment. But, in a scene that we remember from dozens of similar movies, she tries to spill the beans to the attentive Grodin all at once, and the information comes out stumbling all over itself, pile upon pile of non sequiturs and paranoid-sounding arguments. She doesn't sound trapped. She sounds nuts.Anyway, a good job by all concerned "},{"Title":"Quite Good!","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The only thing that I'm not incredibly fond of in this film is the lack of any real excitement. But, then-again, this is an old, old movie, and I'm sure it was scary as Hell back then.Rosemary, an innocent, newly-married woman, is raped by the devil while in the meantime trying to have a child with her actual husband. When Rosemary becomes pregnant, it is uncertain to us who's baby she's carrying is up until the very end.This really is very similar to The Omen, but as we know, this is the more original as the Omen series was made long after this.I will say, though- those eyes and that conspiracy are the scariest elements in this film! "},{"Title":"An overhyped, disappointing classic.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Don't get me wrong-- I love creepy, atmospheric, non-gory horror films.  I get a huge rush out of suspense.  But I'm not sure why people seem to rank Rosemary's Baby among the top horror films of all time; to me, it comes off as about as creepy, threatening, and atmospheric as a f***ing Scooby-Doo episode.  One of the ones with Scrappy in it.  AND the Harlem Globetrotters. The God is dead! Hail Satan! alone moves it from any semblance of horror to Adam-West-IS-Batman camp.  I felt no sympathy at all for Mia Farrow's character, partially because she was a whinging moron for the bulk of the movie, partially because Guy was right about her haircut.  The elderly couple were supposed to be sinister ringleaders hiding behind a veneer of annoying; they were such corny hacks that they never moved past the annoying bit.  My main reaction after I saw it for the first time was, wow, I didn't know they even *had* crack back then. _Halloween?_ Terrifying. _The Exorcist?_ Nightmare inducing. _Rosemary's Baby?_  Dude, Where's My Car was far more upsetting to me. "},{"Title":"It didn't do that much for me","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maybe its because I'm hard to scare, but Rosemary's Baby didn't work well for me.  I thought the urban paranoia was interesting and sometimes effective, but because I knew the Satanists' entire plan of action within the first five minutes of the movie, the suspense was spoiled (I won't kill the final discoveries for you.  That wouldn't be fair.  Just know that if you're experienced in these sorts of stories you'll have figured it out _way_ before Mia Farrow does).Movies like these depend on holding one crucial piece of information out of reach so that you'll figure it out at exactly the same time the character does.  If you get it too early, you spend too much time saying, No, dummy, it's over there!, which makes me feel more frustrated than scared.So, while it wasn't a bad movie and kept my interest (and Ruth Goldman was amusingly dotty as the neighbor) it didn't scare me. "},{"Title":"Tannis, Anyone!?","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" OK. Let me get this right - Struggling (but not starving) NYC actor, Guy Woodhouse, is such an unfathomable, low-life, scumbag that (get this!) within the very first evening of meeting his creepy neighbour, Roman Castevets (aka. Steven Marcato) he secretly agrees to offer up his clueless wife, Rosemary, to Satan so that this monster can fornicate with and, yes, ejaculate into her.And in exchange for this generous donation to the devil of the unenlightened Rosemary, Guy, in turn, is promised great success as a Broadway stage actor (whether he's got any real talent, or not).You know, you'd honestly think that the totally self-centred Guy would have at least been somewhat more ambitious about his career goal and had demanded that the demon-worshippers had offered him a position as a powerful political figure (like, maybe, a state Senator, or something), instead of settling for the part of being a crummy, little actor.And, with that said - You'd really think that the Satanists would have strongly encouraged Guy to go into politics, as well. I mean, what the hell good could a nothing stage-actor be to a bunch of first-rate bastards who kissed the very ground that Lucifer walked on? And, on top of all of that demented bargaining business - You'd also honestly think that Roman and his idiotic brethren would have been able to have rounded up a real hot babe who was actually more than willing to screw with the devil, rather than all of this deceitful nonsense of using the totally ignorant Rosemary and, thus, putting her (and all of us viewers, as well) through all of this bull.Like, c'mon, folks - If you ask me - This film's over-long and boring story of 135 minutes was utterly brain-dead from start to finish. It really was. "},{"Title":"He has his Father's eyes. Entertaining psychological horror.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary's Baby starts as a young seemingly very in love couple named Rosemary (Mia Farrow) & Guy Woodhouse (John Casavetes) decide to take an apartment in a Manhattan complex, despite it's rather notorious history. Rosemary meets another young woman named Terry Gionoffrio (Victoria Vetri as Angela Dorian) who that night is found dead on the street below her apartment, presumably having committed suicide. Rosemary & Guy both meet the old people Terry was staying with during the aftermath, Minnie (Ruth Gordon who won an Oscar for her performance) & Roman Castevet (Sidney Blackmer) who start to show a great interest in the young couple. Suddenly Guy's acting career takes off in unfortunate circumstances when a fellow actor goes blind overnight & Guy is given the role. One night Rosemary has a nightmare about being raped by a creature of some sort while her neighbour's & Guy look on, but she wakes up the next morning in good health apart from some scratches which don't really bother her. Shortly after this Rosemary is informed that she is pregnant, both her & Guy are over joyed. But the Castevet's still show an unhealthy interest in Rosemary & her baby, they persuade Guy to make Rosemary see a different Doctor, Dr. Abraham Sapirstein (Ralph Bellamy), make Rosemary drink all sorts of strange stuff & control her entire life. A friend of Rosemary's, Edward 'Hutch' Hutchinson (Maurice Evans) suspects that the Castevet's may not be as harmless as they seem but mysteriously lapses into a coma & dies. Rosemary has no-one as she believes Guy is in on the conspiracy which threatens both Rosemary & her unborn baby...Written & directed by Roman Polanski I thought Rosemary's Baby was a solid piece of psychological horror but is perhaps a little slow for todays generation. The script by Polanski based on the novel by Ira Levin of the same name is a little slow & I found my patience wearing a bit thin at times but I must admit Rosemary's Baby is quite gripping & involving, it's a film which rewards patience & the effort it takes to watch it properly. Rosemary's Baby is a complex film that requires thought on the part of the viewer to fully appreciate it, otherwise it will just come across a boring overlong film with no explosions, swearing or special effects. The detailed & intricate screenplay builds the characters up nicely which is essential because we, the viewer that is, need to have some sort of emotional attachment to them for the films climax to be successful in the way Polanski intended. While the pace of Rosemary's Baby is undoubtedly slow it never lapses into boredom as we witness & experience Rosemary's paranoia grow as the film progresses, it is consistently interesting & provides good solid thoughtful entertainment. There is no gore in Rosemary's Baby except a bloody head but it's a film which doesn't need cheap gore effects to hold it's audience, it uses good storytelling instead. There is some nudity too, but not much. Technically Rosemary's Baby is very good, it has dated a bit but nowhere near as much as you might expect a film from 1968 to have. The cinematography by William A. Fraker is solid & does a good job of capturing the streets of New York & the creepy apartment block, Polanski's direction is tight, effective & accomplished throughout. The acting is very strong by all of the cast with Farrow being a particular stand-out as she suffer's a spiral descent into her own personal hell. Overall I liked Rosemary's Baby as a one time watch, it was interesting & provided one of the most famous ending in horror film history which doesn't disappoint as it hits all the right notes. Having said that at well over the two hour mark I won't be in any hurry to watch it again, ever probably as it's a little too slow for my tastes & especially since I know what's going to happen. A good film if your prepared to put the time & effort in but maybe not quite the classic many make out. Definitely worth watching particularly since it probably turns up on TV a lot & can be brought dirt cheap on DVD these days. "},{"Title":"Superlative nail-biter marred by gutless ending.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Viscerally, this is a stunning film. The New York interiors are beautifully-rendered, and both Polanski's cast is to be thanked for breathing life into his own tepid script. This movie is not for impatient. It moves very slow, but if one pays attention to the various plot details, it will have you biting your nails throughout. Rosemary's Baby reels you in almost from the very beginning and sets you squarely on the side of the protagonist, the beautiful Mia Farrow in a very believable, subtle performance. There is great dramatic irony in the horror's complex discovery plot -- you find yourself almost screaming at the film because Rosemary is too naive and charmingly honest to suspect what the audience has already gathered that there are terrible forces and terrible people out to get her.The very fact that you root so hard for Rosemary -- and believe so much in her integrity -- makes the film's ludicrously-scripted and childishly-shot ending all the more trite and hard to follow. I won't give it away, it's too silly for anything but the actual experience, but suffice it to say that whether or not you agree with the decisions that are made, they are a hard pill to swallow. Of course, it's only Polanksi manipulating his audience even more, like he does throughout the movies early hours. Like I wrote, you have to see the ending to (un)believe it it does not taste good.I have reserved the highest praise, though, for a trio of superlative performances. First, there is Ralph Bellamy in a tiny role; however, what he demonstrates is a firm grasp on the craft. In his few minutes of screen time, he manages to be sinister while seemingly doing nothing. In fact, Polanski admitted that his favorite scene in the whole movie is Bellamy retrieving Farrow from an office later on in the film. With only a few lines, Bellamy reveals his power as an actor.Secondly, there is Farrow, who deserved all the raves. Against the hopelessly miscast Cassavettes as her husband, Farrow's performance is a tour de force without the force -- she does all her acting quietly. She is so beautiful, so fragile and so earnest that it no wonder how quickly you fall in love with her. I doubt very much that any other actress could have pulled this one off, and if there are ones which could have it's a testament to Farrow's performance that you still can't picture anyone else as Rosemary.This is movie is not over-the-top (until it's end). If you want a bloody slasher film, you should not rent this one. It is an intelligent, suspenseful thriller. Were it not for the incredible ending, this one would have been an easy 9/10. "},{"Title":"Too slow","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I have to join the legion of folks that thought this movie was quite longer than I would have made it. Hitchcock kept Psycho down to 1hr. and 45min. and that is one thing I wish Polansky did here. Recently I've seen The Pianist and thought it was really good but, despite the good direction and camera work the plot to Rosemary's Baby doesn't quite stand up to the 2hr. and 15min. mark. I must admit that within the last hour somewhere I do get sucked into the movie and enjoy it quite a bit but, if this movie had a half hour cut out of it the film would excite many more people and be more deserving of the horror genre. If you want a thrilling or horrifying classic movie stick with Hitchcock's Psycho, Vertigo, etc. or some of Kubrick's works, Halloween, and some Stephen King adaptations. Mr. Polanski, if you want to create a good horror movie either you or your editor needs to weed out unimportant pieces of information so the story will play out in a more suitable time frame. This should not be considered one of the top 20 horror movies on IMDb and should have been told in less time and that is why I give 5/10. "},{"Title":"Overrated silliness","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Judging from most IMDb comments, I am one of the few viewers who does not like this movie. I did not find it scary at all -- I found it quite dumb. And the ending was the most disappointing of all. The only person worth watching is Ruth Gordon. She is a terrific actress. Rosemary's husband Guy Woodhouse is goofy and Rosemary herself is overly dramatic. It would have been interesting to have Rosemary's husband act more like a con man telling how beautiful and wonderful she is. The sex scene with the devil is silly. A remake of this film could be much creepier and the ending in my opinion should be modified slightly. I think Rosemary should have tried to kill the baby once she found out it was the devil's. This would have been the one excitement in the whole film, especially if the baby killed her instead. I was so glad when I finished watching the film, but I felt I had to view a movie considered to be such a classic. "}{"Title":"Movie Review Rosemary's Baby","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Roman Polanski's horror masterpiece Rosemary's Baby makes use of unconventional scare tactics and amazing acting to flesh out a bizarre story of paranoia and witchcraft. A wonderfully foreboding setup, innovative cinematography and an utterly shocking conclusion make this film a suspense classic and a staple of the horror genre.Set in 1965, Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow) and her actor husband Guy (John Cassavetes) move into a new apartment shrouded by mystery. Her neighbors Minnie (Ruth Gordon) and Roman (Sydney Blackmer) Castevet are a bit strange and off-putting, and her husband spends less and less time with her. They have plans to have a baby but she falls asleep on their special night and dreams of being raped by something not entirely human. When she wakes the next morning her husband informs her that he didn't want to miss the opportunity and the planning for that night, despite her unconscious state, and she soon discovers she's pregnant. The annoying neighbors cater to her needs, but she seems to grow continually weaker and struggles with unnatural pains. As her baby nears its birth, her friend Hutch (Maurice Evans) warns her of the possibility of witchcraft that may have been used to influence the pregnancy.The film opens with an eerily mellow tune hummed by star Mia Farrow. Foreshadowing occurs instantly with the introduction of mysterious situations in the Woodhouse's new home. A secretary has been moved to cover a doorway inside a closet, and a tenant who had lived with the neighbors kills herself hours after Rosemary meets her. Other major events are best left a secret since, like Psycho, this film is much more enjoyable the less you know about it.Minnie and Roman Castevet are phenomenally portrayed by Ruth Gordon and Sydney Blackmer respectively. (I wonder where they got the name Roman?) They personify the evil and bizarreness that permeate the film and are delightfully eccentric. Gordon was awarded the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, and her picture-perfect obnoxious pampering of Rosemary causes you to cringe in nearly every scene. Mia Farrow is perfect as the worrisome and suspicious Rosemary, and she easily carries the film, regardless of your take on the occasional unbelievable witchcraft references and startling conclusion. The film is all about surprises and keeping the tone dark and constantly leaving the impression that something is terribly wrong. We sympathize with Rosemary because she's the only source of narrative we can relate to.Making use of misdirection, ambiguity and paranoia, Rosemary's Baby stays incredibly taut and thrilling, despite the lack of action. Slowly paced and sans gore and violence, the film relies on an utterly intriguing script with agonizingly tense moments of untrustworthy comfort. Every time Rosemary finds herself in a place of solace, or a comfort zone for the viewer, it is brutally shattered by catastrophic events, a technique used by many modern horror masters (see Takashi Miike's Audition).The cinematography in the film is relatively unlike anything you've ever seen. Abrupt cutting from scene to scene with almost no transition is a jilting style of editing that is nonexistent today. Doorway shots framing portions of people with a glimpse of their back is frequent and it creates an eerie disconnect - the illusion that you are not meant to be in the conversation. A ticking clock seems to separate dream sequence from reality, and it is a disturbing allusion to the disquieting reality. While the conclusion is anything but a Hollywood ending, Rosemary's Baby deserves credit for the jaw-dropping audacity and innovation that dares to betray the viewer's morals and satisfaction for the lead characters.- Mike Massie "},{"Title":"Fine acted movie, has some chills, but really nothing all that great.","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I like a little bit more horror in my horror movies and this one just does not have enough. I would like to combine it with other horror movies that have lots of violence and gore, but has sorry stories and actors in it as this one does have a good story and acting. It just tends to get a bit tedious at times for my tastes, not taking anything away from the movie mind you, if you like it you probably have better tastes than I a person whose favorite genre of horror is the zombie movie, the genre most consider the lowest of the low. The story has a woman who is pregnant and something seems to be going wrong. Simple enough, eh? Actually the story is a lot more interesting and complex than that line, but that line works good too. She has some rather seemingly helpful neighbors at first, but they seem odd to. The husband also is quite the normal husband at first, but he too seems to succumb to what everyone else in the building seems to be doing. Of course, as interesting as the story is, it is also quite long and tedious to watch, I needed a break from watching it at times. Still the payoff is rather good in a underdone kind of way that makes it work all the more. Ruth Gordon is excellent in this film, it is to bad she just about undermines this role by playing in the horrid direct to television sequel. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Rosemary's Baby, as much as it was an interesting film, was still highly overrated. It seemed like it was going to be amazing, but the only part that was even slightly disturbing was the end. The score was mediocre and although the acting wasn't bad, I didn't find myself at all drawn into the universe of Rosemary's Baby. It was probably scarier in the seventies, but my generation, having been desensitized by violence and gratuitous special effects, doesn't all in all seem to like films like this. It wasn't terrible. It just wasn't very good. I would have thought Ruth Gordon would have saved this movie, however, but despite her great acting, this just didn't do it for me That's my two cents...6/10 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Let me first start by saying that I am not a fan of Roman Polanski films. I find them all incredibly dull and very very strange. And this one was no better. The plot was absolutely ridiculous and the ending was horrible. A woman has a baby that turns out to be Satan...what kind of classic horror film plot is this? Mia Farrow is a great actress, but eve she can't save this pathetic excuse for a psychological horror film. I don't care what others say about this film, but I hated it more than any of Polanski's films and it is most definitely not a classic in my eyes. It's all incredibly boring and I almost fell asleep twice while watching it. It was too long, and for the whole film you were just waiting for something more exciting to happen, but it didn't, just like it never does with any of Polanski's films.1/10 - don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Seems tame today but still delivers chills...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Since ROSEMARY'S BABY came upon the scene so many years ago, we've had a great many supernatural tales (THE OMEN, THE SIXTH SENSE) to name just a couple of the more recent scary titles, that it's no wonder someone viewing this for the first time might feel cheated.The audiences of '68 were used to this kind of slow build-up to a plot that kept audiences waiting for revelations explaining some mysterious goings-on in an uptown apartment house called The Dakota. They didn't expect slasher gore or quick cuts to show gruesome body parts on display. They wanted the story to develop at its own pace and then deliver the goods for a substantial conclusion.And this is what ROSEMARY'S BABY does so efficiently. It starts slowly and only gradually do we come to realize that something much more serious than just eccentric neighbors is going on here. Best of the eccentrics is RUTH GORDON who rightfully won a Supporting Role Oscar for her work as Minnie, the overly solicitous neighbor who watches so carefully over the pregnant MIA FARROW. Hubby JOHN CASSAVETES seems to be concerned too but that turns out to be for other reasons.There are several good supporting roles, but another performer who stands out is RALPH BELLAMY as the doctor Rosemary confides in when she begins to suspect things are wrong.It's a good screen version of Ira Levin's novel and MIA FARROW does a commendable job as the worried and confused young wife. Well worth a look as a modern Gothic thriller. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to reputation","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  *spoilers!!!*Well crafted but ponderous and overlong, Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is one of the most overpraised films ever, in my opinion. Although intelligent and very well acted, it just drags on at times, especially in the midsection. I realize that the filmmakers wanted to establish a setting that was as ordinary as possible, so that the intrusion of the forces of darkness will have a greater impact on the audience. Still, I wish they had spiced things up with some more interesting bits, or at least made some judicious trims here and there. It's not an unreasonable expectation when the plot involves the devil himself raping a woman. I had a similar problem with The Exorcist, but upon reflection, the latter film is a more assured work. William Friedkin's film had done a much better job setting up the story, was more evenly paced, and boasted a much more satisfying payoff.Speaking of which, the final third of Rosemary's Baby is still intriguing and reasonably suspenseful. Polanski does a good job in creating a degree of ambiguity; is this poor woman really carrying Satan's child, or is she out of her mind? Of course, the former turns out to be the correct answer, but it adds a good psychological layer to the material. The dream sequence, where the dark lord imposes his will on the heroine, is genuinely disturbing. The final stalk sequence leading to the denouncement is actually quite gripping. However, I hesitate to state that these high points are worth sitting through the whole film for, especially in light of today's notoriously jaded audience. And I realize this may sound petty, but I was irritated by the vocals in the opening credits; they were so redundant.As I have previously indicated, the performers usually outshine the often turgid material. Mia Farrow is highly sympathetic as the unfortunate target of hell's minions; we always root for her. John Cassavetes adds excellent support as her husband, who may or may not have an agenda of his own. Ruth Gordon turns in the funniest performance as the next-door neighbor whose motives are much more sinister than we could imagine. Her eccentric approach throws the audience off balance; surely this silly old lady can't hurt anyone...or can she? Sydney Blackmer does fine has her co-conspiring husband, whose facade of goodwill masks the darkest of intentions.In the end, this may be one of these films where you need to be on some sort of special wavelength to enjoy. Many people regard this as one of the finest genre films ever made. I would like to count myself among them. Alas, I cannot. Although I am willing to admit that I just might be wrong about the whole thing, I am reluctant to ever rent it again. Not for a long time anyway. I might be off on this one, but that's a mistake I can easily live with.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures "},{"Title":"Too Bad Rosemary Didn't Have Twins","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Believe me - The sinister scares that took place in this grossly over-rated Horror/Thriller from 1968 were so few, and far between, that they were almost non-existent.Basically, all that this movie ended up being is just one long, drawn-out build-up to a totally disappointing finale where, after sitting through well-over 2 hours of nonsense, we never even got a single glimpse of the demon-baby, anyways.When people speak about Rosemary's Baby, the word atmospheric is how I've often heard many of them enthusiastically gush and rave over it. But about the only atmosphere that I detected while watching this over-long movie was that of claustrophobia and boredom.Rosemary's Baby was yet another modern-day tale of Satanism. This time the inanity was set in New York City.I really wouldn't waste my time with this one. All the great stuff that people told me about it certainly wasn't the least bit true. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype....","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" So I never, ever write reviews. But after people, even my own mother, telling me how wonderful this movie was I finally bit the bullet after all these years. Now I know why I held off. I won't reiterate everything else that other reviewers who hated it said, cause they are right - no need to rehash it. I just wanted to add that it's the slowest, most boring, un-creepy, classic horror film I've ever watched. Seriously I thought The Birds by A. Hitchcock was creepier (but I can be biased cause i hate birds). I even tried to step back and analyze it for it's time since it came out in the 60s but still no dice. It's awful. I must admit I enjoyed the fashion and the architecture and interior design of the building. But that's about it. Oh it also confirmed why I dislike Polanski's films. "},{"Title":"One of the great chilling films of the 1960s","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" When I was a very young child (probably 4 or 5), my parents took my brother and me to the drive-in to see this film! Looking back, this was NOT a good plan, as ROSEMARY'S BABY is one of the most chilling films of the 1960s and probably warped me for life! Many years later, I finally got to see the entire film. That's because when I was a kid, I hid my face during so much of the film--especially when they talked about a child of Satan--just the sort of thing to freak out a little boy or girl!! And WOW was I glad I finally got to see this one, as it wasn't nearly as scary as I'd thought and it was also an exceptionally well-written and chilling film.Mia farrow and her husband, John Cassavetes, move into a strange apartment building due to the oddball residents. Some are quite welcoming and sweet and others seem like extras from the movie ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST! The more weirdness that occurs, the more Rosemary worries about staying there. A bit later, she has a weird but super-realistic dream where she's raped. Oddly, a short time later, Rosemary discovers she's pregnant! From here on, it's one wild and scary ride--with some wonderful twists and surprises that kept me on the edge of my seat.Usually, I avoid devil movies. Partly this could be because of my Baptist upbringing and partly because I think many of these films are just silly. However, this one is far from silly--being exceptionally well-written, suspenseful and designed for intelligent viewers instead of dull-witted thrill-seekers. Great direction, music, acting, etc.--this film has them all. "},{"Title":"Very Overrated","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" So this was an award winning film, eh? A movie that currently ranks #209 on IMDb's top 250? A movie that I was told is not only one of the best horror movies ever, but one of the best movies of the 1960's among all genre's. I think that's utter crap, because I found this movie to be flat out ridiculous. Not only was it incredibly boring, but the acting in this movie (and that includes the Actress who won Best Supporting Actress) was very hammy. And why is it that this movie seemed to have no build up what so ever? Everything just seem repeated. It's made obvious very quickly that the whole situation isn't just paranoia. After that, the entire movie is just redundant. The neighbors are established as oddball devil-worshippers (you even see it in the goofy rape sequence), then that idea just keeps being repeated through events in the plot. It's made apparent that somethings wrong with Rosemary's pregnancy...then that idea just keeps being repeated through events in the plot. It's literally unbearable, and this is coming from someone who enjoys simmering & brooding movies. After over two hours of going in a circle, this movie built up to an ending that was seen coming from the onset? And I'm supposed to be thrilled about that? There were no scares and there was no suspense, absolutely nothing. Honestly, if you have trouble sleeping at night, this movie should do you some justice, but other then the use for Insomnia, this movie is practically worthless. "}{"Title":"nice concept, poor execution","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" i may be biased because older movies (im speaking of older than 90's) just aren't my taste, i don't like the aesthetics and music etc. but my friends and many reviewers told me this was one of the best horror movies, scary and whatnot. so i got over my prejudices and gave it a chance. but god was i repelled after the first 5 minutes. the actors were terrible. which kind of director actually thinks this is it, we take that the only passable actor was mia farrow. especially bad was the old neighbour i already forgot her name. the pacing was too slow at times, the plot twists were given away too early for such a long film and while i prefer atmosphere and suspense over sheer gore and stuff, i just think that they tried too hard. so basically you should ask if you think it was that terrible, why 5 stars? the reason is the movie had its moments, especially at the beginning. the characters were really well written (but credit should go to the original author of the book) and there were some funny dialogues. and the whole plot was actually kinda nice. not original or ground breaking but certainly holds potential. i hope one day there will be kinda an exact remake, just with better actors, better directing, better music, etc. i heard there's a short movie series or something, i have to investigate on that. "},{"Title":"my review for 70's and 80's movies","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I just don't understand why the 70's and 80's movies always got a high ratings?!they are all good enough,not bad but i just don't think that some 70's and 80's movies don't deserve an 8.something ratings.there are many movies that got a high ratings(7.5-8.) which i won't give more than 6 ( i'm not a critic,i'm just talking my mind out about it. In oreder to submit my reviews it has to be more than 10 lines?? OK,then..i guess this is it! D stil need 3 more lines while i don't have anything more to talk or write about.maybr this would worki think fast and furious 6 is the greatest movie that had been released this year till today,great action,cool romance...i love itan enjoyed it) and iron man 3 was much worst than i thought it would be!yeah,right!iron man 3 sucks!'snatch' fever ever baby ... ! thnks ! "},{"Title":"I need some help here with a question/memory","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I am trying to figure out a memory I have of a movie that I saw when I was a child. I am 32 now so it had to be an older movie. I believe it was some type of horror movie. I remember a woman crying and/or screaming while she was in a grave or something and people were covering her up with stones. The people that were doing this were wearing old style clothes maybe Amish but I am not sure. I really can not remember anything else about this movie except that this scene stuck with me. Is this scene in Rosemary's Baby or is it some other movie?Now I have one more film with a scene that sticks in my head. I think the movie may have had Vincent Price in it but I am not 100% certain. There was a oval giant bird bath shaped water container outside of a house and if I am remembering right there was a body or something in there. Also for some reason a dead bird in a cage or something comes to mind.Sorry for the vagueness but I can remember just a few seconds and that is it.Thanks for your help! "},{"Title":"Creepy classic psychological thriller","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary and her newlywed husband Guy move into an apartment - but not all is well as Rosemary experiences troubling physical pain and soon realizes that she is pregnant - but with what, exactly, inside her? She soon begins to believe that her soon-to-be-child is evil - and the odd behavior of her husband and new neighbors only confirms this theory.Rosemary's Baby is a classic thriller, probably the start of the creepy psychological thrillers we see today (or at least the disturbing sort). The real breakthrough was of course Psycho eight years earlier but this has a hard edge that is reminiscent of many films today - it is in no way better than Psycho but it is still very good and influential in its own way.It was Roman Polanski's first US movie and he proves here, his earliest mainstream effort, why he is continually a great director - despite what may have occurred in his private life he's a great visionary director and evokes some extremely scarring images in Rosemary's Baby. Highly recommended.4.5/5 "},{"Title":"very good but no masterpiece","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  very good flick is overrated though don't get me wrong it is an engaging flick that keeps your attention and the acting is awesome it's just that it is a bit long in the tooth and it has a dull mid section the character development is good and it has a disturbing ending that will stay in your head for a long time this is extremely well made if it was not for that dull mid section this would get 4 and a half stars  **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Although the film itself looks dated, the screenplay is still one of horror's best and most unsettling!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Assuming that pretty much everyone knows about the plot of this film by now, I won't pen down another synopsis... Personally, I always thought that Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby is much more of an intelligently scripted conspiracy-drama, rather than a diabolical horror story. The most captivating element about this film is NOT the presence of witch covens and devil-worshipers, but the depressing transformation Mia Farrow's character goes through. Rosemary Woodhouse is introduced as a healthy and happily married housewife with a strong desire to raise a family but near the end she's a tormented woman, obviously hurt and disappointed by the people she cared for most. The screenplay of this classic title &#150; adapted from Ira Levin's novella by Polanski himself &#150; definitely doesn't rush things and establishes an atmospheric portrait in which it's never really clear whether the occurring events are real...or fragments of Rosemary's frustrated imagination. Polanski severely tests his viewers here! You presume that the supernaturalness is there and that there really are witches, since you mainly witness it all from Rosemary's viewpoints but ... Aren't we imagining as well? The constant and brutal blending of reality and hallucination is what really feels disturbing here... And I can guarantee it's more genuinely disturbing than showing actual witch-rites or bloody massacres. This surely isn't a film for all types of audiences, since it's very slow and almost bloodless. If you don't approach the story in the right state of mind, many sequences will seem tedious and pointless. Many aspects also look quite dated by now (woman luckily aren't as docile and obedient to their husbands anymore) and the intense melancholia-tone often is very hard to digest. "},{"Title":"Lacks everything","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rarely have we seen such a little frightening, such a little captivating horror movie, lacking that much tension and suspense than Rosemary's Baby, which spreads over 2 hours &#x97; Polanski's initial cut lasted 4 hours ! &#x97; which is a lot, a lot too long considering how little action the viewer is offered.One is bored stiff by this plot a lot too predictable what is the point of trying to manipulate the audience when there is, in fact, no twists ? Everything that is presented to us is actually to be taken for granted such as the ridiculous and predictable final outcome, which is extremely disappointing.The only satisfaction of this film is Mia Farrow who delivered an interesting performance, driven by her character's paranoia, but isolated within a probably badly directed, unsubtle and overacting cast (think of the Castevets for example).Polanski missed the boat with this insipid horror movie that has no effect on the viewer, far from the masterpiece some try to sell. "},{"Title":"attractive but not very good for me","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The film is very old for me. I watched the film at my English class thanks to my teacher. I am not used to watching old films like this. Therefore, I did not like the film so much. Because I did not believe the witches. I think it was not horrible. Because there are no fictions about horrible things. I was always thinking about why their neighbors are behaving so closely.I could not predict their purpose.After they had moved to the new flat, they learned that they would have a baby and they were very excited about it. But there were some problems about her pregnancy.She had a lot of pain and she was worry about her baby. Their neighbors started to behave so closely to them.. When they learned that she had pain, she started to bring a drink to heal her. It was a strange drink. During her pregnancy, she ate raw meat. It was a disgusting scene. I could not look at this. She started to have bad dreams. Some strangers were coming towards to her in her dream. She was scaring a lot. Her old close friend warned her they could be witches.And she started to search something about them. She gave up drinking it which the neighbors brought. Their neighbors suspected that she realized that they were witches. When she had a baby, they took her baby. She realized certainly they were witches. But she could not do anything about it. She could not take her baby from the. Her husband was among them. I was surprised when I realized her husband cooperated with them. The baby's face was not shown in the film. I wondered and wanted to see. I do wish that they would have shown what the baby looked like. "},{"Title":"Only a fabulous ending soundtrack,thats it i mean,nothing else","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rosemary Baby,what the hell critics are writing.I thought of it as a tension seeker kind of a film.This film does not carry tension.It even does not have horror or a ghost.It has absolutely nothing.Even the direction is also worth neglecting.Its not spooky,not scary.I don't know what it is.Only disappointment you get when you see 8.1 rating for a movie like this.Total annoyance you feel after watching this.The only good thing was a fabulous soundtrack in the end.Soundtrack is just too good.All in all,stands no where near the horror stack of films.I give it only 3 rating.1 for just without any horror,2 for acting of Mia Farrow which i felt was good and 3 just for fabulous score.All people who watch it,all the best.If you get fuc**d up,then just forward it.And listen to end credits for sure.At least,you will find something good for your rest of the day. "},{"Title":"Don't Believe Them","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I went online some time ago to do a little research on what people thought were the top ten scariest movies. Again and again, Rosemary's Baby kept coming up. Despite its age (1968), I had never seen the film and thought it was some classic horror, like The Exorcist or something. Boy was I wrong. And so was everybody else that said how scary this film was.What I saw in watching Rosemary's Baby was old-school infantile acting, where everyone presents themselves as overly happily or stresses the emotion they are trying to convey to the point it comes off as sappy. While I can't overly slant Mia Farrow for her part in the film (she plays a meek young woman very well), her role as Rosemary had me feeling like she was a complete bimbo. I have seen my share of old films and don't know why but all of the characters do seem too scripted. Maybe we just have better actors today or better script writers (???).What will surprise you and make you think differently about your grandmother and society in the 60's is the use of nudity in this film. There is even one scene (SPOILER) where Rosemary is raped by the Devil and is in bondage while a bunch of old croons stand around as naked voyeurs witnessing some bizarre live sex act. That part was shocking, but certainly not scary. The film is so predictable (maybe Polanski wanted it to be that way) that you begin to second guess yourself. You're thinking that the director has led you down an obvious path just to surprise you somewhere else. But unfortunately, no surprises. The film is quite transparent, except for the ending, which is just bizarrely ridiculous. Qualities of Rosemary's Baby, especially the repetitively eerie lullaby in the beginning and end, had me thinking Stanley Kubrick directed this. 5/10How much more annoying could Mrs. Castevet get!?  "}{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie and I did not like it. The plot was so confused and I could not follow the events. I have never watched such a bad movie in my life. I loved one thing in the movie that is movie's music. I think that this movie is only waste of time. PlotRosemary is a young housewife and Guy is her husband. He is an actor. They move an apartment building. Their neighbors, Minnie and Roman are old and so interesting couple. Guy has a role in a play when the actor who had been originally cast suddenly goes blind. Guy suggests that he and Rosemary have the child. On the night they planned to try to conceive, Minnie brings them a dessert. After eating Rosemary has a stomach ache and passes out. Rosemary has a strange dream in which there is a group of naked persons in their bedroom and then she is raped by a demon. The dream is almost real. When she wakes, she finds scratches on her body, and her husband admits that he had intercourse with her while she was unconscious because he didn't want to pass up the moment for her to conceive. A few weeks later, Rosemary learns she is pregnant. Minnie and Roman recommended to her see their good friend, famed Dr. Abraham Sapirstein. For the first three months of her pregnancy, Rosemary suffers pains, loses weight, becomes pale and she starts to eat raw meat and chicken liver. The doctor says the pain is normal and there is nothing to worry about. When her old friend Edward Hutch sees Rosemary's thin appearance plans to share his findings with her but he mysteriously falls into a coma a few hours before their meeting, and dies three months later. Before his death, he has instructed the doctor to have a book about witchcraft be given to Rosemary. His friend gives the book to Rosemary. Rosemary suspects her neighbors and Dr. Sapirstein. Guy is cooperating with them in exchange for their help in advancing his career. Rosemary escapes but his wife and Roman pursue her to the apartment, where Rosemary locks the door. She is sedated by Dr. Sapirstein and when she awakens, she is told the baby died. But when she hears a baby's cries in the building, she suspects he is still alive. Rosemary discovers a secret door leading into the Castevet apartment. And she finds the meeting for her newborn son. But the baby is so different than the other babies. Rosemary understands Guy is not the baby's father. Roman urges Rosemary to become a mother to her son. The film ends with her adjusting her son's blankets. "},{"Title":"gotta be kidding me...","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I really don't understand those who loved this film. It's entertaining, I admit it, but the outcome and the horror genre in here are mistaken. It's basically 136 minutes of conversation, questions and mystery. Nothing happens in this movie; just like in The Ghost Writer, we spend the whole film waiting for something and it ends poorly. How can you not have a single jump in a two hours long horror movie??? There was just one scene in the end that I thought was a little suspenseful; it was when Rose was messing with some towels in a closet with a camera that kept fading to black. But, unfortunately, like the rest of this movie, it doesn't fright or scare. If you want a movie similar to this and actually good, go see The Owen (either original or remake, both are great).Now about the acting... is that for real?? Mia Farrow really sucks!!! Her acting is laughable, there are girls in my neighborhood that may act better than her. Rosemary's Baby is really a shame for movie industry (and for IMDb for such high rating). "},{"Title":"Could have been done better","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It was hoped that the passage of time would have improved my opinion of this movie. However - it made it worse. Because - Mia Farrow did a lot of acting like a dazed space cadet. Now - it's appropriate for this movie - however - It also gets on my nerves too much. Perhaps - a few short scenes of spaciness would do - then - snap out of hit and hit back! The movie Exorcist does this nicely - making it more of a chess game between good & evil. At the time I first saw Rosemary's Baby - it aggravated me that all the electricity & Union wages were spent to show a spaced out girl. I could run down to work - see all the spacey people I want & get paid for it !! That could have been kept to a minimum. At least The Exorcist people snapped out of it.Also - it was VERY bothersome at the time that lies & deception seem to be useful to get things done. Regardless how true this is - just for once - I'd love to see truth & honesty gets things done. Tons of movies are made with the use of lies, dishonesty, deception, disloyalty & etc - even when I was little - it was aggravating to watch bullies & liars get their way on screen. Even with a Hollywood Ending - it would be nice to view movies with the best forces being honesty & truthful dealings. (perhaps - I'll never become a lawyer). But - with the passage of time - my view of this movie deteriorated badly - never want to see it again. Views of the Dakota were good - some good scenes - but - it was a terrible waste of perfectly good electricity. Want to reply - I'm at ml2348@att.com "},{"Title":"Maybe I Missed Something.","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Having just watched Rosemary's Baby for the first time I figured I should write a review right now. FOr the most part I was disappointed and felt that I had missed something and had an empty feeling after finishing seeing it.For one thing the idea of witchcraft being possibly involved was actually a good idea. I just think it was poorly done. THis movie could have been a lot scarier and I thought it would be but it was not scary at all. It got disturbing towards the end to see everyone who worshipped Satin but it was not scary.A lot that goes on is going on inside of Rosemary's head. So it is a supernatural type of thing going on. So this is a supernatural horror film. A lot of people have bad things happen to them because of witchcraft but still this film just seemed to be missing something. It was not the acting, the acting was fine. Just the plot and events that happened just were not exciting and this film dragged too much.So this is a horror film that I felt was too long, not scary, and had a boring plot. I do not recommend it but a lot of other people do. "},{"Title":"Nightmarish, scary, and disgusting- and that's just the leading lady!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" ROSEMARY'S BABY is an interesting, well shot, and occasionally scary movie dominated by the icky, talent less actress Mia Farrow. Her presence taints this movie in my mind, as it does any Woody Allen movie she appears in. After her character becomes pregnant others comment on how terrible she looks and how much weight she has lost, but she look exactly the same! If she did loose any weight she'd be about the diameter of a pipe cleaner. Was there a fashion trend in the 60s where emaciated corpses with bad haircuts were all the rage? There are good things in this movie, though. It's definitely the best collaboration between the producer of STRAIGHT JACKET and the director of CHINATOWN. The scene where Mia gets knocked up is nightmarish and beautiful, and the surreal ending is okay, if a little anti-climactic. Ruth Gordon puts in another great performance, joining her stellar roles in HAROLD AND MAUDE, EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE, and ANY WHICH WAY YOU CAN. The woman is hilarious, and sexier than Mia Farrow. There's also able support from John Cassavetes as the jerk husband, Ralph Bellamy (best known for the Fat Boys' magnum opus DISORDERLIES) as the doctor that gives illogical advice, Maurice Evans (Dr. Zaius), the great Elisha Cook, Jr (THE KILLING), and a pre-BEETHOVEN Charles Grodin as another, more competent doctor.  Anton LaVey reportedly plays the devil! As far as slow-moving devil posseson movies go, this is better than BEYOND THE DOOR but not as good as THE EXORCIST or EXORCIST III. And did I mention that I don't like Mia Farrow? "},{"Title":"Overrated and Disappointing Horror.  Definitely not a Classic.","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I appreciate horror films that horrify by means of atmosphere and mood instead of blood and gore. Rosemary's Baby has the atmosphere...just not the horror. The atmosphere in this movie is undeniably well-crafted. The acting is great. The characters are well-developed. Rosemary is portrayed as a vulnerable woman in a patriarchal society. Everything seems to be in place for a tremendous horror movie. However, all this film does is set the scene. It delivers nothing in the way of horror, thrills, chills, or anything of the sort. And no, this is not because of the lack of blood and gore.This movie proceeds at a tortuously slow pace and the suspense is non-existent. I realize that Polanski intentionally creates a normal environment in this film in order to introduce horror in subtle and psychological ways. But no horror is ever introduced. I kept watching the time tick on my DVD player wondering when something--anything--would happen to catch my attention. After sitting through two hours of this film, I had to reference the DVD case to verify that the film was indeed just 136 minutes long. I couldn't believe that it was almost over and I had not yet seen anything worthwhile. I never did.The ending was the same as the rest of the film--boring, uneventful, and not even slightly horrifying. Some horror/thriller films escalate the suspense only to disappoint with a weak ending. In Rosemary's Baby, the suspense was never built. My disappointment only comes as a result of high expectations before watching this movie. Overall, a huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"how can i say it....","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It's bad. I watched this movie because of it's evaluation and...it was the worst experience of my live. I didn't think this movie deserved a 8, but I didn't think so many people evaluate this high.It's a bad movie and you should feel bad to think it's a good one. Please don't watch this.It's a waste of your time and your bandwidth. It's not worth download it's for free.IMDb enforce me to write 10 lines, OK, no problems I can talk bad things about this movie all day long. The actors are bad, the history is bad and if I had the opportunity to kill Hitler or eliminate this movie from the world I choose this movie twice. "},{"Title":"Let me save you two hours...","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie will beat you to death with every plot turn well before it happens. Within the first ten minutes myself and my buddy both predicted the ending and all the details in between were both boring and obvious. This is supposed to be a suspense thriller but suspense requires the chance of a surprise... you'll realize quickly, there are no surprises in this film.The characters are very monotone and vanilla. You'll realize quickly that the screenwriters high school English teacher forgot to explain the whole issue of show, don't tell to him. The characters have no depth or complexity, they're all black and white contributors to a black and white story line. This movie could have spent two hours developing the difficulty of the characters situations and trying to watch the audience empathize with them, instead you'll barely be able to empathize with the protagonist. Instead it leaves the audience sitting around expecting a plot twist, a change of direction, something. Nope. After the first twenty minutes, turn it off, you'll have already seen the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Most overrated film of all times?","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"10 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" For a long while, people had been talking about how fantastic and outstanding this horror film is, how it's timeless and it's something you wouldn't want to miss out on. Finally, after god knows how long, I decide to watch this movie. My expectations were high, I thought I would be scared to death and whatnot. But that was not the case. The movie doesn't start until a little less than an hour into the movie. That's when we finally get to see what's so scary - she's being raped by the devil. Ooooooohh. The next 1 1/4 hour, nothing happened either. All we saw were people talking, Rosemary being in pain, then her running around screaming Witches are after my baby! She talked to her husband, to her doctor, another doctor - but surprisingly enough they were all in this little satanic cult. So shocking, aye? The movie ends as shitty as it begins. With nothing happening, at all. Usually there is a big closure in the end of films but it seems like Polanski just wanted to get it over with.So the conclusion is Don't watch this film unless you enjoy being severely disappointed. It's not special in any way - It's long, boring, everything was so foreseeable and nothing was surprising or scary at all.1/10 wouldn't watch again even if the devil himself came to rape me unless I watched it again. "},{"Title":"why do people like this movie?","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Why do people like this movie. It not scary. It just really stupid. It is badly written. It has an awful ending it is slow. This is all about a women being pregnant with a.n.t.i.c.h.r.i.s.t. And her husband is a in a satanist. And so are all they n.e.i.g.h.b.o.u.r.s. And every one in her husband's family. They all have satanist family reunion. And think this good why? Because it is not a sequel prequel or remake. There is a sequel to this movie and it is pretty bad. But it is still better them this pile of pooh. I can think better movies that got c.r.i.t.i.c.i.s.e.d. Plan 9 from out space if a far scary movie then is pooh pooh. That is a great movie. And this is just pooh. I m so tried people putting down Freddy's dead the final nightmare. It just because it is a sequel. That is one of the best horror movies ever. Dracula vs Frankenstein there another great horror movie that people have to put down. And like this pile of pooh. Don't see this movie it is a wast of money. "}{"Title":"Highly over rated and too long","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Ah, I know, I know. There are going to be a bunch of classic film appreciators going at me, but seriously, could you get into this film. Just because it scared a few people in the past doesn't mean that it's a classic. I heard so much about this movie. I was really looking forward to it. So, it's not like I didn't have an open mind to it. The acting was a little below average if you ask me. It was way over done. The only thing worth giving credit to the film was for Roman Polanski's directing. He did a great job. But over all, this is one of the most over rated films I have seen. (#1 being the Matrix) I'm sorry, but I have to be honest.2/10  "},{"Title":"overrated and takes too long to get going","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" SPOILERS In 1968, Roman Polanski directed horror film Rosemary's Baby. Often described as horrifying in it's plot and eventual ending, the film has sadly not aged well. Taking far too long to get going, it feels tacky and weak and fails to hit any sort of note.Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse (Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes) are a happily married couple. Moving into a new home, the two decide to have a baby. As Rosemary progresses through her pregnancy however, incidents occur which begin to cause her to question the motives behind the helpful neighbours Roman and Minnie Castevet (Sidney Blackmer and Ruth Gordon). Perhaps there is a sinister motive behind their actions.The problem with Rosemary's Baby is that it just is no longer scary. With Roman Polanski directing and writing the screenplay, it's not hard to see why in 1968 this freaked out so many people. The notion of things happening without us seeing them has always been the basis behind so many good horror films. The human imagination is often more scary than films themselves. Sadly though, with this film, the horror only arrives in the final 30 minutes and it ultimately feels like a bit of a let down.Mia Farrow as Rosemary is admittedly superb in a tough role, but she is overshadowed by the unnerving Ruth Gordon. Both women in their respective roles suit the plot perfectly, but that's where the compliments end.All in all, if you ask one of the older generations about the time they went to see this film at the cinema, they will probably tell you that it was unnerving. This is the same generation who found The Exorcist (1973) shocking and whilst individuals have grown up and cinema has progressed, these older works have turned stagnant. The plot has remained slow and irritating, but now the camera quality and costume have become outdated and annoying too.Sadly Rosemary's Baby will have been a good film in the 1960s. In the 21st century however, it has dated badly and is not at the top of most people's list. Mediocre and not the best way to spend the evening. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to the hype.","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I bought this movies because of all the rave reviews. I have to say, I didn't see what everyone else saw. This movie flat out sucked. I will summarize the movie for youShe has a jerk for a husband. Nothing happens, nothing happens. Her neighbors are weird. Nothing happens, nothing happens. She gets raped by the Devil. Cool concept. Maybe it'll get good now. Nothing happens, nothing happens. The neighbors want the baby. Husband is still a jerk. And the most anticlimactic ending I have ever seen.I will tell you what. You guys can keep your artsy fartsy horror movies. In this time period, this movie is garbage. The real good, old horror movies are still relevant today. Jaws and The Thing are still good today. Rosemary's Baby may have gotten our parents to sweat but it puts me to sleep. Don't watch this movie unless you are over the age of 50. "},{"Title":"a very disappointing film from  Polanski","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" this movie sure was a downer.i did not find it scary,or even suspenseful.it was overly long,with very little of consequence occurring.the basic plot is that rosemary and guy woodhouse decide to have a baby.during the pregnancy,people begin behaving strangely (allegedly),including her husband.guy,a struggling actor of no consequence,starts to become more successful suddenly.you see it seems guy has made a deal with the devil to achieve success,but at a price. the bargain guy makes involves Rosemary's Baby.unfortunately for the viewer,we see very little of people acting strangely.there are very little indications of this in the movie.i watched to the end,hoping there would be a pay off that would have made it worth watching and explain some things.maybe tie up some loose ends.there is a scene toward the end,involving a group of people,which instead of having an impact,was laughable,with pathetic acting.the ending was anti climatic,but then so was the entire movie.there was actually a pay off,and that was end credits finally rolling.i can't tell you how disappointed i was with this effort.this movie came out in 1968 and i thought it might have been in the same vein as The Omen,which came out 8 years later.however,this movie is not even close to being in the same league as The Omen.i'm pretty sure i'm in the minority with my opinion,but that's just how i felt about the movie.i guess it was just too sublime for my tastes.anyway,for me,Rosemary's Baby is a 2/10 "},{"Title":"the most overrated boring film ever made","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" What was seriously so unsettling about this movie, it is just 2 hours of absolutely nothing. I wouldn't even call this a horror movie or even a thriller, the genre I think it should be in is the cure for insomnia. this movie was a complete waste of my time and I can't believe so many people liked it.The whole movie I was waiting for something exciting to happen but all I got was loads and loads of talking. The rape scene was the only part of the movie that was kind of creepy but the rest just bored me to tears. and what was with the ending, that was the biggest let down ever and I felt so cheated.I liked the idea for this movie, but it was too drawn out, it went for far too long, if I had made it I wouldn't make it go for any longer then 100 minutes, and I would also make it less predictable and obvious. "},{"Title":"Very Slow With A Silly Ending","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a highly regarded supernatural thriller possibly down to the fact how credible it all seems . Young couple Rosemary and David Woodhouse buy an apartment in New York City then Rosemary receives the happy news that she's pregnant . Being a caring community everyone in the apartment block makes sure she's getting the best natural diet , I mean Rosemary is pregnant and these people can't do enough for her . What lovely people but this makes the movie a rather sugary affair as the neighbours goodness becomes rather suffocating . Only the dimmist audience member won't be pointing out to themselves that these neighbours must have a totally ulterior purpose in making sure Rosemary is getting the best care possible ....**** SPOILERS *****... And indeed they do have an ulterior purpose as it turns out that Rosemary is giving birth to young Master Satan . I don't mean that metaphorically , I mean that literally ! and the whole idea is bloody stupid when you think about it . All these Satanists living in the same block . Good job they're all the same age and have the same social standing to be able to live in the same block as does thespian David . Yeah I know this is all a conspiracy but does it seem credible ? Like many of these type of movies if you don't believe in the physical embodiment of the Devil ( Or indeed Jesus ) then it's impossible to believe that Satan would get a mortal woman pregnant Another problem I had is that the audience are left in little doubt that this is a truly supernatural tale . Wouldn't it have been a far better movie if Polanski had made everything ambiguous ? By that I mean having the audience think that Rosemary is deluded then pull the rug out under their feet but while I was watching there's little doubt in my mind that Rosemary is the protagonist in a Hellish conspiracy I will praise the story for making the point that just because someone is in league with the devil this doesn't necessarily make them a bad person , after all how many people commit atrocities against mankind in the name of the horned beast ( God is a different matter entirely ) but for the most part ROSEMARY'S BABY is a very slow film with an incredibly stupid ending "},{"Title":"THE MOST BORING HORROR FLICK EVER","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Here I was expecting to watch something worthwhile and scary...but oh, no--I was almost bored to sleep by this crap called a movie. I couldn't even watch it all at once. I had to stop half way through and take a mental break to collect my thoughts...of why the hell this freaking movie has EVER received good reviews. I HOPE I SAVE SOMEONE THE AGONY OF EVER RENTING THIS when they read my review... "},{"Title":"Poorness at its best","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is not a horror movie, it's a psychological thriller attempting to explain the effects of a single person inside a scary, abusive and controlling system.I found this movie very disappointing, it's so poor in story and acting that many people had to create their own theories and alternative versions of what went on.It doesn't has any layers or hidden messages, everything there is to be known is shown in the movie, there's not even a chance for reflection, the audience is given an irrefutable end.The only interesting thing happening with this movie is how it became a classic and only within a very specific group of people, possibly due to the hype created by those easily impressed with predictability. "},{"Title":"Masterful , Horror-full & Creepy ? -- What the Hell ..!!","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is my first review in IMDb and i wanna Thank Rosemary's Baby for that. I watched this movie because of the recommendation from most people. The movie started and it took over 45 minutes to enter the plot . Till that there was nothing but meaningless drama . Then the director finally entered the plot which obviously and clearly revealed the movie's end and so the unnecessary drama continues till the tail. I don't know which part of the movie is CREEPY and why they are showing the genre HORROR. And i just wanna thank Roman Polanski because this movie really tested my patience and now i think i have more.After seeing RP's Repulsion - the movie , i shouldn't have tried this and that's my mistake. This the worst movie i have seen till date and don't FALL FOR IT by seeing other reviews. "},{"Title":"bad movie ...really really bad","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a bad movie..I'm so regret to see this film.Even one part i didn't scared or feel another sense.This is not horror film...This is a normal bad film.if there is anyone who is scared about this film,i think he/she has some problems.If there is anyone who wants to see this movie,i have advice for you...'no need to see it')I don't understand this people who votes 8 or higher for this film...There is one good thing in it that is role of actress..She has really good performance.The worst part of movie that is last part.Woman learns that the baby of her is from devil and it was secret for woman,everybody don't want her to know this point and this is a secret.When she learned it,everybody say 'Devil ,devil ,devil' etc,this is very funny)and she learns it and she gets amused,i think this scene must be very affective,but everybody goes on to drink wine,and coffee,and to talk )very very ridiculous) "}{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I obviously didn't pay full attention to this film when it was on, somehow I found most of it boring, now I can appreciate it as a classic, from writer/director Roman Polanski (Chinatown, The Pianist). Basically Rosemary Woodhouse (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Mia Farrow) and actor husband Guy (John Cassavetes) move into a building with a bad reputation to their new Manhattan apartment, against the advice of landlord Edward 'Hutch' Hutchins (Maurice Evans). They soon meet friendly but nosey neighbours Roman (Sidney Blackmer) and Minnie Castevet (Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated Ruth Gordon), who Rosemary isn't keen to see too often. Strange things start happening, starting with the sudden supposed suicidal death of Terry Gionoffrio (Victoria Vetri, aka Angela Dorian) who Rosemary briefly met in the washroom. Not long after Guy suggests they have a baby together, and when Rosemary passes out she has a realistic seeming nightmare where she is tied to a bed, painted in red, and raped by what looks like the devil, with worshippers around them. Rosemary wakes with Guy saying he took advantage, but Dr. C.C. Hill (The Great Muppet Caper's Charles Grodin) confirms she is pregnant, and the happy Castevet's recommend she go to Dr. Abraham Sapirstein (Ralph Bellamy). He gives her odd advice and vitamin drinks, and she develops a strange pain in her stomach that doesn't go away for a long while. Hutch falls into a coma and dies, and before he did he sent Rosemary a book called All of Them Witches, all about witchcraft through the ages, with a note saying the name is an anagram, she assumes it is the title, but she finds the name Steven Marcato, it Roman Castevet. Rosemary is convinced that Roman, his wife and a few others she has met are Satan worshippers, and Guy may also be involved (to get a good acting career). She goes to Dr. Sapirstein to tell him she is not listening to him anymore, only to be feeling guilty for Roman dying and going away to Europe, she bids him farewell. Rosemary's suspicions return though reading how curses can be given to people, e.g. blindness, comas, and after realising Dr. Sapirstain is part of the plot also, she tries to convince Dr. Hill of all she knows. He pretends to take Rosemary seriously so Guy and Sapirstain can come and take her home, and she is panicking when the whole coven (group of Satan worshippers) hold her down, just as she is going into labour. Rosemary wakes with Guy by her side, saying she had a boy, but Dr. Sapirstain says it died, and she knows this is a lie and takes a knife with her to stop the coven carrying out their sacrifice. But it is what the baby is that is more terrifying than this ritual, her baby is the son of Satan, and all around her are praising him, and in the end all she can do, is accept it!? Also starring Patsy Kelly as Laura-Louise McBirney, an uncredited Tony Curtis as Donald Baumgart and Elisha Cook Jr. as Mr. Nicklas. Farrow is perfect as the victim to this devilish conspiracy, Gordon is a worthy Oscar winner for her gossipy eccentrically menacing character, and with impeccable creepy music by Krzysztof Komeda, Polanski has made a masterpiece paranoia (with a little dark humour) horror. It won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for Ruth Gordon as Minnie Castevet (also won the Golden Globe), and it was nominated for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Original Score for Krzysztof Komeda and Best Screenplay. It was number 51 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments, and it was number 9 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills. Very good! "},{"Title":"Rosemary's abortion","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I do like old movies with good acting and well thought out plots, this just isn't one of them. The movie never gets going and the acting is just horrible at these so called suspense scenes. Plus never do I really get the feeling of any suspense growing whatsoever, all you can depend on is some cheesy sound effects that were meant to make things seem like something scary is going down I guess. Whoever is reading this and thinking of whether to watch it or not - DON'T. You'll be glad that I just saved you 2 hours of your life to do something else. And honestly, almost anything would have been better than watching this so called classic. "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I just watched this movie, and I must say it is one of the most terrible movies I have ever seen. The interactions between the stars were extremely awkward, the suspense wasn't exciting at all and the pace of the movie was far too slow. The plot is extremely obvious from the start and there was nothing to make the viewer think deeply. There were too many scenes that I would deem unnecessary, and without them, the movie might have been a little better. Many scenes seemed incredibly random and were not explained further anywhere else. The ending was lame and the loose ends could have been tied up much, much better. There was nothing remotely creepy or intense about it. This movie should not be classified as a thriller; a bore would be more appropriate. I'm not sure if this movie could ever possibly scare anyone, so I'd recommend skipping this one. "},{"Title":"sorry to all you loyal fans out their","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"7 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This film is absolute dyer rubbish. i really did try to like this film i honestly did. But it was just plain awful I did all the stuff like watch it alone in the house with no lights on. i even watched a second time a week ago to see if i could like it but unfortunately i will never like this movie. I am an huge fan of horror films they are the only films i watch but i will never know how this film is considered a classic its absolutely a complete waste of time. This, The Shining and the Blairwitch Project are the most over rated films of all time. The only good thing about this film was Charles Grodrin and thats why it gets one star. if you want to watch a real horror movie that does try to be scary and succeeds watch the 1978 version of Halloween. "},{"Title":"can not help suppressing that helpless feeling","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I did not like it because the movie made me feel like an helpless and impotent person. The storytelling is kind of depressing as it feels like a free fall from a mountain top and the moment we hit rock bottom, the movie is over. If you want to call that a director's punch, feel free to do so. On the brighter side the movie has a good plot, but sadly never reaches a convincing climax. Certainly the movie affects you but I feel it is a cheap tactic to touch the negative nerve to do so. Though my comments might sound cynical, I stand by it and would not recommend this movie for someone who is looking for a good horror plot with interesting twists all finally leading to an edge-of-the-seat climax. "},{"Title":"horrible movie","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  the story of satin impregnating a women and have a human son.sounds like a scary idea right? well this movie isn't, scary that is. the pacing was very,very bad for a horror movie. the acting(except for rosemary and the lady next door) was sup-par, and the music was trying to make something out of nothing. thats the thing that angered me the most about this movie. the music would tense up and then drop off, or it would tense up at a moment that wasn't scary at all. the only redeemable aspect of this movie was an o.k ending and the the performance of the two lead women who play rosemary and the next door neighbor who keeps feeding her those shakes.after seeing this load of garbage I would probably take one those shakes, than watch this movie again.  "},{"Title":"Horror classic, huh... sure","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" After reading countless write-ups on the so-called horror classic, Rosemary's Baby, I was prepared to spend my evening sitting on the very edge of the sofa, and coming 'this close' to soiling myself several times.However, it was not to be.What I was faced with was an incredibly dull film. It plods along like a lame dinosaur until it reaches the finale, at which time it adopts the posture all dinosaurs now exhibit - it simply keels over dead. That's it - no thrills, no chills - and to be honest, the acting just wasn't that good.I suppose if I tried to look at it from the mother's perspective, it might have been more frightening... trouble is, the premise of the film is so unbelievable as to be laughable.I'm just saying that I'm glad I wasn't the one who paid to rent the films this weekend... "},{"Title":"Horror movie? No wonder I found it in the drama section of Blockbuster.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I was all excited for a 'scary' movie. A scary movie called Rosemary's Baby. I guess the trouble started when I went to Blockbuster and found the movie in the drama section. (Never mind that, I think they should make a new section called 'The Worst Movies No One Should Ever See' and put this hunk of junk in it). Anyway, so I'm sitting down watching this movie, and for the first hour, I fell asleep five times. The total lack of acting skills, music enhancement, and basic movie production was nowhere to be seen. Typical of high-school film endeavors, I feel that this film is comparable to a reenactment of the book Summer of My German Soldier.A horror movie usually consists of intense moments, frightful surprises and some sort of antagonist, however in this movie, the closest thing was some hallucinogenic sequence of a poorly acted rape. I think Bring It On had more horror merit than this movie, for at least Bring It On had some sort of dignified conflict.The overall lack of integrity in the movie made it a very rough two hours to sit through, and for what? Rosemary didn't even spill her tea on the baby. So if you want to waste an afternoon and five bucks, Rosemary's Baby is for you... or you could just sit at home and cut your toe nails, because that'll give you more of a fright anyway. "},{"Title":"POOR EXCUSE FOR A HORROR CLASSIC","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A huge waste of time and money. I would rather watch paint dry than to sit through this pathetic excuse for a classic horror film, or, should I say an attempt at a classic horror film. A big nothing of a movie that goes absolutely nowhere.  Even worse than it's equally insipid sequel, LOOK WHAT'S HAPPENED TO ROSEMARY'S BABY-which still isn't saying much.If you're looking for real classic horror, check out THE PIT AND THE PENDULUMTo Hell with ROSEMARY'S BABY "},{"Title":"Spoiler Alerts!!!  Lame Movie!!!","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"11 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Dumbest Movie EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!! And this is my first comment ever...so that should tell you how much this movie bugged me. I can not believe a top 250 film with all kinds of accolades over the years is nothing more than a Satan worshiping, god bashing hoo ha for over 2 1/2 hours with the dumbest housewife and the lamest husband i have ever seen put on the big screen. I mean really? A good woman deciding to say f#%k it and raise Satan amidst the coven???? Really???? How f#$%ing lame is she. Well, she ended up with Woodie Allen...so that should say something. And Polanski is not allowed in Country....shall i go on? The lameness speaks for itself!!!! "}{"Title":"What I miss?","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It's bored. I love this kind of terror, not the stupid bloody one, and after all this years, finally I see the Rosemary's babe. And it was bored. I love other Polansky's films, I think the problem is not the acting, it's just nothing happens, I understand suggestion, I agree with Hitchcock's concepts about suspense, and the bomb sample, but in the sample, there is something going on, the bomb doesn't explode, but is there! I will give a second chance, I can't believe I didn't find this film even acceptable, literally I sleep for some minutes. I know I'm alone in this, but I want to advise to anyone who cares This one and Gone with the Wind, really sucks. "}]