[{"Title":"Pure movie magic!","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"48 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Its strange that the film that won the best picture Oscar at the 1968 Academy Awards was a film made in England, but if ever a movie deserved that honor, I think it is Oliver. This movie is a true classic that should be on every best picture list and given a place of honor at The American Film Institute. Movie musicals died out a long time ago and it is a shame because this is the best movie musical I have ever seen. Usually movie musicals are slipshod with some great numbers mixed in with some poor ones. Oliver does the impossible, because every number and every dance in this film hits the bullseye! From Food Glorious Food to Consider Yourself to Who Will Buy This Wonderful Morning. Ron Moody, Shani Wallace (as Nancy) and Mark Lester as Oliver all give outstanding performances. Mark Lester was at one time the most famous child actor in the entire world. He was the Ricky Schroder of his day or the MacAuley Culkin of his day (I'll bet he wishes he could have made the kind of money they did!). Mark Lester is now a doctor in England and I wrote him a couple e-mails and he talked about Oliver and what a fine experience it was making the film. Shani Wallace was a fine English actress who never got the credit she deserved. She was so good as the sweet, loving Nancy who took a shine to little Oliver and gave her life saving him (her murder scene still makes me shiver, even Charles Dickens said that bothered him when he wrote it!). Doctor Lester wrote me that Shani Wallace was like a big sister to him and it shows on the screen. Ron Moody is delightfully hammy as Fagin. He sort of reminds me of Charles Laughton the way he carries the part to its ludicrous extreme but you savor it along with him. Charles Dickens was so good at portraying the poverty and horrible living conditions of his time and this film shows that especially in the workhouse. Children really lived under those conditions and it is horrifying. The scene that got me is where they are being served horrible gruel and are walking by the dining room where Mister Bumble and his henchmen are dining like kings! That really made me angry. Anyhow, Oliver is a wonderful film that would stand up to any film today and is a good viewing experience for the whole family. It will leave you with a happy heart and a lump in your throat and what more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"A true work of art...excellent songs, amazing performances...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Oliver! is a vast improvement over the marvelous Broadway stage version, opening up the scenes with the ability to expand the range of the material and still remain faithful to the Dickens story. Brimming with unforgettable songs and dances (that choreography by Onna White is timeless), it is so well cast--down to the smallest roles--and so faithful to the spirit of Dickens' work that you can no longer imagine that classic without the songs.Fagin is played to perfection by Ron Moody. His You Gotta Pick A Pocket Or Two is just one of the highlights incorporating clever lyrics and great choreography. The boys who kidnap Oliver are a rowdy lot, looking every bit the ruffians they're supposed to be. The best of the lot is Jack Wild's Artful Dodger, leading the gang in Consider Yourself.But not all is light and cheery. The darker aspects of the story are sometimes a little too graphic for my taste, although all of the performances are extremely well played, including Oliver Reed as Bill Sykes. The scenes involving his demise are so melodramatic they seem to belong to another film. Whatever the faults may be, including a rather extended running time, there is scarcely a dull moment. With songs like Who Will Buy? and Where Is Love? -- not to mention Food, Glorious Food -- you will find yourself falling under the spell of this great musical. Highly recommended and fully deserving of its Best Picture Oscar. "},{"Title":"This is proof that British film studios of the 1960's could provide high quality productions","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"41 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I was lucky to see Oliver! in 1968 on a big cinema screen in Boston when I was a young teenager. Later, during the summer of 1969, I was pleased to see this film was still playing at a prominent cinema in Leicester Square, London, after it had won the Academy Award for Best Picture of the previous year.Th success of Oliver! on both the stage and screen reminded me that not all talent begins on Broadway and ends in Hollywood. This legendary story by Charles Dickens, which is part of the literary heritage of all English-speaking people, was admirably brought to the London stage by Lionel Bart of Great Britain. His charming musical then became a hit in New York and throughout the world. The film adaptation was made in England during the summer of 1967 and then released in 1968. The sets and musical numbers are mind boggling. The song Who Will Buy? required hundreds of actors and the British film director truly deserved his Oscar for putting it all together in a seamless manner. Some Canadian and American talent is also part of this wonderful production, but mostly it is a tribute to the fine craftsmanship of the British film studios, such as Shepperton. Good show! Other film studios at Elstree, Boreham Wood, Bray, Denham, and Ealing have also given the world many films to treasure over the years. "},{"Title":"First in a long line","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This film introduced me to musicals at the age of 5 or 6, starting a trend which has lasted for over two decades since - it remains my favourite for a lot of reasons - the great treatment of Dickens' admittedly complicated book; memorable characters who do not sing, alongside those who do (stellar performances from everyone); fun and frolics, and a few heartbreaking moments; and Lionel Bart's tremendous score. The 'Who Will Buy' sequence is one of the best ever. One to watch and cherish and remember just how good musical films used to be. "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful musical for the whole family.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Oliver! brings to the screen a worthy adaption of Lionel Bart's Broadway musical of the sixties.  The combination of a superb cast, wonderful music and breathtaking choreography mean that the film loses nothing in its translation from the stage.  To this day it remains one of the stand-out musical adaptions in a dwindling field.Although the conservative Dickens fanatics may thumb their noses at various liberties taken on the original plot of Oliver Twist, they should observe that Oliver! has recreated most of the spirit intended by Dickens.  While primarily a musical comedy, Oliver! certainly has a dark undercurrent, thanks to the skillful direction of Carol Reed and the sinister acting of Oliver Reed (playing Bill Sikes).  Dickens was essentially a talented satirist, who constructed his characters to convey a moralistic view on Victorian society.  Oliver! conveys much of the sadness and desperation of the original novel.For anyone not acquainted with the famous storyline, the film treats of a young orphan, Oliver Twist, and follows his journey from a paupers' workhouse to the rough-and-tumble city life of London.  He is spotted and introduced into a gang of thieves, led by the crafty and cunning Fagin. What follows for Oliver is an introduction to the art of picking pockets; the methods of justice dispened by Mr Fang the magistrate; the cruelty of Bill Sikes the notorious thief, and the compassion of Nancy, Bill's mate; the kindness of Mr and Mrs Brownlow.  Such an adventure for such a small boy!It is difficult to pinpoint the exact reason why this Oscar-winning film is such a success.  On one hand there is the incredible performances of a gifted cast - Ron Moody being nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal of Fagin, and young Jack Wild's mature performance as the Artful Dodger.  Mark Lester plays Oliver, and depicts all the elements of innocence and vulnerability as could be imagined in the young boy.  Harry Secombe backs up the cast as the beadle, Mr Bumble.Perhaps the best aspect of the film though is the music itself.  Lionel Bart has done a masterful job in writing the original score, and you may expect to find yourself singing the songs for weeks after watching Oliver!.  Here are the evergreens, Reviewing the Situation, You've Got to Pick a Pocket Or Two, Who Will Buy, and the beautiful and touching Where is Love?. The list of classic tunes goes on and on, and if nothing else, young people today should watch the film purely for its educational value - to be introduced to the sweet music of yesteryear, and to see that a film's qualities extend beyond the realms of special effects.Oliver! will rightfully go down as a classic film of its time, and with any luck will keep its place as a family favourite, for years to come.  Its warmth and familiar music make it a must-see. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I took part in a little mini production of this when I was a bout 8 at school and my mum bought the video for me. I've loved it ever since!! When I was younger, it was the songs and spectacular dance sequences that I enjoyed but since I've watched it when I got older, I appreciate more the fantastic acting and character portrayal. Oliver Reed and Ron Moody were brilliant. I can't imagine anyone else playing Bill Sykes or Fagin. Shani Wallis' Nancy if the best character for me. She put up with so much for those boys, I think she's such a strong character and her final scene when... Well, you know... Always makes me cry! Best musical in my opinion of all time. It's lasted all this time, it will live on for many more years to come! 11/10!! "},{"Title":"Broadway to Hollywood transition...SUCCESS!!!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oliver! the musical is a favorite of mine. The music, the characters, the story. It all just seems perfect. In this rendition of the timeless classic novel turned stage musical, director Carol Reed brings the Broadway hit to life on the movie screen.The transition from musical to movie musical is not an easy one. You have to have the right voices, the right set, the right script, and the right play. All signs point to yes for this play. It almost appears that it was written for the screen!Our story takes place in jolly old England where a boy named Oliver manages to work his way out of the orphanage. He winds his way through the country to London where he meets up with a group of juvenile delinquents, headed by Dodger, the smart talking, quick handed pick-pocket. The leader of this gang is named Fagin, an older fellow who sells all the stolen goods.But all is not well in London town when Bill Sykes played by Oliver Reed and his loving girlfriend Nancy get tangled up with Oliver, Fagin and his young troops, and the law. What ensues is a marvelous tale of love, affection, and great musical numbers.Whether or not you like musicals or not, one listen to these tunes and you will be humming them all day long. Oliver! is a triumph on and off the stage and is a timeless work of art. "},{"Title":"One of the best musicals ever!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Before watching the movie I read the original novel, and I was not disappointed at all about the adaptation. The movie is really faithful to the spirit of Dickens narrative, but adds a new dimension to it by means of great music and songs.  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A high-spirited, lively version of the well-known story, the film manages to fit in songs and dances without subtracting from the deeper issues in Dickens' novel. The times are depicted vividly well, with excellent sets and costumes, and the film works as both surface entertainment for the young generation, and as a drama with deeper ideas behind it for the more adult viewer. As a musical, the story is not as potent as otherwise - if you compare it to David Lean's version for example - but yet the film explains parts of the story better than Lean's version did. It is not a perfect film as such, with some dances routines seeming pointless and a length that does become a tad annoying, but it is such a brilliant realisation of Dickens, and it is so well done, that it is hard not to think highly of the film. Ron Moody especially is very good perfect as Fagin in an Oscar nominated role. "},{"Title":"I consider Oliver! the movie to be my mate.","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Charles Dickens famous novel of an orphan boy, Oliver Twist, who escapes from his poor life to seek his fame and fortune in London, is adapted as a glossy musical.Who would have thought that a story from the brilliant Dickens could be so sweet and endearing? So it be with Carol Reed's Best Director Winner unforgettable 1968 Best Picture Winner. Yes it's some way away from the essence of the source, those in need of that should be seeking out David Lean's fabulous 1948 version, but with an array of wonderful tunes and choreography, this Oliver is a treat for all the family. The cast are uniformly strong, notably Ron Moody Fagin, Oliver Reed who as Bill Sykes is probably playing himself!, Mark Lester Oliver and the fabulous Jack Wild The Artful Dodger. While Lionel Bart's songs are as timeless as they are engaging.The 60s was a tough decade for cinematic musicals, with many of them turning out to be bloated exercises in tedium. But Oliver! is one of the shining lights in the genre, a true uplifter guaranteed to have the feet a tapping and the smile firmly implanted on ones face. So if you have yet to see and be charmed by it? Come on in, join our number and consider yourself one of us. 8/10 "}{"Title":"An Excellent Interpretation of Dickens.","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" As a lifelong fan of Dickens, I have invariably been disappointed by adaptations of his novels.Although his works presented an extremely accurate re-telling of human life at every level in Victorian Britain, throughout them all was a pervasive thread of humour that could be both playful or sarcastic as the narrative dictated. In a way, he was a literary caricaturist and cartoonist. He could be serious and hilarious in the same sentence. He pricked pride, lampooned arrogance, celebrated modesty, and empathised with loneliness and poverty. It may be a cliché, but he was a people's writer.And it is the comedy that is so often missing from his interpretations. At the time of writing, Oliver Twist is being dramatised in serial form on BBC television. All of the misery and cruelty is their, but non of the humour, irony, and savage lampoonery. The result is just a dark, dismal experience the story penned by a journalist rather than a novelist. It's not really Dickens at all.'Oliver!', on the other hand, is much closer to the mark. The mockery of officialdom is perfectly interpreted, from the blustering beadle to the drunken magistrate. The classic stand-off between the beadle and Mr Brownlow, in which the law is described as 'a ass, a idiot' couldn't have been better done. Harry Secombe is an ideal choice.But the blinding cruelty is also there, the callous indifference of the state, the cold, hunger, poverty and loneliness are all presented just as surely as The Master would have wished.And then there is crime. Ron Moody is a treasure as the sleazy Jewish fence, whilst Oliver Reid has Bill Sykes to perfection.Perhaps not surprisingly, Lionel Bart - himself a Jew from London's east-end - takes a liberty with Fagin by re-interpreting him as a much more benign fellow than was Dicken's original. In the novel, he was utterly ruthless, sending some of his own boys to the gallows in order to protect himself (though he was also caught and hanged). Whereas in the movie, he is presented as something of a wayward father-figure, a sort of charitable thief rather than a corrupter of children, the latter being a long-standing anti-semitic sentiment. Otherwise, very few liberties are taken with Dickens's original. All of the most memorable elements are included. Just enough menace and violence is retained to ensure narrative fidelity whilst at the same time allowing for children' sensibilities. Nancy is still beaten to death, Bullseye narrowly escapes drowning, and Bill Sykes gets a faithfully graphic come-uppance.Every song is excellent, though they do incline towards schmaltz. Mark Lester mimes his wonderfully. Both his and my favourite scene is the one in which the world comes alive to 'who will buy'. It's schmaltzy, but it's Dickens through and through.I could go on. I could commend the wonderful set-pieces, the contrast of the rich and poor. There is top-quality acting from more British regulars than you could shake a stick at.I ought to give it 10 points, but I'm feeling more like Scrooge today. Soak it up with your Christmas dinner. No original has been better realised. "},{"Title":"First the novel, then the straight dramatic film, then the musical - and the best picture Oscar","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" OLIVER TWIST was to have controversy as well as success following it after Dickens published it in 1837. His picture of life in the urban ghettos was something shocking and new, and his making the central figures of the novel include criminals was another innovation.One day he was walking in London and passed a young woman he had been friendly with. He said hello, but she was rather stiff with him. He could not understand this. A few days later they met again, and he asked what he had done to upset her. Well, if you must know, I did not like your last novel., she said. Really, everyone else thinks highly of it. He was puzzled What's wrong with it? Oh, Charles, she said, I'm Jewish. How could you make up such a character like Fagin?! He had not expected this Well...you know that trial last year of Ikey Solomon, the thief trainer. He's a model for Fagin and he was Jewish. Dickens found that did not settle things. Yes, she replied, He got what he deserved. But Charles, they did not call him Solomon the Jew like you call Fagin the Jew! Moreover, Solomon did not plan a murder. Fagin does. Dickens had to admit that he might have gotten carried away. He left thinking about what she said.Oliver Twist was published in several editions. Dickens tried to improve on Fagin a bit. Then he got an idea. He reworked the chapter called Fagin's Last Night Alive, showing the fears in the man as he faced hanging. He also added some additional details. He let his female friend know about his resolve to change Fagin. A day or so later he met her at a friend's house. She looked at him as though he was crazy. Didn't you like the changes?, he asked. Charles, what changes - he's still a vile villain called the Jew!, she replied. Yes, I did keep those in, but didn't you see how frightened he was in the death cell in prison. The young woman had noticed this, but felt that he was so vile he deserved to be suffering such fears. Ah...then I was right about that...and did you see the little details I added?, he asked. What details?, she replied. When you first see Fagin now he is cooking himself dinner...you read that?, Dickens looked at her expecting a sign of recognition. Instead the lady looked confused. I read he was at the fireplace, but I must have skimmed the passage. Dickens smiled as though he was brilliant, He is cooking a pork sausage for his dinner. A what!she exclaimed. He's eating pork, my dear...see - he's not a good Jew! His friend looked at him, shook her head, and to his dismay left their friend's house. She didn't speak to him for years.Dickens never totally shook off his own bigotries, but the situation did lead to a partial attempt at amends in his last completed novel. In OUR MUTUAL FRIEND (1865) he has a minor character, Mr. Riah, who is used by an unscrupulous landlord to collect high rents from poor tenants. The landlord figures that Mr. Riah will be blamed because he is Jewish.But Mr. Riah is a good man. He is a very good man. He is a very, very, very, very good man - so good as to be unbelievable. If Fagin saw Mr. Riah in action he'd probably chase him away with a stick.The anti-Semitic image of Fagin lingers to this day. It is a measure of Dickens' genius as a writer that the novel overcomes it. However, in presenting the story on film it still causes problems for screenplay writers and directors how, after the Holocaust, can one do a film treatment of a worthy novel without inflaming bigotry? David Lean showed how by having Alec Guiness appear in one or two scenes showing a human side and in confronting a mob at the end with true dignity. Sir Carol Reed, in his musical version of the novel did it better yet, due to a rewrite in the original musical's script.OLIVER had been made into a West End musical hit in the middle 1960s, and then taken to Broadway where it was again a hit. With a wonderful score by Lionel Bart, including Food Glorious Food, I Am Reviewing the Situation, Consider Yourself, Boy For Sale, Who Will Buy, As Long As He Needs Me, it deserved it's success. Reed did well in his casting the roles, including his nephew Oliver Reed as Sykes, Ron Moody as Fagin, Mark Lester as Oliver, Jack Wild as the Dodger, Shani Wallis as Nancy, and Harry Secombe as Mr. Bumble. There had been no big musical successes in Hollywood for a decade - the last musical to win the Best Picture Oscar had been GIGI in 1958. OLIVER won it in 1968.And Fagin - how to handle the eternal problem of the caricature? Well in the musical Fagin is not captured, tried and executed for the murder that is committed. After all, even Lean showed Fagin tried to control his confederate in his actions. But here Fagin realizes that he is getting too old to depend on this kind of chancy life. Although he loses his treasures (those stolen items he kept because he knew their value, and admired their beauty), he decides he can reform. He is allowed to do so, accompanied by his faithful acolyte, the Artful Dodger. I don't think Dickens would have appreciated the change (his female friend might have), but a modern audience certainly accepts it as fitting. "},{"Title":"G means general not completely devoid of conflict","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I just saw this recently, after an interval of nearly forty years. It holds up well, especially Lionel Bart's outstanding songs. (Who Will Buy with it's magical counterpoint, just one of many standouts.)I disagree with the other post that decried its G rating. The ratings system, brand new at the time, never intended the G (General) rating to mean completely devoid of conflict.Characterizing it as unsuitable for kids reminds me of the description I once saw of The Wizard of Oz A girl arrives in a strange land and kills the first person she encounters. She then goes on a road trip with three male companions and kills again. "},{"Title":"A Musical With A Brain What An Anomaly!","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Spoilers AheadLook, as a philosopher, there is no genre I detest more than musicals; the dedication to the discovery of truth is slightly disparate with the format. That said, this is such a rare exception. Dickens is softened, a small bit, the harsh ending of Oliver visiting Fagan in the jail before his hanging has been replaced with Fagan and Doger going off together into the sunset. Other than this, the story is quite true to the work. Oliver's voice is obviously dubbed with a feminine one but combined with his sad, little face increases our sympathy for him. The songs are surprisingly well written and no they are not idealized nausea inducing crap. Wild sings the best Consider Yourself but Fagan has some entertaining ones like I'm Reviewing The Situation, Gotta Pick A Pocket Or Two. There are sad songs by Oliver that are well done without being cheesy Where Is Love? The story faithfully tells his story from the dreadful Beadle crooning Boy For Sale, the vulture like undertaker's wife and finally his falling in with Fagan's pickpockets. The music occurs within the story and augments it not bringing the movie to a screeching halt for no reason. The treat of the movie is we get an excellent Fagan with Oliver Reed stealing the movie, among the adults, as the psycho Bill Sykes with the ever present dog Bull's Eye.Dicken's themes of the horrors of the industrial revolution in England are preserved with great shots of the lords of the workhouse stuffing their fat gullets with food while the children eat a few spoons of gross looking gruel. While the hanging of children is not shown, for pickpocketing, it is spoken of openly by Sykes and Fagin. Parents should be warned that child abuse, of a minor nature, is depicted and may upset small children. Dickens' novels were not renowned for their optimism, ergo, it is dark, depressing with moments of Oliver being in great peril. The only song I disliked was the anthem of dependency sung by Syke's tragic girlfriend, whom he later beats to death, Because He Needs Me. When she tries to return Oliver, he waylays her on the bridge. While all we see is his cane crashing down on her, on one of the upstrokes we see blood on the handle. Like I said, pre teens or teenagers but not little ones. The intelligence of the musical with its realistic depiction of human beings and their dialog will stun you for a musical. The movie is long, there are a few slow parts, not many. I would keep the remote control handy to skip the overture and the entrance music after the intermission.I love the movie for teaching a great work of one of England's greatest authors, after The Bard, to children. The lessons it contains are the consequences of a life of crime. How the perpetrators turn into monsters of greed like Fagin and Sykes is a worthy lesson for your children to learn. The movie, like the Wizard Of Oz, has its morality deep within the story it will not beat you about the head and shoulders with its lessons like certain other musicals. The other lesson is the power of friendship with Dodger sticking up and trying to protect Oliver. Jack Wild's voice and acting will stun you for one so small. Besides Consider Yourself, he also does well on I'd Do Anything. He steals the small cast by a mile; Oliver does well but Wild is the best Artful Dodger I have ever seen. Want to appreciate this movie? Put Flashdance on after watching this if you can make it all the way through. It deserved ever reward it received. An Excellent, Intelligent Musical. "},{"Title":"Can I have more, sir?","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I love this movie. Love it love it love it.But I know that not everyone loves musicals. So if you find the musical genre contrived or unnatural or kitschy, if it's just not your thing, then don't bother with this movie because it is unabashedly and outstandingly a MUSICAL.The songs Food, Glorious Food, Consider Yourself, You've Got to Pick a Pocket or Two, just for starters. These are wonderfully singable, indelibly memorable, and they move the plot and action along the way musical numbers in a film should. This is a lost art now, I'm convinced, although maybe with the TV series Glee! now riding a wave of popularity, there will be some talented musicians and lyricists who will revive this art-form. Anyway, suffice it to say Oliver! is the musical at its best.The actors Oh my lord. Here we have Ron Moody in the role of Fagin, and he is INDELIBLE. He doesn't just act the role, he doesn't just sing it and dance it, he slips into the character's skin and he IS Fagin, in a way that makes it impossible to imagine anyone else in this role.Jack Wild as the Artful Dodger. He's just superb, audacious and sassy and swaggering, and you can't help but like him even as you see him cheerfully taking up a life of crime. He makes us accept the character as someone basically good-hearted who is just adapting to the life he has to live. Matter-of-factly and without malice, and leaping to grab joy when the opportunity presents itself.Shani Wallis as Nancy tender and tough, tough and tender, she has the virtues of loyalty and honesty even as those values become hindrances to survival. She is who she is and she doesn't apologize for it, she's key to saving young Oliver.Oliver Reed as Bill Sikes. I love Oliver Reed, always have, and he dominates every scene he has in this movie. You look at him and you see what the Artful Dodger would turn into if he had malice in his soul. Sikes is dangerous; he has no code but survival for himself, and he'll throw anyone else to the wolves without pausing to think about it if it serves him to do so. Oliver Reed really makes the movie work, because he brings genuine menance and sexuality to his role, which serves as a counterpoint for the sweetness of the musical as a whole.And finally, Mark Lester. He is beyond winsome as the title character, a completely believable innocent who is without guile and imbued with a natural sense of goodness. I just love looking at Mark Lester, he's such a beautiful and dreamy-looking child.This movie is about as good as a musical gets it's visually stunning, in the sets and the cinematography and the costumes, and in the staging of the musical numbers. The characters are wonderful, they're classics. The plot is pared down to the basics and conveys the material as Dickens wrote it without being slavish or getting bogged down in detail.When I saw this movie for the first time, I laughed and I cried and I sat at the edge of my seat, and when it was over I wanted more. Since the first time I saw it, I've seen it more than a dozen times more, and it's a movie I can watch again and again and again.As a musical, it's tops. But not everyone likes musicals. Maybe because not every musical is as good as Oliver! on every level.Maybe, just maybe, we'll see a renaissance of the genre soon, and more people who don't like musicals because they've only seen bad ones will understand that when a musical is good, it's really, really good. "},{"Title":"musical,yes,great film yes,,what more is there","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" i'm really getting old,,am in the midst of watching this 40 year old flick,and wonder what my grandchildren will be watching 40 years from now,,its an old saying,,but they don't make em like that anymore..it's not only the story,its the music,the acting both by young and old..the cast ,it would seem,were born to play their roles,,young oliver,,old Fagin..too many to mention them all,the role played by the judge oliver stands before,i've seen in other roles over the years..the artful dodger,,Ron moody as Fagin,,Mr and Mrs bumble,,the movie not only won 5 Oscars,,but took a few golden globe awards too..if you decide to see this film..do yourself a favor,,take a few if not all the children,to see this masterpiece "},{"Title":"Mark Lester Reveals His Voice Was Dubbed by a Girl!","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" In Cinema Retro magazine #2,it is revealed that Mark Lester's voice was actually dubbed by a 20 year old female, Kathe Green. Although Leste was considered perfect for the title role, director Carol Reed was not at all pleased with his singing abilities. The secret was revealed by on a 2004 UK documentary titled Oliver! After They Were Famous. Greene was paid 400 pounds for her work and she had to agree to keep her participation secret, as did Mark Lester. They kept their word and only revealed this fact as part of the TV show decades after release of the film. For the record, Mark Lester retired from acting and is a practicing osteopath in England. "},{"Title":"Quite lovely","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This is one musical I enjoyed very much. It had wonderful music, it was well sung, the acting was also incredibly good (loved the Artful Dodger and of course, Finigan). Unlike most musicals, all stuff and fluff and all happy and joyful, this one has its dark side, and contains two murders, or killings. There is emotional depth, even in the music. I have to admit, when I see everyone burst into song (and everyone in the town seems to know all the words, tune, and etc) it makes me laugh inside, for certainly this would never happen in real life. But, hey, this is a musical. One thing this movie was not afraid of doing was allowing the sentimental and touching parts of the story to be well reflected in what we saw, the acting, and the singing. There is great seriousness in this story. Like, Les Miserables, it isn't about lovely people, but the scum of the earth who strive mercilessly to live in a world that sees them as worthless. And amid all the joyful rollicking, one is never allowed to forget the people and what they suffer. And yes, this ends with a happy ending, as all musicals should (or at least did in those days). This is a long movie, yes, it is, but that doesn't make it a boring movie. I am one who loves music completely, but can be bored silly during musicals that simply do nothing. I need a strong plot, good and well-defined characterization, a reason behind why the songs occur, and to have things moving forward constantly. They need not rush forward, but they must be moving forward drawing me to the climax and then resolving into the hopeful end. Oliver did this for me. It was filled with well-defined characters whose motives were extremely clear. It had believable situations where the characters had to face things, even unpleasant things, and it never shied away from showing the bad, even when Oliver was hoping for the best. Did it follow perfectly Dicken's book? NO! But then, what movie has? And after all, this is musical comedy, so it won't even consider the more horribly cruel and ugly parts of English life in those days. However, it did cover enough of the struggles so as not to fully whitewash out the sorrows of the plot.I personally loved the musical. I never saw the stage play, but was well familiar with the music from learning much of it in school. I loved how they captured the times (though the dirty people of the lower class could still have been dirtier, grubbier, and well, really stinky; same with the orphans in the workhouse, they were all just a touch too clean). I do recommend this for all people, and all ages. For those who think the deaths in the movie are too much for children to see, believe me, they see far worse in most TV shows today, and in all their alien movies, or transformer movies, that are out there now. Excepting the death of Bill Sikes, nothing else is seen at all, only implied. "},{"Title":"The BEST musical ever!","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Unable to give an unbiased view as I think this is one of the Greatest films ever made! Every single aspect of the film is perfect, from the sets and costumes to the choreography and music! Every characterization is spot on. Ron Moody IS Fagin just as Jack Wilde makes an ideal Artful Dodger and seriously is it possible to imagine a more darker, more brooding more down-right nasty evil Bill Sykes than Oliver Reed? Mark Lester is a wonderfully sweetly naive & innocent lead character (OK so he doesn't sing any of the songs!) Shani Wallis is great as Nancy. To this wonderful cast of leads add some fantastic performances by the likes of Harry Secombe, Peggy Mount, Leonard Rossiter, Hylda Baker, Kenneth Cranham and I loved Hugh Griffith's cameo as the Magistrate! Lionel Bart's masterpiece score hits every right note! Every song is memorable, from the big production numbers to the heartfelt ballads. Hard to pick a favourite but I love Consider Yourself. At no point does the 2 hours 30 minutes lag or become boring. If you have seen the film I hope you agree with me (even partially) if you have NOT seen the film I thoroughly recommend it, sit down with the whole family and allow yourself to be entertained from start to finish. I saw the film in 1968 when it was first released, I purchased the VHS tape as soon as it became available (and wore several of them out!) and now have the DVD. I have lost count of the times I have watched the film but genuinely it must be into the dozens! ALL my kids love the film. and regularly watch it as well. Oliver! is the MVP of musicals, a rollicking adventure through early 19th century London. Forget the real world and the stresses and strife, put your feet up and lose yourself in 150 minutes of pure escapism! "},{"Title":"There's really nothing like it.","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This is a musical adaptation of Dicken's Oliver Twist. For the most part, the original story has been maintained, though for the flow of the film certain subplots (such as the summer he spent recuperating and the half-brother) are omitted. The biggest difference in the film and the story is that by the end of the book, Fagin is hanged--an ending very different from this musical film.This is a one of a kind musical--one whose style and scope really hasn't been matched before or since. Not only are the songs often quite singable and memorable, but the choreography of the film is a sight to behold. Whereas in most musicals a few people or perhaps even a small group are choreographed dancing, here the numbers often run into the hundreds or perhaps more. It's truly a sight to see and I was fortunate enough to have seen it in the theater when it debuted and is one of my earliest childhood memories. Having just seen it again a few moments ago, I would have to say that the film only got better over time. Great sets, wonderful acting and singing--this is a special treat that is hard not to love.By the way, when I saw the film again tonight, I was surprised by just how high and feminine Mark Lester's singing was for the film. Well, according to IMDb, his singing was dubbed by a girl and this would definitely account for his voice. "}{"Title":"Brilliant musical – perhaps the last great entry from the “Golden Era” of the genre.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The great cinematic musicals were made between 1950 and 1970. This twenty year spell can be rightly labelled the “Golden Era” of the genre. There were musicals prior to that, and there have been musicals since… but the true classics seem invariably to have been made during that period. Singin’ In The Rain, An American In Paris, The Band Wagon, Seven Brides For Seven Brothers, Oklahoma, South Pacific, The King And I, and many more, stand tall as much cherished products of the age. Perhaps the last great musical of the “Golden Era” is Carol Reed’s 1968 “Oliver”. Freely adapted from Dickens’ novel, this vibrant musical is a film version of a successful stage production. It is a magnificent film, winner of six Oscars, including the Best Picture award.Orphan Oliver Twist (Mark Lester) lives a miserable existence in a workhouse, his mother having died moments after giving birth to him. Following an incident one meal-time, he is booted out of the workhouse and ends up employed at a funeral parlour. But Oliver doesn’t settle particularly well into his new job, and escapes after a few troubled days. He makes the long journey to London where he hopes to seek his fortune. Oliver is taken under the wing of a child pickpocket called the Artful Dodger (Jack Wild) who in turn works for Fagin (Ron Moody), an elderly crook in charge of a gang of child-thieves. Despite the unlawful nature of the job, Oliver finds good friends among his new “family”. He also makes the acquaintance of Nancy (Shani Wallis), girlfriend of the cruellest and most feared thief of them all, the menacing Bill Sikes (Oliver Reed). After many adventures, Oliver discovers his true ancestry and finds that he is actually from a rich and well-to-do background. But his chances of being reunited with his real family are jeopardised when Bill Sikes forcibly exploits Oliver, making him an accomplice in some particularly risky and ambitious robberies.“Oliver” is a brilliantly assembled film, consistently pleasing to the eye and excellently acted by its talented cast. Moody recreates his stage role with considerable verve, stealing the film from the youngsters with his energetic performance as Fagin. Lester and Wild do well too as the young pickpockets, while Wallis enthusiastically fleshes out the Nancy role and Reed generates genuine despicableness as Sikes. The musical numbers are staged with incredible precision and sense of spectacle – Onna White’s Oscar-winning choreography helps make the song-and-dance set pieces so memorable, but the lively performers and the skillful direction of Carol Reed also play their part. The unforgettable tunes include “Food Glorious Food”, “Consider Yourself”, “You’ve Got To Pick A Pocket Or Two”, “I’d Do Anything” and “Oom-Pah-Pah” – all immensely catchy songs, conveyed via very well put together sequences. The film is a thoroughly entertaining experience and never really loses momentum over its entire 153 minute duration. Sit back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Darkness and Light","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This production of Oliver is masterful in showing layers of evil in the human soul. What makes the story remarkable is a brilliantly bright Unseen Character, who pierces this darkness as he leads an innocent boy through the gravest dangers safely into the hands of his own relative. Yea, though Oliver walks through the valley of the shadow of death, he fears no evil. A rod and staff are there to comfort him. In the end, he is saved from the dregs of humanity. At the bottom is Fagin, the most wicked of the lot. Fagin contemplates repenting of his ways not once, but twice, yet declines because he is unwilling to pay the price. Fagin is worse than Bill Sikes, because he raises little pickpockets who become murderers. In the middle is Oliver. His innocence is unsullied, but untried as well. The best is Nancy. Lacking in judgment, she ignores Bill Sikes' violent nature out of her deep need for love. Yet unlike Fagin, at the probable cost of her own life, she does repent of her sins by saving Oliver from Bill. Things are not as they seem. In my opinion, this quality is what makes art worthwhile - unpredictability. I would give this film a 10, but its '70's made-for-TV soundtrack and ambiance were distracting. Overall, a fine parable and a thoroughly appropriate story for all audiences. "},{"Title":"I Actually Enjoyed This","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Musical adaptation about an orphan (Mark Lester) who runs away from an orphanage and hooks up with a group of boys trained to be pickpockets by an elderly mentor (Ron Moody).Not being a fan of Charles Dickens (blasphemy?) and being really skeptical on musicals, I had some rather low expectations on this one. Now, I think it could have been trimmed a little bit (the opening music and credits add a good ten minutes to the length). But that is about the only bad thing I can say.The songs are quite good, the acting is good, the dancing is good... and all the parts we like about the story (without the dry writing) is evident here. The please sir, I want some more scene... and, of course, a very crafty Fagin, who is an important central character. "},{"Title":"The finest representation of Charles Dickens Oliver Twist","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I would be as bold to say that this representation of Oliver Twist is by far the finest of all Dickens transitions from literature to screen. This Masterpiece was so representational of its time that it even inspired the manufacture of products deemed to be iconic of the time such as London Distilled Gin known as Oliver Twist London Distilled Gin (See it here http//www.olivertwistgin.com . The film and literary work alike portray the real hardships and massive cultural divide that formed Dickensian London. Although the film is a softer interpretation of the book it is a fantastic tool for educating people about these times.Ensure you watch this classic and if you have not done so yet read the classic novel. "},{"Title":"The allure of the Artful Dodger","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" He's an older, big brother type and takes Oliver under his wing in a quid pro quo fencing hiercharchy. This street smart musical is uniquie in style and scope. Jack Wild and Mark Lester were nicely cast alongside the indelible Ron Moody, revamping his stage role. His conflict is ours and yet he is playful, protective and leader of 20 young pick pockets. The songs are quite singable and memorable and the choreography is a sight to behold, where the numbers often run into the hundreds and the character integration is wonderful. It's truly a sight to see and I was fortunate enough to have seen it in the theater when it debuted and having seen it again and again on DVD. I would have to say that the film only got better over time. Great sets, wonderful acting, overlapping choreography, this is a special treat that is engaging and hard not to love. This inspired my love of music some 41 years ago! Who will buy? OK, OK....I will! "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The Dickens novel becomes an Oscar-winning musical. The 1960s was the decade of big musicals, many of them bloated and boring. This one is surprisingly enjoyable, thanks to wonderful songs and dances, causing the two and half hours to fly by. Moody has the role of his career as the leader of a gang of pickpockets, and he is terrific. Reed makes a dastardly villain. With her boundless energy and contagious enthusiasm, Wallis is a delight as Reed's girlfriend; sadly, her movie career went nowhere. Lester and Wild are fine as the young pickpockets. This is Carol Reed's only musical, but he pushes all the right buttons. Musical highlights include Would You Buy? and Oom-Pah-Pah. "},{"Title":"Lavish Oliver has all the tools.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Film has been kind to Charles Dickens. While renowned authors from Shakespeare to Hemingway have had inconsistent translations of their work filmed Dickens with his descriptive style and well defined characters (not to mention their unforgettable monikers) has a had some distinguished translations such as Leans Great Expectations and Oliver Twist. With this musical version of Twist (adapted from the Lionel Bart play) Dicken's movie career continues to advance.Whether it be large chorus numbers (Consider Yourself, Who Will Buy) or solos ( Reviewing the Situation) Director Carol Reed and company energetically deliver this grim tale about homeless waifs in sumptuous and high spirited style. Reed who literally and figuratively made The Fallen Idol from a child's point of view does the same here with a rogues gallery of pre-teen pick pockets, including a wonderful one from Jack Wild as The Artful Dodger. Among the adults Harry Seecombe as Mr. Bumble and Oliver Reed as Bill Sykes display convincing child intimidation while Ron Moody as Fagin oozes criminal intent with such musical joviality it becomes impossible not to like the beak nosed miscreant as he contributes to the delinquency of minors en masse.The sets are lavish, the costumes lushly haute shanty and Reed's directorial eye just as sharp as his Odd Man Out, Third Man period though he does understandably restrain his angles. Oliver's lengthy but buoyant most of the way and you'll more than likely find yourself murdering a tune or two from it in private moments for years to come. One of the few films that can claim to be for the whole family without insulting any of its members (save the cat). "},{"Title":"Can a fellow be a villain all his life?","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" ¨I'm reviewing the situation. Can a fellow be a villain all his life? ¨¨Oliver! ¨ is my favorite Musical of all time, but it could very well be called ¨Fagin! ¨ because Ron Moody's performance as Fagin is truly the highlight of the film. He shines in every scene he's in and his musical pieces ¨You've Got to Pick a Pocket or Two¨ and ¨Reviewing the Situation¨ are the best ones in the movie. Even Oliver's buddy, the Artful Dodger played by Jack Wild, steals each scene he shares with Mark Lester, who plays the main character Oliver. The film which is based on Lionel Bart's musical adaptation of Charles Dickens's novel, Oliver Twist, had been produced for the stage in London before they decided to turn it into a film. The screenplay adaptation for the movie was written by Vernon Harris. The characters are just as I would have imagined them from reading Dickens's novel and I don't have a problem with Fagin and The Artful Dodger stealing the show from the protagonist because that is what happens most of the time with Dickens's main characters in his novels. He is so good at creating remarkable characters and I remember these two were the most memorable in the novel as well. Oliver Twist serves more as a symbol of innocence and purity among an evil world that has turned its back on him, and his goodness proves to be incorruptible even among these villains he lives with. I am a huge fan of Charles Dickens and I really believe this film lived up to it although it was very loosely based on the novel because you just can't fit everything into the movie and some of the characters had to be left out (Monks, Mrs. Maylie, Henry and Rose for example), or they didn't have much screen time as is the case with Mr. Bumble.The movie begins in a workhouse several miles from London where several young orphans are forced to work and live under harsh conditions. One of the orphans, Oliver Twist (Mark Lester) is chosen by the rest of the kids to ask for more food because it is hardly enough. Oliver is a shy good looking kid, but when he asks Mr. Bumble (Harry Secombe) for more food he is instantly put in discipline for misconduct. He decides to sell the boy because he has become an inconvenience. Oliver eventually escapes and is able to arrive at London where he meets another young boy about his age who introduces himself as The Artful Dodger (Jack Wild). The Dodger offers Oliver a place to sleep and introduces him to Fagin (Ron Moody) and the rest of the boys. Fagin happens to be a thief who trains the children how to pick a pocket and steal valuable goods like wallets and handkerchiefs from distracted men in the streets. Oliver is innocent and doesn't really understand what is going on until the day he goes on his very first mission with the Dodger and he is mistakenly accused of stealing a man's wallet. Oliver is finally declared innocent after an eyewitness claims it was another boy who was trying to steal the wallet and Mr. Brownlow (Joseph O'Conner) apologizes to him and adopts him at his home. In the meantime Fagin is worried the boy will give up his hideout along with his partner in crime, Bill Sikes (Oliver Reed). Bill forces his girlfriend Nancy (Shani Wallis) to kidnap Oliver and bring him back and the plot develops from that point on.Oliver! won six Oscars in 1968, including best picture, and was the last musical to win an Oscar until Chicago won it in 2005. Carol Reed also won for best direction and he really raised the bar for musicals ever since. It was probably the last of the great musicals. Perhaps the hardest character to portray in this film from the novel was Nancy because she is torn between her love for Bill and doing the right thing for Oliver. Shani Wallis does a good job of portraying this inner struggle which eventually leads her to her fate. Oliver Reed had to portray the darkest and most evil character of the novel, Bill Sikes, and he does a good job as well. Some of the other musical numbers I enjoyed were ¨Who Will Buy? ¨ and ¨Oom-Pah-Pah.¨ The art directions and scenery were also really well done for the time period. I don't know if I would of enjoyed the movie as much as I did if it weren't for Moody's performance. He was great and I think he should have won the Oscar for Best Secondary Actor. Robin Williams's performance in August Rush was probably influenced by Moody's character in this film. He was just a pleasure to watch on screen and is the main reason why I like this Musical so much. I am not a big fan of musicals, but this is definitely my favorite one and I recommend it.http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":" You want to be a success, then you must learn to be a thief like the Artful Dodger ","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Musicals like fine wines are for those who wish to appreciate them. As musicals go, this one  Oliver  happens to be one of the finest available. From the first, this film has all the ingredients one requires in a great musical. First of all, it is based on one of the most timeless novels written by the legendary author Charles Dickens. Second, the central character is one of the best child actors of our time. Oliver Twist is played by none other than Mark Lester. Cute and beautiful as the handsome orphan boy from the dirty Work Houses of the period, he contains a spirited singing voice and a fresh face which is in great company when played against the enormous talent of Ron Moody who does a fantastic job as Fagin. If duo talents were not enough, we have the incomparable late great Oliver Reed as Bill Sikes. Added to the cast are Shani Wallis as Nancy and Sheila White as Bet, Jack Wild as The Artful Dodger and finally Hugh Griffith as The Magistrate. Together, this fine ensemble, give this extraordinary musical several memorable tunes, including Consider yourself at home and I'll do anything for you dear as well as others which have made this movie into the timeless Classic for audiences everywhere. A Fine movie for the entire family. **** "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie musical!","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I admit not being that fond of Oliver! as a young child--it's long, and the story is a little slow-moving because of all the musical numbers. As a teenager I discovered that the fun of this movie is the experience itself. Rather than thinking of it as an adaptation of Oliver Twist, think of it as a celebration of the classic story. The adaptation is loose at best, but really, if you're watching a musical, you ain't there for the story.The music is the core of this movie, and an overwhelming majority of it is stellar and very catchy. Most or all of the cast was involved in the stage version of the musical, and it shows in their performances--and I consider this a plus. The performances are all in a more stagey style of acting typical of much older films, and they are very entertaining. The exception is the kid playing Oliver, whose job seemed to be to look cute and stay out of the real performers' way.Fagin and the Dodger are the real stars of this movie. Oliver Reed also does a fantastic job maintaining an intimidating screen presence as the menacing Bill Sykes. Even Sykes' dog Bullseye puts on a good performance.This movie isn't for everyone. People who hate musicals will despise it, as will those who take musicals too seriously. Nitpicking over faulty historical details or mistaking exaggerated stage-type acting for bad acting will ruin anyone's enjoyment. Just sit back and enjoy the entertainment--it's much better if you remember that, as a musical, it's a fantasy loosely organized around the book, not a strict adaptation. "}{"Title":"Charming, and Enjoyable","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" First off, I'd like to make a correction on another review of this film which said that the last musical to win the Best Picture Academy Award was 'Gigi' in 1958. That is misinformation as 'West Side Story' won in 1962, 'My Fair Lady' won in 1965 and 'Sound of Music' won the year after that. That said, this film is absolutely fantastic! The story from the novel has been somewhat altered, but that's more because of the limitations that they had on a stage that they just didn't change back for a filmed version. However, I don't mind. In fact, I rather think the whole production flows better than the novel does. I like Nancy bringing Oliver to the bridge with her and being killed there instead of later in the apartment. The subtle things in this film are the ones that make me laugh. I love the moment Mr. Bumble and Mrs. Bumble start coming out at the beginning from the governors office. The underscore for that moment is brilliant. My three favorite actors for this film were Jack Wild, who plays the best Dodger in any film version of the story, Ron Moody, a playful and humorous Fagin (this character is worked out much better than he is in the book), and Shani Wallis, who is the strongest, most distressed version of Nancy. The only reason I'm giving this film a 9 instead of a 10 is because of the two big production numbers which are 'Concider Yourself' and 'Who Will Buy.' I always hate when the choreography in musicals in meant to look like people doing everyday chores and jobs. It looks awful and cheesy, especially when they're dancing at the London Meat Co. They should've just done regular choreography for these scenes. However, this film is a rare treasure that will stay with us, hopefully, forever. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest musicals of all time","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Im not usually a lover of musicals,but if i had to choose what would be my favourite it would definitely be Oliver.This film is so well made,the characters are well depicted,the costumes are spot on the acting is good and the songs are great,my favourite being 'Reviewing The Situation'sung by Ron Moody who gives a brilliant portrayal of Fagin.I wasn't old enough to see Oliver when it was released in the late 60s but my sisters were,so for weeks on end i had to put up with them singing the bloody songs,usually it was 'Who will buy my wonderful roses'so i already knew all of the songs before i saw the film.Its a timeless musical you definitely couldn't remake it,it stands on its own.Its not accurate to the book and i don't think it would have worked so well if it had been.I don't think Charles Dickens would be disappointed,as he wrote Oliver to depict the poverty in London,the orphanages,the work houses and about what the poor had to resort to in order to survive,and the film portrays this very well.Also another great reason to watch this film is Bullseye the Old type English Bull terrier,notice his long thin legs,this was bred out of the breed many years ago,they must have hunted high and low to find a specimen like him,and he is exactly how an English Bull Terrier would have looked in Victorian times.Notice he has scars which is probably makeupon his face,Bill Sykes had probably used him for dog fighting or for the rat pit.A Victorian Bull Terrier had a record amount of kills in a rat pit.His a beautiful dog any way,and notice he disobeys Bill Sykes after he has killed Nancy,he obviously has his standards his not the chunk head Bill Sykes thought he was.This is a great musical to watch if you like musicals,and if you don't like musicals give it a try any way,there's something for everyone in this film. "},{"Title":"Oliver! Oliver! Never before has a boy wanted more...","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oliver! came out in 1968. The music, songs and dancing were out of this world. It took hundreds of talented people to put this play into a script and onto the screen. It was directed in the United Kingdom by Carol Reed. Mr. Reed proved that the UK could put forth top-notch musicals. Lionel Bart was in charge of the music.The first heart breaking scene came when the boys were marched to the tables for their gruel. Their clothes were rags and there were no shoes on their feet. First Mr. Bumble said the grace. Then, when they were allowed to eat, they quickly inhale what was before them, gruel (yuck). And then came the choosing of the straws. The short straw was to go forward and ask for more food. Poor Oliver Twist (sweet-looking Mark Lester) got the short straw. Things didn't go well for him but that's the kind of life the poor child's been living.The scenery for the Workhouse for Orphans and Working Poor was very stark and dark. The dining hall gave an idea of what the area the youngsters slept in must have been like.Second heart breaking scene was Mr. Bumble taking Oliver out into the cold and snow to be sold. Sold as property just because he was hungry. The Undertaker offered to take him on a trial basis. Oliver did OK for awhile. Then the older apprentice made some nasty cracks. The youngster tried to beat in the older boy's head. Poor Oliver was knocked down and trapped in a coffin. There he stayed until Bumble got there. The adults decided to toss Oliver down the stairs, into the cold basement. There the boy was trapped in a cold, dark room filled with coffins. Where is Love? he asked in song.Then came an interesting turn of events. Oliver went to the basement window and by accident discovered it was not locked. Next, he was out, about and his adventures began. The youngster sat off to London. But you'll have get the movie to find out more...and believe me there's much more! The scenery was well staged for all of the areas; the orphanage, undertaker's shop and basement, the town marketplace. We must not forget the carriages/wagons and view from the road to London. The entrance to London makes you wonder when you arrived there.The people Oliver meets fit the parts they play very well. Harry Secombe (Mr. Bumble) was mean, as was his wife (Peggy Mount). Artful Dodger (Jack Wild) was a scamp. Fagin (Ron Fagin) was good-hearted (?) trouble. Nancy (Shani Wallis) was warm, caring and too loyal for her own good. Bill Sykes (Oliver Reed) definitely evil trouble. Hugh Griffith, great English character actor, played the drunken magistrate. Joseph O'Connor was Mr. Brownlow, Oliver Twist's protector-to-be.The rest of the music (ex 'Consider Yourself at Home', 'As Long As He Needs Me', 'Who Will Buy?', 'I've Been Reviewing the Situation', 'Ompapa, Ompapa', etc.), costumes, hair and make-up, for all the classes of people was well done. The individual class of each group, the wealthy patrons, priests, police, bakers, newsboys, were easily recognized by costumes.This musical was based on Dickens's Oliver Twist!. It's worth seeing and I hope you will.***Jack Wild, who played the Artful Dodger passed away in March, 2006 of throat and mouth cancer. His talents will be missed. R.I.P.******Just to share Mark Lester, who played Oliver, is now Dr. Mark Lester in the UK. He is proud of having been in Oliver!.*** "},{"Title":"Musical par excellent!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" One of the finest musicals made, one that is timeless and is worth seeing time and again. Delicious! The acting, especially by Ron Moody as Fagin, is superb. Costumes are exquisite....even the shabby ones.The two young lads who play Oliver and The Artful Dodger are wonderfully talented. Oliver Reed does a great job portraying Bill Sykes to where you can't help but hope he comes to a terrible end....which he does. The dancing is cleverly choreographed and is mesmerizing. Oliver can hold its own with the likes of My Fair Lady, The Sound of Music, Oklahoma, etc. A film for the entire family. "},{"Title":"Oliver Reed at the top of his game.","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I saw this recently on a cable channel. The movie is great; it's one of the few musicals I have seen that doesn't shy away from the light and dark. It portrays some of the splendour of the age along with a lot of the squalor. Some of the set piece dance sequences so much is going on, I didn't know where to look next. One day I shall go and see this on the big screen, just so that I see what's happening. But what really lifts this to another level is Oliver Reed's performance as Bill Sykes. Not only is a thoroughly mean and menacing man but there is something else, some inner demons. He gave me the impression that if you pushed him into a corner, he was capable of anything. It was almost as if the Sykes character was on the edge of madness, just awaiting the trigger. I have seen the Robert Newton's Bill Sykes from the 1948 movie, and I thought he was 'just' a bad egg, but Oliver Reed's performance intimidated me in my own living room. "},{"Title":"Well written, perfect casting, and very charming.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This was my favourite film as a child, and I have been in the stage production a few times so it will always remain my favourite muscical and I doubt anybody could ever re-make the story of Oliver Twist on screen, any better than this one did.My all-time favourite ''bad guy'' has to be Oliver Reed as Bill Sikes. Not only did he scare the life out of my when I watched it as a 6 year old, but now as a woman I can empathize more with Nancys character, the bar maid/prostitute who helps Oliver get the life he deserves.Jack Wilde as the artful dodger, was fantastic, and I don't think anybody could ever out-do him, as the street-pocket picker, and best friend of Fagin. The music is fantastic, especially Fagin's numbers, I'm also quite thankful they didn't give Bill Sikes a musical number, it wouldn't of worked with him being such a sinister character.I think Carol Reed did an excellent job of Nancy's sticky ending, keeping it a G rated movie by disguising her beating, but giving enough away to show the violence of Bill towards her. This movie is both charming, and charismatic as a musical sing-along, as well as being a moving drama that follows a young boy as he tries to find where he belongs in life. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Yes, as unbelievable as it may be, in 1968 a musical won the Academy Award for best picture - and it was the third musical to win that award in a five-year period, the first being My Fair Lady in 1964 and then The Sound of Music in 1965. The difference between My Fair Lady, The Sound of Music and Oliver! however is that Oliver! is immeasurably better! No comparison. The first two movies are insipid wet noodles compared to the remarkably robust Oliver!. The acting is great; the songs are great; the story is great and the dancing is great. This movie is dynamic, topical, relevant to the human experience and unlike the overblown Gangs of New York, Oliver! offers a portrayal of poverty in 19th century London, England that evokes sympathy without being condescending. Oliver Reed was a great actor and he proves it in Oliver! The other actors and actresses, especially Ron Moody and Shani Wallis, are equally wonderful and offer powerful portrayals of characters who evoke sympathy and warmth without being caricatures. "},{"Title":"Blimey! Oliver's not 'alf bad.","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I'm going to be honest and start by saying that I am neither a fan of Dickens' work nor of musicals in general, and that the prospect of sitting down with my kids to watch Oliver! was not one I particularly relished. Two and a half hours later and, although I have not emerged as a real convert, I will admit that I enjoyed the movie more than I had expected to.Dicken's classic tale of a young orphan who travels to London to find his fortune, but who instead becomes involved with a gang of pickpockets, is given a lavish musical overhaul by director Carol Reed. I'm not sure how faithful an adaptation of the book it is, but if spectacular song and dance numbers are your thing, then you sure aren't going to be disappointed by this film; impressive choreography and memorable tunes make Oliver! both a feast for the eyes and ears.The ever reliable Ron Moody and Oliver Reed give memorable performances as streetwise thieves Fagin and Bill Sykes, whilst Jack Wild is impressive as über-urchin The Artful Dodger. Shani Wallis ably plays likable tart-with-a-heart Nancy, and several other familiar British faces fill out the smaller roles with aplomb.In fact, it is only Mark Lester as Oliver who lets things down a bit compared with his co-stars, his performance is weak. Lester's Oliver is extremely lifeless compared to the other colourful characters he shares the screen with (I thought his singing voice was weak too, but have since learnt that it was dubbed by a woman). It's hard to believe such a wet-blanket could survive a poorhouse, travel solo to London, and survive on its mean streets.Towards the end the film becomes a lot darker in tone, with poor old Nancy coming a cropper at the hands of nasty Sykes, and it also manages to throw in a doozy of a coincidence the kindly rich man who takes Oliver into his home turns out to be his Uncle (now what are the chances of that happening?).At 153 minutes, the film is about half-an-hour too long&#151;one can only take so many dancing Cockney's before the novelty wears thin&#151;but even so, Oliver! is worth giving a go. "},{"Title":"Even Dickens himself would like this one.","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Me and my girlfriend, Annette, watched this together and we'll both comment.Both of us really enjoyed watching this even though it took some liberties with Dicken's work. A lot of Dicken's works are somewhat dark and dreary (including Oliver Twist), but this movie changed all that. It was fun, colourful (both visually and musically), and the characters were more lighthearted.TRAVIS Normally, I don't care a lot for musical and dance movies, but the tunes in this production were catchy and lively, and the choreography was awesome.ANNETTE That's really saying a lot coming from Travis. I can't emphasise enough how really good the dance numbers were. You can tell, for example, that those boys really worked hard getting the routines down to perfection.TRAVIS Three actors really stood out IMO; Nancy (Shani W.), Bill Sykes (Oliver Reed), and Artful Dodger (Jack Wild). Man, that Oliver Reed can really do a good villain. That one scene where you see his eyes thru the mail slot gave me chills down the back...AWESOME. And that kid Jack Wild was a perfect Artful Dodger. And Nancy was fantastic (man, I felt bad when she got killed). She can sing too! Kudos to the casting department on their choices there. I hated the Oliver Twist kid tho. He was just too whiny and wimpy for my taste. (I kept wishing Bill Sikes would drop him off into the mud during the chase scene.) And they shouldn't have had him sing either.ANNETTE Acting was truly superb. In addition to the three stars Travis mentioned, I felt Ron Moody (Fagin) did a tremendous job. He was so funny, and at the same time lightly sinister too. The supporting actors were great too. Harry Secombe carried his Mr. Bumble role extremely well. And he has a wonderful singing voice. I saw Mr. Secombe perform in another movie entitled Davy where he played an opera singer with pleasing results. The talented Harry Secombe should have been in a lot more movies.TRAVIS As I mentioned earlier the story isn't quite true to the book, but IMO it was more robust. This movie was not boring either, as some musicals seem to be. And the continuity kept you moving right along with the characters. The tunes did not detract from the plot or put you to sleep by being too long.ANNETTE Any musical movie which Travis watches completely has to be a rare find. And this one is indeed a rare find. It is a very easy-to-watch production which carries the viewer smoothly and enjoyably through to the end. In a day when movies all seem to be effects combined with pretty faces, this was a refreshing interlude.Our combined rating for this was 8.5 of 10. (We'll round up to 9 in this case.).TRAVIS I rated this a 7 mainly because the Oliver Twist kid (Mark L.) irritated me, and his songs were torture to my overly sensitive ears. Otherwise, it was an outstanding movie.ANNETTE My rating is a 10. Movies don't get much better than this. And you can tell everyone involved in this production really worked hard to make it what it was...a masterpiece.Please don't miss this one...even if you normally don't like musicals. It really is a rare treat. "},{"Title":"Oliver! Is One of Oscar's Suspects.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Good timing and some sympathy for director Carol Reed would be enough to lift this suspect musical to the top of the cinematic universe in 1968 as the year's Best Picture Oscar winner. It is a pure musical that could annoy as easily as it delights. Charles Dickens' titled character (youngster Mark Lester) has never looked this good on film though. The film's small details and smart performances are the greatest attributes here. Oscar-nominees Ron Moody and a young Jack Wild make the biggest impressions. Oliver Reed and Hugh Griffith are among those in the supporting cast. Definitely a curiosity today, Oliver! was the first film to win the Best Picture Oscar under the rating system. It remains the only G-rated film to win the big prize. Good, but far from classic fare. 4 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"Loud, big and good","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Musicalization of Charles Dickens' Oliver Twist.  Oliver (Mark Lester) escapes from an orphanage and falls in with a gang of boy thieves led by Fagan (Ron Moody).  The film is a little too long (2 1/2 hours) and some songs go on forever, but mostly it's engrossing, fun and colorful.  Lester has a beautiful voice as Oliver, but he's no actor--I mean, where is he today.  However, he's more than helped by Moody (who's exceptional), Jack Wild (as the Artful Dodger), Oliver Reed and Shani Wallis (Mr and Mrs Sykes).  All the songs are good, the dances incredible and basically lots of fun.  However,it DOES get dark and violent at the end--maybe too much for very young kids.  That aside, it's a perfect family film.  Try to see it letter-boxed. "},{"Title":"A fabulous film","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I really love this movie.  I remember one time when I was in 2nd >grade, my teacher showed it to us on a 16mm film reel.  This movie, however, can be a little frightening for 2nd graders such as the scene where Bill murders Nancy and seeing Fagin's face for the first time on the screen. One of my relatives is sick of seeing this movie because she studied over it in music class. If I were a teacher and could grade the people who produced this wonderful film, I would give them an A+. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oliver! is a swell musical adaptation of the classic Charles Dickens novel. The film puts a darkest twist on the source material, but nonetheless it makes for an entertaining family film. The songs are done very well and everyone showed true musical talent. It is a film about the willingness of a boy to survive despite living in poverty and even being kidnapped by ruffians. In all, one of the underrated films of the 1960's. This film is about a boy named Oliver who runs away from the orphanage and decides to live with a bunch of boys who are trained as pickpockets by the villainous Fagin and Sikes. I thought the acting was fairly good. Mark Lester as Oliver did a good job , and is better than most child actors from that time period. Oliver Reed stole the show as the evil Sikes and Ron Moody likewise as Fagin. Finally, I think Jack Wild did a pretty good job as the Artful Dodger. Overall, Oliver! is a fine movie and a good musical adaptation of the classic Dickens novel, Oliver Twist. As a family movie, it works perfectly! The whole family can sit down and enjoy this tale about a boy who gets himself into trouble. The movie can be serious at time, but there are some funny moments to be had thanks to the bumbleness of Fagin. A rather good source for family entertainment. My Grade A- "},{"Title":"great production with iconic songs","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Olive Twist (Mark Lester) is one of the many orphans working in the Dickensian workhouse. He asks for more gruel angering Bumble who sells him into servitude to Mr. Sowerberry the undertaker. Facing more punishment, he escapes to London where he meets the Artful Dodger. He's brought to old criminal Fagin, the leader of the gang of pickpocketing kids.It's a grand production with some great songs. The translation to the big screen worked out for this movie. It's a bit dark for a kids movie unlike 'Annie' or 'Wizard of Oz'. There is a darker moodiness in the story and music. It's still one of the great movie musicals and needs to be seen by lovers of the genre. "},{"Title":"Wow!  Why can't todays movies be like this? Genius. An inspiration.....","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Going to today's movies feels like attending a barbaric assault on ones senses. There's the foul rotten language, the pervasive sex (heter, bi, trans and homo), the messages that 1) all humans are evil 2) the human condition is one of desperation and 3) the means justify the end. Oliver! transcends all of this with superb acting, script, direction and production. Oliver! is a masterpiece that will never die because its the epitome of quality. I went on line after seeing Oliver! and bought the Blu Ray disc off Amazon. It will now take a prominent position in my DVD collection. Thank you actors, directors, writers and producers for bringing the viewing public a reminder of how good movies can truly be, even when its this rare. "},{"Title":"A fun way to experience the Dickens classic","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Even as a young child, I had an interest in Charles Dickens. My grandmother knew that, and she took me to a production of the musical Oliver! at a local theatre. I remember it started and becoming instantly perplexed and enthralled. The first scene I can picture quite distinctly the orphans running around the stage, singing food, glorious food!. However, I had forgotten that this indeed was that musical; until I started watching. When I heard the song, it brought me back to that theatre and I became all the more excited about watching this movie. What is better than a movie adaptation of a Broadway musical based on a Charles Dickens novel that I saw as a child? Not much, in my opinion, although I was hoping for more recollections similar to that first one. What a shame. You probably know the plot of this tale but I will tell it anyway After young orphan Oliver Twist dares to ask for more gruel at an English workhouse, he is punished, runs away, and finds himself among young pickpockets in the great city of London. They are all cared for by a jolly man named Fagin. But Fagin's boss, Bill Sikes, is not so jolly. His whole goal seems to be making the lives of the boys, his wife, and Fagin more difficult. The musical is a fun and enchanting way to tell this otherwise dark tale. The songs are upbeat, though, in my opinion, not super memorable or catchy. The highlight was Ron Moody as the peacemaker Fagin. All in all, a fun way to experience the Dickens classic. "},{"Title":"Comment on versatility","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The man who directed 'The Third Man' also directed the 'Who Will Buy' sequence in Oliver! Now that is talent.I raise my hat to Carol Reed.I know there are 'second units' involved, but still ...And he had to deal with Orson Welles and Oliver Reed ...I suppose quality will out.(It does show in the final scene with Nancy  avoiding spoiler - everyone has to see Oliver! for the first time sometime .) How many lines do I need to type.Encouraging people to type too much is not to be encouraged.I hope this counts as the 10th line. "},{"Title":"The classic screen adaptation of Lionel bart's musical","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Difficult to fault. Victorian London is perfectly summoned in all it's admirable pomp and Hogarthian grime as a backdrop to this genius musical re-appropriation of Dickens. All the players are unbeatable. Mark Lester could so easily have been marginalised with so many pungent characters given great performances but gives as good as he gets - no blonde moppet he. That said, the quartet of rogues with which this film, musical and indeed story will forever be associated are magnificent. Ron Moody had played Fagin on stage before coming in front of Carol Reed's cameras. He is all things to all men, theatrical and utterly believable. Oliver Reed's Sykes is a monster and the original tart with a heart, Shani Wallis' Nancy will break yours. Top of my list though is the late Jack Wild as Dodger, the anti-Oliver, the template for scallywags ever since. The choreography is excellent. The singing is excellent. The photography is excellent. The supporting cast are excellent. Why on earth anyone cough-ahem-Polanski-nggrrh-cough would want to try and remake Oliver with this version extant is entirely beyond me. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Has stood the test of time","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This is one of my favourite musicals and still feels as fresh today although it was released many years ago.It is a film I have seen a few times now but it is still a firm family favourite and it is easy to see why.Firstly,the songs are terrific and many of them have become standards in their own right.'As Long As He Needs Me','Food Glorious Food','Pick A Pocket Or Two','I'd Do Anything',the list goes on and on.The dance numbers are equally impressive with the segments for 'Consider Yourself' and 'Who Will Buy?' a triumph in imagination and choreography.Then there is the cast which is excellent.Although Mark Lester can't really sing or dance he is a delight as Oliver.Jack Wild scores highly as Dodger,Shani Wallis is fine as Nancy and many of the supporting roles are very well played.I have always felt though that Ron Moody is the real standout here as Fagin.He is fabulous in the role.Charming,sly,corrupt and very entertaining.Special mention must also go to Oliver Reed as Bill Sikes.I do feel that his role sometimes gets overlooked but for me his is the best performance of the role I have seen.He exudes menace and most definitely looks like a man that would slit your throat in an instant.A very good and underrated performance.This is a very entertaining movie and a real treat for the whole family.The settings are brilliantly mounted and give a real feel to the world of Dickens that truly transport you back to the grime and dirt of the period.Very well directed and well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Oliver Twist in a Whole New Way","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I knew musical motion pictures of the 1960s and below could actually be entertaining, exciting, and even joyful to children to even today! I saw this movie in General Music on the last two weeks of school. It was kind of an educational film if you were in General Music, how the music and the story goes together. Very delightful.Before, I never knew anything about Oliver Twist. Oliver! has made me not require to read a five-hundred page book, or even listen to it on tape, but to watch the exciting film that can even inspire or motivate viewers! I highly recommend this movie to your friends, children, or whoever to watch and see the book in song and video. "}{"Title":"A genuinely wonderful and moving musical.","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This is one of the most enjoyable musicals ever made. Detail dorks may quibble over the fact that the musical's versions of Fagan and the Artful Dodger are cleaned up and gentled compared with how sleazy they were in the book but musicals aren't meant to be slavish imitations of their source material.If you're looking for a playful adaptation of the Dickens story and not a gloomy one this is must-see entertainment. This musical is perfect for holiday viewing and is appropriate for all members of the family. Sure there is some violence but compared with what today's jaded youngsters are used to seeing even the most extreme scene toward the end will seem almost wholesome.Each of the songs is given a magnificent visual treatment and the only true weakness is the star's poor singing voice. His rendition of Where Is Love is so bad it will have you longing for Leonard Nimoy's odd version in nothing flat. The song for Bill Sikes is wisely left out since seeing Oliver Reed burst into song would have broken the sinister air surrounding his character.If the movie prompts you to read the novel you're in for some real surprises. Even as it is the movie's weird jewelry among the sewage scene is something we all could have done without. "},{"Title":"An Extremely Likable Screen Version of an Extremely Likable Stage Musical","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The last good old-fashioned musical of the 1960s, Oliver! is of course a musicalized version of Charles Dickens' classic novel Oliver Twist. If the bouncy-jouncy treatment eliminates much of what is dark about the book (and which the 1948 David Lean version nicely captures), it makes up for it in colorful and splashy production numbers. At this time in Hollywood, studios were trying to make big musicals but in an arty way, copping trendy cinematic conventions to tell hopelessly stage-bound stories -- thus it gave us Camelot and Funny Girl and other gangly products. So it's refreshing that no effort was made to make Oliver! the least bit cinematic. It looks and moves like a stage production; the sets look like stage sets. Therefore, the movie retains everything that made the musical good in the first place.Luckily, and smartly, the film also decided to retain Ron Moody in the central role of Fagin, recreating his Broadway performance, rather than wedge some big-shot movie star into the film who would look ridiculous mouthing the words to someone else's singing voice. The score, one of my favorites, sounds terrific, and most of the songs are kept intact, with the addition of one written specifically for the film, As Long As He Needs Me, which has subsequently been integrated into stage productions. Some of the show-stopping highlights include the Consider Yourself number, Fagin's You've Got to Pick a Pocket or Two, in which he teaches Oliver how to be a crack petty thief, the Who Will Buy? dance sequence, and Nancy's boozy song, Oom-Pah-Pah, which serves a different and more effective purpose in the film than it did in the stage version.Carol Reed, known for his stylish Graham Greene screen adaptations The Fallen Idol and The Third Man, does directing honors here, and he won the Best Director Oscar for his efforts, most likely because the Academy felt guilty for not awarding him for much worthier efforts (the exact same reasoning landed George Cukor an Oscar for My Fair Lady four years earlier).Grade A "},{"Title":"Almost a ten!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I feel terrible about where I had to rate this film because over all I really love this musical.Costumes, music, choreography, cinematography - all first rate! The cast was truly engaging. Ron Moody and Jack Wild deserved all their awards and will always be looked to as the models for those characters. However, the choice of casting Mark Lester as Oliver Twist was a disastrous miscalculation. Beautiful to look at, perhaps a very nice guy, but in this part had the personality of seaweed. He did not make me care about Oliver and the voice could not even be considered sweet - just annoyingly weak (Yes, I know that it was dubbed). He really brought the high quality of this whole production down. "},{"Title":"The musical masterpiece that Charles Dickens himself would have directed","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Please Sir, I want some MORE?? MOOOOOOOOOORE!!!!!!!!!!! Of all musicals that I have seen to date, this musical in my opinion ranks as the greatest to be ever produced in the history of theater and cinematography. Needless to say that this musical is a superbly excellent adaption of Charles Dicken's lengthy Victorian novel Oliver Twist. Lionel Bart's Oliver could not have been better and perfectly fulfills the main theme of the original novel in delivering to the screen within two hours, whilst keeping the audience entertained and involved at every moment. I just cannot see how this perfect piece of work could have been improved . Having read the original novel by Charles Dickens, I believe that the musical interpretation of Lionel Bart would have made Charles Dickens very proud.I recall my late mother taking me to the cinema to see Oliver back in 1976 when I was ten years old and I was surprised to learn some years later that it was released in 1968, yet still shown on the big screen at the time. The cast selected for the roles were also perfect for the characters portrayed. Mark Lester in the role of Oliver was so angelic and innocent, being a true ambassador for both past and present orphans &/or unfortunate children who could truly see themselves as Oliver. Shani Wallace as Nancy would qualify as anyone's older sister or Guardian angel, who risks her safety and life for Oliver's welfare. Oliver Reed as Bill Sykes and Ron Moody as Fagin are perfect in their roles as rogues. Who could forget Sir Harry Secombe in his role as Mr. Bumble. Jack Wild is the artful Dodger and his facial expressions tell you this immediately. The musical tracks Consider Yourself, Food Glorious Food and I would do anything for you dear, anything adds a euphoria to the whole musical. Those beautiful breathtaking Victorian sceneries of London and the meat markets just take you to another world as one imagines in fairly tales.Although Oliver is an entertaining and merry musical, it delivers a duality of messages. The merriness of the musical is entertaining and enlightening, whilst it simultaneously portrays the misfortunes and sadness of the ordeals experienced by those of lower socio economic backgrounds. In Victorian times orphans and the poor were the most vulnerable and exploited amongst society, especially with the consequences of the industrial revolution. Many orphan children in Victorian times would die before reaching the age of five. I guess that when Charles Dickens first wrote this novel, he was trying to diplomatically protest factual issues disguised in his fictitious novels to raise to the public's attention that what was happening was not right, as he himself had endured poverty in his earlier life. Oliver is born an orphan and exploited in the workhouses, only to be discovered by accident at a later date that he is related to a noble important person. The message is do not take advantage of anyone as that anyone could be someone very dear to you. Most importantly, we should never take advantage of anybody regardless of who they are!!! Therefore, there are powerful and impacting morals to this masterpiece, just as with Dicken's other superb novel Great Expectations. The theme behind Oliver, is still the same today with how underprivileged children and the underclass are still suffering and exploited in modern times, at no fault of their own. This musical is timeless and I always get a tear to my eye every time I watch it, as it brings back so many of my fond childhood memories and that is every time it is screened on television. Thankfully it has a happy ending. (In loving memory of my precious late mother Agnesina D'Alessio, March 21,1929 - July 12, 2006, who had a special love for all children) "},{"Title":"One of the best classics.","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" It was the year 2000. My English Literature teacher was showing this to the class as part of our lesson. And I remembered she told us that we need to watch the movie musical very carefully for she would discuss some things being raised and mentioned in this movie musical.Now though I had forgotten some of what had been happening in the movie musical, one of Charles Dickens' most famous works is still ringing in my head.A tale of an orphaned boy Oliver who managed to get out of an orphanage in London, ran into some delinquents and being friends with them. I still remembered the main plot over there.What I remembered the most was the singing that comes along with it. If my English Literature teacher at that time never reminded us beforehand that we had to watch it carefully, I don't think I will do that. For what happened throughout the movie musical is almost so fascinating to me.One of the best out there. Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Spectacular and Colourful! Powerful! Unforgettable! Moving!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oliver is one of those films that will live for all time! Fagin is amazing, the music memorable, Dicken's story is faithfully treated and is also directed skillfully by Sir Carol Reed. Oliver Reed is perfect as Bill Sykes, and though Fagin is treated lightly, his evil conniving clearly shows through because Sykes is the product of Fagin's teaching and schemes.Just simply a spectacular film, with memorable musical sequences and glorious, colourful imagery. An unforgettable film of the highest quality. A must see! A film with great character that evokes powerful emotions, one you will never forget! Contrasts of the poverty and wealth in 19th Century London are starkly recreated!Every song is lyrical and tuneful. A brilliant rendition of a wonderful story that employs dazzling and breathtaking imagery! "},{"Title":"A great musical","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I saw this movie in 1968 when it came out with my brother. Had the Broadway cast album memorized long before. I was not disappointed, and I watch it probably twice a year.I only have a couple of problems First is with two numbers that are often regarded as highlights Consider Yourself, and Who Will Buy? Could either of these numbers possibly be any longer? Particularly the second one. As a 4 year old, I got the message of this song after 30 seconds. It just seems to go on interminably, as does the former. But I love the counterpoint. Essentially the same approach only on 2 opposing socio-economic classes.The second problem I have is that Mark Lester is over-miked. You can hear every bit of saliva rolling around in that boys head, and I found it distracting. Plus he was a little more effeminate than suggested in the novel.Small moments from each song are so broad that I think they detract from the seriousness of the material. I know it's technically musical comedy, and I should lighten up.These are minor. Ron Moody is brilliant. Shani Wallis has such warmth that I fell in love with her at age 4, and was devastated by what happens to poor Nancy. This is one of the greats! "},{"Title":"Hollywood got it right","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" One of the few stage musicals to have received a reasonably faithful adaptation on the silver screen. The casting is superb. One minor fault is the cutting of a few numbers from the stage version. The film works very well without them though.A response to the poor soul who railed against the musicalization of the classics. While I agree that some musicalizations of classic literature, especially those based on Gothic horror novels, do leave much to be desired, I find Oliver! to be an exception. It's awfully hard to find fault with Lionel Bart's fresh, lively score. The music and lyrics are very well-written and true to the spirit of Dickens' novel. They do the job of furthering the story and defining the emotions of the characters as integrated musicals of this type should do. And I think the comment about the musicalization of classic literature to improve it is a bit misguided. The idea is not to improve on what has been written, but to simply give it life in a different medium. Oliver! should be judged for what it is, and solely in the medium to which it belongs. Judging it that way, Oliver! is one of the best, no question. "},{"Title":"Oliver!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I had the opportunity to play Bill Sykes in our High School Musical actually and was able to get to know this screenplay very well. The plot is excellent and the songs do an amazing job of portraying the situation. Many songs have an incredibly upbeat tune, only to find the words are very dark. I was disappointed to find, however, that they cut Bill Sykes singing parts completely. In the original musical, Bill Sykes had two songs, one of which was entitled My Name and was his opportunity to terrorize the Three Cripples Bar and the other was the reprise of Its a Fine Life. Over all though, the movie was excellent. The dialogue is great and the actors do a wonderful job. "},{"Title":"Just Wonderful","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A beautifully produced family film. Lionel Bart's amazing talent shines through, especially in the character Fagin, whom Ron Moody portrays with incredible subtlety, and accuracy... the part particularly well written no doubt, due to Barts' own Jewish roots (as were Fagins'). virtually every song is memorable in it's own way (always a sign of a good musical. I first saw this film in the year it was released...or shortly after, and as a young lad loved the 'Food Glorious Food' song... but mum would never give me cold jelly and custard!... today... I still love it and have my own DVD that my wife bought me... now... my favorite song is, Fagins' closing number.' I'm reviewing, the situation'.. Moody's timing when he sings it is utter perfection. So sad that Bart was reputed to have sold the rights for just £150.. could that really be true?..if so he was robbed...ironic really! "}{"Title":"Consider Yourself at Home","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oliver Twist is a story of the ugliness of the underside of London. Some of the best versions have been some of the darker ones. This strays somewhat from that, romanticizing things a bit. But at the center is great musical with a great story. I heard that Jack Wilde died the other day. I always saw his impishness as so much a part of the Dickens creation. When I saw pictures of him later in life, even just before his death, he still projected that impishness. Ron Moody, Fagin, cast in the book with the worst anti semitic portrayals, rises above that. He still has that optimism, despite being forced into the dark corners of London. The songs are the best and the production numbers unparalleled. Consider Yourself, Who Will Buy This Wonderful Morning, Where is Love?, and You Gotta Pick a Pocket or Two are so much fun. Oliver Reed as Bill Sykes rounds it all off. I took a group of 8th graders to see this when it first came out. It was at a state of the art, wide screen theatre. Except for a couple of our folks getting caught smoking in the bathroom, the kids were really into it. Not easy for junior high kids and a musical. Even the smokers kind of got into the spirit by being bad. If you ever get an opportunity to see this on a big screen. Do it. It is a big movie. "},{"Title":"Still an Excellent movie","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" As a minority I can understand the sensitivity toward racist stereotypes . Oliver Twist is an excellent movie and musical, I do think it's a shame that it has been labeled anti-semitic by many, we would have to shun many great literary stories if we are overly-sensitive to every label.The truth is the modern media and society still relies on stereotypes whether it's gender, race or labeling a social group. Every movie you see or show has it inter-weaved. You see the implication someone is a jock, nerd, too masculine or feminine. This adaptation is the best Oliver Twist movie I have seen and I will share it with my children, we can use the issues and Jewish stereotype as a point of discussion about prejudice and ignorance.As adults we can disseminate what is ignorant and discard that information to enjoy the film, and if you allow your children to watch any TV at all a responsible adult will discuss everything that is not PC with commercials, movies shows and even cartoons. "},{"Title":"Oliver! Oh Oliver! How Good You Are! ****","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Sir Carol Reed, known primarily for directing British dramas of the 1940s and 1950s, hit the jackpot in this Oscar-winning 1968 musical based on Oliver Twist, by Charles Dickens.A poor boy begs for food at an orphanage. Escaping, he falls in with a band of thieves, led by an adept Ron Moody, who conveys his part as Fagin, so beautifully. He meets the Artful Dodger, skillfully played by Jack Wild.There is also Bill Sykes, the real vicious leader of the gang and his girlfriend, an impressive Shani Wallis. When Wallis belts out As Long As He Needs Me, you know she means it all the way. Defying Sykes costs her her life, but her sacrifice saves young Oliver.Oliver is really from a wealthy family. Abandoned by his mother out of shame, he will eventually find his way back to his home but not before much difficult maneuvering.The singing and dancing are delightful. Renditions of Consider Yourself Part of the Family are memorable.Just consider Oliver! a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Unmissable","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" My dad got me a VHS, (in the old days) of this movie, and i still cant get over it. The songs haunt me, the memory of the dances still make me smile, although i'm hunting fervently for the DVD, the old VHS was lost a while back.This movie is such a brilliant adaptation, because it adds so much more to the story. It is a musical to the core, with a song every two minutes and certainly these are the songs one often hears in school singing competitions.The choreography is enchanting, the performances gripping, especially of the young boys, Oliver and Dodge are amazing.This movie should be seen by children because it will enchant them and they will certainly enjoy it all through their lives. "},{"Title":"Good Movie-Spoiler for both the novel and the movie","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" No version of Oliver Twist has been completely faithful to the novel, and Oliver is no exception. It may be that the versions may be better than the novel, but I think one should read the novel.One problem with the novel is that Fagin is called the Jew. As Dickens said, all the other villains in Oliver Twist (and the rest of his novels) are gentiles. Also, Fagin is a secular Jew. Religion has no part in his life. Later, Dickens created a good Jew in Our Mutual Friend. Mind you, Jews have paid a price for Fagin.There are a lot of differences in Oliver! and the novel. A major thing is that in the novel, Fagin sets up Sykes to kill Nancy (the reasons she dies differs than the movie). Fagin in the movie is such a positive character, one might forget that he is corrupting children. In the novel, Fagin hangs for killing Nancy. He wanders off with the Artful Dodger in the movie.I did like the movie. Very good. "},{"Title":"Without doubt, the best movie musical of all time","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I just watched this movie again, and its freshness and quality at 26 years of age is amazing. The dance sequences are massive it's as if you did dances to try and match the sheer size of the battle scenes in Spartacus! My only real quibble is with Mark Lester's voice, but that is minor indeed. It's also impressive how sinister Oliver Reed could be, even in a musical role. And Ron Moody is simply without parallel for his manic, yet textured portrayal of Fagin. I know arguments can be made for American in Paris and Singing in the Rain, and good arguments at that, but for me this is the one. Of course, like fine wine, it is a matter of individual preference. Perhaps the greatest indication of the film's quality (like American and Rain) is how well it has stood the test of time. "},{"Title":"A movie NOT to be missed...","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I have been watching this film since I was little and, 2 decades later, it is still one of my favourite movies. As a child i really related to the youngsters who played the major roles and now, as an adult, I admire so much the talent those children had - is acting really that effortless?! Jack Wild (Artful Dodger) really took to his role, it was hard to tell he was only acting! I love the 'accidentally on purpose' placed humour and the way that the actors seem to 'ad-lib' quite a bit of their actions. I am trying to find a critcism that will help tone down this review but, even after only watching it yesterday, I cannot. I recommend anyone to watch this when they're in need of a 'feel good' movie.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful film, no relation to Charles Dickens.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  It would be churlish in the extreme to hurl abuse at this much loved musical just because it has very little in common with Dickens' great novel apart from the names of the characters. So I won't. Instead I will say that this is one of the great movie musicals and one of Carol Reed's finest achievements. What more could you ask from a film than the brilliant Consider Yourself and Who will buy? Just don't expect to hear Charles Dickens applauding. You might however, if you listen very closely, detect the sound of a rapidly rotating corpse........... "},{"Title":"One of the best movie musicals","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This film of Lionel Bart's stage smash OLIVER! takes courageous artistic risks, and they all pay off beautifully.  This film had a huge impact on me at age nine, even made me want to become an actor.Musical theatre is NOT a realistic art form -- it's not supposed to be.  People who don't or can't understand this think musicals are silly, 'unrealistic, or bizarre.  The same could be said of any action film, Shakespeare (who in the world speaks in rhyming couplets!), ballet, MTV videos, or the paintings of artists from El Greco to Picasso.Director Carol Reed catches the proper musical theatre tone perfectly -- a mixture of real life and fantasy that can communicate emotions and human experience more directly and powerfully than kitchen-sink realism ever could.  In song and dance a character can bare his or her soul in ways that are forbidden in realistic drama.Notice how the sets and costumes in this movie are a subtle blend of dirty naturalism and storybook fantasy for instance, realistic buildings set in front of deliberately fake-looking backdrops.  Everything in a musical is what highbrow art critics would call expressionistic, and in this film just about every aesthetic risk pays off.Bart's tunes may not be complex (which is not a criticism simple is good) but their lyrics are always clever and on point while the music is maddeningly catchy.  Every song, every big production number works here, no matter how far they go out on a limb into fantasyland.  In musicals, as in Shakespeare, stylized fantasy is the way you gain access to reality.Ron Moody's Fagin is so stylized, he's almost a cartoon character, yet it works.  We come to see the soul of this complex, conflicted character through his exaggerated exterior -- we know him better than we would with a restrained, naturalistic performance.If you think it's silly when people in musicals burst into song, you simply don't understand the art form.  It's like complaining about a ballet that nobody I know dances like that -- how ridiculous!OLIVER! mixes serious drama, like the horrifying murder of Nancy, with comedy and musical numbers.  Only in musical theatre can such extreme contrasts be brought together with success.  This movie, like LES MIZ, is disconcerting for those who believe for some reason that musicals should be all sweetness and light.For those who get musical theatre, OLIVER! is a treat from beginning to end.  Gripping story, joyful music and dance, suspense, heart-tugging sentiment, heartless cruelty, and unforgettable tunes ... this movie has it all.  The cast and direction are ideal.  A true banquet for lovers of musical theatre. "},{"Title":"Based on the play, loosely based on the book.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Where are the songs My Name and That's Your Funeral? Those were some of the best ones in the musical and the movie version left them out. But enough of my complaining. Here we go.OLIVER TWIST-A young and idealistic orphan who seems to find trouble at every bend. He seems to be a bit naive though. Isn't it obvious that Fagin doesn't run a laundry?THE ARTFUL DODGER-A charismatic young boy who likes bright clothes. Working for the thief Fagin, he's become the best pickpocket the old man has. Becomes Oliver's mentor.FAGIN-An elderly criminal who has trained a group of boys to pickpocket for him in exchange for food and shelter. Although he seems caring and sentimental at times, the crook would abandon his crew if the need arose.NANCY-A prostitute who works at a bar, she's madly in love with the murderer Bill Sykes. Occasionally working with Fagin, she takes a liking to young Oliver.BILL SYKES-Or Sikes, if you like the book's spelling. He's a murderer with a sadistic streak. Despite all the pain he's caused her, Nancy can't bring herself to leave him.MR. BUMBLE-The cruel and bumbling beadle of the workhouse where Oliver spends his first nine years. He later marries the Widow Corney solely for her money, and regrets the decision later. He's out to make his life easier and other lives worse at any cost. He even sells Oliver away.MR. BROWNLOW-A kindly old gentleman who takes Oliver in after the latter is wrongly accused of picking the former's pocket. He later notices the resemblance between his daughter Agnes and young Oliver....hmmmm.....MR. SOWERBERRY-The morbid and proud of it undertaker that buys Oliver from the workhouse for 5 pounds. He's intimidated by Mrs. Sowerberry, who wears the pants in the family. He has a bigger role in the theatre version than in the movie version.NOAH CLAYPOLE-The bully undertaker's apprentice who bullies Oliver, finally going too far when he insults the orphan's dead mother. He later joins Fagin's gang.DR. GRIMWIG-AN old friend of Mr. Brownlow's, he inspects Oliver after the young boy's arrival at Mr. Brownlow's house. He doesn't trust Oliver, and continually promises to eat his own head. He is a very bad doctor.  "}{"Title":"Consider yourself our mate","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is one of the best musicals of all time. And the movie just adds more magic to it. Oliver Twist, Jack Dodger, Fagan, Nancy, and the evil Bill Sykes, it's an exciting adventure. This musical is of course based on Oliver Twist by Charles Dickens. So, if you loved the book, you'll love this movie.Oliver Twist is an orphan boy just looking for a loving family. When he gets into trouble at his orphanage, he is sold to another family. When they aren't the ideal family Oliver was looking for, he runs away to London to find his fortune. He gets to London, and meets The Artful Dodger. Another boy who is an orphan, but independent. He invites Oliver to stay with him and his other boys at a cabin where a man takes care of them. Oliver accepts.He meets the leader of this pack who picks a pocket or two. Fagan. A cowardly man who takes the things the boys steal from other people. And refuses to work. He meets Nancy the next day. A lovely lady who enjoys life. And is charmed by Oliver's lookout. She is married to a man, Bill Sykes, who was raised by Fagan. He steals and kills for him. When Oliver gets into trouble with pick pocketing, he goes to court. But when the man who is the accuser realizes that Oliver was innocent, he takes him into his home. The gang back at Fagan thinks Oliver will squeal on them.I shouldn't go on and give the ending. Just watch this film. If you love musicals, you'll fall for this one.10/10 "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and comical","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I was shown this film when I was quite small, and it is so easy to love the characters. Nancy was my role model, and I thought the fact that the Artful Dodger and Oliver himself were quite young when acting in this wonderful film, the talent is amazing. The music makes you want to get up and dance, and Charles Dickens would have been proud. A great film to watch.  "},{"Title":"This has grabbed me!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Seeing this film has inspired me so much!After watching it about five years ago i liked it so much i joined stage coach! now arranging in a small group two take part in the play of Oliver! after having a big crush on the actor Jack Wild who plays jack dawkin (the artful dodger)tryed two get in contact with him, how stupid was i!    "},{"Title":"Interesting Musical Displays Genre's Inherent Bizarre Nature","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" As a child I always hated being forced to sit through musicals. I never understood why people would break out into song like that, and I was far too young to appreciate the artistry (choreography, set design, costumes, pacing) behind it all. Carol Reed's Oliver! was the one musical I remember oddly enjoying as a child, probably because it is one of the darker ones and is appropriately drenched in the spirit of Dickensian squalor. This is a musical about ghetto life in Victorian London, and while the scenery and set designs are stark, dark, and true to that way of life, it is flat out bizarre for people to be breaking out into such ridiculous songs amidst their misery. Upon a recent viewing, my first since childhood, I have some new thoughts and insights into why this musical works in that bizarre breaking out into song kind of way, and why most just don't do it for me.When musicals work or really say something, it is because they realize their own inherent strangeness. Lars von Trier's Dancer in the Dark as tragic and operatic and over reaching as it was, worked as a musical because the musical numbers were the products of the imagination of the protagonist, an immigrant obsessed with Hollywood musicals. Likewise, the very cynical and enjoyable Chicago worked on a similar level because the musical numbers were the products of a homicidal ingenue singer/dancer. Musicals don't work when they take their own musical-nature too seriously (like in Moulin Rouge) or are simply too much fluff about nothing (i.e. something pointless like Mary Poppins). Upon viewing Oliver! for the first time as an adult, I saw it in a new light. Told mostly from the point of view young Oliver, I saw the musical numbers as the products of his childhood imagination and his way of coping with the horrors of ghetto life around him. The best musical number was probably when Nancy got everyone in the tavern signing and dancing about the joys of getting drunk (as a cover to help poor Oliver escape the clutches of the evil Bill Sykes). It was undeniably catchy and sounded like a real pub tune that drunks might start singing around a piano. There are other great and classic tunes to be heard here, and the direction and acting from the leads to the dancing extras are all top notch.Still, for all its bleakness (although it does have a happy ending for Oliver at least, though certainly things didn't end happily for Nancy, and unless you think a life on the streets being a pick-pocket is fun, it wasn't a necessarily a good ending for Fagin or the Dodger, despite their peppy closing tune) I wouldn't really classify this as a family film, though I don't think showing it to kids over the age of seven or eight will do any harm. This is a harsh tale about an unfortunate orphan trying to survive on the streets and find some happiness. I think it would be very interesting to see a modern update on this some how, perhaps a revisionist take on it, where people on the streets of Compton break into happy songs about their horrible lives. I'd like to see a hard-edged hip-hop version of Oliver!. I always thought Dickens would translate well in those regards. As it stands, Oliver! was probably the last of the great film musicals and maybe the strangest G-rated film I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A fond childhood memory","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Though I've seen it since (and still enjoy it thoroughly), it was back in 1968 when I first saw this magical musical in the theatre. I was eight years old and completely captivated came out of the State imitating Oliver Twist, while my friend was likened to the Artful Dodger! Truly one of the last great musicals, it takes the viewer back to an atmospheric London of the early nineteenth century where the most colourful characters imaginable are fascinations to watch. The entire cast is sterling Mark Lester makes a sensitive, very appealing Oliver while Ron Moody is perfect as Fagin.  The rascally Artful Dodger is synonymous with Jack Wild, Bill Sikes is suitably boorish as played by Oliver Reed & Shani Wallis is a very vivacious as Nancy.  The dance choreographer, Onna White did a great job with the musical numbers, and although the musical score isn't spectacular, it's certainly well sung. Particularly memorably beautiful is the scene in Mayfair where Oliver is seen looking out of his bedroom window while the various street peddlars inquire hauntingly WHO WILL BUY? Deservedly the BP AA  winner of 1968, its a timeless delight full of thrills, laughter and tears. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" One of the last great musicals of the 60s. I was 7 years old the first time I saw this movie, and it's always been a favorite since then. The musical numbers are all memorable. In the 60s the people who were cast in musicals actually had musical talent (unlike a CERTAIN Academy Award nominated current musical based in a large midwestern city). All of the main roles were beautifully cast...Ron Moody shines as Fagin, as does Shani Wallis as Nancy. Oliver Reed was a menacing Bill Sikes (who thankfully has no musical numbers, lol), and Mark Lester as Oliver and Jack Wild as the Dodger were great too. Mark Lester comes across as an innocent waif, which was what Dickens intended when he wrote the book! Then, of course there are the dozens of dancers who perform in consider yourself, I'd Do Anything Who Will Buy and be Back Soon, many who were children! This is a great show for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is one of my most favorite musicals of all time!  Ron Moody, Oliver Reed, Jack Wild, and Mark Lester were great for their parts.  The songs were fun and the story was really good. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oliver Twist","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  It was the best movie I ever saw! The Characters were funny. My favorite character is the Artful Dodger. I even want to do the play!  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  OLIVER!, is one of the best musicals. I loved every song, and usually in the other musicals like west side story, and singin in the rain theres a couple songs that I have to skip through. I loved every moment of this film, and I highly recommend it to everyone who likes musicals. ****. "},{"Title":"Wonderful musical","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  It is one of my favorites musical films. Mark Lester is the lovely perfect Oliver Twist, Ron Moody is absolutely splendid as Fagin, Jack Wild so funny in the role of Artful Dodger and the rest of crew was simply perfect. This is one of that movies in which everything is right, actors, director, screenplay, rhythm, dancing numbers... and the best, the musical score, Lionel Bart the composer was a genius. And the spirit of Dickens novel planes over all, what a atmosphere in London White Chapel. Excellent, unforgettable. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece of musical Film!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"   OLIVER! stands out as one of a handful of musical films that successfully do their stage predecessors proud. Infact the film version has many moments superior to the play.  The screenplay takes much more of a clue from Dickens actual writing,making it darker than its stage parent. The comic relief however is also handled brilliantly.  Ron Moody was born to play Fagin,he recreates his original stage role with aplomb. Equally mesmerizing,comcal and pathetic. His reviewing the situation is the musical highlight of the film.  Oliver Reed is a menacing Bill Sykes...never did a more fearsome perormance do justice to the role.  the standout supporting portrayals come from the late great comic geniuses Sir Harry Secombe and Leonard Rossiter. Secombe make Bumble the strutting self important poppinjay he should be..and delivers a haunting rendition of Boy For Sale..unfortunately they cut his duet with Mrs. Corney,I Shall Scream.  Rossiter shines in his role of Mr. Sowerberry,the Workhouse Undertaker. An actor of unlimited skill all he need do is peer from the window and stretch a  long finger to Bumble as he arrives with the boy and he hooks you. Again the producers decided to cut the Thats Your Funeral number which would have shown more of Rossiter's comic mastery. Over all  Oliver! works as a dramatic slice of life for the poor and  oppressed of London and as a timeless musical classic. "},{"Title":"a bit of everything","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  this movie has some of the best tunes ever from a musical. everybody over the age of 15 knows, at least, the melody to a few of these memorable classics. the movie itself has every aspect needed to make a great movie. love, hate, comedy, suspense, murder, music, and a fantastic happy ending for both oliver and dodger and fagin. this is a 10 in my books if ever there was one.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the best musical ever.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is one of my all time favourite films. And as a theatrical type, I have played in the stage version of the Lionel Bart classic many times over, recently taking the supporting role of Noah Claypole. I love this musical. Oliver! has 2 things that make it a very sucessful film and/or a stage production. 1) It stays true to the original story by Charles Dickine. 2) It has amazing musical scores.A fantasic family film. Especially nice to watch in the holiday seasons. "},{"Title":"the last of the Hollywood musicals","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The finale of the big Hollywood musical genre ended with a rousing song and dance in OLIVER!. Sir Carol Reed directed what was to be one of the last musicals that would make it big at the box office. FIDDLER ON THE ROOF, CABARET, MAN OF LA MANCHA, MAME, ANNIE and A CHORUS LINE would follow the transitional pattern of stage to screen and while ANNIE and CHORUS LINE are perennial favorites of millions only FIDDLER and CABARET remain big successes following the end of the musical genre; MAN OF LA MANCHA and MAME were both seriously embarrassing disasters and they lack the quality and stamina that their original stage predecessors conveyed.In OLIVER!, Reed directed his nephew, the late Oliver Reed as Bill Sikes, the great Ron Moody as Fagin, the bewitching, pixie-like Shani Wallis as Nancy and newcomer Mark Lester as Oliver, the love-starved waif looking for a home of his own. The songs, most notably CONSIDER YOURSELF, WHERE IS LOVE?, AS LONG AS HE NEEDS ME and WHO WILL BUY? are among some of the best Broadway-to-Hollywood tunes ever filmed. The film does have a distinctive English look and sound to it but people everywhere (esp. the kiddies) are still enjoying it today. Television has been turning out several different musical remakes in the past ten years (including GYPSY, BYE, BYE BIRDIE, CINDERELLA, and ANNIE) as a way of recovering what the major studios had lost when those films didn't quite make it at the box office. It would be a grave mistake if they were to remake this film (let alone THE KING AND I, WEST SIDE STORY, MY FAIR LADY or THE SOUND OF MUSIC). Perhaps CAMELOT could be remade but other than that I don't think many other musicals should be touched.  "},{"Title":"Dickens would be proud...","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  And I proud I am!!(my last name is Dickens).  This is the movie that made me appreciate the author who shares my last name. It was that appreciation that drew me towards a love of books and becoming an English Lit major later on in life so, its not an understatement to say that this movie meant alot to me as a child when I first saw it.  Quite simply, this movie works on all level it is great fun and entertainemnt for an adult, and it is spellbiding for a child. It has a grand, BIG feel to it, which sweeps you away into 19th century Industrial England.  The set designer really knocked himself/herself out, and the costumes are all great- you can see this especially in the 'Consider Yourself' number..the attention to detail on the different trades at the time and how they went about their work is just phenomenal.AS for the adaptation, I have seen movies based on Oliver Twist, and this film,IMO,  is dead on with the social commentary that more 'serious' films make.  Yet, it also tries to show the movie, I feel, through young Oliver's eyes, which makes the whole thing so magical. So it has both, the dour social commentary of Dickens' original book and yet the lightheartedness of the eyes of a child, and of the muscial genre in general...sort of like the English version of Fiddler on the Roof.As for the music, what can I say?  A true classic.  There is not one song that I dont enjoy in the film..and the musical numbers while they may not have the great dancing of say the usual R&H musical, but the genius here is the staging. Not only are they entertaining number..but they are also informative..showing you the way the workhouse is run, or what a morning in the center of London is like..or a typical morning in the 'posh' section of London..just wonderful. and this may seem weird, but the thing I always liked best about the music numbers is...they never stop the action. Most films after a huge number stop, then cut to a next scene, but in this film the action keeps on rolling along as if its the most normal thing in the world to have a huge musical number..I dunno, there is just something wonderful about that to me and it makes it standout to other muscials for me.The actors..while none have gone on to be household names...this was their moment to shine. The Best  the young boy who played Dodger and of course, Ron Moody as the lovably-crooked  Fagin..just great performance. Also a young Oliver Reed is great as Bill Sykes and his lady love Nancy is a standout as well. As Oliver well, the boy who plays him(sorry didnt look at the credits) evokes the pathos appropriate for that role.So, in the final analysis..what more can be said. Just a great great shining example of the musical genre, and a brilliant bit of film making no matter the genre. Great songs, great numbers, great sets, great  actors, great designs=  Timeless classic movie. See it and treat yourself.  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is a simple, fun, and extremely entertaining musical from the 'golden age' of the British film industry. Ron Moody steals the show with his manic portrayal of the dastardly but loveable Fagin, Oliver Reed scowls his socks off as the genuinely frightening Bill Sikes, and Shani Wallis is terrific as Nancy. There are also joyful cameos from Leonard Rossiter and Harry Secombe, two fine performers, the likes of which we'll never see again. Mark Lester fails to convince as Oliver, but since he's hardly the core of the film anyway, it doesn't really matter; most of the time he's just there as a human maypole for the other characters to dance around.This film has one of the funniest bits of dialogue I've ever heard. When one of Fagin's dodgers complains that These sausages are mouldy!, Fagin barks back Shut up and drink yer gin!. Pure genius!My favourite sequence is still 'Consider Yourself'. It must've taken a hell of a lot of time to film, because of the sheer scope of the production, but watching it remains a breathtaking experience because it really does look as if it was all done in one breath! See it for yourself, you'll love it.  "},{"Title":"Great stuff.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The other night I dreamt that I was at a stage performance of this musical, and I turned around and Charles Dickens was sitting next to me. When I woke up I put this video on and tried to imagine how he would react if he saw this. I really don't know how he would react. This movie has a lot of things going for it, but I don't think being true to the novel is one of them. Don't get me wrong, I love both the novel and this movie, but I look at them individually as opposed to looking at them as different versions of the same story. I would not reccomend this to anyone who likes their Dickens pure, but it is a great movie regardless. My favourite numbers are Who Will Buy? Be Back Soon and I'd Do Anything. I think the casting is perfect, with the exception of Mark Lester - the kid has no personality and is about as exciting as a plastic straw. Ron Moody is brilliant, not to mention hilarious, as Fagin, Oliver Reed is great too as Sikes, as is Shani Wallis. I have yet to see someone play Nancy to her standard (I might get to meet her in a couple of weeks!!!). I love Jack Wild too, he is the funniest kid. I think it's a real shame that he hasn't done a lot since. Although this gets violent towards the end and may not be suitable for younger viewers, it's still a wonderful musical that has stood the test of time. "},{"Title":"The Last Great Musical","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Carol Reed's brilliant direction of the two biggest musical sequences (Who Will Buy? and Consider Yourself) alone would make this a great film musical, but the film has so much more to offer. Hugh Griffith's drunken magistrate is one of the funniest cameos ever, and Harry Secombe actually carries much of the early part of the film. I can remember little children in th audience being terrified by Oliver Reed's Sykes during the film's post-Oscar reissue. As a period piece it's great there's only one major anachronism (there were no elevated train tracks at the time the film takes place). Also note that the various cable prints consistently transpose images during Who Will Buy?.....the window washers can be seen going up the ladders from the left of the screen or the right, depending on the print. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest musicals of all time!!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I hadn't seen this film in years, though I've had the soundtrack since I was five years old and have faithfully listened to it regularly since, so I was rather excited when I sat down to watch it. One of the surprises of this musical is that is barely strays from the novel; the adaptation is nearly seamless and beautifully orchestrated. What makes this such a brilliant success is the music and songs...it makes Lionel Bart's tragic downward spiral into alcoholism and poverty even more saddening. Each song is powerful, some delightful and others heartening; from Mark Lester's softly sung Where is Love? and Who Will Buy? to Ron Moody's playful antics during Pick a Pocket or Two and Reviewing the Situation. There's never a dull moment, and the balance between song and story is perfect! Ron Moody is the brightest light of the film, his rendition of Fagin, which he also played in the first run of the original stage version, is picture-perfect. From the first moment we meet him, as a leering devil emerging from his smoky lair and holding a sausage on a roasting-fork, his character outshines everyone else without ever dominating the screen. Never overbearing, he plays his role as though he were born for it, and his voice and facial expressions bring Fagin to life. He also has a fabulous counterpart in Jack Wild's The Artful Dodger. Charismatic and well-spoken (for a Cockney;) he lights up the screen whenever he's on it. The other outstanding part of the film is the amazing choreography! The transition from routine to plot to routine is smooth and seamless, and the dances are original and amusing, constant action but never overwhelming. Everything seems to fit and each dancer seems in perfect synchronicity. The movement, the expressions, the music...I could never get tired of watching it unfold! This is a top-notch musical. There was never anything quite like it and I highly doubt there ever will be. Original without ruining the story, Oliver! is pure fun. Enjoyable from the opening sequence to the very end, I give this my highest recommendations! 10/10! "},{"Title":"A First-Rate Job","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This fine show adapted wonderfully to the screen.They took a good piece of work,and made it into an even better one.Moody was the original Fagin,in London,and recreated the role for the screen.Oh,they had to sanitize him,and let him escape at the end(Political Correctness,and all),and keep him as the good-badman-but would the Bnai Brith have let them do otherwise?He's such a delight.Reed,as Sikes,is more sinister than I would have originally expected;I.Reed is also much more intelligent,and is much more disturbed than other interpreters of the role.I always imagine the character was being much louder.Nancy,in this version,assumes a larger part than in the book;she is also much more wholesome.And Secombe's Bumble lacks only the rotund basso-profundo that the score indicates-but he does sing it so well.Several numbers from the stage version have been eliminated,but there is no great loss.Enjoy this well.  "}{"Title":"The last of the truly great movie musicals.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Musicals have been an essential part of the movies, ever since the advent of sound. But today, at least as far as the motion picture industry goes, the era of the great big-studio, big-budget musical extravaganzas has long passed. This is one of the last and most certainly one of the best. Based on Charles Dickens' classic OLIVER TWIST, the film tells of a young orphan boy(Mark Lester) who escapes from his drab life of workhouse servitude, only to fall in with a band of young pick-pockets led by the incorrigible Fagin(Ron Moody, Oscar-nominated). Despite the inclusion of song and dance, the movie sticks fairly close to its source, especially compared to the numerous other film versions. Some may feel that this picture pales in comparison to David Lean's more straightforward 1948 telling, but there is no doubt of which one is the more fun and entertaining film. Lester is delightful in the title role, and is, without a doubt, one of the most appealing child stars of all time. Jack Wild is equally winning as his slick sidekick, The Artful Dodger. In fact, the two worked so well together that they were reunited for the 1971 release MELODY. Oliver Reed is appropriately menacing as the brutish Bill Sykes, and Shani Wallis is lovely as his girlfriend, Nancy. The film was directed by the great Carol Reed, actor Oliver Reed's uncle. "},{"Title":"The Best Pre-Annie movie ever!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  It's the wonderful movie which was based on the Charles Dickens story and it's much better than the 1982 film, Annie. I like that part in Oliver when Fagin, that stupid guy kicked Jack on the booty and when Nancy, her sister, and the boys sang Anything while they were holding umberellas. Oh, yeah. I also like that part when Oliver was holding his bowl at the beginning and said, Please, sir. May I have some more? and even, that guy freaked out, More?! and  I certainly laughed. Even, final Oliver and Jack were pickpockets and robbing people. At least, it's the best family movie I've ever seen in my whole life. "},{"Title":"A film for all ages","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Musicals do not seem to rate too highly in the top 250 list-Singin' in the Rain coming highest at number 40.Many famous musicals such as South Pacific have become very dated whilst others like My Fair Lady and Oliver are as fresh as the day they were released. Sir Carol Reed's superlative direction rightly won him the Oscar for best director in 1968 for Oliver.Ron Moody's Fagin was a masterpiece of comedy and menace - I rewind the video just to see him performing Be back soon and  Reviewing the situation The late Oliver Reed was perfect as the villainous Bill Sykes and Harry Secombe was a memorable Mr Bumble.The juveniles, Mark Lester as Oliver and Jack Wild as The Artful Dodger ( Ain't yer never seen a toff before?) were excellent.Hugh Griffiths brief appearance as a drunken magistrate was a comedy gem.Add Onna White's wonderful choreography to Lionel Bart's music and you have a winning combination. A couple of over sentimental songs with Oliver gets my finger twitching for the fast forward button and the film should have ended with Fagin and the Dodger disappearing into the studio sunset. The final scene with Oliver returning to the safety of the Brownlow home was sickly and un-necessary and should have been cut out.  "},{"Title":"The greatest musical ever made","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  As a lover of musicals this has to be the best musical ever made.The songs are fantastic and it captures the Dickens novel so well that if you read it after watching the film you get a better understanding . Fagin(Ron Moody) gives an excellent performance and is very beliveable as the back street thief who employs children to do his dirty work.As for Ollie Reed well i think he was born to play the roll of bill sykes and Shani Wallis played the best verson of Nancy that i've ever seen.I think that Mark Lester >played a weak Oliver but Jack Wild really is the Artful dodger. The songs are fabulous and you can't help but sing along the scenary is excellent and everything just points to why it collected an oscar. If you hav'nt seen the film i suggest you do so,this film shows British Film making at its best. "},{"Title":"Excellent musical adaptation of a classic novel","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  As each day goes by I hum the melodies of this masterpieces classic songs.The story has been perfectly simplified to include its musical content, creating a watchable balance of dance and drama. Ron Moody is excellent as Fagin and Shani Wallis plays Nancy with such roughness and cockney humour.  Although some of the final scenes may be too violent for very small children, 'Oliver!' is a film to be watched by all. Enjoy and delight in the acting and contagious tunes! "},{"Title":"Very uplifting film","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The last great musical ever made. This movie is beautifully done. The songs are great,the dance scenes are very well done. The acting is excellent right down the line. Ron Moody (Fagin),Oliver Reed (Bill Sykes),and Mark Lester (Oliver), were sensational. The most memorable thing about this film,in my opinion,is that it leaves you feeling good. A very uplifting movie! "},{"Title":"Oliver!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  First class film adaptation of Lionel Bart musical based on the classic Dickens story. Moody is especially intriguing as the unsavory Fagin. The colorful production abounds with atmospheric settings, memorable tunes from Mr. Bart and great support from Oliver Reed and little Mark Lester as Oliver. Director Sir Carol Reed walked away with an Oscar, as did the picture.  "},{"Title":"The last of the great sixties musicals","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Oliver! quite simply was the last of the great sixties musicals; a decade which saw a huge amount of musicals adapted from the Broadway stage.  Other musicals would follow Oliver! over the next few years (Hello, Dolly!; Man Of LaMancha; et al.) but none would ever approach the magic that this film brings to the screen. The acting and directing are first-rate, but what really makes this film work is Lionel Bart's fantastic musical score and Onna White's spirited choreography.  There are so many classic songs in this film, that after your first viewing, you'll be likely to be seeking out the soundtrack album (which is happily available on CD).  When I first saw this film, many years ago, my favorite song was Consider Yourself, but today it would have to be the other big production number Who Will Buy?.  Listen to the lyrics and try to remember if there ever was a day so beautiful that you didn't wish that someone could put it in a box for me. Purists of Charles Dickens' original Oliver Twist from which the Broadway musical and film are freely adapted, may balk at turning it into a musical, but just watch, and see if you really feel that turning Oliver Twist into the musical Oliver! hurt the story.  You'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"surprise","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Oliver! is a surprise to me.  I thought that it would be another boring sixties musical like The Sound Of Music.  To my surprise many of the songs and scenes were very fun to watch and I found myself tapping my feet along with the tune.  Songs like Who Will Buy and Consider Yourself were very well done and was fun to watch.  Ron Moody was cast perfectly as Fagin and Jack Wild was great as the Artful Dodger.  *** stars for Oliver! the surprise Best Picture Winner at the 1968 Academy Awards. "},{"Title":"Oliver! London/1989","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I have to say, Oliver was the film that made me travel to London. I stayed at a B&B In Walthamstow..(Armpit Of The East End) but whenever I mentioned the musical, I got smiles... I had the pleasure of meeting Jack Wild at a pub in Paddington (Though he does not drink these days) He has a GREAT house in Twickenham, and is doing GREAT... What A GREAT COUNTRY.....London is NOT England.... But Oliver! Is VERY BRITISH !!!  "}{"Title":"You couldn't make a better film version of this....","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" O.K., you could make it darker. You could Sweeney Todd it up and have Bill Sikes be exactly like that throat slicer who had the victims then turned into meat pies. But what they did with the film version of the 1960 London musical (brought to Broadway in 1963) is keep it faithful to that source, if not the original Charles Dickens novel with all the controversy of so-called anti-Semitism.Sweet little orphan Oliver (Mark Lester) wins the dare to ask for more! and when he does, he is throunced, bounced, and sold to a flustered undertaker named Sowerberry. Too sauced to save his purchase, Sowerberry sleeps it off in a coffin while Oliver beats up the older assistant Noah. Oliver escapes to London, meets up with the Artful Dodger (Jack Wild), and is soon off to see the Wizard of Pickpocketing, the hawk-nosed Fagin (Ron Moody), a lovable old codger of thievery with a few tricks up his sleeve. Fagin's co-horts, Bill and Nancy Sikes (Oliver Reed and Shani Wallis) both have different ideas of what to do with Oliver, but first they must get him back from the rich man who saved Oliver from being accused of picking his pocket.Musically, this is exciting, from the pleading Food, Glorious, Food! to the touching Where is Love? in the beginning, exploding into big city joy in the London-set Consider Yourself, and then music hall glory with Wallis's loving Nancy singing such showstoppers as It's a Fine Life! and Oom-Pah-Pah!.Title character Oliver is visually perfectly cast with the diminutive Mark Lester who has the right innocence for him with a touch of toughness when he needs to bring that out. Lester, seemingly dubbed with a high-pitched singing voice, does what he can to make the character not pitiable, but oh, that singing voice. Harry Secombe is an unforgettable Mr. Bumble, Moody a joy as that rascal Fagin who teaches his boys You've Got to Pick a Pocket or Two!. Wild and Wallis shine with I'd Do Anything, and the ensemble of Who Will Buy? is a huge production number that keeps the joy coming.All in all, there is nothing to complain about in this production, the right songs cut from the original and even the smallest parts perfectly cast with perfect visuals from the book. Once you see this (again and again) you will also see the similarities to another big stage musical, the Manhattan set Annie, which also deals with an orphan trying to find her legacy and dealing with crooks in the meantime. Both shows have dogs, but Bill Sikes' pooch in Oliver! is a lot more nefarious looking than Sandy from Annie. "},{"Title":"Timeless Musical, that truly deserves to be up there with the musical greats!","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oliver! is a truly wonderful, timeless musical, that was part of my childhood and one of my favourite musicals. When people speak of musicals, they refer to Wizard of Oz, Singin' In The Rain, Easter Parade, A Star Is Born, My Fair Lady, Sound of Music, King and I, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang and Mary Poppins. Oliver! so deserves to be up there with them as a musical great, for that is exactly what it is. It has truly unforgettable songs by Lionel Bart, especially Pick A Pocket, As Long as he Needs Me and Oom Pah Pah. The choreography is just timeless, the sequence for Consider Yourself is one of the best scenes of the film, very energetic and wasn't overblown despite the danger of being that. The production looks lovely, wonderful costumes and sets, and the cinematography was excellent. And I mustn't forget the performances, absolutely exceptional! Ron Moody was magnificent as Fagin, oily yet somewhat lovable, and Jack Wild played Dodger with a real exuberance that was a real pleasure to see. Oliver Reed was suitably menacing as Bill Sikes, and Shani Wallis(a very underrated actress) was just delightful as Nancy. Harry Secombe is fine as Mr Bumble, great voice, well he was an opera singer, so that explains it. As for Mark Lester, he was appealing, however Kathe Greene's singing voice is my only complaint. It was lovely and tuneful, but sometimes for me it was too quiet, I did have to strain my ear to hear her. No matter how much it deviates from the Dickens story(and I will say I am very fond of David Lean's classic Oliver Twist) or how long it is, it is a timeless unforgettable musical gem. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A grand spectacle of colour and dancing topped off with so hummable tunes","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" How does one condense a 500 page classic of Victorian literature into a 2 hr film while encompassing the rich characterisations of Dicken's characters - their wit and satire - and the grimy, scrubbed streets of downtown London, all with the addition of a full music score and lyrics? The result is one of the best film musicals ever. This is quite remarkable considering that the American school in Rodgers, Hart, Hammerstein. Kern, Porter, Berlin and Freed, had always dominated the musical scene in superlative musical and lyric writing.Based of the 1960s stage musical by Lionel Bart, the songs are now instantly recognisable today and and irresistible to sing along to. In fact no one number in the film fails to surprise and impress you with the elaborate set design and extravagant choreography. In particular, the numbers Consider Yourself and You've Got To Pick A Pocket Or Two really took my breath away with their energy and excitement. The singing is also top notch with Fagin and Nancy both stand-out singers able to convey such joy, mischievous, sorrow and tender emotion. It was a fantastic treat to watch them dance wholeheartedly and interact so naturally with the characters and sets.The Oscar winning direction by female(!) director Carol Reed is perceptive and very sharp with a fantastic eye for colour and movement as a musical expects. She is fully in control of every scene and explores all the camera angles and filming possibilities from what is a very lively set. Even the quiet moments in the film, filled with the recitative scenes are uniquely shot and keep this film fresh, ahead of it's competition.The peripheral characters are the most charismatic in the film with Fagin shining as the sly and witty leader of and manager of street pickpockets. He encompasses the role so well and completely has a ball. Nancy (scandalously missing out on the nom) was also beautiful to watch, wholly developing from another common-street girl to a mature surrogate for Oliver, making her own courageous conscience and sacrificing a bold heart. It was a joy to watch both of them support the film and provide some of it's most memorable moments. The Artful Dodger was impossible to resist and the perfect friend you would to have on a cold, dirty, starving day. He was played with such maturity and confidence add a romping playfulness to keep things bumping along. Paradoxically, the title character was the most dull person in the film by far. He ended up being too naive and timid throughout, and was constantly overshadowed by the other characters. In the end, I didn't feel like he did anything at all or even contributed anything to the story other than his name.For those not a fan of musicals, you may find it disconcerting when action stops to allow the musical numbers to convey the atmosphere and deepest emotions of the characters. And I must admit, it is a little abrupt at times; certainly it is extraneous. None more obvious than in the Consider Yourself and Who Will Buy A Rose numbers. While the extravagance is welcome, it is all too easy for the cynic to say People don't stop everything and burst into song for no reason. These parts were enjoyable, and very funny.This was a surprisingly good musical with fantastic visual and tuneful sequences. It proves that the English can do musicals with just as much flair and grandeur as the heavyweight American schools all the craze in the 30s, 40s and 50s. A deserved winner of Best Picture & Director, it it easy to overlook this film. There is no big message, it is a light comedic musical film, it is far from an original story and idea, and it is produced outside the grand Hollywood system. But given such modern musical classics such as The Sound Of Music, West Side Story and most recently Chicago and Dreamgirls, Oliver! shows us that great musicals come only too seldom yet when they do they provide grand entertainment. "},{"Title":"A great childhood memoir","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" My mom first took me to see Oliver! in the theater when I was ten. I was absolutely horror-stricken by the way Oliver was treated in Dunstable - the dismal workhouse, Bumble's cruel treatment of the child, and Oliver's being locked up in the cellar. I cried throughout those scenes and my mom kept assuring me that it was going to have a happy ending. In fact, I cried all the way to the introduction of the Artful Dodger. Then I felt much better when the Dodger was befriending Oliver and with the humour that came with Fagin. Later that year, my mom bought me the Soundtrack album for my eleventh birthday, and I played it constantly. I have high-functioning autism, so I had obsessions, which made me very bright in certain things. As a result, before long, I knew the entire score of the songs by heart. When I was in my twenties, I had a penpal with the same special needs as me. One of his interests was British child actor Mark Lester. I wrote to this guy in Texas about Mark Lester because I wanted to find out about his adult life. Many child stars become messed up later in life and Lester was no exception. But according to my friend in Texas, Lester is now an osteopath in England and has a family. I'm very happy for him that he turned out successful in the end. I wrote to him and told him what I've been saying and asked for his autograph. Apparently, so many people have asked him about his child-acting career and little else that he's long been burnt out with talking about this; therefore, he doesn't usually answer people's letters. He just wants to be left alone about it and I don't blame him one bit. But Lester sent me a card with his autograph on it, and while he sent only that, and not a letter, it is a very special thing that he replied at all. He must have been very happy to get my letter. Once, when I was a kid, when I was obsessed with Oliver!, my grandparents came to visit for the summer, and Grandma made me the things mentioned in Food, Glorious Food, including gruel (Grandma just made it so I could see what it looked like, and warned me I wasn't going to like it - YEAUCCCHHH!), pease pudding and savaloys, hot sausage and mustard, etc. I still find the Dunstable scenes very disturbing. If Bumble thought that rich food raised an artificial soul, why did HE eat it, I would like to know! That no-good hypocrite! If I were in Oliver's shoes, I'd have told Bumble that he was a fat, greedy pig! And imagine that teenage bully Noah Claypole saying such terrible things to Oliver about his dead mother! He deserved the licking he got from Oliver, being so much bigger! And it made me furious when Mrs. Sowerberry and the others took Noah's side instead of Oliver's. They deserved the licking that Noah got, and so did Bumble! "},{"Title":"Grand musical","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is a great musical in the tradition of..great musicals.  It might seem corny to audiences today so I have to hesitate before calling it 'timeless' as I remember seeing it as a kid and being fascinated but seeing it last week was not as memorable an experience.  Several of the songs and dance numbers seem similar and I could have done without a couple of the songs, too.  But when its right, its magnificent.  'Consider Yourself' is the musical highlight, by miles.  All the cast members seem born to play their parts, especially Jack Wild as the Artful Dodger and Ron Moody as Fagin.  No wonder these were the cast members to receive Oscar nominations.  "},{"Title":"At least one dissenter for this thing","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Just casually looking over the comments on this page but does anyone else out there think this movie stinks? Mawkish, ugly, and wildy over-produced, even for its time. Hardly a Dickens purist, its not for that reason I really dislike this movie, something I've done since first seeing it during its original roadshow theatrical run. The acting is mediocre at best, complete with an effiminate Fagin prancing across the screen and an angelic title character who's cloying in the extreme.I am a fan of musicals, even from this era but this one is so overblown at the best of times. A nice song such as Who Will Buy?'turned into a ful-fledged production number is just one example of this picture's excess. Funny Girl, released the same year and much more successful commerically is so much better directed and of course actted even if the storyline left a lit to be desired.Ranks with Greatest show On Earth and Rocky as most undeserving Best Picture winner ever. Who win buy? Not this viewer!   "},{"Title":"Not the best movie musical, but quite affectionate and enjoyable.","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The 1960s was the last great decade for movie musicals. Although Chicago broke the streak, Oliver! was the last classic musical to win Best Picture. It's in good company, West Side Story, My Fair Lady and The Sound of Music are excellent films, but Oliver! is certainly the lesser of the four. Naturally, like most films of the like, it's bloated more than it's worth, touching 2 and a half hours. It results in far too many moments where the songs slow the pacing rather than progress the story, though they at least take it further a little. Fortunately most of them are catchy and familiar and it's certainly helped by bigger chorus lines, elaborate sets and calculated choreography. Obviously with a bleak tone like this, it's not necessarily always a joy.However, its biggest problem is the lead. The Oliver Twist here is whiny and wooden, having none of the energy that the radiant and wonderful Ron Moody and Jack Wild bring to the table, who deserved way more screen time than they already had. They were theatrical, but well measured enough to suit cinema. Classic as it may be, its plot does tend to suffer and jump around too much and be quite contrived, but what lifted Oliver! above average is its affection for its characters, once they get settled anyway. Shani Willis' Nancy felt extraneous at first but she brought an essential sensitivity to the film and ended up one of the most charming characters. It's a hit and miss film and doesn't do anything extraordinary but it's enjoyable and moving enough for a please-all picture. Certainly not up to Carol Reed's 1940s standards anyway.7/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful and captivating","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" You may already know the story, a boy called Oliver asks for more, wishes for his mother, meets the Artful Dodger and Fagin then runs into Bill Sykes. You may not have watched it - and in that case this plot reading shall be new to you. It is a very good film with good songs, good actors, but is a wee bit disturbing.There, now you can decide whether you would like to watch it or not. This is particularly recommended for people who like musicals, don't mind scary films too much and do not know exactly what happens. If you have happened to read the book and not have watched this you may want to watch it. This film starts with a song, showing many hungry children in a workhouse, who have had just about nothing but gruel in all their life. One boy called Oliver Twist is chosen to ask for more, as they have hardly any every day and because he asks he is punished and sold. He just wishes for his mother and sings, wondering when he will he will have someone to love. He escapes and begins a long journey to London... "},{"Title":"One of the best musicals ever","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I consider this a one of the best musicals ever, this is what all other musicals should strive for. Oliver Reed, Ron Moody, Shani Wallis, Jack Wild & Mark Lester are Great in there staring rolls. and the way director Carol Reed makes every song roll right in to regular everyday things is perfect. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry...","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I've never cared much for musicals. There are very few that I truly enjoy and this was not one of them. They certainly have their place, but using what is supposed to be a somber and depressing  story for all that gaiety is just not logical. Enough with the singing and dancing already!!! There was too, too, much of it. I think if all the music were removed, it would only take about an hour to watch the story itself. The casting was excellent, however, especially in the selection of Oliver Reed to play Bill Sikes. A better choice could not have been made. An excellent movie otherwise. I give it a D+.  "}{"Title":"Ron Moody was outstanding.","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The entire cast was wonderful. Ron Moody was frightening as well as funny. Mark Lester played Oliver like he really was Oliver. Jack Wilde was the perfect Dodger.There have been many movies made about Oliver Twist, but noon of them come close the the performances that this cast put together.Bravo. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This was the very first musical I ever watched and have loved them ever since.The acting is excellent and the characters are very believable especially Ron Moody in the role of Fagin and Jack Wild in the role of the Artful Dodger.  Mark Lester as Oliver was superb.My favourite songs from this musical areAs long as he needs me sung by Shani Wallis (Nancy) and Consider Yourself. "},{"Title":"Ron Moody's best performance","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Who can forget the sly Fagin when he sings,You got to pick a pocket or two....  It is just a great musical for the whole family.  A very deep rooted musical......  Dickens would have been proud!   "},{"Title":"What kind of musical has all this violence.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This movie is great the huge dance numbers are amazing the acting the direction all great. But this movie is also has a dark underbelly what kind of a musical has a body count this and West Side Story are too dark. Musicals are supposed to be perky and pleasant not end in gunshots and knife fights. Those cynics from the 60's totally blackened the genre. If I had to have a top ten for musicals it would go like this.10. Swing Time 9. Shall We Dance 8. The Gay Divorcee 7. Guys and Dolls 6. Everyone Says I Love You 5. GIGI 4. Bye Bye Birdie 3. American In Paris 2. High Society 1. Singing In The Rain  "},{"Title":"My favourite live-action adaptation of the Dickens novel and one of my favourite musicals","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" As a child, I owned this on the same VHS as 'Annie (another favourite musical of mine)' but never saw it in full up until now because I always used to watch 'Annie' in full but only about the first act of this film due to the vast length of the VHS. Renting the DVD gave me a chance to view 'Oliver!' in its entirety and jot down some notes about it for my university assignment on the portrayal of London in film (see also my 'Mary Poppins' and 'Bedknobs and Broomsticks' reviews).The music is what makes this the most appealing and interesting live-action adaptation of the three I've heard of (this one, obviously, the black and white 1948 version that I watched a bit of with my mother and found boring and the 2005 version in colour that, according to its trailer, looks similar to this one but without the songs) and they made the film relatively swift albeit its length of nearly two and a half hours. My top five songs are, in no particular order, 'Food Glorious Food,' 'Oliver!,' 'Consider Yourself,' 'You've Got To Pick A Pocket Or Two' and 'I'd Do Anything,' all of which are performed during the first act. The songs during the second act may not be the most memorable (probably due to not having watched it when I was younger) but the ones I liked best from that act were 'Who Will Buy?,' Fagin's dark performance of 'Reviewing the Situation,' Nancy's poignant performance of 'As Long As He Needs Me' and the catchy 'Oom Pah Pah.' The choreography is creative, especially during 'Consider Yourself,' 'I'd Do Anything,' 'Who Will Buy?' and 'Oom Pah Pah.' Further to the incidental music, I liked its old-fashioned feel and some parts of it being brief, instrumental arrangements of some of the songs. I also liked the brief arrangement of 'London Bridge' being played in the background during 'Be Back Soon, ' which in some way links to the London Bridge scene later in the film.Whilst watching this film, I could see some similarities to Disney's 'Oliver and Company (released 20 years after this film was)' such as Oliver the boy being taken into Mr Brownlow's care, Nancy and Sikes (?) taking him back and this version of Oliver returning to Mr Brownlow being similar to Oliver the kitten being taken into care by Jenny, Dodger and the rest of the dogs returning him to Fagin and Oliver the kitten being returned to Jenny at the end. In this version, the best characters are Oliver, Mr Bumble, Dodger, Fagin, Sikes, Mr Brownlow and Nancy. The story is filled with dark, funny and moving moments the dark ones consisting of Oliver being trapped in the cellar at the undertaker's, Nancy's murder at London Bridge and the angry mob approaching Sikes; the funny ones including the pickpockets forming a horse and carriage during 'I'd Do Anything' and the brief shot of a Punch and Judy show; and the moving ones including Oliver's performance of 'Where Is Love,' Nancy's performance of 'As Long As He Needs Me' and the ending, which nearly reduced me to tears.Besides the songs I found forgettable, I found the title cards of St Paul's Cathedral shown during the overture, opening titles, intermission, entr' acte and the exit music tedious yet iconic. The cathedral was shown in daylight to represent more easy-going scenes while it was shown in darkness during darker parts of the film. London Bridge was also depicted in a dark way due to Sikes murdering Nancy and threatening Bullseye at that exact location.All in all, this is my absolute favourite live-action version of the Dickens novel and is strangely on par with Disney's 'Oliver and Company.' 9/10. "},{"Title":"I'm not convinced","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I know the jury returned a verdict about Oliver! years ago. This film version of the stage musical is sourced from that musical and not from Dickens' novel, make no mistake.Lionel Bart's songs were, and are, terrific. Dickens' story of young Oliver Twist, used by the author as a vehicle to display the unfortunate and grim situation of London's underclass receives sufficient tweaks to make it audience friendly indeed, the vile Fagin, corrupter of children, criminal instigator, fence, and general low-level crime boss, is turned into the jolliest of crooks. Harry Secombe - oh, what larks! The hookers have the jolly song Oom-Pa-Pa, and even Nancy's doomed and ultimately fatal infatuation with Bill Sykes is blessed with the glorious ballad As Long As He Needs Me (wonderful lyrics, showing how aware she is of the nature of the relationship).And over all this is Oliver Reed's Bill Sykes, one of the most irredeemably evil characters ever to grace a cinema screen. It is an excellent performance and shows what a screen presence Reed could be at his best. But it seems out of step with the way Oliver! has been sanitised in every other respect. "},{"Title":"Oliver Glorious Oliver","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I think the works of Charles Dickens naturally lend themselves to musical theater. Successful adaptations of A Christmas Carol, Great Expectations and The Pickwick Papers have been produced. But none more successful than Oliver, taken of course from Oliver Twist. Something about that ragamuffin army of young thieves in training and young Oliver Twist's search for love and acceptance in a brutal world seems to be universal.Oliver's initial run on Broadway was for 774 performances during the 1963-64 season. It got a flock of Tony Award nominations, but only won for Best Musical Score, Conducting, and Scenic Design. I was lucky enough as a lad to see the original run of Oliver back in the day.Lionel Bart's Tony Award winning score comes to the screen mostly intact, in fact those of us who are fans of the David Lean film Oliver Twist will also note that Oliver faithfully follows Dickens's plot as does that film classic. In addition to the portrayal of urban London poverty, Oliver Twist contains one of the first stories of a battered woman. If Shani Wallis's Nancy is nothing else, she's certainly that, Oliver Reed as Bill Sikes does nothing, but use her as a punching bag. Yet Shani still sings her plaintive ballad, As Long As He Needs Me, for one of the most scurvy villains ever created in fiction.Mark Lester is a touching Oliver Twist, an innocent who circumstance has brought him to the low surroundings of the work house. When he sings Where Is Love, it's a song for all the homeless and unloved youth who don't have the benefit of loving home and hearth.Academy Award nominations went to Ron Moody as Fagin and Jack Wild as the Artful Dodger for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor respectively. Fagin's Jewish origins are played down in this version, both man and boy are a pair of survivors as you will see. Wild as the Dodger has the potential to grow into another Bill Sikes if good fortune doesn't come his way. Oliver more than made up for the lack of awards won at the Tonys by taking home five Oscars, including Best Picture and Best Director for Sir Carol Reed. I found it interesting that Reed used Hugh Griffith as the magistrate, having fired him off the set of Mutiny On The Bounty. Then again this is a much smaller role.Oliver might have won more Oscars, but it was up against another big budget musical in Funny Girl and also The Lion In Winter. No one came out a clear winner in the Oscar sweepstakes that year.No one in the Broadway cast repeated their roles for the screen, but I can't complain about the impeccable performances this cast gives. Oliver will be a musical classic for generations. "},{"Title":"Not Perfect, But Still Very Enjoyable!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The charm, and often dark adventures, of Dicken's classic orphan Oliver Twist comes to the screen in a big way. This was an extremely lavish music production with some serious undertone messages about the social class distinctions of urban London and Oliver's reactions to them.Many of the characters leave memorable impressions The chilling workhouse supervisor Mr. Bumble, the evil Bill Sikes, the charming Nancy, the mysterious Fagin, and of course the brilliant performances of Jack Wild as the Artful Dodger and Mark Lester as Oliver. One can overlook the fact that Mark can not sing. (His voice was dubbed by a girl) but he certainly looks the part of Oliver Twist and acts it very well.Most of the musical numbers are flawless and reflect an important point in the story when they are represented such as Food Glorious Food, Who Will Buy? and Consider Yourself. Some critics have commented that the showstoppers Who Will Buy? and Consider Yourself are overly long. However, the impact that the songs convey and the choreography at these points of the movie is incredible! Some of the other songs like, As Long As He Needs Me, I'd Do Anything, and Where is Love?, seem to be overly long or not needed. One may wonder if the same messages could have been conveyed without some of the songs to deliver the meanings being sung by the actors.However, the movie has some flaws. For one, the British accents of many of the actors are VERY STRONG, and you often have to listen closely to understand what is being said or you may miss important dialog. Another issue is that there are a few scenes that don't flow as well as they should due to continuity issues. Furthermore, there are justifiable criticisms that the movie is about a half hour too long.SPOILER A HUGE DOWNER is the ending. You have Artful Dodger and Fagin doing a wonderful reprise of the song Reviewing the Situation with a marvelous backdrop of them going off dancing into a fading sunset. I LOVE THIS SCENE!! But than, the director goes for an all too nice package by showing Oliver being returned to his Great Uncle, Mr. Brownlow. This ending was totally unnecessary. It takes off the superb biting-edge background that provided a strong subliminal tone in many other portions of the film. The End should have been the scene with Dodger and Fagin. "},{"Title":"They're just tryin' to make a livin'","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Splendid show with a lively array of songs and dance. I loved the rascally Fagin and his band of merry pickpockets. Oliver Reed was smashing as the villainous Bill Sykes. The realistic looking locales and props went a long way in creating an authentic look at the well off as well as the seedy side of London in the 19th century. "},{"Title":"A very grown up story with kids","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A lot of serious themes are breezed through and sung about in this musical adaptation of Oliver Twist. It covers child poverty and exploitation, a time where those in the orphanage were no less corrupt than the hucksters on the street. The scenes with Bill Sikes are quite violent and the violence against women is not a main theme but it does rear its ugly head. In fact, the song where the lady explains her illogical attraction to Bill by singing He Needs Me was a little bit too real and a sad reflection of what happens to many women in the real world. It's a good movie, a lot of fantastic characters and some great acting. But for me the serious undertones left me with mixed feelings. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Charles Dickens would have enjoyed it","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The best part of Oliver! are the lavish, elaborate sets, which, while not 100 percent realistic, are pretty convincing. The next best part is the story line. A streamlined version of the Dickens original, it refrains from trying to make improvements. The music is good, but not up there with the great musicals. Where Oliver! gets into a bit of trouble is straying a bit too far from realism. Most musicals need to establish a world that's a bit off kilter from reality in order to get away with the singing and dancing. Here, the singing and dancing seem to need no excuse, and we have the public singing along with little Oliver. OK, it's a musical, and I can accept that. But in the rest of the movie reality is simplified to the children's movie level, which does not do justice to the Dickens story. When you compare this to Hello, Dolly! and Paint Your Wagon, which came out the next year in 1969, Oliver! is the best one, from the perspective of a musical, with plenty of singing and dancing that is pretty good. Hello, Dolly! is the weakest, with almost no story line, and dance numbers that look like parodies, today. But I happen to like Paint Your Wagon the best, and think it is the most modern sort of musical of the three, with a theme that holds up well today.I can see how people would differ in how much they enjoy this movie. It's certainly a good movie, worth seeing. But I think some people can get engrossed in the show, while others watch it from a more detached perspective. If there had been more realistic acting, I think I could have become more engrossed. There are plenty of musicals where such fantasy world acting is acceptable; The Pajama Game comes to mind. But Dickens demands more realism, and Oliver! would have been more emotionally hard hitting if it had been more believable. West Side Story is an example of a musical with more realism. I think the moral is that while you don't want to make a musical look like a documentary or re-enactment, you really have to consider the nature of the story before you set your realism dial. On the other hand, this should be a really good movie for children, and does a good job of telling the Dickens story on that level. If you watch it with children, it is worth talking about the story, afterward. "},{"Title":"anyone else tape it in the 80s?","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" My mom taped this movie for my sister and I in 1989 and there we all these weird Clorox cleaner commercials, and for other weird brands. Does anyone remember the commercial of Elijah Wood, he was 6 years old and he was eating broccoli and cheese and then the cheese disappears and he's like no way then it all comes back and he goes hooray it was a totally shock. I just laughed my butt off because I'm just about in love with the man, anyways, anyone else remember it?? anyone, email me anyways, I'm bored.Sarah Plummer irishdreams88@hotmail.com I met, hugged, and was in it a movie with Joseph Mazzello, OH MY GOD. I have the pictures to prove it too. HAHA. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" That movie was awesome! I can't get over it's songs. I think I'm a little too old for musicals, but that movie deserves some credit here, guys! My especial favorite was Jack Wild. Me, being a British actor lover, you can't restrain me from all those nice-looking fresh faced, young men. I never knew that when Jack was doing that movie he was sixteen! He looks like an eleven- year old. He's short, that's what helps. Try posting up your replies, fellow posters, so I can relate to your experiences. Oh, and about Oliver Reed, that guy, Bill Sikes, I think that drone look is really familiar. Any idea where he's starred in before? If so, post it up, I'd really like to know. "},{"Title":"The best Fagen and Bill Sykes ever!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A tour deforce! OK the kid that plays Oliver is a bit toooooo sweet! Starting with the great cinematography, color, costumes and most impressive performances this is a must see movie. I have seen several adaptations of this great novel, but this one stands above them all and its a musical to boot! It is a masterful Fagan, never leaving his character to do a song. You never really know if you like him or not, the same feeling I got in the book. In other versions you hate him from start to finish. Bill Sykes.... when you read the book hes a mean one, and so he is in this movie. Oliver Reed was masterful. His wife directed this masterpiece. I went and saw his last movie, Gladiator based on his many fine performances, not to see the headliners. The music fits the times and the mood. Who will buy this beautiful movie? You Should! "},{"Title":"A near classic, that with one change would be a true classic","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" CONTAINS SPOILERS.If I had a time machine, I would go back in time and sit at the moveola to make two simple splices. I am convinced that those two splices would make a near classic, a classic.After Oliver is left alive crouching on the beam, the Artful Dodger picks one more pocket and leaves the area. Great so far.Then they cut to a wonderful sequence that one would expect was part of the ending, and should have been. Fagin comes down a gloomily lit London Alley.He stops, facing toward the camera and begins to sing a beautiful and sad song that as I remember talks about how he is now alone and has no possessions left.Then in a reverse angle we see in front of him the edges of the last buildings and in the gloom, the road wandering off in the distance toward a dreary England.Fagin continues his song and contemplates his future alone. Then he pulls himself together and starts off. We expect as he just starts to recede down that road that this is truly the endThen we find that there is a little more. The Artful Dodger steps out nearly blocking Fagin's way. In a delightful song number everything is pulled together, with some really cute business using that recently plucked wallet. Fagin and the Artful Dodger become fast friends again and together they start skipping down that road (singing), becoming smaller using a step that reminded me of Charlie Chaplin going off in the distance, getting smaller; a stutter step that the world all knows so well. Fagin and the Artful Dodger are holding on to each other and getting smaller and we sit back waiting for the end title or the end creditsAnd so, then what are we handed?I suppose the director and/or editor thought that they had to show that Oliver was saved, and was not left crouched on the beam. I sure wouldn't have worried about it.So, they cut to this horrible bright scene with blue sky and white puffy clouds; contrasting and clashing with the previous scene with Fagin and the Artful Dodger. A horse cart deposits Oliver in front of his new home; he gets out with his new father.It seems that this scene was not only quickly added as an afterthought or maybe as they added it, the director wished they had not shot it; so, quickly they dissolve away from it to the end titles while Oliver is just starting up the steps &#133; uhhhh!!I have taken my two VCRs and I did two quick end dubs. With two cuts, I eliminated the coming home sequence on one dub, and on the second, I put it between the Artful Dodger's last pick-pocketing and the beautiful ending with Fagin and the Artful Dodger going off in the distance ala Chaplin. Both work well. I like the dropping of Oliver's useless coming home sequence completely, but both help make 'Oliver' a true classic motion picture. My tape now ends differently from yours, and I love it. Try it. "},{"Title":"1968 Was A Strange Year For The Academy.","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Carol Reed directed this musical version of the Charles Dickens novel Oliver Twist, which won Academy Awards for best picture and director(!) Mark Lester stars as Oliver, a young orphan forced into the streets and a life of crime when he meets up with the Artful Dodger(played by Jack Wild) and his boss Fagin(played by Ron Moody). Psychopathic Bill Sykes(played by Oliver Reed) is also a danger to Oliver, who just wants to find a loving home. Though this film has memorable songs like Food Glorious Food, and a fine cast, it is fatally overlong and tedious, with over elaborate musical numbers that defy credibility. Not really the most appropriate material set to music, though that may be a minority opinion. How this beat out far worthier films for the Oscar is, as one critic observed, One of the great mysteries of life here on spaceship Earth! "},{"Title":"Not for the whole family ! (  spoilers)","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Please whoever the idiot was that gave this movie a G rating.This is not a G movie. PG would be much more appropriate. It's a musical yes but a musical that shows or implies domestic violence, kidnapping, theft, child slavery, and murder. Some great songs, well cast , except for Audrey Hepburn Jr. as Oliver , but not a G movie. I tried to watch it with my six year old daughter she was very upset when Sykes hits Nancy and also the general mean spiritedness of the whole movie. I watched it with her based on the box's saying it was grand entertainment the whole family will enjoy. Well not quite the whole family if you have young children under 8 (?) avoid watching this with them. "},{"Title":"*shudders incontrollably*","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I loathe, despise, and hate this film more than the inadequate medium of words ever could communicate.I mean, the songs SUCK. like, i love musicals, i really, really do, but i mean..... im sorry but i've never heard such terrible songs. Lionel Bart is hardly fit to be called a composer, particularly when he has never bothered himself in his entire career to learn how to write music, instead opting to hum his dubiously named 'songs' to someone who actually has aquired the skill of musical manuscript, who will then in turn actually do the writing down. The cast are also detestable for the most part, if not by themselves then they become so when they are pared up with the bad screenplay, which robs the harrowing Charles Dickens tale 'oliver twist' of any sincerity, poignance, dignity, or indeed any POINT it ever had, while replacing these traits with sacharine sentimentality and, as i before mentioned, a detestably annoying score.Mark Lester, (who, i note, has all but sunk without trace now that his apparently cute boyhood features are gone) is (many will obviously disagree with this, but that doesnt make it wrong! lol) completely and utterly irritating in the lead role. I'm not sure if im right in saying this, but his voice sounds like it has been dubbed by a weak voiced woman. Ron Moody, as Fagin, in his career defining role, equals Mark lester in the totally, neck-wringingly-annoying performances department. Fagin, an utterly contemptible, evil character in the book, is transformed into what i can only suppose is meant to be a well meaning, charming old man who is forced through unfortunate circumstances to become a pickpocket.... but a tender one, righ to the last. I ended up wanting the ground to open up and swallow him whole.Jack Wild, as the artful dodger nearly tops these two fine examples of terribleness with his own display. All i'll say is i wanted to smack that weasley faced little runt into the middle of next week by the end of this movie.proably the WORST thing about this movie (and that's saying something!) is the amount of affection with which it treats itself. It's like a really, really terrible stage act that prances on, takes centre spotlight, and, with arms wide open, proclaims itself incredibly loveable, when, all the while, it is painfully, painfully obvious to the audience that it lacks depth, interest, cuteness, or even something so superficial as charm or charisma.what adds an unbearable amount of insult to an already unbearably painful injury is that this movie was actually awarded, among others, a best picture oscar. This single, but unmistakeable, and certainly unforgiveable blunder has rattled, shaken, and dislodged my faith in the academy horribly. "},{"Title":"Orphan-boy musical has style but is awfully corny...","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oscar-winning director Carol Reed helmed this expansive, expensive musical-adaptation of Charles Dickens' Oliver Twist, which had been a stage hit and here is 'opened up' successfully on the screen. The Who Will Buy? sequence with vendors singing in the streets is probably the most splendid scene, featuring one of the many songs you'll either warm to or hate outright. Plot has Oliver Reed doing his usual scary-villain thing as a henchman for orphaned pickpockets who is determined to get little Oliver away from a rich benefactor. Why does he want him back? And does Oliver feel any compassion for or loyalty to his former friends? The movie doesn't really say. It hasn't got a particular message about love overcoming upbringing, it exists just to be sprightly and fun. Most of the picture is well done and quite stylish, but it is also heavy and a little overly-cute. Jack Wild is charismatic as the Artful Dodger, but Carol Reed is too quick to cut to Wild for reactions, and the camera is always on him a little too soon and for a little too long (it robs Wild of any mystery). Mark Lester has a sweet banality in the lead, other performances by Ron Moody and Shani Wallis are quite decent (if theatrical). Aside from the director, the film won the Oscar as Best Picture, also Best Scoring, and a special award to Onna White for the dancing (which looks rather corny by today's standards). **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Please, Sir, Enough Is Enough","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" It's that time again, Sports fans, WR is out-of-step with everyone else. Actually on this occasion the division is not chasmic as is so often the case. I accept that this is entertaining and reasonably well acted, sung and danced I just stop short as genuflecting to it as the One True Musical, possibly because I retain fond memories of, for example, Meet Me In St Louis, High Society, Pal Joey, A Star is Born (the Garland version) almost ANY Astaire musical etc. In most - although I accept not all) of the above the songs grew out of the story and were mainly realistic; there were, for example, no cases of urchins living on the streets and existing on scraps yet ever ready to burst into song and dance choreographed to within an inch of its life. If you like it you'll love it, if you're merely tolerant of it you'll like it. "}{"Title":"Oliver!","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The famous Charles Dickens story is well made into a musical classic by Oscar winning, and BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Carol Reed (The Third Man). This is the first version of the Oliver Twist story I have seen. The story is an orphan, Oliver Twist (Mark Lester) one day in the orphanage asks for more gruel, and this forces Mr. Bumble (Harry Secombe) to sell him off, but Twist escapes imprisonment. Now in London, Oliver plans to make a fortune, and The Artful Dodger (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jack Wild) is one way towards his ambition, taking him to Fagin (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Ron Moody). The rest of the film is mainly more songs and dance as Oliver and the other pick pockets cause trouble, Nancy (Shani Wallis) is being tormented by her criminal lover Bill Sikes (Oliver Reed), and Oliver is mainly the cause for Fagin's downfall. Most of the song and dance does drift you away from the main story, but it wouldn't be a musical if it didn't. Also starring Golden Globe nominated Hugh Griffith as The Magistrate, Joseph O'Conor as Mr. Brownlow, Peggy Mount as Mrs. Bumble, Leonard Rossiter as Mr. Sowerberry, Hylda Baker as Mrs. Sowerberry and Worzel Gummidge's Megs Jenkins as Mrs. Bedwin. It won the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Music for Johnny Green, Best Sound and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and an Honorary Award for outstanding choreography achievement for Onna White, it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Art Direction, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing, Best Sound Track and Best Film, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. Oliver Reed was number 78 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 26 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, the film was number 74 on The Ultimate Film, it was number 31 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, it was number 8 on The 50 Greatest British Films, and it was number 9 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Good! "},{"Title":"Troubling Musical","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The same difficulty I have with the musical version of Les Miserables applies equally to Oliver.  Instead of the composers' writing in the stylistic period of the play settings, they merely wrote Broadway-type melodies, which were historically unidiomatic and stylistically skewed.Too, the blatant brutality and unsavory activities of the dramaturgy do not mix well with some of the sunny ditties which permeate the score.  It's a uncomfortable mixture that leaves a decidedly sour undertaste.The casting of the boy Oliver doesn't help matters tentative of timbre and vexingly precious, there's something less than solid here.  Fagin performs his traditional routine adequately, though the tunes he's obliged to sing have little basis in period manner.As Long As He Needs Me is given a strident rendition, throaty and strained.  The two big production numbers, Who Will Buy and Consider Yourself seem over-produced, with everything but the kitchen sink thrown in.  It's one thing to go all out, yet another to cross over the line into excess. The gloom, despair and depravity of much of the novel does not seem to lend itself to such ditties and choreography.  While the novel is considered a classic, I must confess I have trouble with Mr. Dickens' consciousness, in that his works tend to emit a negative vibration.  This may be due to the extension of his joyless personal life, which was full of disappointment and regret. Not all the combined talent of this production, either on- or behind camera, can overcome the unconstructive nature of the basic material.  All this results in an uncomfortably downer experience for me. "},{"Title":"Not a patch on the stage show","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The producers made a big mistake casting Mark Lester, who couldn't act or sing, in the title role. Aside from his very bad acting, all of Lester's singing had to be dubbed by a girl. I don't know why they cast him at all, since there would have been so many boys who could have played the part infinitely better and done their own singing as well. Shani Wallis was far too old to play Nancy, who was only supposed to be 16. The current West End version is so much better than the movie in every way. Ross McCormack is the best Artful Dodger of all time and he is certainly far better looking than Jack Wild ever was. It was clearly political to award this old-fashioned musical so many Oscars after the tumultuous events of 1968. "},{"Title":"What no Twist?","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Oliver! 5 out of 10 A musical is often only as good as its music. And on that front Oliver Twist, esp. the first half, is a winner. With large musical numbers seeming starring every single person in England, Oliver! delivers. Such catchy tunes as Food Glorious Food and Consider Yourself will stick in ones head for days.In addition Oliver! boasts both a top-notch cast (with one exception) and incredible set design that invokes both the theater roots and the ability of film in one piece.The only problem with Oliver! musical is the source material. The original play is pretty awful. You have large dance numbers one minute and prostitutes being beaten to death by a shillelagh the next. Talk about your tone changes. The cast does well with these problems but the second half of the film simply seems like a completely different movie. And it is not an improvement. (They fortunately cut out murderous Bill Sikes musical number but Prostitutes Nancy's ode to wife beating is still in there.) In addition while the cast is almost uniformly excellent the lead of Oliver (Mark Lester) is simply too angelic to be believed. He comes across as a Nambla poster boy. He seems to be watching everyone around him with a worried bemusement as if he was in the audience with us.Of course the moral of Oliver! is that everyone belongs in their own station. Oliver is discovered to be a nephew of a rich family and so is reunited with his station, the Artful Dodger having poor parentage stays a thief, and the prostitute ends up dead.One last note many concerned parent groups today would demand an R rating for Oliver! Between the copious tobacco smoking and snorting by young children (Not to mention stealing) to the on camera prostitute killing parents with fuzzy memories may be shocked how adult this version really is G rating or not. "},{"Title":"Again with the campy mutilation of a classic","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Must every good story be improved with added corny Broadway music? Apparently those who can't come up with their own plots think that classic literature is just there for the plundering. I confess that Oliver Twist and similar stories are not my favorites, as it is certainly true that Dickens often wrote things that leave you considerably bummed out, and this was a great example of just that... So of course, take this serious tale and add nauseating music and camp it up with every character from prancing orphan boys to mincing bobbies and suddenly it's uplifting? Argh. Fetch me a basin.The four stars in my rating come from casting, which I could liken to that of My Fair Lady. Each of these films had a cast that a play version could be proud of, but then they must go and have them sing (see complaint above). Unlike My Fair Lady, those singing here could actually do so and they mercifully spared us the singing voice of Oliver Reed (pardon if I'm mistaken, it's been a while).My biggest complaint I've stated. Why embarrass everyone except the truly shameless by putting silly songs into a perfectly good story? Seldom has this been done to good effect. Generally it ruins the story. It did with this one. Jury's still out on whether this story is worth saving, but with all that gadding about, it's impossible to tell. "},{"Title":"Extract from My life as Bill Sykes's dog by Bullseye","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Such insouciance,such spontaneity and,in the end,such integrity.My essential doggishness never compromised despite my enslavement to an evil master.Now some might say there is no such thing as a bad master there are only bad dogs,but Mr Charles Dickens is not amongst them.My human,Bill Sykes, was a bad man;only the purest and most innocent of dogs could endure his company without being corrupted. In a seminal scene early in the movie,I follow Bill and Nancy from the thieves' den where Fagin has collected some stolen silver. Crossing a rickety bridge they disappear from view before I nonchalantly stroll back right across the bridge again,asserting my independence.Having done this I am happy to acknowledge Sykes' sharp whistle,tail proudly held high.A small step for a dog - a giant leap for canine - kind. Unforgivably ignored by the Academy,I joined a long list of animal actors from Rin Tin Tin and Cheetah onwards who have raised the bar for others of their kind without their due recognition. Hypocritically the same standards were not applied to the humans in Oliver.That nice young master Mark Lester was very beautiful but couldn't act for toffee.His friend the Artful Dodger,played by the late Jack Wild at a terrific speed but with absolutely no pacing,is a far showier part.Master Wild plays it at full throttle with a stage cockney accent that grates very quickly.He uses up a lot of energy leaping about the stage in an activity that resembles dancing but isn't quite. In much the same way the big musical numbers don't quite cut the mustard.Some,like You've got to pick a pocket or two and Consider yourself were so familiar by 1968 that they almost performed themselves others like Where is love and As long as he needs me pretty pedestrian.Who will buy eventually spins out of control with its own cleverness - a good idea stretched far beyond its limits.I came into conflict with the director at one stage when I held out for a scene after Sykes was killed where I would be on sale in a pet shop and Oliver would sing How much is that doggy in the window?,but the producers wouldn't buy it.I still think it would have worked. Miss Shani Wallis,energetic and talented as she is,lacks the strength to convince as my master's significant other . Predictably Mr Ron Moody as Fagin gets most of the good notices as he has the lion's share of the movie - indeed it might have been called Fagin! as well as Oliver!,so much does he dominate the proceedings. Perhaps,like Dr Johnson's observation about a dog walking on its hind legs,(an indignity inflicted on us far too often)the Academy was not so much surprised that the British had done Oliver! well,but was surprised that they had done it at all. "},{"Title":"Dark, mean and cheerless--","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I just love seeing little children starved, dirty and cuffed about the head.I just love seeing women slugged by a lout.I just love seeing theives, pickpockets, pimps and whores.  All singing, all dancing and all in shades or dirty brown and grey.  It makes for a lovely time.And 2 1/2 hours - I had to force myself to sit there because it is supposed to be this charming, tune filled musical.  Say what?  The songs are okay, the dances adequate, but the setting is disgusting.  I kept waiting for poor Oliver! to be rescued so we could have something a little cheerier.  And he was for such a short time; and then God! we are right back in the same slime.  Sorry, give me the Mary Poppins, Victor/Victoria, Anchors Aweigh, Easter Parade and the new Chicago.  These are musicals that LOOK like musicals.My rating of this downer? 5/10 "},{"Title":"Dickens would be appalled","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I like musicals but as a Dickens fan I HATE this one. **MILD SPOILERS** Starving boys who have enough energy to sing and dance in the workhouse? The poor of London coming out to sing? Fagin and Dodger walking off into the sunset? Not exactly faithful to the novel. As I recall, Dodger was publicly hanged and Fagin went crazy in prison. **END OF SPOILERS**Oliver Reed is very weak as Sykes, doing little more than growling to indicate his evil. Worst however, is Mark Lester as Oliver, who often comes across so awkward and passive you wonder if he's really the main character. His portrayal is in no way helped by the fact that the best they could do when he sings is dub in the voice of a girl. Guess they didn't realize that boy trebles can be found in almost every church in England.Self-respecting Dickens fans stick to David Lean's amazing 1948 film or the BBC 6-hour adaptation from the mid-80's. Avoid this bloated whitewash of a musical. "}]