[{"Title":"Magnificent cinematic medieval chess game, with every intricate move superbly thought out.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"118 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion in Winter is a crowning achievement in cinematic story-telling. Adapted by Oscar-winning James Goldman from his witty, triumphant 1966 Broadway play that originally starred Robert Preston and Tony-winner Rosemary Harris, the story evolves around aging King Henry II mulling over a successor to the Plantagenet throne among his male progeny, while bringing his estranged, hateful clan together for the Christmas holidays.Sparks really do fly in this wickedly elaborate chess game as the  family player pieces weave thick webs of deceit and hatch insidious plots against each another, forming unholy, protean alliances that put those Survivor contestants to shame.  The pure joy comes from seeing all of them try to outmaneuver each other with every new and different playing piece put on or taken off the board, hatching alternative schemes as fast as one can say Long live the King!Robust, boisterous Peter O'Toole is a raging marvel as the battered but not yet beaten monarch, agonizing over the untrusting, Machiavellian-like brood he's sired, yet relishing the absolute power he holds and dangles over them. The glorious O'Toole is alternately barbarous and bombastic in one of the best roles of his career, and his loss of the Academy Award over, of all people, John Wayne, remains a travesty of justice.The king's brood includes eldest son and heir-apparent, Richard (known as The Lion-hearted) whose fierce courage and burly warrior stance masquerades a forbidden tenderness detrimental to his standing as a king.  Anthony Hopkins, in an auspicious screen debut, embodies these tortuous complexities within Richard perfectly, especially in his scenes as mummy's favorite. The youngest and pruniest of the three princes is John, a rumpled, drooling, inane man-child impossibly spoiled as the King's favorite, played to pathetic amusement by a terrific Nigel Terry.  Neglected middle son, Geoffrey, excellently portrayed with jaded, sliver-eyed cunning by John Castle, is a human blueprint of treachery and deceit.  Resentful at being overlooked as even a possible contender, he's willing to sell his parents and brothers down the river for exact change.Also invited to Christmas court is King Phillip II of France, on a revenge mission himself, who locks horns with Henry over lost lands and becomes a willing participant in these under-handed games.  Timothy (007) Dalton drips with smug, venal charm as the slender, softer, inexperienced king who can only battle Henry with words and wit, not weight.  The only unblemished pawn here is Alais, the King's adoring young mistress, who is maliciously thrown to the lions by all as lady-in-waiting bait for the dueling princes. Demure, fragile Jane Merrow is the perfect choice for this innocent songbird with nothing and everything to loseI have saved the best performance for last.  As the King most duplicitous irritant, the inimitable Katharine Hepburn portrays Henry's duly banished Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine with all the unparalleled skill and inspired passion imaginable.  Handed on a silver platter the lion's share of the best lines, Hepburn more than delivers the goods here, stealing the ripe proceedings from her talented co-stars.  To watch her consummate Eleanor is to see the art of acting in its most passionate form.  She is a revelation of perks and prods, of vibrant colors and shadings.  She inhabits the passion, the power, the breeding, the deceitfulness, the desperate longing owed this character.  Imprisonment (for inciting rebellions against her husband), has not dampened the fighting spirit nor dulled the sharp, calculating mind of this Queen.  As in chess, this player is the game's most venturesome and versatile piece, and Hepburn more than lives up to its reputation, a worthy opponent with the best odds to check-mate her King. I have been known to say that the four-time Oscar winner was awarded for all the wrong movies -- excepting this one.  She is unforgettable.Topped with a glorious, inspiring, sometimes furious score (Oscar-winner John Barry), The Lion in Winter makes up for its stark, one-note surroundings with its bold, rich characters and ingenuous plotting.  It is a hallmark of Gothic temperament and tone. As the old adage goes, it's not who wins, it's how you play the game.  'Tis so true.  So let the games begin!  "},{"Title":"A Director's Dream Come True","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"113 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" How lucky can you be to get a script like this and a cast like this all in the same movie? I've been shocked at some of the negative comments by other viewers. I was quite young when the movie came out, and didn't realize for years that Peter O'Toole wasn't the fifty year old he was playing, and Hepburn was exactly Eleanor's age at the time, so I fail to see the age mismatched some have mentioned. I'm fifty myself now, and I still find O'Toole perfectly plausible as a fifty year old in this movie. (Although, DAMN, he looked GOOD! What a gorgeous man!)As for the 'anachronistic dialog,' it was extremely intentional and would have been totally wrong without it. To our ears, the possibly more elegant speech of the period would have sounded unnatural; only by using modern language could these people sound to us as they would have sounded to each other - normal.The acting is brilliant - it would have been very hard to find any other actor who could share a screen with Hepburn without fading away to nothing, or an actress who could have done the same with O'Toole - only two of such power could stand up to one another. And this was absolutely right for these characters - as best we know, Henry and Eleanor were both that kind of person - brilliant, witty, strong-willed powerhouses. Then the supporting cast Hopkins, Castle, Terry, and Dalton. Granted, they weren't known at the time, so Harvey, the director, may not have realized right off the bat that he had the cast of a lifetime, but he surely must have realized it fast.Then there's the script. Like most of Oscar Wilde's plays, you could pick it up, open it to any page, and find at least half a dozen quotable lines. No, people aren't normally that witty in real life, but a) these were VERY bright people as historical fact, and b) it's a play/movie! People don't speak in real life as they do in Oscar Wilde either, but it's enjoyable as hell to watch. Get over it!Some things I love about the movie are that it's made clear that no matter what Henry tells Alys, Eleanor, or himself for that matter, his real love and true equal is always Eleanor, just as he is hers. Also that, despite the at least a dozen apparent power shifts in the course of the movie, at the end, ABSOLUTELY NOTHING has changed. And you can tell that with this bunch, nothing ever will change unless it's due to factors out of their control, like death.A matter of slight historical correction to other user comments Alys was legally betrothed to Richard; that's why she'd been raised by Eleanor. A historical correction to the script is that John, while thoroughly detestable personally, was not at all stupid, sniveling, or whining; his actual character was actually far closer to that of Geoffrey's in the script. Very little is actually known about the historical Geoffrey except that he was actually, if anything, more of a warrior than Richard, and of course, he died quite young, leaving behind two children, the son being the legal heir to Richard, and who died at the age of twelve or so, ostensibly of disease, possibly in reality of John. This wasn't considered that bad a thing, btw, as no one wanted a child as king, and John was the only one of the whole bunch who'd spent most of his life in England itself. The English nobles had seriously resented both Henry's (in his later years especially, as he tried to carve an inheritance for John out of Europe in general, France in particular) and Richard's neglect (Richard had barely set foot in England in his entire life, and was utterly indifferent to it except as a source of revenue). Also, of course, there's no historical evidence for an affair between Henry and Alys EXCEPT that I've read at least one source suggesting that Richard used this as an excuse to not go through with the marriage itself. And there's CERTAINLY no historical suggestion that Richard and Philip had an affair, although it seems highly likely that Richard was gay insofar as he was sexual at all. Bastards of royalty were a dime a dozen in those days, but NONE are attributed to Richard, nor a whiff or rumor of any affairs he ever had. Both Henry and John, on the other hand, would chase anything wearing a dress, and this was considered perfectly normal and even admirable in a bad boy sort of way. However, John took it too far, resorting to rape and starvation of wives of political enemies, and this was one of numerous driving forces for the imposition of Magna Carta on him by his rebelling nobles. Ironically, by contemporary standards, at a national level John was a far better king than Richard (Henry at his best was better, but was too often not at his best, being too bent on conquest to bother to rule effectively what he already had). However, John was nonetheless personally a rather nasty man (to put it mildly), once again proving that the best men don't necessarily make the best rulers. His personal character and actions, more than his policies, drove his own nobles into nearly successful rebellion, resulting in Magna Carta, one of the great steps in English history.Sorry for boring you silly with the history commentary - it's a period I've always found particularly interesting. You can wake up now; I'm finished.Anyway, great movie in every sense - script, acting, score, cinematography, editing; it just doesn't get better than this. "},{"Title":"More TRUE than a factual documentary could accomplish","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"76 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's been eight years since I first saw this movie, and it is still my personal live-action gold standard (Lilo & Stitch being my animated film gold-standard). It combines drama, tragedy, razor-sharp comedy, great performances, and the best dialogue that has ever been spoken on film, period.I found this movie quite by accident--I was a sixteen-year-old with a Katharine Hepburn fixation. She mesmerized me; I wanted to BE her--smart, beautiful, sexy, and unwilling and unable to take anything off of anybody (except for Spencer Tracy, but that's another story). Honestly, I had no idea that there really had been such a person as Eleanor until I saw this movie. After watching my heroine portray her, I was determined to find out, though...so I have Katharine Hepburn to thank for my discovery of a new personal hero, and for my passion for medieval history.It is true that this movie is not 100% factually accurate, not only because movie making dictates tinkering with history to create an interesting film, but also because, unfortunately, not too much is known about Eleanor herself. In the middle ages, women, even powerful, intriguing women like Eleanor, were not considered important enough to merit full biographical treatment. Most of Eleanor's history is recorded in the context of her sons and husbands. A good deal of this history was written by her detractors--people who disliked or disapproved of her for one reason or another. The simple explanation is that they felt that as a woman, she overstepped the bounds of what was considered acceptable behavior for a woman of the period.That being said, this movie is 100% spiritually accurate. It perfectly captures the intrigue, the complexity of emotions and relationships, and tone of the age and the situation at hand. Though the sharp and witty dialogue is often considered a historical anachronism, this is not strictly true. Contrary to popular belief, people WERE educated in the middle ages, even women, if they were fortunate enough to be brought up in noble households, as Eleanor was. She was a brilliant woman, raised in a household where poetry and intelligent conversation were staples (her grandfather, after all, was one of the first troubadours). Henry was an intellectual powerhouse as well--he was a voracious reader who was often caught reading in church instead of paying attention to the sermons! It is unthinkable that these two minds would have produced stupid children, and the notion that the entire family should have only spoken in grunts and simple phrases is equally ludicrous.Though not historically accurate, as other reviewers have noted, the strength of this movie lies in it's perfect portrayal of some of the most fascinating and complex personalities in recorded history. Henry, Eleanor, Richard, et al., make today's political and royal figures seem like low-rent bumbling hucksters.  "},{"Title":"What Family Doesn't Have its Ups and Downs?","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"67 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This, by all means, should have been the film to do a clean sweep at the Oscars come 1969, but as fate would have it, only three wins, Best Actress, Writing from Another Medium, and Music. The storytelling is so simple yet so powerful and the acting is of such a high order that it seems timeless despite being a Historical Drama set in the 12th century.Set on the course of one night, King Henry II (Peter O'Toole) has a family reunion to see who of his three sons will be his successor to the throne, although he has his eyes set on John (Nigel Terry), but his imprisoned wife, Queen Eleanor of Acquitaine (played to perfection by Katharine Hepburn) has other plans which involve her own favorite, Richard (Anthony Hopkins in his film debut). Matters get complicated when neglected son Geoffrey (John Castle) pretends to be on John's side to serve his own interests and when Eleanor encounters Henry's mistress Alais (Jane Merrow) and will not cede the Acquitaine to Henry. Into the mix is a revelation from newly appointed King Philip of France (Timothy Dalton) in which he states that Richard had raped him (when in fact they had had an affair). Floating above the overlapping intrigues is Henry, not quite able to decide just what will the course of action to take, and when he learns that his sons have been conspiring to overthrow him (thanks to Eleanor), he almost gets painted into a corner and makes an impossible decision.This is a fascinating story, written so eloquently and performed so powerfully on-screen that one forgets this was originally a stage play with Robert Preston and Rosemary Harris in the leads. No sumptuous decorations; this, while being a family of noble extraction, they live devoid of the commodities that one would imagine coming from them. Of course, chemistry just overflows whenever Hepburn and O'Toole are together on-screen; it makes one think of the best matches in cinema history and is a shame they never worked together again as she was fond of him. If anything, they alone are the movie and never for a moment does one get bored even though the only action sequence is a scene where O'Toole drags Merrow to force her to marry Hopkins while Hepburn quietly monitors them. A beautiful film, timeless in its theme of family and inheritances, with shrewd performances, the best movie for 1968. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best dialogue ever written for a film... ever.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"64 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I love this film.  I love this film.  I am not sure that I can say that phrase enough when describing this movie.  Lion in Winter is quite simply one of the strangest and most beautiful movies that I have ever seen.  It is some wierd amalgam of a 'home for the hollidays' type family drama, and Machiavellian political intrigue.The essential plot is that it is 1183 and Henry II must declare his successor to the Plantagenet throne.  He invites his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine (played by Katherine Hepburn), who is in exile, and his sons to along with king of France, to Christmas dinner.  Over the course of the evening truths are told and arguments are had, the film rolls over all of the conventions of the many genres that it plays with and turns them into something new and beautiful.The film could have been written by Machiavelli himself, and often smacks of the Mandragola.  The film demonstrates family disfunction within a very interesting, medieval paradigm.  While the film is about issues such as family, loyalty and love, ultimately is most gratifying as a vehicle for O'Toole and Hepburn to chew the scenery and dig into a few truly juicy roles.It is fantastic film that any lover of dialogue driven drama-comedy should rent and watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"THE film of 1968!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"63 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What were those Academy fools thinking?! They ignore a powerhouse performance by Peter O'Toole and trounce Anthony Harvey's inspiring direction! But the final indignity was in giving the best picture award to an over-praised, undeserving, insignificant musical called OLIVER! If they had a least half a brain in their heads they could've given to FUNNY GIRL but they only shoot themselves in the foot when the deserving go unrecognized. It only goes to show the Academy's just jealous. The script and Kate's performance at least were given the royal treatment but it still leaves bitter resentment when Cliff Roberston, one of Hollywood's most less-than-adequate actors cops the best actor away from O'Toole... possibly Hollywood's most underrated, not to mention unrecognized actors of the highest caliber. Hepburn's Eleanor of Aquitaine had witty lines, quiet but still present anger and fire underneath the surface but O'Toole as Henry II gave the more powerful performance... an aesthetic that echoed Taylor and Burton for WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF? only Taylor was the gutsy performer and Burton doled out the cut-lows and the intellect. To coin a phrase from the British... he (O'Toole) was bloody robbed!The story is set in Britain, 1183. Henry II is on the throne and has ten years earlier imprisoned his wife Eleanor of Acquitaine after co-conspirating a civil war against him. She and their three sons (Richard, the eldest, a brave warrior on the battlefield, whom Eleanor wants to succeed Henry as king; Geoffrey, the quietly vicious, unappreciated middle son of whom neither of them love with a plot for every occurrence and John, the piggish, dirty, thieving brat is their youngest whom Henry for some unknown reason wants on the throne) are all requested to appear at their palace of Chinon for the Christmas holidays. Also invited is young King Philip II of France whose elder sister Alais is the treasured and much-loved mistress to Henry. Philip wishes to have Alais mearried off to one of Henry's sons (preferably Richard) in order to form an alliance between England and France made between Henry and Philip's father, the late King Louis. But meanwhile, Philip is also plotting with all three boys and Eleanor to tear Henry's kingdom apart. Eleanor is merely in on it to get back at Henry for loving Alais (whom she had raised as a surrogate daughter) and the late Rosmund, an old rival of Eleanor's whom Henry replaced her with.This film has it all infidelity, betrayal, family dysfunction and a script that crackles with venom, wit and plot-twisting motivation. See it if only for O'Toole and Hepburn's first-rate performances.  "},{"Title":"This film makes a great educational tool!","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am a high school history teacher, and I use this film to give students insight to the way Medieval kings, queens, and princes plotted and schemed with and against one another, how marriages were arranged with political motives, and how the relationships between these self-important royals shaped the history of the time. When I first introduced the films plot to my student, I was met with apathy and predisposed boredom, but they quickly were caught up in the intrigue and plot twists. At each major turn (an impromptu wedding, a surprise revelation about one of the character's sexuality, etc.), the students were often literally gasping.As for the film itself, I can not think of a movie with more solid acting from the headliners (O'Toole and Hepburn) to the other principal players (Hopkins, Dalton, Terry, and especially Castle), and even the other characters are well cast (Merrow as Alais is not especially solid, but she is at least adequate in her portrayal as the only pawn in this game of kings, queens, and knights). It is, of course, not to be seen as wholly accurate historically, as it would be near impossible to achieve such for events that took place 800 years ago, but the major themes are true to form, and the film is wonderfully engrossing. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"the lion is king of the jungle, and of England","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Katharine Hepburn won her third Oscar for The Lion in Winter, playing brassy queen Eleanor of Aquitaine. Her role is sort of an interesting counterbalance to Peter O'Toole, as King Henry II. That is, she's elderly and he's young. Maybe it was an allusion to the growing generation gap in the world at the time.But anyway, this is what epic tales of royalty are supposed to be. It shows Henry's conflicts in wondering who will succeed him. Never dragging, the movie truly gives one the feeling of being with these people and understanding their lives. One of the most interesting scenes - in my opinion at least - is when Eleanor says something about sex. I usually wouldn't expect someone of Katharine Hepburn's generation mention sex in a movie. But she does a great job here (well duh). Also starring are a very young Anthony Hopkins and an even younger Timothy Dalton. All in all, The Lion in Winter is a perfect movie in every way, and affirmed 1968 as one of the best movie years ever, with 2001 A Space Odyssey, Funny Girl, The Odd Couple, The Planet of the Apes, Romeo and Juliet, Candy, The Night of the Living Dead and Bullitt. "},{"Title":"They Might Be Giants","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"34 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The great film critic, Pauline Kael, chastised Hepburn in this film version of James Goldman's historical cat fight for exploiting the audience's emotional connection to her; for playing on her frailty. Further proof, that artistry is in the eye of the beholder. Ironically, years later, Hepburn, according to biographer Scott Berg, would criticize Meryl Streep for being too mannered. Of course, neither are the worse for the wear. Hepburn actually emerges triumphant in her portrayal of Eleonor of Acquitane and not least of which because we know the woman behind the artist; and know her to be a royal survivor in her own right.Other criticism that has dogged this work is that James Goldman's dark satire is muddied by the layer of emotion and even sentiment that the movie develops. But as with the film version of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, the enhanced emotional core of the story is a strong plus. To this end John Barry's forceful score lends great credibility as does Anthony Harvey's non stop strategic direction. Casting this powerful, writing this intelligent in the hands of a smart director makes this Lion unsurpassable to a stage production and certainly the unfortunate recent remake. "},{"Title":"One King's Family 1183","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is very rare to find an actor who has played the same historical figure twice. Charleton Heston was Andrew Jackson in THE PRESIDENT'S LADY and THE BUCCANNEER (1958). Edward Arnold was Diamond Jim Brady in DIAMOND JIM and LILIAN RUSSELL. Reginald Owen was Louis XV in VOLTAIRE and MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE. Raymond Massey was John Brown in SANTA FE TRAIL and SEVEN ANGRY MEN. But only Peter O'Toole played the same historical figure in two major productions that were made only four years apart, and that showed the character seriously aging.O'Toole had played King Henry II of England in BECKET (1964) as a young, vibrant monarch who makes the serious mistake of appointing his best friend to the one post that will make them enemies. The period that BECKET encompasses was roughly 1165 to 1171 (when Henry allowed himself to be whipped for the murder of Becket the year before - apparently at his orders). In THE LION IN WINTER (1968) he was King Henry some twelve years later. Henry is now the most powerful monarch in Western Europe, but he has problems of dynastic and political natures.His power structure in 1183 is dependent on his hold of the marriage dower of his wife Eleanor of Aquitaine. In BECKET, Pamela Brown played Eleanor as a sharp tongued and jealous woman who arranged the murder of her rival Gwendolen (Sian Phillips), on the night Henry was going to have sex with her. Henry (who hates the sight of blood) has a nervous collapse upon seeing the results of Eleanor's activities. In THE LION IN WINTER Eleanor was played by Katherine Hepburn. Now older, she is still a match in terms of political abilities to her husband. He has let her out of her castle prison to visit him and their three surviving sons (Richard, Geoffrey, and John) as well as Princess Alais of France and her brother King Phiip Augustus of France.Henry's family get-together is not for holiday reasons (although it is occurring at Christmas). He has taken a dower from King Philip's father King Louis for Pincess Alais (Jane Merrow) to marry his oldest son Richard (Anthony Hopkins). But Alais has become the mistress of the monarch, who is considering divorcing Eleanor and starting a proper family with his second wife Alais. Richard and his two brothers (John Castle and Nigel Terry) are not happy with this prospect - nor with dynastic ambitions of each other. Of the three sons, Henry favors John (Terry) over Richard, although Richard is the better fighter. The reason is that Richard is the favorite of his mother, and has been implicated in some of her attempts to stir up civil war against Henry. Geoffrey (Castle) has brains but he is untrustworthy and finds that he is constantly dismissed by both parents. And King Philip (Timothy Dalton) is furious that due to the highhanded actions of Henry his father was reduced in power in Europe, and he is forced to report to a man who is technically his vassal due to the French lands that Henry controls.THE LION IN WINTER had been a Broadway success in the middle 1960s, starring Robert Preston as Henry. The film is a successful transition, with the elderly monarch and his elderly consort tearing at each other in a kind of medieval WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF. O'Toole is wonderful as the still intelligent, vigorous, and bullying monarch he was in BECKET, except now he is facing his own mortality. Hepburn (who won her third Oscar for this film - one year after winning her second for GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER and tying this time with Barbara Streisand for FUNNY GIRL) is able to display a woman capable of any political damage be it encouraging her sons to revolt or threatening future harm to Alais and any child she and Henry may have to torturing Henry with the suggestion that she (Eleanor) slept with Henry's father before they met.Hopkins' hapless Richard is the most sympathetic of the three sons, with his humiliation when Philip maliciously reveals that Richard is a homosexual (the first time this trait was revealed in any film about Richard the Lion Hearted). Terry's John is properly pimple faced and immature on the surface, but showing when he betrays his father that two-faced ability that would lead to his disasters as King. Castle is properly sinister throughout - one realizes that both parents will not suggest him as heir because he'd kill them as soon as he could safely plan it out afterward. Dalton's Philip is galling to O'Toole, as he keeps showing that unlike his father he knows how to harm the British monarchy - by disgracing it's leading hero (Richard), and by simply waiting for time to take it's toll on his enemy Henry. And Merrow is the most sympathetic figure in the film, genuinely loving Henry but finding even he regards her as a dynastic pawn in the end. The movie was that rarity, a sequel as thoughtful and intelligent as the first film had been, and filling in the results of that first film's background and story very well indeed. "}{"Title":"The two most powerful people in the world","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I was just watching this again on PBS, maybe the 4th or 5th time I've seen this one. I've also seen the play performed and the TV remake. That last is also a worthwhile interpretation -- I even think Patrick Stewart did a better Henry. He showed more of the pure self possessed confidence and power. But Close and the other actors were not nearly as memorable as this cast, with the possible exception of unknown Soma Marko's completely vile moron John (he really shows us why he became the villain of the Robin Hood legends.) This 1968 cast included a brilliant young Anthony Hopkins as the deeply troubled Richard and a delightfully slimy Timothy Dalton as King Phillip of France.But these are mere bit players opposite two of the greatest characters of their time. The second Welsh Plantagenet took one of the most beautiful, powerful and intellectual women of all from the King of France, (and some say his own father) It was one of the greatest love stories of all time between the two most dynamic individuals of their era. And this is what it's all about and what makes this play and this movie work. Each was really the only one the other could ever really love. Nobody else in their time even came close. And only a Hepburn could pull off Elenore of Aquitaine. I still like Stewart's Henry better because he gave me more of the Henry we know from History as a completely fearless dynamic powerful King who could do and haveanything he wanted. Even though her youthful beauty had faded, Elenore as always the great love and the only woman who could ever have been his equal. So despite all the scheming, infidelity and dysfunctional family betrayal, those two will always be one of the great matches of history right next to Caesar and Cleopatra. That's what this play is all about and why this cast's rendition will aways remain a classic. "},{"Title":"Christmas in the Lion's Den","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" King Henry gathers his three son, wife and mistress for the Christmas holidays. This allows the family not only to exchange gifts, but also a host of venomous insults and elaborate on their individual plots to gather status, remove opponents and move closer to the crown.Based on a play - as most classic character and dialogue-centric movies tend to be - The Lion in Winter's main delight is in watching this vicious family in-fighting, chiefly the parents using their children as chess pawns in a deadly game. But who's playing whom? And when are they actually playing, and when they are, do they always know it? This is first-class writing of the highest order, and, very wisely, the director largely stays out of the way once his cast is tuned. Because as he and we all know, the first question most people ask when a film is mentioned is, who's in it?The cast is a parade of titans on career-best form Kathrine Hepburn often gets most of the credit for her smooth and calculating Queen Eleanor, but as the raging King Henry, Peter O'Toole is just as good, throwing tantrums and mood-swings, half of which are complete simulations designed to throw enemies off guard, like an aging Hamlet with more agency and the power to behead people. Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton throw in very worthy supporting turns as Prince Richard - the future Lionheart! - and Prince Philip of France respectively.The Lion in Winter is a film of many pleasures that will appeal to a broad variety of viewers. If you like epic period films, it will compel you with its immersive atmosphere and feel of the world at large with its political intrigue. For the first time in cinematic history, you feel the filth, both physical and moral, of even these regal surroundings. If you like intimate films about human relations, it boasts the most toxic family dynamic this side of Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf. Even if you are just curious, it has a score of unforgettable one-liners you'll never forget.This one deserves all the hype and then some! "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Slight spoilersHenry II is a twelfth century king of England, a powerful, energetic and spontaneous monarch who has conquered or otherwise acquired the rest of the British Isles and half of France. His wife, the legendary Eleanor of Aquitaine, some years older, has led more than one civil war against him, more than once with one or other of their four sons. By 1183, Eleanor has been dungeoned up in Salisbury keep for ten years and their eldest son has died. At Christmas, Henry summons his wife and their three remaining sons - Richard, Geoffrey and John - to Chinon castle in central France. Along for the ride are Henry's mistress, the beautiful Alais, and her brother Phillip, the king of France.Henry and Eleanor are played by Peter O'Toole and Katherine Hepburn with tour-de-force acting that is second to none. They are ably supported by Anthony Hopkins, Timothy Dalton, John Castle, Jane Merrow and Nigel Terry.The purpose of the gathering is to decide who will inherit the crown and which son gets which wife and what territory as a consolation. They bicker, backbite, squabble, carp, plot, coerce, cajole, bribe and threaten in equal measures. Who will be king? Who will marry Alais and get her brother as an ally? Who will get the Aquitaine? A witty, rich and biting script and inspired characterisations by the two ferocious leads in a tale set in a vast medieval castle make this unmissable. O'Toole and Hepburn scrap and hiss and spit like alley cats whilst their sons and the French onlookers manouevere and circle cautiously around them, waiting to strike at the first hint of weakness.But there are no weaknesses here. Not in the acting, which earned Hepburn an Oscar. Not in the script, which earned James Goldman an Oscar. Not in the soundtrack, which earned a third Oscar for John Barry. The film itself and O'Toole were also nominated. The Lion in Winter has been called a twelfth century soap opera, a Dallas of the medieval era. But this is wide of the mark. It is difficult imagining J R Ewing condemning his own sons with the eloquence of Henry II I, Henry, by grace of God, king of the English, lord of Scotland, Ireland and Wales, count of Anjou, Brittany, Poitou and Normandy, Maine, Gascony and Aquitaine, do sentence you to death. Done, this Christmas Day, at Chinon, in God's year eleven eighty three.This is a classic film, essential to anybody interested in acting or writing or wanting a glimpse into the world of twelfth century politicking. Don't miss it. Trivia notes. Richard, played here by Hopkins in his film debut, became King Richard the Lionheart (not the Lionhearted) whom Robin Hood supposedly supported. John became King John of the same tales; and in reality was the King John who signed the Magna Carta in the early thirteenth century. Nigel Terry, who played John, went on to play King Arthur in Excalibur some years later. Henry II was the great-grandfather of Edward I, William Wallace's nemesis in Braveheart.  "},{"Title":"Christmas With Henry And Eleanor Plantagenet","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's Christmas 1183 at the Plantagenet castle in Chinon, France. Henry II is still in mourning for the death of his eldest son who would have been Henry III. He's not quite sure what to do about the succession. He's inviting his three surviving sons, Richard, Geoffrey and John and their mother, the legendary Eleanor of Aquitaine.The nice thing about The Lion in Winter is that you don't need a knowledge of English history to help you follow the plot. It certainly helps, but the skill of the players and the great direction they get from Anthony Harvey makes this film understandable and universal.Peter O'Toole is not crazy about all three of his sons. He's an older and wiser man than the young monarch we saw him play in Becket. He sees the weaknesses in all of them. Richard who is a pure warrior, more interested in battles and killing than ruling, Geoffrey who schemes with every breath, and John who's an amiable dunce of kid, manipulated by everyone. None inspire any confidence.And then there's Eleanor a tough minded woman, liberated centuries before Germaine Greer, and played in a grand manner by Katharine Hepburn. Her dissolution of her marriage to Louis VII of France and her marriage with Henry II brought the large and rich Aquitaine province into the British auspices. She plays both the province and her sons in a never ending battle of wits with her husband as ruthlessly as any riverboat gambler.Two pieces of historical fact must be noted. The realm of Henry II consisted of England and a great deal of northern France. Rule in his realm meant of a necessity that the king divide his time in both parts of his far flung empire. That's why the gathering is in Chinon in France which was under English rule.The second fact is that the English king was also Duke of Normandy at that time and in that title owed allegiance to his sovereign the King of France who is played here by Timothy Dalton. But he's also a powerful monarch in his own right. The duality of those titles is a great deal of the reason for the conflict you see between Dalton and the entire Plantagenet family.And Dalton plays the whole lot of them off against each other. As King Philip II Augustus, he is as important in French history as Henry II is in British. He's the son of the man that Henry stole Eleanor from by another queen and that fact is upper most in his mind.There's no real story in The Lion in Winter. It's like a medieval Long Day's Journey into Night, a glimpse into the inner workings of a royal family. Long and deep on characterization as is the O'Neill classic. Still you'll be both entertained and informed watching it. Author James Goldman did his research well.The sons are played by John Castle as Geoffrey, Nigel Terry, as John and Anthony Hopkins in the first film that brought him notice as Richard, later on Richard the Lion Hearted. This is a far more realistic Richard than had ever been shown before including his well known homosexuality.The Lion in Winter won Katharine Hepburn her third Best Actress Award though she shared it with Barbra Streisand for Funny Girl. Peter O'Toole got his third nomination of eight for Best Actor losing to Cliff Robertson for Charly. That's one I've never understood. It's a great ensemble cast, everyone at his very best and not to be missed when broadcast. "},{"Title":"A Chess Game in History!!","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When such a tremendous film which evokes the intense intellectual pontification of the London and New York Theatre world makes it's debut into the Hollywood cinema, it is truly amazing!! Lion in Winter is one of my favorite movies of all time!! Katherine Hepburn won for best actress in 1968 with this role!! Peter O'Toole who played Henry II, and Anthony Hopkins, who played Richard, are two of the finest actors in the history of the silver screen!! The year was 1183 A.D. a time of the barbarians, which meant it was an environment consisting of a potpourri of megalomania, dictatorial entitlement, and the visceral components of primary survival!! Everybody loathed everybody else!! A provision for heartfelt emotions was obviated by an enmity which focused on the ruthless gratification of the boorish hierarchy!! The passion for hatred was relentless in this movie!! In evaluating the plot keywords of this film, they were summed up as the battle of the sexes, and a dysfunctional marriage!! Suffice it to say, these were masterpieces of understatement!! A wife was reduced to the post of insensate chattel, and thus, she was relegated to the hedonistic wishes of the king, until, it was seemingly appropriate for the king to inflict his wife with dotage by decree!! Henry II's time was one where the only philosophical reality in people's lives was death. The line of logic being that if you bore them, you had the right to execute them as well... This blatant disregard for human life cultivated an abject misery for the precarious plights of everyone involved in the subjugation of the capricious royalty!! I found this film to be spectacular, as a writer, I can appreciate the monotonously challenging approach Lion in Winter took to articulating realism!! The dialog compounds the deplorable rancor to the prevailing circumstances during the barbarian era of HenryII!! This film is a somber depiction of ancient history, and history is history for better or worse!! No!! I do not have any perception of what it was like in England in the year 1183, however, the rudimentary despondence which was depicted in this movie is sufficient enough to purvey a frightful conception of a terrorizing, primate, and sub-humanoid callousness!! I would not have wanted to live during that era of uncivilized human history!! Believe Me!! Movies like Lion in Winter take on artistically dimensional endeavors that elevate the standards in theatrical and cinematic entertainment, thus, they should be rewarded for it!! FABULOUS FILM!!!FIVE STARS!!! A PERFECT TEN!!! "},{"Title":"Gall in the Family","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In order to select an heir, medieval English king Peter O'Toole (as Henry II) arranges a Christmas family reunion. The guest of honor is estranged queen Katherine Hepburn (as Eleanor of Aquitaine), whom Mr. O'Toole has kept in prison for the past decade. In competition for the throne are the conniving couple's three sons Anthony Hopkins (as Richard), John Castle (as Geoffrey), and Nigel Terry (as John). Their extended family includes handsome French king Timothy Dalton (as Philip II), who was once Mr. Hopkins' sexual plaything; and lovely young Jane Merrow (as Alais), who is both Mr. O'Toole's current mistress and Mr. Dalton's sister.After one of the best scenes of her career, Ms. Hepburn asks, What family doesn't have its ups and downs? Hepburn's performance is marvelous. A Connecticut Yankee in King Henry's court, she nevertheless takes total possession of the role. Watching Anthony Harvey direct Hepburn and her six fellow thespians through James Goldman's script is what makes the otherwise tiresome, overdone subject matter come alive. The Lion in Winter cast is formidable, with O'Toole and Dalton (his first appearance) making kingly impressions. The music, by John Barry, is another obvious strength. And, they did it all without having to credit William Shakespeare.********* The Lion in Winter (10/30/68) Anthony Harvey, James Goldman ~ Katherine Hepburn, Peter O'Toole, Timothy Dalton, Anthony Hopkins "},{"Title":"Kind of a Medieval Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Peter O'Toole is Henry II, a true Lion in Winter in this 1968 film version of the play by James Goldman and also starring Katharine Hepburn, Anthony Hopkins, Timothy Dalton, Nigel Terry, Jane Merrow and John Castle. On Broadway, the roles of Henry and Eleanor were played by Robert Preston and Rosemary Harris. The casting director for the Broadway production commented that the original auditions, before Preston and Harris injected the spice and humor into the dialogue, were heavy going, the delivery of the actors very, very serious. Imagine this movie with no spark, no sarcasm, no wry humor injected into the lines, and you've got yourself a real nightmare.Fortunately, it's not the case. Though the story takes dramatic license with the truth - for instance, there was no Christmas gathering of the actual family in 1183, but there was in 1182 - the depiction of the family's infighting, considering how everything turned out, is probably quite correct. King Henry II wants to name his successor and brings his family together. This includes his imprisoned wife, Eleanor of Quitaine (Hepburn), his mistress, Princess Alais (Merrow), and his three sons - Richard (Hopkins), Geoffrey (Castle) and John (Terry), and Alais' brother, King Philip of France (Dalton). Everybody makes deals they don't intend to make good, promises they don't plan to keep, and alliances they don't want in order to secure the throne either, in the sons' cases, for themselves, or in Eleanor and Henry's cases, for someone else.To say that Henry and Eleanor have a volatile relationship is a tremendous understatement, and the dialogue is an incredible roller-coaster ride that's never boring. One wonders if an audience would sit through such a film today. If not, it's a pity, because it's so brilliant. Watching O'Toole and Hepburn sparring - sometimes so cruelly and bitterly that it's devastating - is addictive. You can't turn away from it. Hepburn shows us immediately by subtle actions - a quick expression that's just as quickly covered up, a slight hesitation in movement or speech - that no matter what her words say, she worships Henry still. For Henry, she is the most challenging and exciting woman he has ever known - and because of the volatility of their relationship, they can't survive together. Talk about being able to push each other's buttons - with Henry, it's whether or not Eleanor slept with his father; with Eleanor, it's his desire to marry Alais and divorce her.O'Toole takes the title of the film literally, and he indeed roars like an old lion. A powerful and overt actor, Henry II, which he played twice, is one of his greatest roles and this performance perhaps his best. Handsome, sexy, angry and wild, he holds the screen magnificently. For me this is Hepburn's best role. Her Eleanor is beautiful, dignified, sensitive and determined, easily wounded by Henry, though she tries not to show it.Henry II lived another 6 years, during which time Eleanor remained imprisoned by him, although she enjoyed more freedom and actually occasionally traveled with Henry. Henry was succeeded by Richard and then, because Richard had no heirs, by John. Eleanor spent her last years as a nun and, no surprise, outlived all of her children except for King John and Queen Leonora. Both Henry and Eleanor will live forever in The Lion in Winter. Imagine a movie with such superstars that Anthony Hopkins has a supporting role - thus was the case in 1968 when the young Hopkins played Richard, a closet homosexual who has had an affair with Philip of France. (Oh, Richard, Eleanor says as she sends him to make a deal with Philip, promise him ANYTHING.) History is quite divided over whether or not Richard was actually gay, but some writings definitely indicate that he was. Hopkins is brilliant as a tough and even cruel man who has a very sensitive side that can be gotten to by his mother. The rest of the acting is uniformly excellent.One of the greatest scripts with one of the greatest casts of all time "},{"Title":"Extraordinary battle of wits and verbal warfare  between O'Toole and Hepburn","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This excellent costume drama with box office success is set in Christmas 1183. The medieval monarch Henry II Plantagent(Peter O'Toole which played again in Becket)encounters surrounded by astute and mean relatives which wish ambitious rewards . The king pretends announce his heir and invites his estranged wife Eleanor of Aquitaine(awesome Katharine Hepburn which took her third Oscar) imprisoned by conspiracy , also comes the king Philip II of France(Timothy Dalton, screen debut)and their throughly dislikeable sons . Everybody confront wits over succession to the British throne and much else , including a game of verbal chess. The heir election between three sons, Richard(Anthony Hopkins,screen debut), Geoffrey(John Castle) and John(Nigel Terry) will cause intrigues, hateful, blackmail and psychological manipulation. In spite of possession a kingdom spread all England and great portion France, there's one thing that Henry never can to control, his rebel family . This film is a rich pageant of fun for drama enthusiastic and history lovers.This is a magnificent film inspired on real events and writings by James Goldman adapted from his own play, which deservedly won an Oscar. Superb drama with top notch performances, duo starring does triumphant characterizations. Fantastic and evocative musical score fitting to medieval times by John Barry with Academy Award included. Sensational production design shot on location and with an impressive castle , furthermore an atmospheric cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth, reflecting splendidly Middle Age. The tale is marvellously directed by Anthony Harvey in his best film, but after this, he strayed into the critical though not commercial hits. Remade recently for television in inferior version by Andrei Konchalovsky with Patrick Stewart(Henry II) and Glenn Close(Eleanor of Aquitaine). "},{"Title":"I Could Peel You Like a Pear and God Himself Would Call it Justice!","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" THE LION IN WINTER is a fierce, personal, and extraordinarily powerful film that boasts great acting, the best script since ALL ABOUT EVE, and enough intrigue and plotting crammed into one royal family Christmas to fill three James Bond thrillers.Christmas, 1183. The royal palace at Chinon in France, then under English rule. Henry II is pondering his choice of successor to the throne; at fifty, he is older than most men he knows and he senses time passing too quickly.The death of Henry's eldest son and namesake has left the throne up for grabs between his three remaining sons Richard, the great warrior later to be known as Lion-Heart; Geoffrey, cold, methodical, and deeply resentful of his place in the middle of the pack, but more than smart enough to make the most of any advantage that should arise; and John, clumsy and appearing half-witted at times despite the fact that as he says, he speaks several languages and has studied law.Eleanor wants the throne for Richard, her favorite. Henry resents Eleanor's affection for Richard and has settled on John primarily because he is all there is; neither parent seems to trust the conniving and sneaky Geoffrey which sort of puts him out of the running. Maybe.Also at the scene is Alais, the French princess betrothed to Richard but at the moment sharing Henry's bed, and her brother, the young Phillip II of France.Unlike most historical dramas, this one is not picture-pretty and filled with classical actors declaiming flowery speeches; these people hiss, growl, bellow, and curse at each other shamelessly, all the while pursuing their own agendas.The whole cast is brilliant, but O'Toole and Hepburn are positively mesmerizing. O'Toole, playing fifty at age thirty-six, and Hepburn, twenty-five years his senior (the age gap between the characters is somewhat narrower) but every inch his match, engage in a no-holds-barred, all-out free-for-all in which no punches are pulled and no words are left unsaid. This is possibly the most dysfunctional family ever put on film, but for all the rancor and conflict, they still act like a family in the film's handful of quiet moments.This is one of those movies that has to be experienced. It is also the sort of film that rewards multiple viewings.A first-class job. And while I loved the musical OLIVER!, I really think TLIW should have won Best picture. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and humorous battle of the sexes in the Middle Ages","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Costume dramas were all the rage in the sixties after the mammoth success of director David Lean's 1962 epic LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, and Anthony Harvey's THE LION IN WINTER is a notable entry in this sub-genre. Nominally based on the fight over Henry II's throne (although the film does naturally play around with the facts), the film introduces all of it's main characters and then wastes no time before letting the deception and wordplay begin. What makes the film special is the tone and manner in which the characters converse with one another. Unlike many other costume dramas, THE LION IN WINTER remembers that people of the 1100s probably weren't all that different from people today - and that they fight, ridicule, and swipe delicious barbs at each other just like we do in contemporary times.In hopes of really sealing the LAWRENCE OF ARABIA connection even further, we have Peter O'Toole in a sly and broad performance as Henry II, and while is certainly not subtle, he also never descends into ham-handedness either. Anthony Hopkins, John Castle, and Nigel Terry are memorable as Henry's three sons, as are Jane Merrow and a young Timothy Dalton as Henry's mistress and her brother - all of whom claim they have a right to some portion the throne. What really knocks the film up a notch into being a great film, however, is the fantastic, Oscar-winning performance of Katharine Hepburn as Queen Eleanor. Full of vigor and unapologetically mean-spirited, Hepburn's Eleanor is more than a match for O'Toole's pompous King, and the dissolution of marriage has seldom been more entertaining than it is when these two go head to head in battle. "}{"Title":"An Amazing Film","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film is one of the great cinematic achievements of the 20th Century. Katharine Hepburn's performance is brilliant, not to mention hilarious in some parts. She captures the personality of Eleanor of Aquitaine perfectly, and creates a smart, yet dysfunctional chemistry with Peter O'Toole that is captivating. Anthony Hopkins' role as the young Richard the Lion-Hearted brings the jealousy and rage of the throne to this film. Also, the performances of John Castle and Nigel Terry are very good. The role played by Castle, Geoffrey, is witty and almost sarcastic in many ways. Terry's role as John is very good portrayal of the historical John I of England being whiny and insecure. The enchantment of royalty and the jealousy of a family feud make this film one to be treasured. "},{"Title":"A Glorious Royal Feud","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" After A Man for All Seasons, The Lion in Winter is perhaps the best costume drama that came out of the 1960s, a decade rife with them.Peter O'Toole dons the garb of King Henry II for the second time in four years (see Becket) and commands the screen as ably as he always did. It's not a command he's allowed to take for granted though, because he has the life force of Katharine Hepburn playing his strong-willed wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine. Henry summons her from prison, and calls together also his sons, to decide the fate of his throne. The battle of wills and words that follows is juicy stuff, and you can tell O'Toole and Hepburn are having a divine time trading barbs and playing this eccentric couple, who hate each other even as they adore one another. It's a very unique treatment of material that would otherwise just be one more story about royal intrigue and dirty dealings.With a very young Anthony Hopkins as Richard III, providing us with a preview of the very fine actor he would become in his own right.Grade A "},{"Title":"A history lesson with vicious dialogue.","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" My reaction after seeing this movie the first time was pure disgust. With the exception of Alais, a nave little girl just looking for someone to take care of her, every one of them were vicious, selfish, conniving bastards, alternately weeping and screaming with rage. I've since seen it about 20 times and, although my opinion of the characters hasn't changed, my opinion of the movie has.The story portrayed is, actually, somewhat historically accurate. In 1183 King Henry II's oldest son dies, and now the crown is up for grabs between his three remaining sons. A Christmas court is held to decide the successor. Henry summons his wife, Queen Elanor (who's been languishing in prison for several years), his sons, and the young King of France. Let the games begin!.The plot does not move in a straight line. Throughout the movie the characters plot, counterplot, make phony alliances, and emotionally manipulate one another in an effort to gain better footing at the expense of someone else. And through it all King Henry (who is holding all the cards) takes sadistic joy in dangling carrots in front of them and gleefully jerking them away. And Alais, poor Alais, desperately looking for a shred of human decency to cling to, gets batted around like a cheap whore.And the dialogue. Oh, the dialogue. Sharp and steady as a scalpel, and just as deeply cutting. And it was everywhere, all the time. Nobody was safe. It was easily this movie's strongest feature.My advice see it. If you hated it, see it again. It will grow on you. "},{"Title":"Machiavellian and Dysfunctional Family of Snakes","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In 1183, the fifty years old King Henry II (Peter O'Toole) summons his wife Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine (Katharine Hepburn) that is imprisoned in Salisbury; and his sons Richard (Anthony Hopkins), Geoffrey (John Castle) and his favorite John (Nigel Terry) to spend the Christmas with the seventeen years old King Philip of France (Timothy Dalton) and his sister and Henri's mistress Alais (Jane Merrow). Henry intends to name the stupid John his successor to marry Alais and keep her dowry with his family; however Richard is the favorite of Eleanor. Along the holiday, the ambitious brothers and the Machiavellian Eleanor plot treachery schemes against the smart and unstable Henry to take his empire from him. The Lion in Winter is a theatrical movie about a fictional reunion of a Machiavellian and dysfunctional family of snakes for Christmas to discuss the succession in the throne of England. The witty and wicked dialogs and screenplay are impressive and a perfect vehicle to unforgettable performances, highlighting the duel between Katharine Hepburn and Peter O'Toole. Each nomination and win awarded by this movie is really deserved. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil)) O Leo no Inverno (The Lion in the Winter) "},{"Title":"Game of Thrones 68","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Lion in Winter is about the games that people high up in power tend to play with each other when they can, but it's also about parents, their children and how a woman has to act in such a society. This movie is rich with a lot of ideas and concepts, and yet it mostly comes down to the acting - people not exactly of the small-time variety like Peter O'Toole and Katharine Hepburn as the King of England and Eleanor of Aquataine (in other words, the Queen, or once was), and featuring supporting roles for the likes of Anthony Hopkins (his first film, really) and Timothy Dalton. Does a lot of this get stagy? Oh, very much so. It can be a drawback, or maybe just the Showiness in quotation marks. I use quotes since that's what other people say, and I do too. But is this necessarily a bad thing? No, but the feeling that this was a play and brought to the screen by its author is never left.This is all essentially a familial drama with political implications at a lot of turns the King has to choose his heir, as he is fifty years old and seemingly won't live that much longer (perhaps for the time, the 12th century, it was quite old, albeit Eleanor is supposed to be 61). Who will he choose super strong but emotionally wounded Richard, the middle-child with his own scheming Phillip, or the lovable but weak-willed and odd John? If he really could have his way he'd want to choose all of them - and, as one might see, the question could arise that none of them is an option - but a lot of these games are complicated by other factors, such as of course Eleanor, the mother of his children and a prisoner for her own scheming over the years; the King of France (Dalton) who is often referred to as boy, and the king's sister cum mistress for Henry, and a to-be-betrothed to one of the sons (Jane Merrow, underrated among the cast, she's really good here).In other words, there's some wackiness that ensues, of the sometimes dark, melodramatic and brooding kind. But what I found most interesting were what was behind so much of the drama, what these characters carry with them and continue to do so, some of them as they are facing death sooner someday than others. With Eleanor of Aquataine, this is a character who has had power taken away from her, she really doesn't have anything, and yet she can - or really has to - cut Henry down every chance she can to keep up to his level. She really is a vulnerable character deep down, when she can show it, though when that is exactly is anyone's guess. Like many plays (or the ones that I've seen and heard over the years), the games that people play on each other - think Virginia Woolf, for instance - is what is supposed to make it riveting for the audience. Who is going to plot what next? How will all of this drama (verging on soap opera) unfold? Maybe all of this is soap opera. There were certainly times, like when the sons are hiding not totally comically in Dalton's bedchamber when Henry comes in to have a talk, that the staginess of it can't be helped. But what stuck out for me and what made me like the movie so much is that the director Anthony Harvey and writer Goldman takes this material as seriously as they can, and mostly as this family drama first. Again, one may think of Game of Thrones as well (this could just as easily be the Lannister clan, fans of the show will know what I mean). And yet in order for this stuff to work, the actors do have to sell it and not hold back; if one is to do this sort of high-voltage, highly emotionally charged stuff right, get some people who will commit to it completely.Peter O'Toole gives what could be one of his two or three best performances here. That's a bold statement considering what other work he did in his career, but really when has he been better? Yes, this King has to yell and pontificate in GRAND, BIG ways (in caps) in many scenes. But a lot of this, we are in the know on, is braggadocio, like a much more refined version of Archie Bunker or Ralph Kramden. And yes, a sitcom comparison could be made here, only the laughs had aren't shallow or base these characters really can't stand one another - that, and, in one of those contradictions people have to keep in their heads one alongside the other, they love each other still. That's what's fascinating about watching O'Toole and Hepburn (in a role far more Oscar-y than 'Dinner' in 67). If you don't buy them as a bitter, wry, deeply wounded married couple, the movie actually doesn't work as well. I bought into them, and many of their scenes carry that electrified air of big, bold dramatic moments, especially in the last act when big claims are made about past familial ties.I don't know if it's all a great film. Some of the dramatic confrontations here get into that realm of such theatricality that it's hard to take a few times, just in that way of 'Oh, for chrissake, just kill each other and get it over with already!' But it has such a strong script and acting, and the themes of being a woman in that period and what a marriage was in such medieval times, or being a father and sons, that I had a great time watching it. By the end one senses not much has *really* changed for these people, but then why should it? Life goes on, until it doesn't, for these people of royalty and obsessive power "},{"Title":"Lesson Masters in performances, sharp and clever dialogue and a maze of passions.","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Is a masterful interpretation of Katharine Hepburn and Peter O'Toole, who display great chemistry on screen, dodging rightly unpredictable attacks of a script, with its twists and turns, complicating the performance of both, forcing them to give shows many records, even in the same sequence. Among the supporting cast (where all do an excellent job), highlights the role of cynical and gloomy John Castle (Geoffrey), who despite being rejected by the other characters in the plot, manages to stay near them enough to play its cards in the race.This film has an original treatment of life in the English court; away from stereotypical ideas based on the extravagance of monarchs, Harvey shows us a more realistic scenario of palace life in s. XII. That realism is accentuated in the character of the King (O'Toole), who does not need anything more than a beautiful coat and a crown, to leave a peasant's mind, and become the most powerful man on Earth.Finally, it is an essential film for the huge script named above, which continually disturbs the viewer and plunges into a maze of strategies, betrayal, resentment, passions and memories, developed with the structure of the best chess games. "},{"Title":"Every family has it's ups & downs...","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Certainly well mounted but is it really much more than a soap opera circa 1150? Katherine Hepburn is Eleanor of Acquitaine, released from jail by husband Henry II (Peter O'Toole) for Christmas. Their power struggle to name an heir to the throne goes on for two hours plus with witty one- liners thrown out like Molotov cocktails. The two leads, along with Anthony Hopkins, Timothy Dalton, Jane Merrow, John Castle, and Nigel Terry, act up a storm reciting James Goldman's acid tinged dialog with a lot of gusto. One is left, however, with a feeling of emptiness as this movie drones on and on. It's exhausting. The direction (which consists primarily of having a camera follow the players around) is by Anthony Harvey and the production values are all first rate from the cinematography by Douglas Slocombe to the faux-regal score by John Barry. This movie one many awards including the Oscar for its screenplay. "},{"Title":"a Magnificent act","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Based on a play by James Goldman, if I have to make a list of films which are completely carried out by actors The Lion in Winter would on top of it. With magnificent soundtrack and grand production values, the film is like a clash of titans. Peter O'Toole magnificently played aged King Henry II at the age of 36 only. This would simply make place among most energetic screen performances of all-time. He was just flawless, his voice only creates great impact. Same goes for Katharine Hepburn. Looking at their screen chemistry, no one could state the age-difference between them. All the actors did great work including Anthony Hopkins but nothing could match the charisma of O'Toole and Hepburn.Movie brilliantly portrays tense relationship among the royal family. Mind games, politics, betrayals and everything is carried out brilliantly by all the actors. I must admit the complex behavior of its characters. I just couldn't predict their response in the very next moment. But in the second half, it hits the bottom and all the masks are removed. We actually begin to understand the nature and personality of everyone. And every line from this film is worth quoting.As a whole, the film is one of the most powerful act of cinema-history without a doubt. "},{"Title":"Christmas with the Plantagenets.","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Every family has its ups and downs. So says Eleanor of Acquataine, the imprisoned wife of King Richard II of England. How kind of you to let me out of jail for the holidays, she tells him upon her arrival on the boat from the island prison where she has been kept for threatening to overthrow him. This is no ordinary woman. She's the type of historical figure that I Claudius's Livia and Herodias (Salome's mother) would cheer on from hell. And now, being home for the holidays, it is her intention to make sure that her favorite son, Richard (the Lion-Hearted) will take over the throne, not her husband's favorite, the scheming John. Also involved are nobody's favorite son, Geoffrey, and King Philip II of France who is the son of Eleanor's first husband who has an ironic connection with the younger Richard. Then, there's Princess Alias, the King's mistress who was pretty much raised by the Queen and is touted to become Prince John's wife even though she can't stand him. He smells of compost! she complains. The Plantagenets are one of the premiere dysfunctional families of history, long on craftiness and many of them quite short on common sense.Katharine Hepburn won her third of four Oscars for her performance as the diabolical queen who hates one of her sons while doting on the other two. To watch Hepburn go toe-to-toe with the much younger Peter O'Toole as King Richard is like an acting master class, and throwing in future legend Anthony Hopkins and future James Bond Timothy Dalton as well. Others include Jane Merrow a gentle Alias (in spite of the verbal speer she tosses at John, quite frankly he deserves it) and Nigel Terry as the sulking John who one day would be King, albeit one so hated that no English King has taken on that name ever since.Following this brilliant adaption of the Broadway play, British nobility would become frequent movie fare, with Anne of the Thousand Days and Mary Queen of Scotts immediately following, and views of Young Winston and The Nelson Affair showing other sides of British politics with scandal thrown in. O'Toole was robbed of the Oscar, his performance so powerful that it simply wreaks Academy Award, while Hepburn had to share hers with a certain Funny Girl. Then, there's that fantastic musical score by John Barry, so unforgettable with its Gothic flair and almost a demonic sound as if announcing the arrival of Satan himself. I'd hang them from the nipples, but it would shock the children, Hepburn wryly notes after picking up a huge necklace, and her characterization also brings up memories of that line, here paraphrased from Mildred Pierce, where Eve Arden states, She has me convinced that alligators have the right idea. They eat their young. Hepburn's Eleanor certainly may not have eaten her young literally, but she certainly does so metaphorically, and for just under 2 1/2 hours, you will have a ball watching her do so, spewing them out onto her stunned husband. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Cast In A Brilliant Movie","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Almost Shakespearean in depth and certainly in feel, this brilliant historical recreation brings these characters to life in all their many complex colors - and reveals a humanity and tragedy not brought to life in any other film about Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine. And wit? The dialog absolutely crackles with wit - and you find yourself challenged to keep up with the zingers whipped off with great aplomb by these towering talents. (I first saw this as an elementary school student, on a field trip believe it or not - and I was so impressed by James Goldman's screenplay I had to go to the bookstore and buy it (it was released in book form); it was one of the few movies whose screenplays I absolutely had to have.) You don't have to be a fan of Katharine Hepburn or Peter O'Toole, either, to marvel at their incredible performances in this film. Whew! The sparks really fly - and a young Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton (who later played James Bond briefly) help make that happen (if you didn't realize what a fine actor Dalton is, you have to see this film; Hopkins doesn't disappoint, either - as does he ever). The chemistry between everyone in this cast is about as natural and perfect as it could be, too. This is one of those films you'll later find yourself quoting - especially one very memorable line spoken by Hepburn (which you'll recognize when you hear it), which even manages to bring out a sense of humor in the middle of incredibly intense events. Memorable, great - even the music is (what an awesome score by John Barry - I had to buy the album after seeing the film, too!). "}{"Title":"Ms. Hepburn Wins an Oscar","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Katharine Hepburn a star of the American screen since 1930 starred in this film as Queen Eleanor of Acquatine and won an Oscar for her brilliant performance. Peter O Toole is splendid as the King and strong support from Anthony Hopkins.Terrific set decoration reflect a medieval time in this film expertly produced by Joe Levine and Directed by Anthony Harvey.Hepburn's peers such as Bette Davis, Joan Crawford, Olivia De Havilland, Ann Sothern were relegated to playing in horror movies but Hepburn remained a star of the first magnitude during the entire length of her her great career. "},{"Title":"Simply one of the the SINGLE greatest films of all time","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Folks, I would never write a spoiler for this film; that is, the film details are for you, the viewer, to literally behold with awe!From the moment Katherine Hepburn appears on screen, the viewer is literally transfixed; this performance is the living embodiment of whatever other actors endeavor to refer to as being in the role. With, apparently, no on-set fanfare except courtesy and graciousness to all, one of the world's greatest actresses wraps a cloak around her and becomes the Queen of England. It is nothing short of astounding.The rest of the players are, frankly, flawless, but Hepburn is worth the price of admission. Watch this film to be knocked-over by one of the great cinematic performances of all time - and, well, simply enjoy the rest of the trappings that adorn it! "},{"Title":"one-in-a-million!","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" How can anyone describe a movie which is larger than life? I will start from Hepburn which from all her Oscars this was the best well-deserved. The character of Eleanor of Aquitaine is still under study from the historians due to her uniqueness and power - at a time where women were viewed only as child-producing machines and heiresses. Hepburn captures all that Even though she is imprisoned in the film and one would expect her to be restricted, she is the one driving the whole plot leaving all the others (including her empire-ruling husband) keep guessing what trap lies next.All actors are great in their performances and a very young Anthony Hopkins is an eye candy. The quotes and the catch phrases spoken in this movie are a sufficient reason on their own to watch it.A one-in-a-million film for all who like splendid performances, medieval films, royalty related movies, and very witty dialogs... "},{"Title":"Back Story","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A lot of people mention that this film seems hard to understand, but I didn't notice any comments that really did anything to remedy that.Eleanor of Aquitane, originally married to a French King (with two daughters) tired of him after an unsuccessful Crusade which they both led. She was able to have their marriage annulled thru the claim of consanguinity ... the discovery that they were too close as blood relatives for a legal marriage.Six weeks later she married Henry of England, who was a marginally closer blood relative than her first husband.Eleanor, thru various coincidences, had as a female come to the leadership position of Aquitane, the most wealthy region of France, and as a result she nominally controlled about a third of what is modern France.Two years after she married Henry, he ascended to the Throne of England as Henry II. I believe that Eleanor figured she would not have long to wait to be queen.She bore Henry II eight children, including five sons.The eldest, another Henry, eventually embarked on a revolt against his father. Eleanor supported his revolt, which never really got close to succeeding. Henry the son eventually contracted dysentery in a war camp and died. For the crime of supporting the revolt, Henry II kept Eleanor locked away where she could do no political harm for 16 years.You'll hear reference to just about all of the above during the course of this delightful stage play adapted to the screen. Tho probably too 'dull' for younger ears nowadays, this script is intelligent, witty, and encapsulates the resulting politics over the future of the throne into an entertaining nutshell.Not only does it include an Oscar winning performance by Kate Hepburn, but Peter O'Toole vigorously gives us a good look at Henry II, who WAS vigorous. He expired at about the age of 56 as a result of injuries sustained during a jousting match! Early looks at Anthony Hopkins and Timonthy Dalton are quite interesting. Although Hopkins is instantly recognizable, the young and slim Dalton takes a bit to discover if you didn't already know he was in the film. His voice is quite recognizable, but he has yet to grow into the man who will play James Bond.So you action and sex junkies can look elsewhere ... this film is not for you. Those who appreciate fine writing and acting for their own sakes will enjoy a two hour feast. -) "},{"Title":"..fabulous film by all concerned in its making..","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" ...I thought I had already commented on The Lion in Winter, but I don't find it. So, here we go again....EVERYONE is right when they praise this movie and the fantastic acting by O'Toole, Hepburn, Hopkins, Castle, Terry, Merron; the direction was awesome, the score very riveting (which drew me to the film in the first place); lighting sensational, cinematography perfect, costuming very believable (not one of those movies where everyone parades-around in gorgeous outfits), sets extremely appropriate. I don't know how anyone could find fault with any part of it.The opening scene, King Henry II watching his youngest son jesting and learning how to become a killer (he is a monster, anyway), explains exactly the kind of man Henry has always been - a lecher if it moves, he's had sex with it. He tells his mistress (Merron) he has made love to little boys; she is his wife's adopted daughter, sister of King Philip of France (Eleanor) was married to their father, as the Queen of France, and raised them both, giving the French king no heirs). Eleanor was the rage of Europe and wherever she traveled, having owned most of France since she was a young woman; she isn't about to give it up to a king (her Engligh husband) who has been so adulterous (not to mention herself, also). If the king is so worried she will de-throne him, no wonder he has her locked-up in a prison/castle. With parents like these, how else can their children be (especially the sons) but wanting to get rid of the king so they can ascend the throne ? Almost every user who has posted a comment here writes eloquently, as the movie is written by James Goldman Anthony Harley had a masterpiece to direct, as almost every user has written. They are all right this film should have won every award for that year.They are also correct that NONE of the plot's back-stabbing has been solved at the end of the movie. Eleanor is happy to get back on her barge and sail back to her prison; she knows that Henry's threat to go to the pope to have their marriage dissolved is a sham - she's already been through that with the King of France. Henry II isn't about to give-up his mistress and all the other miscreants in his sexual life. The sons haven't been given any hope they will ascend the throne, but know that mummy is in there plotting to make it Richard (Hopkins), because he's her favorite and she KNOWS that he is homosexual and had an affair with Philip. Some users deny this - it's well-known. So, here's a set-up for the perfect sequel, rather-than making the same film over-and-over again. I suggestEleanor of Aquitane lived well into her 80s - she out-lived Henry II and all their kids, and NEVER gave-up Aquitane. She was an international power, even with the papacy, so why not tell some of the outrageous incidents of her later life? which would give some other great actress (more-so than Hepburn?) the opportunity to complete this phenomenal woman's life-story. Whomever she may be, if they don't copy Hepburn's fire-and-ice performance, they're crazy. Streep could do it very easily.The Lion in Winter is a real blockbuster - it has everything a classic film needs.......plain-ole, high-powered, brilliant acting. Who needs explosions and CGIs? If you are familiar with a little medieval history, that's to your advantage; if you ARE NOT, here's the opportunity to learn. Lion shows exactly how nasty, ambitious nobility was/is, and - in those years - didn't live in palaces like Versailles or Buckingham. It's a shame we can't rate it higher...... "},{"Title":"Please Knight Peter O'Toole!","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Katharine Hepburn earned her third Academy Award for her performance at Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine. In a film adaptation of the James Goldman's play, Hepburn is magnificent as the complicated, manipulative, game-playing Queen. Her performance is stunning and unforgettable. Peter O'Toole's King Henry is marvelous in an equally stunning performance. It's a wonder that he didn't win an Oscar. A young Anthony Hopkins plays Richard, Eleanor's favorite son. Timothy Dalton played King Philip of France. It's interesting that the film kept the nature of their relationship true to the adaptation. Then there is Prince John who isn't much of king material and Prince Jeffrey who is far better a candidate. Everybody in this film is playing games when Christmas comes. It's a dysfunctional family of the highest caliber during the Camelot years in Chinon, France where St. Joan of Arc's remains are and I have been too myself. Despite over a millennium, people aren't that much different. They're cunning, cruel, manipulative, and ready to kill for power. This film has as many great quotes and dark humor along the way. "},{"Title":"Movie making of the highest caliber!","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I love reading comments on IMDb even those by the person who read the comments in chronological order and gave a negative vote to those who wrote and voted a very positive input. It does make you wonder about a person who so disliked The Lion in Winter that they would take it out on people like me who thought the movie was a cinematic masterpiece. My fellow humans are nothing if not questionable.On to the movie I watched it last night on TV and was totally captivated by everything about it. I thought that the performances were superb. I thought the script was up to the quality of those that delivered the lines. I thought the camera work was a brilliant reflection of the director's shot-selection and I thought that the costumes as well as the wonderful locations were a superb canvas upon which the drama could be played upon.I cannot say enough positives about this magnificent film and I, like other commentators that I have read, mourn the passing of this renaissance period of film making that occurred, far too briefly in my opinion, during the late Sixties and into the late Eighties. There seems to be nothing remotely as good coming out of Hollywood today so people like me can take pleasure in at least re-watching these magnificent classical historical films without suffering the indignity of listening and watching animations of taking penguins and faux humans trying to pass off their actions as dramatic movie making.For any person that relishes on-screen drama, you owe it to your mind to seek out a copy of this brilliant film and absorb the greatness of film making at its best (and yes I do expect the negative reader to lethally strike at my simple comments.) "},{"Title":"Chinon,my native town!","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is the only movie which entirely takes place in my native town ,Chinon.This town was also the place where Joan of Ark met the king in 1429.When there was a Son Et Lumire show a long time ago,Joan,Henry the Second and Alienor were the heroes.The royal couple was buried in Fontevraud Abbey,not far from Chinon,and their recumbent statues are the only ones in color in France.The movie is magnificentshall I have to say Katherine Hepburn thoroughly deserved her AA for her stunning performance (which leaves the co-winner Streisand far behind in 1968),and she is matched every step of the way by Peter O'Toole.Young Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton already show their talent.The movie was filmed in the south of France ,but the place -although geographically inaccurate - was chosen with care because ,when the boat sails down the river ,I thought for a short while it was MY Vienne valley in a place I used to bathe when I was a child. "},{"Title":"Perhaps it is time to re-visit Becket, long missing from the catalogs.","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I cannot but agree with the complimentary remarks of all the contributors. in almost every scene there are felicities of language, beautifully delivered by Peter O'Toole and Katherine Hepburn. This is why I would enter an earnest plea for the re-issue of Becket - a piece that has much in common with The Lion In Winter - medieval period lending itself to brilliant interpretations - or as we like them to be. Becket has the added lustre of Richard Burton in one of his finest roles.I am unsure where one goes to find support for the re-release of such gems into DVD format, but, if there is anyone out there reading this, who has such influence, please use your influence to get it restored to its rightful place in the Pantheon of great films - available to a larger audience. "},{"Title":"Technical Issues Distracting","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It was unfortunate for viewers of this film that the cinematic zoom lens had just been introduced when it was made, because the director and/or cinematographer seem to be fascinated with it as a new toy. The opening scenes of the movie, in particular, subject the viewer to constant zooming in and out that is reminiscent of old episodes of Hawaii Five-O. On top of that, the herky-jerky editing and inconsistent color constantly remind viewers that this is a film. It is not until well into the film that the effect of these distractions seems to recede.As a filmed stage play, the film probably does as well as one can expect. Stage plays are, by nature, talky, and this one certainly is. The performances are intense, but there are some underlying gaps (noted by other reviewers) that make it difficult to fully embrace what is going on in the story -- certain actions and motivations seem arbitrary and contrived. From that perspective -- and I do not mean to make any other comparison -- a film like Sleuth is more successful, because despite the rather far-fetched premise, everything is internally consistent. Here, by contrast, it is hard to know exactly why these events are taking place, other than that the playwright has chosen to gather these characters together at this time and let them affect each other.  "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I love this film.  It is one of my all-time favorite movies.  Is it historically accurate?  I'm sure it's not.  But the acting and the dialogue make it great.It is worth noting that Eleanor of Aquataine was 11 years older than Henry II - making her 61 in 1183 - so Katharine Hepburn, is actually about the right age for the part.  "},{"Title":"One of the masterpieces of the first century of film-making!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is one of the truly great masterpieces of the first century of film.  The script has not a wasted word, running the gambit of human emotions from scene to scene.  Yet what really pushes this film into the upper tier is the extraordinarily powerful performances by all of the principal actors.  Yes, Hepburn's performance was Oscar caliber, but there isn't a drop-off of any kind between her performance and those of her compatriots, O'Toole, Dalton, Hopkins, et al.  I cannot think of another film with such tight acting all around.I would recommend, if you have not seen this film, see it.  If you haven't seen it recently, watch it again.  If it isn't already in your collection, correct the oversight.This film is a perfect 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"the real darth vader","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Circa early 1980's, I was 10 and like all of my friends I dreamed of swinging a jedi light saber. Now maybe it is my own particular intelligence but as I jumped from couch to couch, I overheard this most intriguing dialog. The words sunk deep giving birth to a knew conscience. And for next 2 hours I thought about human motives. I thought about how poorly women where treated, I thought how much father's want to be proud of their sons, I thought about son's and how much they wanted their fathers to be proud of them. Empire Strikes back had nothing on this. Even as kid this movie made sense.  "},{"Title":"A flawless character study","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As Eleanor herself said, every family has its ups and downs. What will enthrall any history buff, major or minor, is that this film (based on the award-winning play) focuses just one holiday, one short span of time in the tempestuous lives of Henry II and his family. The plot spins into a tale of intrigue, love, hate, obsession, and ambition that distills the intricate web of family that both unites and divides them into a no-holds-barred battle of ambition. The entire cast performs above and beyond the call of duty, with Katherine Hepburn as the splendid Eleanor of Aquitaine, a woman out of legend, and Peter O'Toole as the indomitable Henry Plantagenet, King of England. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of art.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Considering that the motion picture was the art form of the 20th Century, this is a masterpiece.    Understandably, the dialogue is fiction since so little is really known historically about the time and characters beyond their existence, and is enjoyable as John Goldman wrote it in modern English taken from his play of the same name.   The Lion In Winter should be in the top 10 rather than the top 200 best films ever made.    The Godfather is a great film, but is #1 only because it's a part of modern American history.   As a British historical novella/play, The Lion In Winter presents an extraordinary understanding of 12th Century Europe.   The significance being that Henry II, the first Platagenent, was the only true, absolute monarch in British history.   Richard succeeded him, but got lost in the Crusades and John then succeeded Richard, and trapped at Runnymead in 1225, was forced by the English barons to sign the Magna Carta, thus ending the absolute monarchy his father had established.   If the reader of this little piece hasn't, I strongly suggest reading the Magna Carta - a very long and boringly interesting document. "},{"Title":"5 stars out of 4!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What can I add that hasn't already been said about this movie? It is a masterpiece of dialog. You will not find whittier, more cutting and powerful dialog in any other movie. The lines are some of the most memorable you will ever hear. James Goldman who did both the play and the screen adaptation did a wonderful job. Nice job on the music too, done not in his usual style, by John Barry. The acting is also first rate. O'Toole (who no doubt will be honored by the Academy posthumously one day- since they are too stupid to recognize him for roles like this one in his lifetime) IS King Henry II. He was wonderful as well in the movie Becket w/Richard Burton. As his match- punch for punch is Katherine Hepburn. She was honored by the Academy for best actress for this movie and rightly so. She is perfect as Henry's wife, Eleanor of Aquitiane. In a terrific scene where Henry tells Eleanor he's thinking of divorcing her for another woman so he can make more heirs to the throne the dialog goes something like this Eleanor says what if she holds him back, what if they're daughtered first, what if they're first son dies...how old is daddy then? what kind of spindly, wizened, dim-eyed, gamy handed, limpy line of THINGS will you beget? Henry replies, it's sweet of you to care Eleanor and when you're dead which is regrettable but necessary, what will happen to frail Alias and her pruny prince? You can't think Richard will wait for your grotesque to grow? Henry you wouldn't let him do a thing like that? Eleanor let him? I'd push him through the nursery door. But you have to see the whole thing... it's filled with that kind of whit. Despite everything, it's obvious that they love each other. (kind of in the spirit of Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf.) This movie will always be on my top 10 favorite of all time!And btw, I could give a hoot how historically accurate this movie is... it's NOT A DOCUMENTARY!!!!!!!!! They have the main details right & the rest is a STORY. Enjoy it for what it is. One of the best written, best acted movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best movies ever made","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The casting in this movie is great, I don't know if all these actors worked for the London film makers or what, but they did a great job.  I also don't know if they spoke like that back in the middle ages but the writing could not have been better.  If you like movies you have to see this one. "},{"Title":"Best Dialogue Ever!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Well, okay, so this film might have to contend with All About Eve for the title of best movie dialogue ever written, but surely it's gotta be in the top two if not THE best.  The acting's great, the plot is intelligent and full of twists, and the story provides a remarkably painless history lesson... but oh, that dialogue.  Words to swoon for, if one weren't laughing and/or gasping too hard to make the swoon convincing. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best theater ever placed on film.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I haven't seen every movie ever made, so I have to say perhaps. Peter O'Toole and Katharine Hepburn at their most incredible. A script that in lesser hands might be considered overblown and pretentious rolls pithy and brilliant from the mouths of masters.Take the time, find a quite room, turn the lights down, become absorbed. "},{"Title":"A precision orchestration of actors","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Vivid characters. Crisp, biting dialogue. Intrigue and suspense. Family turmoil and betrayal. Beautiful period dress and sets. Fantastic film! "}{"Title":"This movie is quite accurate.","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Except for the fact that Phillippe II never spent Christmas with Henry and his family, this movie is quite accurate.  The relationship of the people involved can be confusing if you dont know the whole story, but it can be confusing if you do know the whole story.  It is a must see. "},{"Title":"One of the best. This is the best of its genre.","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  How can you ask for better chemistry than Peter O'Toole and Katherine Hepburn and their children Anthony Hopkins, John Castle and Nigel Terry? This is one of the most superbly acted movies ever made, Katherine Hepburn is amazing and clearly only gets better with age! Why O'Toole never won an academy award baffles me, this performance is brilliant! This is a must see, you can not miss this movie! Everything is brilliant, the dialogue will just knock you over! "},{"Title":"An Incredible Film!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Whether you are interested in medieval history or not, you should check this film out.  It is amazing in the way it depicts each character so accurately, and truly gives a feeling of reality to the misadventures of such an infamous family of nobles.In my eyes it does deserve a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"Watch the English royals backstab each other for Christmas!","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A skillfully written movie which includes glorious performances from Katherine Hepburn as Eleanor of Aquitaine and Peter O'Toole as King Henry II.  It is Christmas time and the royal  family seems to be in the middle of an argument as to who will be the next king of England after Henry dies. Henry wants John, Eleanor wants Richard, and everybody seems to simply ignore poor Prince Geoffrey.  From there everything goes downhill as they all use treachery and deceit  to gain  the upper hand.  Its delightful and horrifying to watch them going picnicking on each other.  Some of the most witty dialogue in cinema are contained within this film as the royal family members use their tongues as fillet knives.  Engrossing from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Ever","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm not much for top 10 lists because they are usually an empty exercise. But Lion in Winter is certainly one of the greatest films ever. This is, in my opinion, Katherine Hepburn's best performance and Peter O'Toole, her co-star, is even better here than he was in Lawrence of Arabia. The script, by James Goldman (from his play), is among the most literate ever filmed. Except for A Man for All Seasons, I cannot think of another movie not made from a Shakespeare play that is in the same league. The dialog crackles, especially in the scene where King Henry (O'Toole) and Elinor of Acquitane (Hepburn) confront each other like scorpions in a bottle, hurling insults, wounding, loving and battering one another amid the brilliant verbal sparks that would illuminate the sky if part of a fireworks display. Anthony Harvey's work as the director is also a wonder, probably the best thing he ever did. And this is one of the earliest films to serve as a vehicle for Anthony Hopkins (playing the future King Richard II). If Lion in Winter is rated at 211 out of 250 among best films ever, one has to wonder at the judgment of the electorate. "},{"Title":"Pork in the treetops","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" My wife and I just watched this movie for the first time tonight, and are we impressed! The production and acting were on a level rarely seen these days.O'Toole's ability to change emotional directions several times in a single scene was remarkable. The scene where he disowned his three son's in the French king's room is amazing. What is more remarkable to us, is Hepburn was even better than O'Toole! Her waspish tongue and manner were both funny and moving. Her line, There will be pork in the treetops as an answer to O'Toole's When pigs can fly was devastating and hilarious simultaneously!The other actors in the movie of note were Anthony Hopkins as a young Richard (future Richard the Lionhearted) and an even younger Timothy Dalton as the newly crowned French king were both very good.All-in-all, we heartily recommend this movie. Even if you are not a fan of costume dramas, this movie will get your attention and keep it. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Overrated Movies Ever Made","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"24 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" After watching Becket I thought I was in for another classic. But it turned out to be on of the biggest flops I have ever seen. Unlike Becket the dialogue was filled up with imaterial and seemed to repeat itself. For example throughout the movie it seems that O'toole and Hepburn are in engaged in a major argument when suddenly it turns around into a love scene. I can recall of this happening at least 5 times throughout the movie. A second aspect to the dialogue was the relationships. The brothers were all forming alliances with each other King Henry II, Eleanor of Aquitaine, and King Philip of France. At one point of the movie I had no idea who was supporting who. For example there is a scene were all three brothers are conversing with King Philip, but each time one walks in the other starts to hide. Even King Henry the II walks in and suddnely it turns into a huge argument. Even in the ending provides no resolve to the movie when suddenly Eleanor of Aquitane and King Henry II resolve their relationship. I have no idea how this movie could win an Oscar for best screenplay.Another disappointing part of the movie was the acting. The brothers other than Richard (Anthony Hopkins) seemed to be out of character and did not show enough expression. King Philip (Timothy Dalton) seemed to be over the top. But that I could with stand. The performance that disappointed me the most was Katherine Hepburn as Eleanor of Aquitaine (especially after winning an Oscar for it). She seemed to struggle with her British accent. She also was very much over the top and wasn't very convincing as a Queen. She was a serious mis-cast. The two acting performances that held this movie together was Peter O'toole as King Henry II (who probably deserved the Oscar) who probably played better than he did in Becket because he was required to and Anthony Hopkins as Richard who played vet good as the son with a true desire of becoming king. Other than these two great performances, this great story was turned into a inconclusive and enigmatic spectacle. "},{"Title":"Medieval France spoilt by an American drawl!","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have given this film 7 out of 10 mainly because of the location scenes and the costumes. Generally the acting was superb but totally marred for me by the horrendous mistake of casting Katherine Hepburn as Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine. OK - she can act - BUT a medieval French lady with a broad American drawl totally spoilt most of her scenes. In the version that I have there are 9 subtitle languages but no English in sight. What an oversight, especially when conversations get heated and background noise is rather intrusive. Very disappointing for those who are increasingly hard of hearing. With all of that plotting going on it's a marvel that many of them lived so long! "},{"Title":"'The Lion in Winter' is A Riveting, Nuanced Period Drama!","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Lion in Winter, based on James Goldman's play about treachery in the family of King Henry II, is an intense, fierce, personal drama, directed with evident pleasure by Anthony Harvey.Cataloging the vicious wrangling for inheritance one Christmas holiday, the action is mostly contained within one day. The all-powerful Henry II (Peter O'Toole), summons his politically ambitious family to a reunion in 1183, when a decision on succession is deemed advisable. This includes his exiled, embittered and imprisoned wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine (Katherine Hepburn), and three legitimate male offspring, along with his mistress and her brother, youthful king Philip of France. King Henry II schemes against the mother of his children, Eleanor to try to get his favorite son, a sniveling slack-jaw John (Nigel Terry), appointed as his successor while Eleanor hopes to position her favorite, the soldier genius Richard (Anthony Hopkins), as the heir apparent. Meanwhile, middle child, the reserved and quiet Geoffrey (John Castle) hopes to play them all against one another and come out victorious as the future king. The members of this tempestuous family jockey for position and brutally squabble among each other, rekindling every injury suffered and adding new, Homeric insults to their already bruised reputations.In one day, the seven characters are stripped bare of all inner torments, outward pretensions and governing personality traits. Goldman blends in his absorbing screenplay elements of love, hate, frustration, fulfillment, ambition and greed. The relationships between people, though ambivalent, are ambivalent with a certain satisfying ferocity. Director Anthony Harvey's knowledge of the craft aids him in keeping the tension high and never letting the audience settle for long on an outcome in the constant feud, with twists, turns and plenty of incredible backstabbing.Even though Terry, Castle and especially Hopkins are all at the top of their craft, this film is all about the thorny and turbulent relationship between Henry and Eleanor, whom he's had imprisoned to keep her from meddling with his empire. A marvelously flamboyant Peter O'Toole plays the revolting king to the hilt and holds his own against Katherine Hepburn in a witty, literate, and inventive script. Hepburn is simply magnificent as the scheming and shrewd Eleanor of Aquitaine. There is something about an actress with this degree of presence and a wholly distinct, pleasant and idiosyncratic voice that gets her through even misplaced weepy or extravagant scenes. Her verbal duels with the equally impressive O'Toole are spellbinding. Both play their scenes with great passion, vigor and expertise. Right from the first scene, they both show a wonderful relish for even the most mundane sarcastic line.Despite feeling a bit stage-bound, The Lion in Winter is every bit as engrossing and watchable. It's a nuanced, gorgeous film that keeps you riveted right from the word go. "},{"Title":"another specimen where a dissonance existing between one's personal view and the accepted general opinion","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This famous screen adaptation of James Goldman's play is mostly remembered for Katharine Hepburn's historic third win of Oscar's BEST LEADING ACTRESS in 1969 (yet she would further cement her unrivalled record with her fourth win for ON GOLDEN POND, 1981, 8/10), most interestingly, it is the one and only case where it is a tie for leading actress, she shares the honour with Barbara Streisand in FUNNY GIRL (1968). Directed by Anthony Harvey with Goldman as the screenwriter, headlined by O'Toole and Hepburn, well, contrary to my expectation, it comes out as a rather enervating and mind-numbing non- starter. So it all happens during Christmas 1183, King Henry II of England (O'Toole), convenes Queen Eleanor (Hepburn), whom he has imprisoned for months in a castle, and their three sons, Richard (Hopkins), Geoffrey (Castle) and John (Terry) to Chinon, Anjou for a family reunion and to discuss the issue of heir-ship, with King Philip II of France (Dalton) as their guest, and also presented is Alais (Merrow), Henry's mistress and Philip's sister, who is betrothed to Richard. That being so, it forges a cobweb of stakes around them while all the three princes contend to be crowned the future king, Richard is championed by Eleanor and John is Henry's favourite, while Geoffrey has his own calculations.Yet all the relations cannot be simply divided by love or hate, being a sterling dramaturge, Goldman maps out an intricate love-and-hate struggle between almost any two random characters, at first, it is relishing to enjoy these top players mount their mlange of feelings through their eloquent oration and wordplay, but being a different art form from a dialogue- driven play confined in a simple locale, the film version tries to duplicate the same pathos using the same method, soon the narrative steers towards excesses, there is no time for audience to ruminate the bombard of colloquies, in the next scene, the same power struggle/psychological game repeats itself between other characters, at the end of day, after all the labouring bickering, the status quo remains unseated, from choosing the right heir, to threatening of dethroning Eleanor from the title, to the extreme of murdering all his sons for the sake of marrying Alais and they can start life anew, the script is overwhelmingly rich for its 134 minutes running time, nonetheless the final upshot proves all above is merely lip service, no exciting changeover presented, all we know is for medieval people, their mouth never match their heart, it is a rather exhausting anticlimax and doesn't sharpen the process of character building. Hardly one can blame it on the cast, all is busting their asses to construct the atmosphere of dramatic intensity, even for Hopkins, Dalton and Terry (who just passed away earlier this year at a quite young age of 69), in their screen debut. Hopkins possesses a wide-eyed earnestness which is very rare in his staple phenotypes. Dalton is fiercely wet behind the ears in front of Hepburn and O'Toole, alas their undercurrent of homosexuality only superficially touched on. Terry is deliberately grotesque, Castle preserves a distinctive but untapped inscrutability and the Golden Globe nominated Merrow cannot remotely match two top-billers' expertise. Hepburn's magnificent spirit is perpetually something to shout about, so is O'Toole's frenzied outbursts, for whom we all have a soft spot considering his ill-fated Oscar journey (8 nominations with zero win), alas, neither her nor him can hold the top spot in my book for this lines-laden period elaboration. Reckoning its higher rating elsewhere and an extolled reputation, this is another specimen where a dissonance existing between one's personal view and the accepted general opinion, being a non-radical and rational film reviewer, not so often this occurs to me, so although being slightly disappointed, personally I feel delightful to retain one's own differences once in a while. "}{"Title":"Stunning performances, amazing musical score, and delightful jugglery of words","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is a film of stunning performances, delightful jugglery of words (thanks to playwright John Goldman) and a very deserving Oscar-winning musical score of John Barry. It also marked the debut of Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton (a former James Bond). The problems of the film lie elsewhere--anachronisms in spoken words of the play. Syphilis was not known in 1183 AD, at least by that name. Queen Eleanor's son could not have seen her pictures when she was young. The boats shown in the film are too sophisticated in engineering for 1183 AD. And there is no blood in the entire film with so many killings with swords and knives, And why did director Anthony Harvey have to show the statues with chipped noses and ears in the opening credits? But the film is amazing despite all its flaws. And O'Toole deserved the Oscar he was denied in this film. "},{"Title":"Virginia Woolf in the Middle Ages","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie in years. Once I started watching it, though - just before the crucial scene in Philip's room - I couldn't stop. There's one great scene after the next, where I just sat marveling at the way the actors delivered their lines.After awhile, I realized how much this resembled Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf in Medieval costume. Family members ripping each other's guts out every chance they get, often by tearing the scabs off old wounds. The language is more noble, of course, and the lines delivered in a more oratorical, theatrical fashion, but it's still pretty much the same thing, with O'Toole - who is really marvelous in this movie - for Burton and Hepburn for Taylor.This isn't the sort of movie I would want to watch often, I confess. But it was certainly a great pleasure to see it again today. "},{"Title":"Peter O'Toole as King","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 1183 AD King Henry II (Peter O'Toole)'s three sons all want to inherit the throne, but he will not commit to a choice. They and his wife (Katharine Hepburn) variously plot to force him.The best part of this film? When John says, You stink. You're a stinker and you stink. Hilarious. The worst part? Katharine Hepburn. Although she plays a very good Eleanor of Aquitaine, and really gets into the conniving of the character (much more than Glenn Close in the remake), she still has that annoying quality that only Hepburn had.Luckily, Peter O'Toole and the supporting cast shine and make up for any shortfalls there might be. A true classic of the historical royal genre (or whatever the proper term is). "},{"Title":"Interesting but slow, overwrought and overshouted","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Interesting but slow, overwrought and overshouted. This movie covers a reasonably interesting period of history the reign of Henry II of England and the potential succession of one of his sons. However, what should be a relatively simple exercise is turned into an overly complex exercise in Machiavellian manipulation, lies and deceit. Nothing is simple, and just when you think an issue is resolved, it unravels.Initially all this politics is intriguing, but it wears thin fairly quickly. It soon resembles intrigue and politics for the sake of it, and serves only to pad the movie.The ending is also quite lacklustre and anticlimactic after all the twists that went before.Powerful performance by Peter O'Toole in the lead role. Too powerful, in that almost all his dialogue is shouted. It gets quite irritating, quite quickly. In fact his whole performance seemed a touch too over-the-top.Solid effort by Katharine Hepburn as Eleanor of Aquitaine. The performance got her a Best Actress Oscar. Interesting also to see Anthony Hopkins in an early-career role this was his second big-screen movie.Even more fresh-faced was Timothy Dalton as King Philip II of France. This was Dalton's big screen debut. "},{"Title":"Oh God, but I do love being king!","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Anthony Harvey directs The Lion in Winter. The plot? It is 1183, and King Henry II (Peter O'Toole) has assembled his wife (Katharine Hepburn) and sons at his French estate. The King hopes to appoint his youngest son successor, but his family have other plans. What unfolds is a game of stealth and strategy, our large cast of royals, each a Machiavellian monster, plotting to cross, double cross and even kill, all in the name of titles and property. Based on a play by James Goldman, this is politics as schoolyard bickering, our Kings, princes and Queens as ignoble and idiotic as crybabies and bullies.The Lion in Winter is shapeless, overly proud of its wit, and poorly structured. It is at its best when it acknowledges the comedic absurdity of its premise (What family doesn't have its ups and downs?) and when a young Timothy Dalton is on screen. He plays King Philip II, a serpentine man whose burning hatred stems from both Henry and Henry's eldest son, Richard the Lionheart (Anthony Hopkins). Both father and son are a couple of rapists, sodomizers and brutes, with Phillip being just one of their many victims.But it is Henry's imprisoned queen, Eleanor of Aquitaine (Hepburn), who's given the film's best lines. In a long monologue she explains that her family, indeed the whole feudal system, is the cause of all the hate, violence and ugliness in the world. Moment's later she looks in a mirror and praises her own beauty.7.9/10 &#x96; See Kurosawa's Ran for this material handled as good as its ever been. See too Becket (1964), also with Peter O'Toole as King Henry II. "},{"Title":"O'toole and Hepburn shine in twisted historical drama","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There are few actors who made a bigger impact on film than the likes of Peter O'toole and Katharine Hepburn. When you get the chance to see them both grace the screen together, you have to take it. Both of them have very memorable scenes and give legendary performances. Unfortunately the film as a whole isn't their best, but the dialogue and performances are enough of a reason to give this film a look.They play king and queen, but in reality they are very far from being a happily married royal couple. Throw in Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton, who launched their career with their roles and you get a cinema classic. Hepburn plays an emotionally unstable queen who always seems to have something new up her sleeve. Not only does she plan against King Henry, but convinces her sons to do the same. Its refreshing to see Hepburn in a role other than her earlier roles where she simply throws herself at every man. In this movie, you don't want to mess with her, she threatens with words but the look on her face just shouts power. She shares some of the most memorable scenes, in particular with Henry.But the craziest and must gut wrenching scene involves Henry, his three sons, and King Philip. The film suffers a bit by not having any fast moving scenes. The finale does deliver on the thrill of how much these people would do for power. Its quite ridiculous to think that people in this time period would put their family and closest friends in danger to secure royalty. But there are still times that the sons feel a bit comical. Anthony Hopkins is good but the other sons don't feel like real people. Doesn't take away from the tremendous lead performances in what is a pretty good film.+Hepburn and O'Toole give legendary performances+dialogue and script is top notch-sometimes comical characters-long running time7.6/10 "},{"Title":"Big time acting from big time actors","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" King Henry II (Peter O'Toole) learns the lesson of King Lear refusing to divide his kingdom in three for his three sons. He wants to leave it to his youngest John (Nigel Terry) and have him marry his mistress Alais. His estranged wife Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine (Katharine Hepburn) is imprisoned wants the oldest Richard the Lionheart (Anthony Hopkins) to take over. During Christmas 1183, King Henry II calls together all the players including King Philip II of France (Timothy Dalton) as everybody schemes to take the throne.The great actors are showing their skills in this movie adapted from the play. The historical drama has been fictionalized. The acting is strong especially Katharine Hepburn. There isn't a weak performance except maybe Jane Merrow as Alais. However her character is nothing but a pawn. The production is fair. The camera work doesn't take full advantage. The scale looks smaller than the movie needs. There are a few too many long distant shots by director Anthony Harvey. If there is truly a weak spot in the film, the visual style comes closest. There is a reasonable number of people there, but the movie just doesn't look it. And it's hard to root for anybody in this movie which makes it harder to watch. "},{"Title":"Brilliant by all","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Having watched this powerful film many times, I am ever more amazed at Peter O'Toole's performance. I was not a fan of his generally speaking but his acting is so spectacular that I am drawn to him and awed by the force of his on screen presence. I AM a huge fan of Katharine Hepburn and loved the performance in this film as a calculating, strong, deep woman who has a will as strong and passionate as any performance she has ever given. The supporting cast is brilliant, especially Nigel Terry who plays so convincing a role as to make one chuckle at the pathetic figure he plays. Moreover, the writing in this film is so laced with brilliant lines that it is impossible to watch and not be spellbound by their illumination at dysfunction in powerful characters. It is startling when it makes me think of the many I have seen around! A magical piece of cinematic history. "},{"Title":"acting supberb. o'toole should have won the Oscar","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" i first saw this film when it first came out. i was 16 at the time and found it moving. the movie wonderful and one of my favorites. i have since watched it over, and over again. i never seem to tire of the witty dialogue, cinematography, music, and outstanding performances by all.henry wants an heir. he and Eleanor disagree on who it will be, and trouble begins.Katherine Hepburn and peter o'toole have the roles of their lives. they work very well together in this story of romance and betrayal.John Ccastle's acting is the best of the brothers. he is slimy and conniving. ready to sell out one brother for the other for his own gain.Nigel terry is boorish and piggish as young john. he does a great job as a troubled prince.Richard is portrayed by a well performed newcomer, Anthony Hopkins. he shines in his role.Katherine Hepburn won an Oscar for her role manipulator Eleanor, the imprisoned queen.why peter o'toole didn't win an Oscar is a mystery to many fans. i like john Wayne, but his acting chops cannot compare with o'tooles remarkable performance. he was robbed! this should have won best picture, but sadly did not.the story is both witty and tragic.never a dull moment. i am surprised some thought it boring. not the case.watch it for the story and performance. i don't think you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film with some of the most inspiring performances you'll ever see in a long time","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Forget about today's bloody awful TV reality shows with their lack of intelligence and countless intrigues and arguments. The Lion in Winter has lies and intrigues too, it was based on real facts and it has a historical theme, beautiful eloquence and the acting duel of the shining ensemble casting with names of great importance like Katharine Hepburn, Peter O'Toole, Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton. The story is set in 1183 AD during King Henry II's (O'Toole) decision of dividing the throne between his three sons who'll all want to inherit it (they're played by Hopkins, John Castle and Nigel Terry). Henry's wife Elanor of Aquitaine (Hepburn, spectacular performance that gave her a third Oscar, tied with Barbra Streisand for Funny Girl) is released of her prison to spend Christmas with the family and with Henry's lover (Jane Merrow) and her brother Philip, King of France (Dalton); and all of this important figures are on a trail of deceptions, greed, villainy, tricks, back stabbings and lies, orchestrating a epical battle of quotes and conversations deciding who'll get the throne in the family.There's some many twists and turns in this Shakespearian plot and in such short time, it is so fast that is very difficult but very intriguing story where's is almost impossible to penetrate in the truth behind the lies; everybody has a card under the sleeve, bluffing all the time to see who gets fooled first. A family with no sense of love or union that uses the word love as something playful and of no importance. Even Eleanor recognizes Every family has its ups and downs but in this case they can only go down. They dared themselves to call themselves as nobles, but they already knew that they were the savages, disguised with titles, names, guns and fortune who only wanted more and more territories to conquer, wishing a eminent war to occur. Based on James Goldman's play (who also wrote the magnificent screenplay for the film), The Lion in Winter it is a wonderful surprise in so many levels that is difficult to pick one thing and say something about it but what I can say is that the great final minutes wasn't the way I thought it could be. Performances of the highest quality here, with a dominating and humored Hepburn; a powerful and angry O'Toole (how come he lost the Oscar for this role?); and the debut performances of Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton (he's really good here, you almost forget his James Bond roles). Anthony Harvey directed a exciting, fascinating, well constructed film whose dialogs and acting were among the best works filmed in the 1960's. It's getting difficult to see masterpieces like this being made now. But at least we had brilliant works like this and we can only pray that they survive a long time in the memory of the viewers. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Superb film and one of the best films of 1968","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I didn't see this film until fairly recently, and I am so glad I did, because The Lion in Winter is absolutely superb not only as an adaptation of James Goldman's play about Henry II and Eleanor of Aquataine but as a film. I also firmly believe, and this is my opinion, that it is the second best film of 1968 after 2001. It has everything, wonderful performances, superb dialogue, an intriguing story, a beautiful score and adept direction, in short what more can you ask for? The story of The Lion in Winter is a great one to work from, and one that works wonderfully. It is set mostly in the austere castle ramparts over the Christmas festival, yet it is also a story of a family squabble that has geopolitical import, in other words the Medieval Dymnastic War. The sets, scenery and costumes are exquisite, and John Barry's score is breathtakingly beautiful and suitably melancholic. The direction is excellent, and while the film is over 2 hours it never feels as though it's dragging.In fact thanks to primarily the script and performances it is utterly riveting. The dialogue, what can I say? Can I coin the phrase among the best ever written? The dialogue is so good, and sparkles constantly, not to mention memorable and incredibly thought-provoking. The performances especially from the two leads are brilliant. Katherine Hepburn is a revelation as the skillful and consummate Eleanor, while a deliciously robust Peter O'Toole gives one of his best performances as Henry II. Everyone else is excellent too, and I have to say for me The Lion in Winter is also notable for the debuts of Timothy Dalton and Anthony Hopkins, both of them great debuts too.Overall, superb and actually very difficult to fault. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"What family doesn't have its ups and downs?","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If all parents are somewhat ambivalent about their children, A Lion in Winter must be the ultimate case study in how parents can be super-ambivalent when they also happen to be king and queen.This film's opening Latin chorus chants with an urgent modernity. We're back in the 1100's but this ain't no stuffy costume drama. Gird yourself for an up-to-date battle royale amidst a most neurotic clan.Henry II and his imprisoned queen Eleanor are the unhappy, hyper-articulate couple -- equals, except in power, on such dimensions as intelligence, manipulative ability, and zest for life. The children they hold in wavering contempt, and associated hangers-on both in and out of court, comprise a writhing nest of scheming favorites and pawns. Watching these people joust verbally is the central joy of A Lion in Winter. I could peel you like a pear and God himself would call it justice, Eleanor tells Henry in a moment that epitomizes the protagonists' love-hate relationship.This movie is a feast for people who like challenging wordplay. Whomever has the floor, his or her words fall with the precision of a sword. Each of the characters speaks with consummate diction, in a manner invoked by Samuel Taylor Coleridge when he defined poetry as the best words in the best order. Classic literature buffs may enjoy the several allusions to Shakespeare. For example, Henry notes that he doesn't want to repeat the Lear of legend's blunder by parsing up his kingdom. And Henry's youngest son, John -- if you're a prince, this underachiever is told, there's hope for every ape in Africa -- embodies all the foolishness we'd expect from someone who becomes central to Shakespeare's history play.I can't help but imagine that the Bard would have applauded this film. "},{"Title":"Historical Drama at it's Best","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Over the Christmas holiday of 1183 King Henry II (Peter O'Toole) of England (and various other territories including much of France) summons his family to join him. He is attended by his wife Eleanor (Katherine Hepburn) of Aquitaine (released from her imprisonment for the holidays) and his sons; Richard (Anthony Hopkins) the future King Richard the Lionheart, Geoffrey and John (Nigel Terry) later King but best known to most as Prince John as well as Henry's mistress Alais and King Phillip II (Timothy Dalton) of France. While attempting to maintain a veneer of family and friends the various characters constantly scheme and plot both with and against one another jockeying for favor and position.While the film has exceptional production values the principal enjoyment comes from the performances and the writing. All of the principles engage in numerous discussions with one another that are layered with both meaning and subtext.While the protagonists are actual historical figures, the film covers a fictional gathering. The internecine struggles amongst the family are well documented and the discussions and confrontations depicted here may have happened elsewhere and at different times have been distilled here for story telling purposes.The film was directed Anthony Harvey for whom this would be his career high point as a director, though he also had considerable success as an editor on some very good films. The wonderful score by John Barry would win him one of his 5 Oscars.The film would win three Academy Awards for Best Actress &#x96; Katherine Hepburn, Best Screenplay and Best Score. It was also nominated for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor &#x96; Peter O'Toole and Best Costume Design.Although Hepburn was 25 years O'Toole's senior and its somewhat apparent if you look for it, they are both so effective in their performances that its a non issue. "},{"Title":"The original Room Full of Snakes","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Lion in Winter (1968) Adapted from the original stage play, this is a brilliant dialog film in the demanding tradition of Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf?, but set in the 12th century with Henry II and his conniving family members. It's a room full of snakes in that castle. Every line, thought, and action is further fodder for retort and revenge. It's very much in the attitude of Shakespeare, but without the rhyme. It is smart, witty, dark, funny, and well acted by all. Peter O'Toole, Katherine Hepburn, Anthony Hopkins, Nigel Terry, and others star in an incredibly literate, intense story. The sets are beautifully gritty. The lighting is a compromise that goes too far for convenient visualization. Spotlights alter the fire & candlelight logic at every turn. I found this the only flaw, but one that kept snagging me throughout. 1968 was an epic year for films. "},{"Title":"Maybe The Best Ever","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have seen this movie maybe 30 times. Each and every time I have been absolutely entranced. I have been left bruised and bleeding on more than one occasion after viewing this masterpiece. Particularly after the scene in Eleanor's chambers when she and Henry get to reminiscing. The exchange between Henry and her Of all the lies you have ever told, that is the most terrible. I know. That's why I saved it until now. makes the movie worth the price of admission. In my view the script, the acting, the dialogue, make this one of, if not THE best movie of all time. The plots and counter-plots are positively diabolical. The twists and turns in the story are positively dizzying. Peter O'Toole is at his mesmerizing best. That he lost the Oscar to John Wayne is unconscionable. That Katherine Hepburn had to share the Oscar with Streisand is ludicrous, and that Oliver took the Best picture that year is just insane. "},{"Title":"Tour de force of power play, and a family at war with its self","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" From the mystical entrance of Katherine Hepburn as Eleanor of Aquitane to the her departure the film rarely loses pace, with everyone a line a gem. It captures the sheer anarchy of the Medieival world, combining it with sheer sarcasm. The sets are basic and dull, capturing life in the court of Henry 2. It is a medieval cinematic joust of words and threats, and counter-threats. Stunningly acted, sheer poetry! It works as high comedy and political drama. The entrance of Eleanor captures perfectly the awesomeness of this enigmatic figure who, well before emancipation of women had even be though off, was a political player, had married two Kings, and tried to depose her husband, in many ways the Princess Diana of her day, devastatingly attractive, and manipulative.It is also a story of a family that is totally at war with each other, each playing for the prize, the Kingdom, the secession, their freedom,. A brilliantly divesting powerful piece of drama.In summary a classic! "},{"Title":"A great piece of art.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Roughly, between the years 1920 and 2002 the motion picture was the art form of the United States.  Unfortunately, as a recent article in a major publication noted, the movie business has now been taken over by  the businessmen, who's only goal is the bottom line rather than art and the vast majority of movies are now designed to cater to the uneducated sex and violence voyeur or the teeny bopper, and are now only movies and no longer motion pictures, much less pieces of art.  So, how does one select those motion pictures of the 20th Century that are truly art.  Few movies are art, but some make it as some few artists, painters, sculptures, writers, poets and composers over the last centuries have.  Sadly, as in all the arts, eventually, a quintessential artist arises who cannot be surpassed, by example, Vincent van Gogh. One relatively safe method of selecting a motion picture as a piece of art is to look on what the motion picture is based.  Some are based on original screenplays by the leading screenwriters.  More often, a screenplay based on a book will turn out to be a credible work as art.  Most often, a screenplay based on an original stage play is a very good indicator.The other relatively safe method of finding a work of art is to look at the producers and directors David Lean, Francis Ford Coppola, George Roy Hill, Norman Jewison, Steven Speilberg, Robert Redford, Lawrence Kasdan, et al.Such a work of art is one selected from a stage play, The Lion In Winter, the play written by James Goldman, 1927 - 1998, who simply converted it to a screenplay.  The Lion In Winter, as an example, may well be the greatest piece of art created in the short life of the motion picture as an art form.  "},{"Title":"Grand Campy Fun","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I would never say that The Lion in Winter is a great movie; I would even hesitate to say it's a good movie; but it does seem to have enduring appeal beyond the mere camp. Actors seem drawn to parts in which scenery chewing is positively required - an understated Henry or Eleanor is impossible, as the characters themselves are ham actors - and audiences respond like Pavlov's dogs to the exquisite timing of the writing. The characterizations may be overwrought, the lines overwritten, the plot over-plotted, but the structure is a miracle. Based on a stage-play, the movie deliberately slows the pace and goes to great lengths to make the medieval castle appear real, but there is no hiding the source pure stage hokum. Watching Katherine Hepburn and Peter O'Toole go to town with their parts is about as close as people of the Twenty-first Century can come to seeing the living, breathing traditions of Nineteenth Century theater come to life - not as a derisive send up, but as an immediate, gripping, vital presentation of human character. Stanislavsky and Strasberg may have changed the rules, but the old ways still work. The highlight a twenty-minute duel in which Henry and Eleanor fight over the succession to the throne of England and Hepburn and O'Toole fight to the death over who will wipe the other off the screen.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of one of my favorite actors.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion in Winter is the first Katherine Hepburn movie I ever saw. I've since seen most of her movies and it remains my favorite.The performances bring life to a long-dead period of time. While obviously not physically strong, Ms. Hepburn brings a presence to the character of Eleanor of Aquitaine that shows that, even locked up, passed over and occasionally reviled by her husband and sons, she is a force to be reckoned with. Long Live the Queen!! And don't miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Oh, my goodness!","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  That was all I could say after watching this movie as my heartbeat returned to normal and I started to breath evenly again.  This is one hell of a movie-such a roller coaster ride.  If it wasn't so funny in certain spots, it would never have gone over so well.  That's what's missing from historical pieces like Elizabeth today-there's no humor, or very little of it.  Katharine Hepburn and Peter O'Toole (in his second stint as Henry II, but this time in a far better movie) provide most of it in their constant bantering.  I've never seen a couple, on screen or off, that loves to hate yet hates to love each other so much.  Take when they enter the court-Just grant me a little peace! A little peace?  You're too modest; why not eternal peace?  Or after Geoffrey goes through a complicated he knows that we know speil-We're a knowledgable family.  But underneath all the hatred between the sons, and between Henry and Eleanor, you know that Henry and Eleanor love each other-they just can't live with each other.  Henry wants Eleanor when all the sneaking around reaches a climax, not Alais.  Watching them shift back and forth between love and hatred is the heart of the movie, and both actors are absolutely brilliant at it.  Phenomenal movie, even if you aren't too clear on medeival English history.  Watch Becket to get some backstory (also staring Peter O'Toole as Henry II) and Disney's Robin Hood for an exaggerated but pretty accurate picture of what followed.  But know beforehand that neither of these films measure up to The Lion in Winter, so make sure to watch this one again to know what good acting and filmmaking is all about. "}{"Title":"Oh well...what family doesn't have its ups and downs?","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" At the time of writing, I've only seen this film in the pretty awful TV pan-and-scan version, but it's still one of my favorites, just for the dialogue and characterizations.(Update I've now seen the widescreen DVD version, and I just wish there were a rating higher than 10.)THE LION IN WINTER has one of the best casts I've ever seen, and they don't fall short of expectations. Everyone here is exactly right in his or her part, and I can't imagine why they are trying a remake with lesser actors.The dialogue gets a bit too self-consciously arch in places (e.g., When was I ever anywhere but somewhere else? or the whole We're a knowledgeable family sequence), but no film is perfect. The few cringe-making lines hardly detract from the gut-wrenching emotional power of what is really an intimate little family drama which just happens to take place in a medieval castle. "},{"Title":"Worth the price just for O'Toole and Hepburn.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It has a fairly young Peter O'Toole stepping *up* in age (most actors play younger instead of older) to play a king of 50; and it has a 60-ish Katharine Hepburn in probably her greatest role and the role which best fits her high-tone style of speak. And the story and script (swathed in family dysfunction), courtesy of James Goldman, is stunning indeed. Though the royal leads are married, they compete for everything and are at constant verbal odds regarding the successor to the throne and the spoils that go with it. Henry has one favorite son; Eleanor has a different favorite son. Problem is, there are three sons, a mistress, an adoring public, and a visiting king of France- all crashing together during the warm, fuzzy, Christmas holiday.The film's medieval detail is marvelous (shooting was in Ireland, Wales, and France), but the witty, literate, scenes with O'Toole and Hepburn alone are worth the price of admissionEleanor What would you have me do- Give up? Give out? Give in? Henry (seething) Give me a moment's peace. Eleanor Why so modest...how about eternal peace- now there's a thought.As a result, it paces more like stage theater and the film action is minimal. But Anthony Harvey directs marvelous, Oscar-nominated performances and can be heard analyzing such on the DVD's special material. "},{"Title":"I can see it over and over and over again","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Even though I am not generally a fan of filmed plays that look and feel like filmed plays, The Lion in Winter (1968) is a magnificent exception.  In fact, it is amongst my personal top 5 movies.The play is excellent intelligent, witty, cruel (I could peel you like a pear - cruel).  The acting is altogether outstanding, with a special mention to Katharine Hepburn (Oscar winner) and Peter O'Toole.  The filming and music are first class (e.g. Eleanor's barge gliding in, with an effective and haunting chorus).It is one of the rare movies that I can see over and over and over again, without getting tired of it.  I know a lot of the lines by heart.When I saw that there would be a Made-for-TV remake in 2003, I shook my head in disapproval.  Why not let this 1968 masterpiece stand on its own? Remakes of such outstanding movies are usually a disappointment. How can excellent actors like Patrick Stewart and Glen Close not pale in comparison with the originals?  Are we so short of quality original material that we are obliged to remake old masterpieces?  I would have thought that Psycho gave Hollywood a lesson it wouldn't forget.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie to pieces!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion in Winter is possibly one of THE craziest movies I have ever had the pleasure of viewing! Seriously. You've got Peter O'Toole as this really detached King Henry who is having an emotional fireworks every other scene, Katharine Hepburn, who is the scheming queen with this bitterly dry sense of humor, and their three very emotionally dismantled sons. For years and years, the king and queen have been fighting constantly, simply because they hate each other's guts. (He had an affair with that one, she slept with his father, blah, blah and etc.) Consequently, their kids have turned out as cold, indifferent and greedy to nab the throne once Henry is gone. It is up to the king now to choose which son is worthy to succeed him. He favors the youngest, John, a rather dimwitted lad although Richard (played by Anthony Hopkins) is the eldest. Jeffery is the middle son and his character is just hilarious in that contemplative sort of way. I mean, NEITHER PARENT likes him AT ALL and in almost every speaking part he brings up a disturbing childhood memory. (I remember when I was three...) To top it off, even at Christmas everybody seems to hate one another with a transcendent intensity. (Should we hang the holly, or should we hang each other?)I love the scene where Katharine Hepburn rolls around on the bed and tells her husband how good it felt to sleep with his father! Jerry! Jerry! This is excellent Springer material. It kept me in stitches! (How dear of you to let me out of prison!; He may sleep with sheep if he wishes. Which upon occasion he has done.; If you're a prince, there's hope for every ape in Africa!) What I wouldn't give to have written those lines! In the end nothing is resolved but Henry and Eleanor laugh themselves silly. I have a great respect for this movie, it's dramatic, the acting is BEYOND BELIEF and it's damn uproarious! I could not get a grip on myself, I wanted more! PETER O'TOOLE & KATHARINE HEPBURN ARE THE COOLEST!  "},{"Title":"The tongue is sharper than the sword!!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This was an excellent movie with great lines that cut to the core. Some subtle, some not. My favorite line was from John Nobody cares about John, if I was on fire, no one would bother to pee on me to put me out. Katherine Hepburn was fantastic as the mother, a woman who is quick witted, wise and knows how to choose her battles. One of the best depiction of a dysfunctional family I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is fantastic!  A definite treat for any Hepburn fans.  I was blown away with her performance as Eleanor of Aquitaine.  Her character is so manipulative and dangerous but Katherine does a great job also showing that she's weak and lonely.  The writing is excellent and Katharine delivers it in excellent form.  No one else could utter lines like They'll be pork in the tree tops come morning! like Kat! Check it out.  "},{"Title":"It's real","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie many months ago, but the characteristic that stays with me is its detailed realism.  Two examples stick the reluctance of soldiers to fight in the beach battle, and the vast expanse of mud in the courtyard that had soaked into the once gayly colored fabric of the various tents. "},{"Title":"Amazing emotional roller coaster ride.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film has the best of the best! The best actors and the best writing of any film I've ever watched.  It is not an action movie nor even a movie with a complex plot but it is impossible to turn away from it once you start watching & listening.  It is completely captivating. "},{"Title":"Amazing emotional rollercoaster ride.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film has the best of the best! The best actors and the best writing of any film I've ever watched.  It is not an action movie nor even a movie with a complex plot but it is impossible to turn away from it once you start watching & listening.  It is completely captivating. "},{"Title":"Classic Classic Classic","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion in Winter may be very talky, but it still keeps me wondering what this family will argue about next. Not only am I glad Katharine Hepburn won an Academy Award for her role, but I also think Peter O' Toole should've won. It was also great to see a young Anthony Hopkins in his first role, and he was still great even for a first.10/10 "}{"Title":"This Movie is Never Boring","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There is not much that I can add to the praise that has been heaped upon this film by other reviewers. A wonderfully literate script acted to the hilt by real actors. It's a film that, anyone viewing The Monster that Ate Hollywood on PBS's Frontline (November 22, 2001) would sadly realize, would never be made today. I would like to comment regarding Katherine Hepburn's age for the part. In reality, when Henry II was 50 (as is mentioned often in the film), Eleanor of Aquitaine would have been 61, which was exactly how old Katherine Hepburn was when she played the role. She was perfect. It was Peter O'Toole, at 36, who wasn't age appropriate, but then who cares, he was magnificent and together they were perfection. "},{"Title":"Magnificent scenery chewing","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  O'Toole and Hepburn chew the scenery almost non-stop, but it's just what the story calls for and it's just wonderful to watch. Some of the dialog indicates that Henry and Catherine know of things they couldn't have known of, but the dialog is all so delicious and it's delivered so marvelously that you don't really care. "},{"Title":"Not just a film, a glorious repository of quotable wit","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There is nothing more fundamental than the relationship between a mother and her favorite son.  When, in history, the mother is the only Queen of France ever to get a divorce and the son is the only King of England to bear the name Lion-Heart, that gets the attention of even the most jaded.  When, in movie-making, that story is told in a perfectly-cast adaptation of a resoundingly well-written stage play, the world's attention lingers, because so few things in life or cinema are so very near to perfection. If I were to be stranded on a desert island with a VCR and only one tape, this film would be that tape.  Just hearing Katherine Hepburn's Queen Eleanor describe to her own children her first sight of their father (Peter O'Toole as Henry II) as He had a mind like Aristotle and a form like mortal sin; we shattered the commandments on the spot is to affirm that life, or at least the art of movies, does have a few perfect moments. See this film!!    "},{"Title":"A Standing Ovation !","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This remains my all time favourite movie. The story is all in the verbal exchange between a medieval king played to the hilt by Peter O'Toole and his queen, Eleanor of Aquitaine, by Katherine Hepburn in a role that is simply magnificent and so deserving of its Oscar win. Watch it and revel in the love / hate relationship of two  wonderful historical characters played by Hollywoods greats; with a fledging  Anthony Hopkins in the role as one their sons, Richard the Lionheart.Wonderful stuff !  "},{"Title":"Best portrayal of a dysfunctional royal family","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An outstanding film, all the major players give wonderful perfomances.  Ms. Hepburn and Mr. O'Toole are the standouts, and rightfully so.  Their chemistry is volcanic!  Of course, O'Toole's King Henry I is the more wicked of the two characters, as he seems to thrive on making Hepburn's Queen Eleanor suffer emotionally. But while we sympathize most with Eleanor, there are moments when we pity the King as well, despite his arrogance.  And Eleanor doesn't allow us to feel too sorry for her, as Hepburn plays her as she is in real life, one tough as nails lady.  Eleanor says it so well to the King early in the film, when she's summoned back to the castle from her prison after a long exile.  Stepping off the boat and seeing King Henry I after years of being locked away, she says sweetly to him, Oh, how nice of you to let me out of jail.  The simple line speaks volumes with the way Hepburn delivers it.  There are many more memorable and clever exchanges between the King and Queen, and between them and their three scheming sons (including a younger Anthony Hopkins). Hollywood, an industry of morons and pinheads, would be well advised to review this film, so well written and beautifully acted, and develop more like it.  But then again, how would they be capable of it? "},{"Title":"The Best!!!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is my all-time favorite movie.  The dialogue alone is superb.  To watch this dysfunctional family play with each other's minds is magnificent. Katharine Hepburn is amazing and well deserved the Oscar she won.  If you have not seen this movie, you should closely think about how big of a movie fan you really are.   "},{"Title":"A Witty and Engaging Historical Tale","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  One of Kate Hepburn's top five films, in my opinion.  O'Toole's Henry II the perfect foil for Kate's Eleanor of Acquitane.  The movie is just plain FUN! "},{"Title":"Virginia Woolf in a medieval setting","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  When this film was first described to me, that's the term that was used.  Take 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf' and make the setting the medieval English court at Christmastime, my friend said.  I still think that's a wonderful summary of the film.  I'm eagerly awaiting the release of this classic on DVD later this year. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  But I can easily see how it's not for everybody. Unfortunately, people are afraid to write negative reviews here. Personally, I loved this movie the first time, and I still love it the tenth time. But others are right. It can be a little slow. For me, the end of a movie often makes up for any flaws or slow bits in the whole. For instance, look at the Godfather. Any slow bit in there is made up by the incredible last shot. Look at it like dinner before dessert. And the same holds true here. Most of the dialouge is quick, but there are times where you want to get back to favorite characters, not the one's you're forced to watch. But that holds true of any ensemble cast, look at Magnolia. But the conclusion of this incredible film, knowing that this is a sick game and that it will be happening again next year makes all the trouble worth it, as you learn that it was all a game, things that were said weren't really meant, so on and so forth. So I loved it, but the MTV generation might not. But hey, it's their loss. "},{"Title":"Hepburn as Eleanor? You Couldn't ask for More.","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Katherine was still keeping up her good acting in this film, wait till you see On Golden Pond! Hopkins and Dalton were also in this. This movie is very good and faithful and almost word for word to the play it was based on. The film can get too talkative at times but the action and suspense make up for that. I recommend it definitely to any history buff or plain movie buff for that matter. A wonderful movie! "}{"Title":"Just like walking back in time","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I love this movie! The acting especially by Katharine is superb. One of her very best. The dialogue is outstanding and funny.Some of the lines are so cool.The movie is very realistic.I like it that way. Gritty,harsh,but so moving,passionate and full of life.Definitely not to be missed. "},{"Title":"A Holiday Must-See","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I caught this movie on AMC last week.  I just love when I see a great movie I had never heard of.  I'm going to buy this movie and make my family watch it every Xmas.  Our silly little fights will seem trivial compared to the family in this movie.  At least none of my family members are trying to stab me with the knife they use to cut the turkey!  The banter between Katherine & Peter makes the movie outstanding!  Loved it! "},{"Title":"Puts the fun in DysFUNctional","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film depicts how nothing has changed in family dynamics from 1183 to the present time.  With all of our scientific and technological advancement, one thing remains perfectly clear  We are no better at getting along with one another than we were before the days of Christ.  Our current psychology has failed miserably and we are long overdue for a new one.  This film is an excellent example of the use of power and control to get others to do things they don't wish to do and how such behaviors destroy all the lives of those involved. "},{"Title":"Every family has it's problems.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion In Winter isn't history. It is however a wonderfully acidic picture of a dysfunctional family. I loved it and still watch it for the pure joy of Hepburn and O'Toole sparing like titans.Hepburn rightly got an oscar for her role as Elanor; though sharing it with La Striesand was a bit much!All in all this is a film derserving repeated viewings for the excellence of it's writing, acting and direction. Oh, and John Barry's music deserves a special mention. "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the finest films ever made","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  After I had read the stage play, I was convinced that a film version would be hard pressed to beat it.  I was wrong.  This film effortlessly shattered the glass ceiling and works as a truly stunning piece of film.  The dialogue is neatly trimmed and flows quick and sharply.  Hepburn delivers a keen and to the point performance that is fascinating to watch.  A well deserved Oscar.  Of the three sons, John Castle stands out as the grim, sarcastic deceiver of the lot, perfectly conveying his malice for the whole family. Hopkins is somewhat stilted in a fake looking beard, but still manages to pull a nice performance out.  Particularly by the end.  The only character who doesn't measure up is the son John.  Not altogether his part as Goldman admittedly underwrote the part.  But the shining star in this film is Peter O'Toole as Henry.  He has a power, fire and reality that make him the driving force behind this picture.  By turns he bellows, preens, mocks and suffers with absolute sincerity.  He is always the king, and never anything but a man.  I will go so far as to say that Peter O'Toole is possibly the finest actor of the second half of this century, and it is a criminal act that he was passed over for an Oscar for this picture.  He delivers another performance of a lifetime out of a long string of triumphs.  He is the best part of a very good cast. "},{"Title":"All families have their ups and downs","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  By far the most brilliant line in the movie is Eleanor of Aquitaine, after the most terrific fight, dragging herself up against the wall. The understatement confirms that all families have their ups and down.  With brilliant performances from the main cast, the history is blended with some natural feelings of two powerful parents, loving and hating each other, in their fight to preserve England and France for their favourite but weak sons.  The colours, the emotions and the humour returns every time you think back to this movie, but seeing the movie again brings back its overwhelming sense of vitality. "},{"Title":"A family Christmas","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Warning this contains a possible spoiler.    A good film even if you take it out of it's royal setting, that shows exactly why you don't want to argue with your family, they can nitpick at you because they know everything about you.  That is what you get in this film over two hour of family life if you are very unlucky.  Brilliantly acted by everyone even the smaller parts. A man and wife have three sons and one that is dead, the wife wants the eldest to succeed, the husband wants the youngest and the middle son gets nothing.  The eldest son wants the father to like him and the middle son wants his mother to like him.  The father is having an affair with another girl who his wife brought up.  The girls brother is leading the eldest son on and they are all after the crown and locked in, in the same castle over Christmas.  Funny in parts, tragic in others this really should be seen by more people. "},{"Title":"This movie is a perfect 10!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The script, the casting, the acting, the soundtrack, the set... everything perfect.  Peter O'Toole gives a magnificent performance as Henry, but as great as he was, Katharine Hepburn outshines him and the supporting cast.  An excellent movie, and one of my personal favorites. "},{"Title":"A Christmas spent with this family is something you'll never forget.....","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Lion in Winter is directed by Anthony Harvey, has a screenplay by James Goldman based upon his play,it music by John Barry and stars Peter O'Toole, Katharine Hepburn, Anthony Hopkins, Timothy Dalton, Nigel Stock,John Castle, Nigel Terry,The Lion in Winter is the sequel to 1964's Becket.Peter O'Toole reprises his role of King Henry,who after the tragic conclusion of the first film, is now in his fifties and the most powerful ruler on the continent.The ageing King Henry(Peter O'Toole)orders the faithful William Marshall(Nigel Stock)to bring his family to him for Christmas.Holding a Christmas court at one of his many castles he's joined by his sons the fearless Richard(Anthony Hopkins)who would later become Richard the Lionheart,the intelligent and sly Geoffrey(John Castle) and Henry's pride and joy the incapable John(Nigel Terry).All of Henry's boys,due to years of hostility and resentment are just hoping he'll name his successor before he dies.The fun and games really begin though when Henry's tough as nails wife Eleanor of Aquitaine(Katharine Hepburn)arrives.Their relationship is a mix of love,loathing,mind games and bitterness at the tragedies in their lives.This couple have weathered many storms together,shared the good times and the bad and become the stuff of legends while still alive.Eleanor hopes her favorite son Richard will become King and Henry wants John to succeed him.A power struggle begins between them pretty much as soon as they see each other again.Eleanor is also bitter because Henry has taken up with yet another mistress,this time her young ward Alais(Jane Merrow)who has stolen Henry's heart and brings the ageing warrior some much needed comfort.There is also conflict between Henry and his latest enemy the French King Phillip(Timothy Dalton)son of the French King featured in Beckett.Phillip hates how his father was treated by Henry and seeks to get into favour with his sons.Peter is nothing short of spectacular as the ageing King and his performance is even more special considering he was in his thirties playing a man is his fifties.He and Katharine have great chemistry and shine when they're on screen together.Katherine more than deserved her Oscar for her performance as the scheming Eleanor. It's a great shame that Peter lost out again for Best Actor, he is marvellous as Henry.John Barry's score is impressive and powerful adding greatly to the film. "},{"Title":"O'toole was brilliant","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's a great film with powerful performances and brilliant screen writing. ... But regarding the writer's comment that Peter O'Toole lost the best acting Academy Award to John Wayne (about which he seems to show disdain), he is quite incorrect. Cliff Robertson won that year, 1968, for Charly--and I can't imagine anyone not thinking that was deserved. O'Toole would be nominated for best actor again the following year, for Goodbye Mr. Chips, and he would lose to Wayne for True Grit. But one could easily argue (at least I sure would) that if anyone had a complaint about not winning that year, it would have been John Voight, or Dustin Hoffman. O'Toole has been amazing in several films, but I do not think Chips is on the same level of performance as Lawrence of Arabia, The Stuntman, Beckett, or The Lion in Winter. So if Wayne's award was a crime that year--and would you really want take anything away from John Wayne?--it would have been the actors of Midnight Cowboy who got screwed. "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review gripping, stands the test of time","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm not particularly arty so when I see a classic, I hesitate. A lot of action films have been made since North By Northwest... it didn't grip me. Cool Hand Luke was interesting but you could see the end coming a mile away and it was sort of slow paced. But this!The Lion In Winter is a true masterpiece. The acting is excellent, and it has to be since characters are falling into and out of love-like alliances. There are so many twists and turns... basically the whole film is a twist; there aren't any straight parts. I only wish they'd had a bit of text at the end to wrap up what ends up happening next.Who should see this film-- Arty types, definitely-- People who are curious about the classics, this one's definitely worth your time-- Action / thriller movie fans, believe it or not this one's for you, too. Perhaps the oldest film I've found really satisfying as a thriller.I'll give The Lion In Winter a 9 out of 10, just an edge off of perfect because I didn't quite buy the character decisions at the ending. "},{"Title":"A movieplay with an emphasis on family rather than history...","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There's always been a special place in my heart for what I call movieplays. What I mean by that is that such films are nearly direct adaptations from their stage counterparts. Some common characteristics include lots and lots of dialogue, only one or two locations for scenes, and a focus on the personal and psychological aspects of the characters rather than action or comedy etc. I've known quite a few good ones The Petrified Forest, Glengarry Glen Ross, A Few Good Men, and, as of a few days back, The Lion in Winter.To me, the actual history behind historical films is, more or less, irrelevant (you want to actually find out about history? Then go read about William Wallace the man instead of just watching Mel Gibson impersonate him in Braveheart). What matters is this question is it a good film? The answer for this one is undoubtably yes, thanks to a superior cast and perhaps the fact that James Goldman, the man who wrote the original play, was also the one who did the adaptation. Peter O'Toole, as the 50-year-old Henry II, has become solidified in my mind as the raging enigma of film. When he's onscreen, you literally don't know what he's going to do next...and you get the impression that he doesn't, either. Kate Hepburn is more than a match for him as his acid-tongued queen, Eleanor of Aquitane. Small wonder why he kept her locked up in a tower; she'd had made a meal out of his guts otherwise. Lest I forget, it's also worth noting that this marked the screen debuts of Sir Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton. While Hopkins' performance is not quite up to the standards of his later films, it does give intriguing hints, now and again, of the glories to come. Dalton is a rather pleasant suprise here as the boy king, Phillip II of France. He perfectly captures the repressed venom and frustration of a man who longs to hurt the seemingly unhurtable monarch who stole much of what was rightfully his father's.Yet, it's also worth noting that, for all their scheming, backstabbing, and malice, the entire English royal family do love each other. It's a point that's not made as blatantly as their hostilities, but it is there, nevertheless. That's why Henry couldn't kill his own boys and why he shares a laugh with his queen at film's end. Hate each other they may, but a real family is something you love in spite of all that. And, as Eleanor points out after her next-to-last brouhaha with Henry, what family doesn't have it's ups and downs? "},{"Title":"too much...","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie would have been much better with a little editing it seemed to last forever.  There's too much time spent idling over the countryside watching fights, boats rowing, etc.  The acting is excellent and the story is interesting.  However, as much as I love O'Toole, it was too much to take a hundred-year-old Hepburn telling him he's over the hill! "},{"Title":"A Great Film with a Cult Following","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  About 6 months ago, I was astonished this movie was not in the top 250. But my anger was soon stopped as soon as I saw it on the 250 about 2 months ago.  For such a great film to have such a big fanbase(big enough to get it into the top 250) is great. I have been in this play before and it's always been one of my favorites. I played Prince John, Henry's favorite scene, and have to admit I was very angry when he was portrayed in the movie as very dumb and foolish.  In the screenplay, they cut out a lot of scenes where he displays charm and intelligence.  It seems they only kept the idiotic scenes with John. However, all of the other characters were portrayed greatly, with big nods to Peter O'Toole, Kat Hepburn, and Timothy Dalton. This movie has a great story, great dialogue, and a great score.  In other words, it's probably the best film you never heard of.  It's a shame this didn't beat the inferior Oliver! in the Oscar race. "},{"Title":"My favorite ensemble film of all time!!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What I have always treasured about this film is the fact that, even with big stars like the inimitable Kate, and Peter O'Toole, it was not a star vehicle.  The excellent young actors, two of whom have become major stars in their own right, held their own, and were given ample screen time to shine. Timothy Dalton as foxy Philip II and Anthony Hopkins as a beefy and discontent Richard the Lionheart had one of the most wrenching love scenes in the history of film.But probably my favorite scenes do have La Hepburn in them.  The scene with the mirror and the jewelry.  I would hang you from my nipples, but you'd shock the children!  Her delivery of that line is absolutely charming and devastating at the same time, as we watch a legendary beauty acknowledging that that beauty is fading, into obscurity.Peter O'Toole rants and raves with the best of them, and his lament of how he's lost his boys, is touching if exasperating. But I would have loved to see how Robert Preston played it, who did it originally on Broadway. There might have been a bit more subtlety there, which I found lacking in O'Toole's performance.Lastly, mention must be made of the excellent score that John Barry crafted for this movie.  He used actual medieval chants and carols, as well as using the monophonic chant notes as the basis of his themes.  I think it was his best score, bar none!!This is a must see for any fans of the medieval and of this historical period in particular.  This is the Eleanor who has lost faith with the Court of Love, who has decided to allow herself to be imprisoned for the sake of the love she still bears Henry, yet finds that love has been trod in the dirt, in favor of a slip of a girl whom she raised as her own daughter.I hope that seeing this movie may convert some of those who have never liked Kate into Kate-a-holics like me. "},{"Title":"Don't blink your ears or you'll miss something in this one.","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This fast paced Comedy/Drama will keep you glued to the screen and who better to deliver the incredibly rapid verbal slashes thrusts and perrys then O'toole and Hepburn.    "},{"Title":"A great picture","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion in Winter is far more black comedy than it is historical drama -- but what a black comedy it is!  The writing is superb and the cast wonderful, for the most part.  There are few pictures that are as moving and, often, funny as this one.  Couple this with beautiful photography and -- I use the word advisedly -- a great set design evoking the 12th Century, and you have a film for the ages.  The performances of Peter O'Toole, Katharine Hepburn, and Anthony Hopkins were riveting, although I had a hard time forgetting that Hepburn was old enough to be O'Toole's mother &#150; she was 60 or 61 at the time and the quavery voice and shaking head that characterized her later work were already starting to show.  The only weak link in the cast was the young Jane Merrow as King Henry's paramour, Alais, who demonstrated a range of emotion from A to B.  Motion pictures based on stage plays, as `The Lion in Winter' is, often appear staged but this film avoids that.  Even in long exchanges between the actors the great writing and brilliant performances draw us in and make us forget for a moment that this is make believe.  Highly recommended, one of the best. "},{"Title":"The Play Within","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.12th Century England provides an excuse for mythic distance via Chekhov-like situation  disguised as a costume drama combined with modern self-reference.This is a play. That is manifestly clear in the dramatic artificiality of everything but  especially that 60's British Stage effect that seems so goofy now. This is a play about  plays - about how each character strives to be the playwright. None of what they claim  matters, not love, crown, power, vengeance - because they do not live in any real world,  but a deliberately acknowledged world of the stage where everyone is either a writer or a  player.All the players act like players. That's why we have such teapot acting, especially from  Kate. So overwrought that if the situation didn't border on farce (complete with bedroom  and multiple hidden schemers ), we would see her as an aged Barberella. Being a mere  actor in this world is equivalent to death.What is interesting is the experiment of having EVERYONE strive to be the author of the  play with control over the others except poor Alais, whose role is ambiguous. Each  character uses a different strategy, each strategy reflecting one of the few philosophies a  writer can take in relation to his work, The two excellent precedents for this sort of  character-as-writer structure are `Alice in Wonderland' and `King Lear,' both of which  are overtly acknowledged. The lines that deal with this striving are expertly crafted. I know of no better in the sense  that terrific shifts from controller to controlled occur seamlessly. Other projects hide all  this behind emotional noise, noise which is absent in this abstract project. There is some  bluster, but it is all accompanied by reasoned dialog. Everything is explained nothing is  hidden. There is no reliance on mere emotion.It is, in other words, terrific writing, the sort that deliberately sets out to make actors  look bad by appearing to make them look good. Check towards the end when king and  queen talk about the eyes eyes in the dark that see them us watchers, but which are  seen by - by whom? The writer.Harvey and Goldman next collaborated on a project with somewhat identical aspirations,  but without the joke on the actors. I much prefer it (`They Might Be Giants') because it  comes the other way actors as writers. We can actually work with the actors. It that film,  the actors create reality by merely taking on the roles.Here, with `Lion,' it feels a little dirty. Either you are privy to the intellectual joke, in  which case you are goofing on all the people who take this at face value. Or you take it at  face value. Don't know which is worse.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Who's Afraid of My Three Sons?","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Peter O'Toole (England's King Henry II, here) had a great sense of humor, and for 1968 he thought a film version of the American TV Sit-Com MY THREE SONS meets the Edward Albee Broadway play WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF would be just the ticket to get out the Nixon vote. William conquered England for the French in 1066, and for generations Afterwards his army's descendants adulterated our pure Anglo Saxon vernacular with thousands of Frenchisms. Recently, French politicians have had the Gaul to hypocritically ban the very words with which they raped and pillaged King Arthur's English! THE LION IN WINTER director Anthony Harvey wisely dispenses with the traditional paragraphs of expository print-on-screen at the start (that is, Who ARE these people?) and finish (And then what became of them?) of this flick. He cut this background crap NOT because he thought most viewers already would know who's who, but on account of the fact that all of the characters here ARE REALLY FRENCH!! Therefore, no one CARES who lives or dies, as long as they do it quickly. Just as people trek to Indy every May yearning to see a spectacular car wreck, THE LION IN WINTER crowd hopes against hope for a HAMLET-style climax EVERYONE DIES. Alas, no such luck. "},{"Title":"Great Kate, Queen of Gaul","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When one thinks of the greatest dialogue pictures, All About Eve comes to mind. And so does this one.Great Kate's most deserved of her four Oscars (although, ironically, she had to share it that year with that funny girl, Barbra Streisand) came with this movie. Frustratingly, Hollywood only remakes its few GOOD pictures, and so it was with Lion in Winter a couple of years ago... Was Glenn Close, in accepting the remake, only doing so as a retaliation against Hepburn's assertion that Close had big ugly feet? If so, it was a mistake, as its Kate's shoes which are much too big to fill here.I can always break out this picture every year or two. The original 1968 take on Lion in Winter is to Kate what All About Eve was to Bette Davis, and, I suppose, Mildred Pierce was to Crawford, and Double Indemnity was to Stanwyck an incomparable diva at her very pinnacle of divadom.Perhaps it's because she almost seemed to peak slightly later (with no horror films or TV series to derail her) but I'd say Kate has the edge. "}{"Title":"Theatrical period piece; a showcase for Hepburn and O'Toole.","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What's with Henry II? He has his wife holed up in a prison, is openly contemptuous of his sons, does not honor treaties, has a mistress who is demanding to get married, and exercises his power with an impulsiveness that suggests serious mental problems. Everyone is vying for power and wants Henry out of the way. The problem with the movie is that it asks the audience to accept the premise that the king has cause for concern, when in fact his relatives are so emotionally dependent, divided, and incompetent that they cannot possibly pose a threat to him. In fact the movie suggests that the king's children are so befuddled that they wouldn't know what to do with the crown if it was given to them by the king himself. And as for his wife, she is already played out and as the movie itself shows, is willing to do anything Henry wants. Now if the king was facing an insurrection perpetrated from inside his family, then there's a story, but that is not case in this movie. The king is totally dominant and his position is untenable. This movie is entertaining because it provides an excellent venue for Katherine Hepburn and Peter O'Toole to showcase their talents, which they do successfully, thus making the movie watchable. But to suggest that Henry II should fear for his power is a stretch and in this case, the stretch goes too far. Nevertheless, the movie does succeed as a period piece, albeit with a contrived story. As a period piece that depicts scenes from the middle ages, this movie is probably unsurpassed; however, one must not forget that this movie is a commercial product and work of fiction which takes all kinds of liberties with historical fact, and for good reason the movie is not a documentary but a drama. This does not render the movie any less credible as a work of art. Rather, all it means is that literary people took a certain story and reworked it for dramatic effect, and did so effectively. Can an audience accept the fact that a husband actually locked up his wife? Or that the the potential heirs to the throne are portrayed as sniveling nitwits? Or that the king himself rummaged around his castle with a silly grin or scowl on his face? After watching this movie, one can reasonably wonder how someone as hysterical as Henry II wound up being a king or could have kept his power, since it would not have been especially difficult to goad him into making all kinds of mistakes, and even kings were not invulnerable. But this is why the movie is so good it's fiction based on actual historical personages whose actual lives simply do not conform to Hollywood's idea of a good story. Henry II was not a clod; Eleanor of Acquitane was not such a dainty lady, and their children were people who were destined for power. So enjoy the movie for what it's worth and then afterward read a history book and learn what actually happened. "},{"Title":"The great game","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A little-known period of English history is the setting for Anthony Harvey's superbly written, rumbustiously acted film 'The Lion in Winter'. Essentially a seven-hander, Henry II of England vies for power with his wife, mistress, three sons and the king of France. Each is motivated by a mixture of love, hate and ambition; some (like the King himself) are wildly passionate, others cool and calculating it's testament to the skill of the writing that each presents an utterly distinct character to the viewer, and there are no clear heroes or villains. This is politics as a great game although the piece's theatrical origins are always in evidence (in many scenes, characters openly plot against each other and are always around to overhear their enemies's schemes), this is no bad thing when the dialogue is so sharp. Indeed, much of it is so cutting that it reminded me of 'The Thick of It', suggesting that not so much has changed in politics in eight hundred years. Peter O'Toole and Katharine Hepburn are excellent in the leading roles; I also liked the smooth performance of Timothy Dalton as the French king, although John and Henry's mistress were less fully realised than the other characters. But this is a splendid and gripping story; why isn't this film more celebrated? "},{"Title":"Battle of The King and the Queen","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Anthony Harvey's intricate 'The Lion in Winter' tells a complex yet engaging epic story of King Henry II, Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine and their fight for power, authority, revenge and, in the end, love. The movie mostly follows a series of conversations, most of them which are arguments. Unlike other epic films, this one has less fight sequences. The focus is mostly on the tension and dispute between the king, queen and their three surviving sons.Yet, all of it is portrayed quite wonderfully thanks to the eloquent writing, superb direction and of course the excellent performances. The acting may appear loud to some but then again, kings and queens of that time had a reputation for being loud. Peter O'Toole and Katharine Hepburn are both spellbinding and share a fiery chemistry. Their on screen banter is both amusing and to an extent hypnotizing (that's the best adjective I could think of to describe it). I also like how the banter exacerbates like pouring wine in fire but the comic touch remains. John Castle, Anthony Hopkins, Timothy Dalton and Nigel Terry hold their own next to the two transcendent actors.In a way, 'The Lion in Winter' has the effect of watching a splendid play. The sets and costumes are quite simplistic and the cinematography is brilliant. This is quite a different kind of epic movie, it may not be as lavish looking nor as action oriented as what most viewers of today are acquainted with but that doesn't stop it from being a unique gem. "},{"Title":"I've snapped and plotted all my life. There's no other way to be alive, king, and fifty all at once.","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Lion in Winter takes place in 1183 as English king Henry II prepares to choose his successor. However, with three sons and a wife all trying to force his hand it won't be an easy choice.The story isn't factual though the events of the film naturally have some reference to actual history. The language isn't true to the era either but I don't mind that at all. Factual or not, James Goldman's script (based on his own play) is top notch. It deservedly won an Oscar and in 2005 was named one of the 100 best screenplays of all time by the Writers Guild of America.The cast is nearly as good as the script and they do Goldman's screenplay justice. Katherine Hepburn's performance took home an Oscar and Peter O'Toole's could have done the same. Unfortunately, he had to content himself with a mere nomination. The supporting cast is also impressive, including Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton in early film roles.I wasn't blown away by Anthony Harvey's Oscar-nominated direction but it gets the job done. The costume design was also rewarded with an Oscar nomination but it's John Barry's Oscar-winning score that stands out on the technical side.All in all, The Lion in Winter is a thoroughly compelling drama with a crackerjack script. Throw in some actors capable of rising to the level of the script and you've got one fine film. However, it should be noted that the film is dialogue-heavy, so if that's something that doesn't appeal to you then you may want to pass on it. "},{"Title":"history.....","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" the first time i saw this movie, was with my mother at the theater, and we loved it! i was almost 18. yet i think; how many people would really sit there, listening to that history? esp in 1968? the acting was superb even tho i'm not crazy about o'toole. last year, i noticed that the movie was on TV, and i just had to watch it again---this is almost 40 yrs later (i give my age away again?)) and i was glued to the TV! but this time, because it was a story about my grandparentsxxx. so, i found it much more interesting. i just wish i knew yrs ago about genealogy. to see nigel terry also. he was great in Excalibur. my husband could not even sit thru half of the movie. (and he has more blood ties to that family than i do!) i wish we had more historical things out there, than the garbage most directors make today. and i wish my mother was still here to tell her these things. "},{"Title":"dysfunctional families through the ages","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Various reviewers have panned this because it A; Requires some knowledge of British history, or B; It was set in 1183 and people talked kind of weird, or C; It was like a play and nothing much happened beyond carpet chewing. Kate Hepburn drawling in a broad American accent through the Middle Ages would be weird if one stopped long enough to take offense, but the carpet chewing is so glorious that I had watched it about a zillion times before I even noticed, much less got annoyed by the Seppo accent. No knowledge of history is required to marvel at a study of a dysfunctional family, brilliantly realised. And yes, it is like a play because it is very much based upon a play. The tapestry scene could have been done with Computer Graphics, or some such bulls**t, but it worked and one listened to O'Toole & Hopkins & Dalton(?) declaiming lines. If one does not like that, rent Night of the Living Dead #23, and please leave us alone. High on the list of the greatest movies, ever. "},{"Title":"Tour de force of power play, and a family at war with its self","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" From the mystical entrance of Katherine Hepburn as Eleanor of Aquitane to the her departure the film rarely loses pace, with everyone a line a gem. It captures the sheer anarchy of the Medieival world, combining it with sheer sarcasm. The sets are basic and dull, capturing life in the court of Henry 2. It is a medieval cinematic joust of words and threats, and counter-threats. Stunningly acted, sheer poetry! It works as high comedy and political drama. The entrance of Eleanor captures perfectly the awesomeness of this enigmatic figure who, well before emancipation of women had even be though off, was a political player, had married two Kings, and tried to depose her husband, in many ways the Princess Diana of her day, devastatingly attractive, and manipulative.It is also a story of a family that is totally at war with each other, each playing for the prize, the Kingdom, the secession, their freedom,. A brilliantly divesting powerful piece of drama.In summary a classic! "},{"Title":"Excellent Historical Drama","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I don't know how accurately this movie portrays the drama it's supposed to represent. And frankly, I don't care. The movies are a lazy and, at best, unreliable way of boning-up on history.However, taken for what it is - a piece of theatrical entertainment - it is hard to imagine any viewer not finding something to enjoy.Peter O'Toole is at the height of his power and seems almost to strike sparks off the script. The supporting cast do well to keep up, but they manage, and manage with great style.Catherine Hepburn has one of the most spellbinding entres that any player could wish for. But it is here I begin to deduct points. Quite why an American actress was cast in such a quintessentially English production is hard to understand, especially when there were any number of eminently suitable English female players equal to a strong woman's role. Margaret Lockwood immediately comes to mind. Viewers may remember her tremendous presence in the 'Justice' TV series during the early 1970's.I suspect that because so much American money went into the production and that it was also intended for Stateside release; a Hollywood favourite was included to make it more palatable to American sensibilities. If this is true, then comments on this website clearly demonstrate that the studios misread their own public's intelligence and discernment.I've had a great deal of respect for Ms Hepburn's abilities, whether bringing up baby, boating with Bogey or rafting with the Duke. But this production called for an English accent, not an American one. Ms Hepburn was simply not equal to the task. I formed the opinion that the script had been slightly 'Americanised' to accommodate her, and again make it more sympathetic to a mid-Atlantic palate. Comments like 'I darn nearly succeeded' belong more to a world of 'injuns' and Winchester rifles.Notwithstanding the above, she makes a sterling effort, and for the most part the repartee is one of the movie's strong suites. But to see how good it might have been, you need to watch 'A Man For All Seasons', with Paul Schofeild.Don't be dismayed, though; if you can get your head around a tantalising suspicion that an arrow-bristling stagecoach migth suddenly deposit John Wayne on set, then damn me all to hell, pilgrim; you're sure gonna love it. "},{"Title":"One Of the best written movies of all time","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" My Fvorite line involves the 3 sons squabbling when Nigel Terry'character, John says My God you all hate so much that if I were on fire, none of you would p*** on me to put me out. To which Anthony Hopkins as Richard replies Let's strike a flint and see.Wonderful acting, with Peter O'Toole chewing up the scenery, and the intricate scheming requires that you pay attention, but with the dialog that makes you want to, so you can see what gem is going to be uttered next and by whom.This movie along with Spencer Tracy in Inherit the Wind, and John Mills and Brenda DE Banzie in Hobson's Choice, make up my all time favorite movies set in Britain, although Major Barbara might tie with one of them.If you love well paced, well acted and well written movies, then you must not miss this one.It goes to 11. "},{"Title":"Classic Story of a Family in Decay","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It is a good thing so much of the scenery in Lion in Winter is stone, considering how much it gets chewed here.No one goes over the top like Peter O'Toole in his prime, and this movie essentially begs for that type of performance. O'Toole's Henry is not merely larger than life, he's Macy Balloon sized larger than life. Oh God, but I do love being king! O'Toole bellows at one point, and it is clear O'Toole loves playing one as well. It takes an actress of the caliber of Katherine Hepburn to not disappear alongside a performance like that.Henry, in love with his mistress Alais who is promised by treaty for the marriage of his oldest surviving son Richard, anxiuos for the succession to the throne for the sake of the empire he has built, calls to a palace in his French possessions his three sons, Richard, a fierce and determined warrior who is his mother's favorite - and a favorite of the King of France, as it turns out - the deep-revolving, ignored and unloved middle son Geoffery, and the dull witted youngest son Johnny, his father's pet and choice for succession. He also temporarliy frees the Great Bitch from her prison, his wife, Eleanor of Acquitaine, who he has kept walled up in a castle for ten years, and calls Phillip, the youthful King of France and the son of Eleanor's first husband, in for negotiations. As soon as all five arrive at the castle, they begin to plot with and against and for each other, with Alais, the crown, and Acquitaine as the pawns. No one in tha family likes anyone else, no one is loyal to any one else, and all are willing to betray anyone to win.Are they so different from any unhappy family, whose uneasy alliances and betrayals occur over subjects less momentous to outsiders than a crown? Well, as Eleanor put it, what family doesn't have its ups and downs? All of the major actors - O'Toole and Hepburn, John Castle, a very early Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Daulton, stoop-shouldered, drooling, self pitying Nigel Terry - attack their roles with evident relish. The screenplay sometimes descends to faux profundities and leaden pronouncements, but never for too long. The dialogue sparkles with wit and verbal imagination.But crowning it all off, of course, are Hepburn and O'Toole. They play off their deep abiding love and deep abiding hatred of each other verbally for the entire movie in scenes that can wander wildly from humor to deep pathos as they find with unerring skill exactly the right way to wound each other. "}{"Title":"O'toole and Hepburn are at their best","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE. I think it is the greatest costume drama ever made. Hepburn and O'Toole are just AMAZING together, They Make a strong case for best paring of actress and actor ever. Hepburn won best actress and O'Toole was nominated and did not win...(3rd lose of 7 nominations). The movie has some other great actors like Anthony Hopkins, in one of his first movies. And Timothy Dalton(many people do not know that he is actually a classical actor) and was very well suited for the part. Also, Nigel terry plays a great role as The Kings love hoarding and rat like son. It's one of the only Period pieces on the Top 250 greatest movie list for this sight.The Dialog is stupendous in this movie, and the atmosphere(in a Corny and over used expression) is so thick you could cut it with a knife. If you love drama Then This movie is most definitely for you, and that counts double if your a Peter O' Toole or Kathrine Hepburn Fan.  "},{"Title":"witty and fun","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a fanstatic, insanely quotable, deliciously fun movie that boasts a good script, great acting, and John Barry's marvelous score.  Much praise has been given to acting giants O'Toole and Hepburn as Henry and Eleanor, but far better and more subtle are Anthony Hopkins, John Castle, and Nigel Terry as their sons.  Their first and last scenes characterize them perfectly, from the way Geoffrey directs his forces in the beginning to the way Richard tosses his dagger near the end.Hopkins gives his Richard the Lionhearted a combination of regal bearing, chivalric bravado, agression, and sulking that makes you believe him when he says I am a constant soldier, a sometime poet, and I will be king.  His scenes with mother Eleanor and the French King are particularly good.John Castle's performance as Geoffrey is probably the most impressive. His character, who dies in a joust just 3 years after the movie's events, doesn't have the familiarity or baggage that the roles of Richard and the future King John have (both made famous through the Robin Hood legends), and thus has to be built from scratch.  Castle's Geoffrey truly enjoys scheming, and the fun he has helps to set the movie's tone, where the ins and outs of plotting are very much ends in themselves.The hapless and repulsive John provides a few laughs and some surprisingly funny lines, although not enough reason is given for his being Henry's favorite.It is also worh watching the minor character William Marshall, who was the greatest knight of his age and who has a few scenes here as Henry's right hand man.    "},{"Title":"Hepburn merely the highlight of an ideal cast","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion in Winter is the sort of historical epic that just isn't made these days. It's simple dramatics, breathing life into a fascinating and tumultuous period of history. I'm not sure of the accuracy of the story, since this is one period I'm not particularly strong at, but the film works well and I am perfectly willing to believe it for the moment.The title refers to King Henry II, nicknamed 'the lion', who is having a difficult time not only for the time of year in which it is set but also the stage of life he is at in having to decide which of his three sons will succeed him when he passes on.The film is based on the play by James Goldman, who also wrote the adaptation, and for that reason it has an enormously theatrical feel to it. It's very little more than a play brought to life on the screen, with a proper setting, strong musical score and editing being the only major differences. This is something I would like, since I enjoy the theatre, but it definitely isn't for all film buffs.However, the cast is absolutely perfect, especially Katharine Hepburn as the estranged wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine. She deservedly won an Oscar for her brilliant portrayal of the woman scorned. Peter O'Toole is just as convincing as the King, Timothy Dalton puts in the best performance I have seen as King Philip of France, while Henry's sons are played with great conviction by John Castle, Nigel Terry, and none other than a very young-looking Tony Hopkins as the eldest and most powerful son Richard.The cast work together beautifully to create an array of dastardly and essentially unlikeable characters in a chaotic time in all their lives. As each one plots and conspires, double-crosses each of their allies, to get a different son the inheritance, they weave a wonderfully intricate period tale of greed and power, of trust and betrayal.The film is political as much as it is tragic. I have never read or seen the original play, but the script for the film is breath-taking. The speeches often bear close resemblance to Macchiavelli at times, and there are frequent overtones of the Bard himself and his own historical texts. It's a masterful piece of storytelling.My only complaint is that it is about half an hour too long. There are a number of essentially unnecessary scenes and exchanges that could be deleted to make the film more accessible to a wider audience. It would no doubt reduce the overall effect of the film, but as it stands, it is quite a task to follow every nuance of the story.To sum up, it's a film made mostly through acting. The cast is clearly ideal and they do wonderful things with great material. It is heavy-going and it requires much of your attention, but the rewards are definitely there if you want them. **** / ***** "},{"Title":"superb wordplay","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Lion In Winter has been the standard by which I'd judge any film's screenplay. Not a word is wasted and every nuance of inflection and timing has bearing on the development of the characters or of the plot.All these actors are of the highest calibre, but it's this film that convinced me completely of Katherine Hepburn's right to every accolade an actor could receive. Peter O'Toole is in the same class and together they portray a gripping relationship of genuine love, overriding ambition and calculated vengeance. Henry and Eleanor have known eachother so intimately that they know every button to push for the desired response. At a time when life was even shorter and cheaper than it is now, it was important to know your friends and enemies and to keep them close.Lion In Winter makes the best possible use of the English language in action as dialogue. We are encouraged to look for the meaning and relevance of every phrase. It's also a great rollercoaster of a plot - twisting all the time. None of these characters are angels - each has an element of true subterfuge, yet we are strongly tempted to take and change sides.Superbly intriguing and a very rewarding way to spend 134 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"...We're a knowledgable family.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the most magnificent character studies ever written, and committed to film.Goldman himself is clear in saying that the anachronisms are quite deliberate.  The exchange of Christmas presents and the Christmas tree were unknown to the 12th century Angevins.  There is no historical record of a sexual relationship between Henry and Alais.  But none of that matters. This is historical fiction--and what is important is the relationships between the characters, not faithful representations of the historical personages.There is not a wasted word, gesture or image.(So how, in an year which gave us this film, and 2001  A Space Odyssey did Oliver! win the Oscar?!?) "},{"Title":"Kings and Dukes aren't good company","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Back when Prince Charles was overheard as saying that he wanted to be a tampon so as to be closer to his lover, the frumpy and eminently forgettable Camilla Bowles, a commentator quipped that if the royal family were living in a trailer park in Kentucky, they'd have the police summoned against them several nights a week.  They're the epitome of family dysfunction, which should remind us why we fought a war to get rid of the lot of them.  And it's no wonder that they behave this way, seeing as how royal precedent has been set for centuries past.  The Lion in Winter is an outstanding period on Medieval British monarchy, and, in particular, the lives of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine, two of Britain's most celebrated royals.  Brilliantly portrayed by Peter O'Toole and Katherine Hepburn, respectively, one is reminded that, in 1183, these people were conniving, power hungry, ruthless and not a little bit mean spirited.  They may have come from royal or `noble' lineage;  but, there was little that was noble about their character.  A scholar of Medieval history once said that the primary job of the Medieval kings was `cracking heads.'  In this video, the violence and oppression of the British monarchy comes into focus.  The particular events depicted in the video may never have happened, but the spirit of the times comes through with driving clarity.There are some howlingly funny scenes in this movie.  At one point, when Eleanor is arguing with her three sons (Richard, Geoffrey and John) over which of them should succeed their father as king.  Richard, her favorite (this is accurate historically), draws his knife to attack John, Henry's favorite.  As Richard chases John around the room, brandishing his weapon, John exclaims, terrified, `He has a knife!'  But then Eleanor rebukes John for his stupidity, saying `Of course he has a knife!  This is 1183 and we're barbarians!'  It's a not too subtle wink at the audience;  but, it works.  "},{"Title":"One of the GREATEST films made to date, The Lion In Winter is a MUST see for all who love motion pictures and a literate script.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Everything I could say about this film has already been said by others.  I DO need to correct one comment.  Someone made the statement that John Wayne had stolen the Oscar from Peter O'Toole for True Grit.  Not true.  It was Cliff Robertson for Charlie who stole the Oscar from O'Toole.  Robertson was a second tier actor at best, not on the same level as O'Toole.  Wayne was a FAR better actor than most people gave him credit for being, although NOT on O'Toole's level, but that's another story.One area that hasn't really been covered by people commenting on The Lion In Winter is the way the film looks. The director's commentary on this gorgeous DVD is illuminating.He talks about the marvelous and spooky stone heads that are used in the title sequences.  They set the tone for this film perfectly.  Carved roughly when this film takes place,they are at once, brutal, beautiful and terrifying! They were discovered by the director on a path in southern France and photographed at night.The beach on which a small, but significant battle is fought under the watchful eye of middle son, Geoffry, is so magically stunning you almost forget to watch the action.  There is a silvery time-warp about that moment that is breath-taking! The beach was found in Wales.Another, filmed on a flooded river in France is so filled with almost swooning mystery and gorgeousness that it seems to be an invocation of a mythical time when dragons roamed the earth.The boat itself looks like a great swan flying over the water with its bird's head-very like Viking and Celtic vessels, and its oars white with tips of brown dipping and rising from the misty water like great wings.  A moment of pure enchantment.John Barry's superb music subtly underlines every word or moment.  It is eerie and magnificent and evokes plain-song and chant. It creates the world in which the characters move and plot, love and hate.  It creates the colors of rock and water, air and spirit as no other film music I have ever heard does.The cinematography is as beautiful as any I have ever seen on film.  Ranking with Black Narcissus and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon for absolute beauty.The Lion In Winter is a great jewel in the crown of acting.  The one blot is the inexplicable omission of an Oscar for O'Toole's superb Henry II.  I think here he proved to be greater than Oscar.  People who see The Lion In Winter will give O'Toole the Oscar anyway while they completely forget who Robertson was. "},{"Title":"The Lions in Winter","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Warning This comment gives away plot details.The Lion in Winter is a historical drama, but that genre label hardly encapsulates the movie. It's also a political thriller, a psychological family study and the lingering end of a tragic love story. It's a character driven film with a superb ensemble cast. As an adaption of a play, it may be too talky for some tastes, but the dialogue is smart and funny. Memorable quotes are peppered in every scene. Katherine Hepburn gets the lion's share of great lines and she puts them to great use. One can't quite say she steals the show, because every character, with the possible exception of Prince John, is masterfully acted. The script didn't give Nigel Terry much to work with, though.The movie is a fictional look at the family of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine for a couple of days at Christmas in 1183. While the dialogue is anachronistically modern, the setting, score, cinematography and action consistently bring the dark ages to mind. The lighting is realistic. There's straw on the floors and large, shaggy hounds roam the castle. When the characters shout, one can hear a slight echo as their voices bounce off stone walls. In one scene O'Toole must break the ice crust on a basin of water before he can wash his face in the morning and in another he nudges a chicken out of his way to walk forward. The fight scenes are realistically clumsy rather than the sleekly choreographed and glamour dusted action sequences that are standard in Hollywood movies these days. The score is beautiful, regal and sparse, with mostly horns and drums. It's often choral and in Latin, adding to the medieval mood.There are two themes in the plot. The first is of political intrigue in which the characters scheme, lie, manipulate, and double-cross one another for political power. The second is that of a long standing marital conflict with the children as pawns and players, all looking for respect and affection.King Henry II, eldest son having recently died, must select a new heir. He favor's the youngest son, John (the Usurper, of Robin Hood fame, signer of the magna carta). Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine favors the eldest remaining, Richard (the Lionhearted). The middle son Geoffrey favors himself and schemes to have his brothers commit treason (leaving himself as the crown prince), or if that fails, to be chancellor of whichever brother inherits. Adding to the tension is the King of France's determination that his sister Alais (foster daughter of Eleanor, mistress of Henry), either be married or her dowry returned (a strategically sweet piece of land a day's march from from Paris) per a treaty signed 16 years previously.All this would be relatively simple to resolve were it not for the power struggle between Henry and Eleanor. This is really the story of two lions in winter. The succession of inheritance would be simple Henry knows John isn't suitable to be king. The greatest part of his affection for John is that Richard has always been Eleanor's favorite. Likewise Eleanor's determination that Richard get the crown largely springs from her vengeful desire to thwart Henry in whatever he desires. Despite an obvious affection, they've betrayed one another and can't forgive, forget or set aside the pain. Their children show scars from having grown up in the battlefield of their marriage. As Richard accuses Eleanor in a strategy council, The only thing you want is father's vitals on a bed of lettuce. You don't care who wins, as long as Henry loses, you'd do anything. You're Medea to the teeth. Only this is one son you won't use. Richard only half understands Eleanor. She also wants Henry back, though she knows it's hopeless.When I first saw this film, I thought it was the most tragic movie I'd ever seen despite the characters continued health. It can support a larger fan base than emotion junkies though. The politiking is fascinating, unpredictable and complicated. The acting is masterful, from Katherine Hepburn near the end of her career, to Peter O'Toole in his prime, to Timothy Dalton and Anthony Hopkins showing star quality early in their careers. The relatively obscure Jane Merrow also performs excellently considering what she's given. Alais comes across as tender, generous, stalwart and surprisingly resolute when Henry finally offers her marriage. Her brother Phillip, played by Timothy Dalton, is a malicious yet a sympathetic character; he's ambitious, at a disadvantage with Henry, seductive, intense and clever. Anthony Hopkin's Richard is both the brave warrior and the sensitive man and often conflicted. Geoffrey, played by John Castle, maintains a cool facade, but also reveals his damaged internal state. (One wonders why his parents are indifferent to him. Could the name he shares with his paternal grandfather, which rumor has as Eleanor's once-upon-a-time lover have something to do with it?) Peter O'Toole doesn't look like a fifty year old man and he's not, but he is very convincing as a man running out of time, blustering and scheming to settle his kingdom before he dies. Katherine Hepburn is the center of the story and she is flawless. The accolades she won for the role were entirely deserved.The Lion in Winter is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Martha and George meet King Lear","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The dialog in this movie certainly is sparkling, the plotting of the family members intricate, and the acting generally magnificent. The plot is by turns reminiscent of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf and King Lear.But, certain lines of dialog are jarring--especially Eleanor's It's 1183, and we're all barbarians! How very, umm, historically astute of her.Perfect historical fidelity may not be possible or necessary; but with lines like the above, or Henry's anachronistic barb about a democratic drawbridge, one wishes that this movie had instead been set in the 20th century instead, with Henry as an entrepreneur mulling over which of his sons deserves to take over the family business, say. If you're going to do a period piece, do it right.Aside from a few missteps like these, though, LIW is highly successful, and Kate H has never been better.  "},{"Title":"Magnificent acting ensemble","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Lion in Winter is a powerful script, beautifully filmed and brilliantly acted.  Peter O'Toole is stunning as Henry II.Although the gathering of the Plantagenet Christmas gathering of 1183 AD at Chinon, France is fictitious, the characters including William Marshall are not.  The most famous woman of the millennium, Eleanor of Aquitaine, will remain imprisoned at Salisbury Plain for another eight years, until the death of her husband, Henry.  Before Henry's death, however, Geoffrey dies.Eleanor will eventually see Richard Lionheart on the throne.  Richard will join with Phillip of France and lead the Great Crusade.  John, the wimpy King John of Ribin Hood legend, remains in England and Normandy as regent. John claims the throne following Richard's death in 1199.  England's barons reveolt against John and force him to sign the Magna Carta in 1215.  One of John's grandson's is Edward Longshanks, the nasty-nasty English king we see in Braveheart, that ever-so-non-historical-yet-successful-and-commercial venture by Mel Gibson.So much for briefly annotating history.  Back to the film.This is good stuff!  Lion in Winter is going to be around for a long time and may go down as O'Toole's best work.Great adaptation from a play, great script, great score, great actors, etc. Serious drama types  here's one of the finest historical films available. Don't miss it! "}{"Title":"They don't make like this anymore","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the standard modern screenplays should aim to achieve.  The Lion In Winter offers true entertainment value, not the hollow garbage so popular today.If you appreciate unparalled acting, Shakespearesque dialog and incredible chemistry (be it love or hate) between some of the best actors of this century (with O'Toole stealing the show and, if I'm not mistaken, the acting debut of Anthony Hopkins), then you will cherish this jewel of a film.If you have a whole day to spare, I highly recommend another film that is nearly as well done, titled Becket.  The reason is because, it, too, chronicles a period of King Henry II, staring (again) none other than Peter O'Toole.  I'm not sure if that was a bizarre coincidence, or a wonderful maneuver of the filmmaking business.  Either way, it doesn't get much better than an action-packed Sunday afternoon with O'Toole as the famous Lion, Henry II, in the Springtime of his life in Becket followed by the The Lion In Winter. "},{"Title":"One of the most remarkable dramas ever produced.","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  You do yourself a tremendous disservice if you don't see this movie.  The fictionalized story of Henry II, his scheming queen Eleanor of Acquitaine, and their three ruthless children makes for a extremely chilling film.Peter O'Toole is brilliant as Henry, one of the best roles of his career.  Katharine Hepburn's Oscar winning performance as Eleanor hits all the right notes--she plays every action, every line of dialogue, with carefully measured emotional weight that neither spills over into muddle nor leaves the audience feeling shortchanged.  Their scenes against each other--one can hardly use the word together--are a verbal combination of chess and professional wrestling  carefully constructed, convoluted assaults designed to hurt the victim as deeply as humanly possible.Each intends to use their three surviving sons as foot soldiers in their ongoing war.  However, two of those sons, Richard and Geoffrey, are generals in their own right and have their own plans for their parents.  Throw in the French king Phillip II and his sister Alais (Henry's mistress and the fiancee of whichever son succeeds Henry on the throne), and you have a tremendous potential for emotional and physical violence.You may need a scorecard to figure out who's doing what to whom, but the final product is worth it. "},{"Title":"A Lion of a Film","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  To Me, The Lion In Winter is the greatest film ever made. A masterful script with brilliant dialouge,grand award worthy performances,humour,passion,hate,love and tenderness. The film is a roller coaster of emotion.O'Toole and Hepburn are the greatest screen duo to ever grace a motion picture. John Castle is equally fine as the calculating Geoffrey as he vain plots to become King. Geoff is the most worthy of the sons and still the most neglected,Castle captures this flawlessly.Timothy Dalton,Anthony Hopknis and Nigel Terry also epitomize their roles of Philip,Richard and John to perfection.and Pretty Jane Merrow is a revelation as the King's  mistress and cheif pawn. This movie is about people not titles and gathering the  Plantagents for a christmas court where greivences are aired and plots are hatched should remind us all of our own family christmases when no one got what they wanted. "},{"Title":"Stimulating","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  O Toole, and Hepurn come off best in this excellently acted, if very talky movie. It verges close to comedy, noting the amount of wisecracks it contains. But the acting is so good that it makes this quite a stimulating if not wholly sucessful movie. Lots of bitchy arguing   "},{"Title":"Brilliant dialogue","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As a screen adaptation of a stage play, this film is perhaps not as cinematic as other historical pictures of the 60's, but O'Toole's and Hepburn's execution of an outstanding screenplay puts THE LION IN WINTER among the top titles of its genre. The claustrophobic sets convey how bleak and dangerous the Middle Ages must have been for even the most privileged (or perhaps especially for the most privileged), and nothing about this film romanticizes the so-called Age of Chivalry. It certainly won't make you yearn of the Goode Ole Days of Yore!My only beef with the script is that the future King John is played as a buffoon by Nigel Terry (adumbrating his role as the klutzy, boyish King Arthur in EXCALIBUR years later). True, John was not the greatest of English kings, but the signer of the Magna Carta should have been portrayed with a little more subtlety.The award-winning original score may be a bit strident for the modern listener's taste, and the soundtrack is monaural and rather low-fi, but this is still a great film if you want to see some good acting and learn a little bit about the Medieval period in the process.  "},{"Title":"Lots of Talk Signifying Very Little.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Films like The Lion in Winter bug me. There is such good acting, an intriguing story and solid direction, but in the end the film fails to do anything really special. It is 1183 England and Henry II (Oscar-nominee Peter O'Toole) is trying to decide on a successor when he passes away. Will it be eldest son Anthony Hopkins who has a mean streak in him and a very cold demeanor? Will it be neglected son John Castle who seems a bit too quiet and calculating to be trusted completely? Or will it be youngest son Nigel Terry who has more heart and emotion than intelligence and cunning? O'Toole thinks that Terry should be the one just based upon the fact that he likes him more than his two older sons. Imprisoned wife Katharine Hepburn (who steals the show in her third Oscar-winning role) believes that Hopkins is the man for the job. Mix in the King of France (a young Timothy Dalton) and his sister (O'Toole's mistress Jane Merrow) and you have a complicated would-be-masterpiece that does not completely succeed in the end. Oscar-nominated director Anthony Harvey's shortcomings as a director are the main problems here as the film becomes too talkative very early on and he sacrifices the story for spectacle. The film moves at a snail's pace sometimes and this hinders the progress of the screenplay. Hepburn is excellent, but with the exception of Hopkins she lacks the support to really put the film over the top. Hopkins sizzles on the screen, but his time is not near enough here. Overall still a good film, but like many costume dramas it never found its way out of the dark ages. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Good for 20 minutes","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The actors and performances are good. The sets and costumes and scenery was good for a 1968 movie. The plot and relationships are all pretty established after 20 minutes, maybe 25. After that its just a tedious repetition of the same themes, same dialogue and situations with only minor revelations or plot turns. Really dull. Chloroform in celluloid. Cinematography is uninspired, relying on zoom shots. For an idea of what this movie is like read the following;The actors and performances are good. The sets and costumes and scenery was good for a 1968 movie. The plot and relationships are all pretty established after 20 minutes, maybe 25. After that its just a tedious repetition of the same themes, same dialogue and situations with only minor revelations or plot turns. Really dull. Chloroform in celluloid. Cinematography is uninspired, relying on zoom shots. For an idea of what this movie is like read the following;The actors and performances are good. The sets and costumes and scenery was good for a 1968 movie. The plot and relationships are all pretty established after 20 minutes, maybe 25. After that its just a tedious repetition of the same themes, same dialogue and situations with only minor revelations or plot turns. Really dull. Chloroform in celluloid. Cinematography is uninspired, relying on zoom shots. For an idea of what this movie is like read the following; "},{"Title":"Conspiracies and succession of Henry the 2.","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The lion in winter.The lion in winter is a historical film about a specific period of  Plantagenet empire  and the legendary historical figures as Henry the 2, Eleanor of Aquitaine, Richard, Jean ... We towards the end of the reign of Henry the 2 and it is therefore question of his successor during a celebration of Christmas at Chteau-Chinon, the family are together and conspire with Philippe, the young king of France. The choice of this moment in this family is a good idea because it is a period where you can see all the motivations, claims and acquired of each character. There must still be a minimum of historical knowledge about these characters to fully enjoy the film. The movie takes place in major part behind closed doors in the castle, which increases the tensions between the characters, but overall is too stuffy and too few outdoor scnes, we need breath sometimes outdoor. The characters and their conspiracies are supported by a lot of sequences of discussions and then we can feel a certain lack of actions. But one of the highlights of the film is its cast, Peter O'Toole, Katharine Hepburn, Anthony Hopkins, Timothy Dalton,... reinforces and gives credibility to each character. The film based on the characters he is happy to see these great actors. A very interesting point is the reconstruction of the medieval era, for example, in the courtyard where everyone turns to his task, especially in the costumes and other decorations of the royal court . In fact we are not in a universe filled with splendor and opulence of wealth, which seems much more believable that we usually see.An interesting point of view and beautifully served by its actors, but the film can be disappointing, especially by a lack of action and characters that can be annoying. (Be careful on this last point, the French version I watched is not very good, but it is a legitimate historical interpretation of these characters). "},{"Title":"King Of The Hill.","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The king is Henry II, played (for the second time) by Peter O'Toole as a gruff, bearish figure of 50, stomping around, shouting angry orders, smoothly manipulating his women and everybody else. It's Christmas, 1183, and he invites his estranged and imprisoned wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, played by Katherine Hepburn, to a party at the castle. The three sons will be present as well, John, Geoffrey, and Richard. What a party they have.James Goldman's script is witty, fast, commercial, sarcastic, and full of anachronisms but Goldman isn't the kind of guy who cares much about whether he's producing art or not anyway. O'Toole sweeps into the room, gestures at his family, and says, Well, shall we hang the holly or each other? Later, describing a trip through the south, Hepburn gets to say, I damned near died of windburn. It was sometimes amusing but I tired of the intrigues. Which of the three sons will get to be king? One is an effeminate wimp, one is Macher, and one is a sullen warrior. All are greedy for power. Sometimes they hate their parents and sometimes they seem not to. I honestly didn't care and nodded out towards the end. If I remember, Richard, the warrior, gets to be king, later known as Richard the Lionheart. I understand he was a brutal swashbuckler in the Crusades but his sexual orientation was somewhat in doubt. I once had to memorize all the kings and queens of England. It was in high school. I've never forgiven the teacher, Mrs. Prudence Gruel, the old battle ax. "},{"Title":"At Last A Mane Attraction Worthy Of The Name","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This was the second time in four years that Peter O'Toole played Henry II on screen and both movies were adaptations of stage plays. Jean Anouilh penned the first play, set nearer the start of Henry's reign than the second but the second was penned by Jim Goldman, older brother of Bill and no less a writer, who adapted his own play for the screen, which means that what we wind up with is a tapestry studded with verbal gems, two outstanding leading performances and solid support. Time and again director Harved opts for long shots emphasising that even kings and queens come second to the majesty of God and a landscape created by God. Historically it may well be suspect - though it feels fairly authentic - but cinematically it is right on the money and one of the finest of the genre. "}{"Title":"A historical viewpoint of a dysfunctional British Royal Family..","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm an American and under 40. So I may be one of the rarities commenting on this epic. The sets are good. The costumes are good and accurate. If you want to watch sibling rivalry amongst the British royalty I suggest you watch British soap operas instead. Peter O'Toole as King Henry II delivers a lot of spunk and energy, but halfway through the picture, his histrionics proved jarring and execrable. Kate Hepburn as Queen Eleanor does another fabulous job portraying the queen as a pitiful aging glamour queen who has lost the respect of her children. She actually brought the most depth to the film. Anthony Hopkins was appropriate and even revealed some precursors of Hannibal Lecter while framing up for the role of Richard. I was bit surprised to see that John, later King John, was portrayed as a goofy, sniveling cad of a boy. 90% of this film consists of the family bickering about who will inherit the throne, who deserves what, who wants what. We discover that they all care about the land and wealth more than for each other. I guess rich folks are screwed up. And The Lion in Winter makes you pity a royal family. I guess some historians or Shakespeare buffs will find this stuff entertaining, but it can wear rather thin for the average folk. It's a well made film though and worth some credit. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Henry II and his brood gave the term dysfunctional family a new meaning. The constant brawling, plotting, and emotional abuse this family inflicted on each boggles the mind. And yet, through it all comedy (!) arises in the most unpredictable places. Kate Hepburn's line All families have their ups and downs after one horrific battle left me rolling on the floor laughing. Wonderful performance by all! Historically, Richard went on to rule after Henry's death, but entered the Crusades (Richard the Lionhart), and John stayed behind to rule and eventually sign the Magna Carta. Couldn't find any mention of Jeffrey, the unloved son. "},{"Title":"Fact v.s. Fiction","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The probem I have with A Lion in Winter is similar to that of Ben-Hur.  In the case of the latter, writer Lew Wallace subtitled it, A Tale of the Christ.Well, it is not that.  What Wallace did was to fashion a completely fictious, melodrmatic tale and superimpose it onto Biblical narrative.  The result for me was a neither fish, nor foul piece of exploitation.  I couldn't feel very emotional about this cloned product that was, at best, hybrid.More recently, James Goldman came along, and wrote a play based on historical characters and events of 1183 AD.  These people and actions generally did take place, to go by many historical records.  But what did these people actually talk like?  Were they as boisterous, catty, camp, and parody-like as Goldman's script?  Were Prince Richard and King Philip I youthful lovers, reviving their passions in more mature years?  Was Princess Alais really a mistress to Henry II, clingingly obedient even though being constantly debased and belittled by Henry?  Could almost every sentence between Henry and Eleanor of Aquitaine have been as biting, acidic and cynical as Goldman's dialogue?More vexing, though, is the eye-winking tone of the script.  Even though most of the enactment under Anthony Harvey is played dead-seriously, every now and then a modern, hip bit is tossed out.  These throw-aways make one wonder about the integrity--or intention--of Goldman (and Anthony).  Is the whole thing just one big put-on, after all?  The puns get laughs, to be sure, but at what cost just how sincere really is A Lion in Winter?On the other hand, had late-60s audiences become so jaded as to somehow require some mod double entendres and campy quips in order to connect with the dusty medieval setting?  Could they not have taken a piece played uniformly straight?  Does this say something more about people of the 20th than 12th century?Whatever the case, A Lion in Winter cannot be accused of being creaky.  On the contrary, it's a vibrant, explosive, energetic piece of work, acted to the hilt by an exception cast, and headed by Peter O'Toole, Katherine Hepburn and Anthony Hopkins.  The film did connect with most audience members, and continues to be well-regarded by the mass public--even those who wouldn't be caught dead reading dry medieval history.    "},{"Title":"A flawed but interesting historical drama","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's 1183 and the English Royal family are holding Christmas court. The agenda being that everyone wants to hurt everyone else. Cue a historical soap opera complete with draughty castles, blustering kings, and scheming queens. As a historical film, this one pales against its contemporary A Man For All Seasons and the more recent Elizabeth, but it is not without interest. Kate Hepburn and Peter O'Toole are wonderful as the 'gorgon' Queen Eleanor and the unloved and unloving king Henry II, despite a great age gap which I have to say doesn't show. Anthony Hopkins plays a sensitive Richard Lionheart, in his debut; Nigel Terry's prince John is a whining little bore; and Timothy Dalton plays the spoilt and vain Philip of France with the same aplomb he gave to Darnley in Mary, Queen of Scots a few years later.Everything is dark and gloomy in 12th century England, and, dialogue aside (some of it is pretty good but doesn't ring true for the period!), not a bad attempt at making a good story out of a few snippets and rumours from history. "},{"Title":"The Ride that Gets you Nowhere","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This play is a treat to read, with several memorable lines per page. Goldman certainly has an ear for language. The idea is to portray a dysfunctional (royal) family's no-holds-barred Xmas hostilities, that will make yours pale in comparison. I used to like this movie, years ago. As the saying goes, Every happy family is the same, but unhappy families are all unique.Unfortunately, the structure of this movie is positively grating. It's an endless sequence of ruses, empty threats, double-backs and nullifications. After about half an hour you realize none of the actors are affecting royalty, they're all portraying thespians; and every character is totally full of crap.Even given that the passing of the crown in the Plantagnet household has not been much of a secret for seven hundred years, the movie fails to make that gambit engaging, and also fails to name the line of succession before the credits roll. I don't ask for much; just move me an inch forward of where we started two hours ago. For every scene that would have worked in a movie half this length, another horrid over-baked piece of rot cancels it out. Every half-interesting character is offset by a runt (John) or a zero (Alais - what the hell is her petulant, whiny purpose in this movie?). The stupid dinner-processional exchange with Hepburn taunting O'Toole through a stupid grin as yet another Styrofoam gauntlet is thrown down, exemplifies the films coy, phony, aggravating conceits. Goldman torpedoes the movie with scene after scene like this. When all is said and done there isn't a piece of scenery left unchewed, and the film quickly reveals itself to be a zero-sum game; my absolute least favorite format.I'm sorry to hear that some drippy viewers think it's funny to see Richard (Hopkins) acting sissified. It's the only moment a viewer could possibly find one of the characters sympathetic, because it's the only frame of legitimate emotion or affection in the whole movie. Only a heartless, narrow-minded ass finds that kind of machismo baggage amusing. "},{"Title":"Who's afraid of Eleanor of Acquitaine?","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Having seen parts of this movie, but never the whole from the beginning, over many years it was time to view it in one sitting. It is an odd concoction. It is visually very appealing with some superb locations and the design is quite good. However, the drama at the center is like Who's afraid of Virgina Woolf? It's a domestic quarrel that goes on and on and on and on. And on. That can work on stage but the real weakness with this film is that the script has two-three modes of writing. It is declamatory almost throughout and when that is switched off, it turns to an apothegmatic form as a means to close of a scene or assert power. Then, in between, those two forms, is the small talk of a bourgeois family. It's quite a curious mixture and rather shallow writing from a technical view.The incongruities are raised due to the casting. Hepburn gives another revision of the spinster schoolmistress type. It's as if she has come straight from The African Queen and talking through clenched teeth is as dogmatic as ever. O'Toole is bombastic, but more like a scared boy who shouts boo to his enemies.The dysfunctional family, sons squabbling with swords over power, is a neat middle class rendering of medieval politics. All in all it's not really that good and what may have worked on stage with cod-Shakespearean dialog and clever put-downs is quite tedious in this film. "},{"Title":"Done the play, seen the film","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When I was 19, I played Prince John in the play version of Lion in Winter. It was the most rewarding theatrical experience I have ever had and the screening of the film, after the last night (so that our characters were our own and not influenced by the film), was very successful. Biased thought says that our performance was better, and as a fan of live theatre, I have a point, but the quality of acting in the film is excellent and the use of scenes that are impossible on stage is very good. My only criticism of the film is Catherine Hepburn, who sounds continually drunk. Lion in Winter is a fantastic film and well worth a viewing - but do get down to a theatre and see it there too. "},{"Title":"We are the war starters, we the guilty","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Eleanor of Aquitaine's stirring soliloquy concerning where to place guilt on who starts the wars is today especially pertinent.  AS we try to place blame on the infidels, we forget that Satan himself could not have come up with a better plan to pit man against man.....as these 3 sons and wife of Henry II are pitted, than to create 3 religions and tell them You are the chosen ones.   Thus we see Henry's empire divided and short-circuited by his duplicity, which is true to History if you can trust the Brittannica.  Katherine Hepburn's now raging, now crying, now loving Eleanor would have been committable, not commendable, if she were a modern day wife.  To ask Henry to kiss his girlfriend that she had raised from childhood was perversity I could hardly endure. John Castle, an actor I had never heard of was excellent.  Will have to check out his other films.  When I looked Geoffrey up, it appears he died, omitting his mention in my English history...but what a modern day politician HE would have made nothing like an Iago-like appearance of good to perform real evil behind.....as George Bush can attest to. The mark of a great drama is that it speaks to every age, also an indication of our inability to evolve. "},{"Title":"Atrociously overwrought","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is an extraordinarily bad film. Appallingly badly written, and worse directed, although presumably the uninspired director was simply following the script. The actors seemed to be doing their level best with the hopelessly hammy material and abysmal direction. The costumes, stage whiskers and make-up were decidedly poor. The gift-wrapped Christmas presents seemed quite laughably anachronistic. The film was obviously going to be dreadful, right from the opening scenes, where people we didn't know performed with a total absence of conviction. Who was attacking who on the sea-shore in that incredibly badly staged fight? I don't think I ever discovered. I stuck it for about an hour, and then fast-forwarded. It got worse and worse and at the end added up to something of not the slightest interest. Some of the dialogue was so awful I couldn't help laughing. There was one clumsy, unwitty, over-written exchange after another, and then one of the silly characters would flounce out of the room. Pointless conspiracies followed each other like mechanical musical chairs. No-one seemed in the slightest bit real. An average 8/10? I just can't believe it. Amazing. "},{"Title":"Mannered and overlong","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Melodramatic film-adaptation of James Goldman's unsuccessful play concerning battles between King Henry II of England and his wife, Eleanor of Acquitane. Medieval talk-fest becomes Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? in robes and crowns. Some acerbic, amusing exchanges are eventually lost in the overall heavy-handed treatment. As Eleanor, Katharine Hepburn won an Oscar for her work, but she does more for the part than it does for her. Peter O'Toole seems a bit too young as the King, and when arguing with Hepburn or being dryly mischievous, he seems less a gallant rogue than an overgrown kid (he's still too green). Brackish color, a dreary presentation, and a director who seems to revel in manic outbursts are other handicaps in this shrill and lengthy production. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Ludicrous","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Becket was very good.  A Long Day's Journey Into Night is an immortal masterpiece.  Never the two shall meet.  It just was not meant to be.I just know that I'm going to be cursed out for disliking this film, considering the enormous fan base it must have taken to put it on the IMDb top 250.  Sorry, folks, but I just gotta be me.The simple fact is, there were few things to like about the film.  The photography was drab, the sets seemed to be leftovers from the original Star Trek series, and the writing was alternately cute and pompous.  A truly painful experience, one that would make a great 'Masochists Only' box set with Butterfield 8 and They Shoot Horses, Don't They?. "},{"Title":"dumbfounded at King Henry's court","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"       The Lion in Winter is a splendid movie that is undoubtedly immensely enjoyed by all professors of history, or at least by those who made the era of the English king Henry II their specialty. For the rest of us, it's not quite so engrossing since we have no clue what the people are talking about. If one thing becomes clear, it is that hardly anyone means what they say, or say what they think, and that their thoughts and intentions change every five minutes; which does unfortunately not help to elucidate the historical facts. We probably can believe the king when he declares he likes being it, but this is not much of a revelation. Otherwise all we learn is that these medieval lions in winter had too many stray dogs, no decent heating system, and most likely too high an opinion of themselves.       "},{"Title":"12th century soap opera.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A friend of mine loaned me this film with another bunch of oldies that I hadn't seen with a warning that it really wasn't that good, (I'm not really sure why she had it then). I had never heard of it before and I gave it a look. I'm not sorry I did but I'm not glad. It was certainly compelling and sometimes down right hilarious to watch Anthony Hopkins as supposedly one of England's greatest kings prance and whine like a little girl, but its quite irritating to watch something that you know has absolutely no (or little) basis in historic fact masquerading as a supposedly period drama. An Oscar win for Katherine Hepburn in this case is downright ridiculous. Its an overblown performance with a very poorly defined character (a common complaint throughout the movie). I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw its grade on the top 250 though. Maybe its just one of those movies that I just don't get. "},{"Title":"Yellowing With Age","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie regarding the family intrigues of the mighty Plantagenet dynasty founder, King Henry II of England and his equally formidable wife Elanor of Aquitaine, slips too often on the tightrope into absurdity to be called a great film. I mean this just goes on and on and on. The dialogue is clever but its just a little too clever, and it becomes too much a 20th century motion picture than the period piece of its intent. Henry has 3 surviving sons, Richard the Lionhearted, Geofrey The Forgotten and John Lackland of Robin hood and Magna Carta fame. The premise of the film, a sort of King Learish, How Shall I Leave My Kingdon Within the timespan of about a week id say, the inheritance flipflops between all three brothers, wars are declared and then rescinded, and a sumptious Christmas feast is enjoyed. Its too much, too cluttered and too forced. Peter OToole, I suppose hes a great actor but his manic depressive style now seems a product of 1960s and its just hard to take seriously now. Katherine Hepburn as usual, is too old for her role, but I think she redeems herself better than her male counterpart. The 3 princes in all fairness, are superbly acted. If you are a history buff, you may draw some satisfaction out of seeing these famous historical occurences dramatized but you may just get weary of it all and pick up your copy of War and Peace for relaxation. For a better execution of British history on the silver screen, see instead A Man for All Seasons. "},{"Title":"Too talky, dull","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In 1183, King Henry II (O'Toole) summons his 3-sons to decide on which one will succeed him as king. The sons are Richard (Hopkins), Geoffrey (Castle), and John (Terry).When you make a movie based upon a play, you can expect a lot of talking, and that is what we have here.There is also a lot of bickering, scheming, and a taking back of what was once given. Okay, that sounds like a normal family reunion. Hmmm&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;.This movie was made in 1968 and I would hope that if a remake is considered that the dialogue be cut drastically so the players don't take forever to deliver their lines. That was the problem with me and the movie. Each player gave forth numerous mini-soliloquies at break-neck speed that one loses the point and ends up just watching facial contortions -- and both Hepburn and O'Toole are great at that. And, somewhat overplayed too. If a remake is done, the dialogue give and take should be shorter so the audience can follow what is going on more easily. To be fair, one can follow the thread pretty good, but the characters go on and on and on. Gets to be annoying. No, I wasn't impressed with the screenplay. The movie leaves up in the air which son takes over as king, but years later Henry II dies and Richard becomes king. He was also known as Richard the Lion Hearted. Hey, I looked it up. Now, what do we know about mirrors in the middle ages? Mostly that they were made of highly polished metal, not glass. I couldn't help noticing that Queen Eleanor (Hepburn) looked into a mirror that seemingly may have been bought at K-Mart. Yes, let's do a historical piece in the Middle Ages. What, we need a mirror? Go get one from K-Mart. A mirror is a mirror. Yes, let's be accurate&#133;&#133;..if we can. Special note this may have been Timothy Dalton's first movie. You remember him as one of the James Bonds?When you make a movie based upon a play, you should do everything in your power to not make it talky, talky, talky and that is what we have here. Gets to be annoying. This could have been better. Violence Yes, Sex No, Nudity No, Language No, well some soft stuff. Hey, this was 1968. "},{"Title":"like watching an episode of Mama's Family","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is very well made and the acting is excellent. It concerns the lives of Henry II, his strong-willed wife (Eleanor) and their three surviving overly-ambitious sons.The problem I have with this well-respected film is that although it is a relatively faithful to true life account of this family, the level of dysfunction is so high it just turned me off completely. It was sort of like watching an episode of Mama's Family or maybe even Jerry Springer. Many people will forgive this or even be attracted to this, but I felt like turning the movie off again and again. Watching people savage each other just isn't my cup of tea. In fact, EVERY member of this family was about as unlikable as they could possibly be and I wanted all of them to just go away! FYI--Think of how it must have been to have been English in the 12th and 13th centuries and have to put up with them! Henry II--one of the most ambitious and amoral kings ever, Richard the Lionhearted who loved fighting and massacring in the Crusades but could care less about ruling, and John I who was so disliked and miscalculated so badly during his reign (with the barons and the Pope) that no other English king has been named John since!Extremely well done...but also rather awful. I can respect the fine acting and lovely sets...but that just isn't enough for me. "},{"Title":"Atrocious!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" By far the worst part of this mess is the writing - the LANGUAGE, for gawds sake - EMBARRASSING. Pure 1960s post-playboy sexual liberation titillation. Eleanor of Aquitaine declaiming about sex in history. Right! Then there's the heavy-handed scenery-chewing scream to the rafters ham acting. Don't know who's the worst here, O'Toole bull-bellowing or Hepburn as the aging cocktail party diva (all she needed was a cigarette holder, my deah.Even the makeup was hideous, especially Kate's, so mid-20th century garish, but then it always was in 1960s wide-screen pageants.Whatever else this monstrosity is it is the very opposite of Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Dysfunctional family comes home for the holidays...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Except that instead of arguing about who'll get the biggest piece of turkey, this family argues about succession to the throne of England--up for grabs by three vicious, double-dealing sons who do nothing but squabble incessantly for over two hours. This, plus the fact that all the squabbling is done in archaic English (it takes place in 1183 so modern prose is out of the question), is fair warning that unless you're a history buff, this is not the film for you.I myself remained pretty detached throughout, wondering why on earth KATHARINE HEPBURN received an Oscar for playing Eleanor of Aquitaine who had a few clever one-liners but mostly delivered all of her lines with either brutal sarcasm or silky sweetness and had little else to work with in the way of character development.Nor was I overwhelmed by PETER O'TOOLE as Henry II, unhappy with his wife and his sons and arguing with them from the moment the festivities begin. It's rather taxing to have to witness all of this unsettling talk for well over two hours with the net result that nothing is settled by the end of the story. In fact, there is a distinct letdown to the ending which has Eleanor returning (on some sort of barge) to her domain elsewhere. Presumably she found something better to do for the next Christmas season.All the fuss over this talky stage piece and the acclaim for Hepburn and O'Toole seems overdone when you actually view the film today. ANTHONY HOPKINS and TIMOTHY DALTON do acceptable jobs as two of the obnoxious sons but in this reviewer's opinion it's an historical epic that has been largely overpraised and overvalued for years. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Here is my summary of the plot of The Lion in Wintertalk-talk-talk yell-yell-yell talk-talk-talk yell-yell-yell.... ad infinitumAfter about an half-hour of that, I started wondering if anything else was going to happen. After about an hour, I knew there wasn't going to be. After a little more than 2 hours, I was not surprised to find that I was right.Really what's the attraction to this piece? One minute the characters are spouting one line and the next minute they disavow what they previously said. One minute they threaten action and the next minute they back away from it. Okay, I get it character study; but I would hope that even character study goes somewhere. After that first hour I ceased to care about any of the characters. There's a line that summarizes one great stumbling block for fiction If anything can happen, who cares what happens?. Well, with respect to TLIW, if the characters can (and do) say anything, who cares what they say? Even if they say it so well? "},{"Title":"Dreary tale of court intrigue with profanity laced dialogue","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Having heard such rave reviews for years about this marvelous tale of medieval court intrigue, I held great expectations...only to have them dashed. The movie portrays the assorted plotting and deception at the 1183 Christmas court arranged by the aging English King Henry II at his castle in Chinon, Anjou (located in present day France). Other notable personages at the court include Henry's estranged wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, their three sons (Richard, Geoffrey, and John), the young & inexperienced but cunning King Philip of France, and Philip's sister, Princess Alais, who is also Henry's mistress though promised as a wife to one of Henry's sons. For years Henry has kept the scheming Eleanor imprisoned in a tower, because of the disquieting tendency she exhibited to plot civil wars against her husband. The question at this court revolves around the royal succession, with all three sons vying openly and not very charmingly for the crown. Henry prefers his youngest son, John, as his heir, while Eleanor champions Richard as the future King. (Their oldest son, Henry, died earlier.) Suffice it to say, not one of these sons would make a parent proud. Richard, Mummy's favourite, is a courageous though brutal and inwardly tortured warrior. Geoffrey, the neglected middle son, is treacherous and conniving. John, Henry's pet, is puny, pathetic, dirty, and drooling. The film does have an intriguing premise, though the events of this Christmas court never transpired historically. However, before the movie was half finished, I grew bored of all the repetitive skulduggery and intrigue. Frankly, much of it comes across as ridiculous. For example, the scene in which Henry and Philip are conspiring, with the three princes concealed behind two sets of curtains, appears the essence of absurdity...a scenario that a middle school student might have concocted. Throughout the movie, the truth is seldom spoken, with various deals made to trade the kingly inheritance for marriage to Alais or rights to Aquitaine...false deals made and then broken. After the first two or three of these, the double dealing grew predictable, repetitive, and tedious. The film does portray, I admit, the lingering underlying affection between Henry and his Queen, despite all their bickering and scheming. I suspect that this is intended to be the entire point of the movie. The jealousy of the aging Eleanor toward the lovely young Alais (to whom she had served as surrogate mother) failed to elicit much sympathy from me, even when she rather bizarrely insisted upon watching the pair kiss.Admittedly, the movie has a few merits. There is indeed a moving scene in which Henry is walking along the castle ramparts, totally distraught and having basically disinherited his three sons, the sorry lot of them. The acting is stellar with Peter O'Toole as Henry, Katharine Hepburn as Eleanor, Anthony Hopkins as Richard, and Timothy Dalton as the French King. Also, my compliments to the medieval castle setting and the musical scoring, especially during the scene depicting the arrival of Eleanor's barge.Many applaud the dialogue in this movie, but I found it far too laced with anti religion profanity. There is indeed some clever and witty banter especially between Henry and Eleanor, but also considerably less brilliant comments such as 'Piss on your peace'. Also, I consider flippant remarks about carpenters' resurrections downright sacrilegious. If the film is intended to be Shakespearean, I can only comment that the Bard managed to convey both humour and intense emotion quite remarkably with language considerably less profane. I believe this film to be vastly over rated and in fact dull viewing. Also, there isn't much historical enlightenment, although at least it has encouraged me to perhaps watch Peter O'Toole's earlier film, Beckett, and investigate a little more fully for myself the actual details on some of these figures' lives. "}{"Title":"Sorry but... lol?","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is the perfect example for a movie I saw from a completely different point of view than everyone else. OMG I just couldn't stop laughing, tears were running from my eyes. Seriousely, I thought that was so crazy... They just can't make up their minds! I especially wondered how some people go nuts and others pretend not to notice it! But everyone else can watch this just like any other serious movie without thinking it's funny or should be funny, that is kind of weird.Well as far as I remember I returned to normal about half an hour after the Lion in Winter ended. ;)However, since many scenes appeared rather dumb, the movie was supposed to be serious and most people can't laugh about it I'm not submitting a good vote on this one. "}]