[{"Title":"9/10","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"27 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A movie like this can be viewed in two main ways a human example of a scientific study (with on screen replications of the study, and a moral conclusion); or a lesson in learning for the participants (the wild child will learn how to spell his adopted name; his teacher -- and we the audience -- will learn how to feel!). Truffaut kind of merges both into something of unique value. It feels a little removed, and it becomes clear that that's to prevent sentimentality. It's unsentimental, but Truffaut is a quiet master; as is the case with David Lynch's The Elephant Man, his auteur sensibilities shine through the story so that it fits in neatly with his catalogue -- here we have another film with a naked boy's bum, and young children being goofy and walking in packs. What the film is is an intense magnification of the troubles of child-rearing, emphasized twofold by Truffaut's role in the film he is the mother giving birth to the film; and he is the father raising this wild child within the film; good-natured, but without the inherent understanding of the boy that his housekeeper has (and without the inherent understanding Truffaut the director has of cinema).Is it possible to feel bad watching a Truffaut film? And even better than making you feel good, he's not being sneaky about it -- instead of crass manipulation (and what kind of film could be more easily made manipulative than a one about boy left to survive in a forest and how he learns to be human?), he imbues each frame with soft, gentle love; so instead of jerking our emotions around via contrivance of the characters, he trusts us enough -- and his own talent enough -- to allow us to latch on to feeling his respect and love for cinema itself. (And he wisely keeps the film in mostly medium shots.) Nothing is really highlighted, but occasionally a particular image will be so fine that it's hard not to notice it, like the one where the camera is raised above Victor as he slouches back to his room after being told he can't accompany Truffaut to the doctor. (Or the sly visual gag where Truffaut is teaching Victor letters with the boy's fingers, and he manages to basically flip the audience the bird -- then has Truffaut swat his fingers with a cane.)Truffaut isn't interested in the kind of acting displays that normally accompany this kind of film; the acting is subdued and realistic (but then again, how would we ever know how a wild child would act?). The boy is limited to acting without words, and it's a very good performance whether he's grinning wildly in a bath or swaying back and forth or opening his mouth as wide as it can go in an act of effrontery, it's a performance that refuses to indicate how we should feel. There are some scenes that portray confusion so well but don't rub our noses in it, like the one where he's trying his hardest to follow instructions and eat his soup properly, but can't help himself and sticks his face in the bowl. After Victor makes a craft and impresses Truffaut with it, Truffaut writes in his ongoing journal how joyful he is but to forgive his enthusiasm over such a small triumph -- that's the best way to describe how the film feels a series of small triumphs of gentle subtlety. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Truffaut's most touching film","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  L'Enfant sauvage, Dir François Truffaut &#150; 1969Reviewed by Ollie &#150; December 19th 2003Three hunters discover and a naked child, living in a forest. Capturing him, he is taken to an institute for deaf and mute children. From there he is used as little more than an exhibit.Having read of his story, Jean Itard, a Parisian doctor, played by Truffaut himself, makes it his goal to integrate this `wild child' into society. What follows is an astonishing tale of a boy, completely deprived of all human contact, as he adapt to life in an unfamiliar, structured society. Named simply `Victor' by Dr Itard, we watch as kindly doctor attempts to educate and communicate with this unusual child.  We see Victor's first smiles; we hear his first intelligible sounds, and witness, for the first time, his tears.This is a deeply powerful film, directed brilliantly by Truffaut, and far surpassing his earlier, and much more critically acclaimed `400 Blows'.  Jean-Pierre Cargol plays Victor with a remarkable passion, and is absolutely convincing as this child of the forest. His mannerisms, his posture, his very presence would have one believing he genuinely was a `wild child'.Truffaut follows this story with startling accuracy &#150; based on the real life journals of Dr Itard, his adaptation is faithful to the last. His portrayal of the Doctor is filled with compassion, and a tenderness rarely seen in films.This is genuine pleasure to watch, and is a testament to enduring spirit of mankind. The main criticism I have is the abrupt ending. We are left with so many unanswered questions. In truth, the real `Victor' died approximately 28 years after his first encounter with Itard.  I know little of what happened during the time span between the end of the film and his death, but I intend to find out. This film is only a glance at a boy being introduced to a strange, frightening and unfamiliar world.It is not without its moments of humour. The scene where Victor practically throws the doctor tending to Itard from the house is both funny and charming, while remaining delicately underplayed.Everything about this film works so well, from the minimalist photography to the classical score. The casting could not have been better. Truffaut presents himself as not only an accomplished director, but also as an inspired actor. Jean-Pierre Cargol is utterly believable, and thoroughly likeable as Victor, and mention must go to Françoise Seigner, as Madame Geurin, Itard's housekeeper, and the child's carer.This is a very special film, which deserves a great deal of respect. The visual transfer to DVD is accurate and crisp, and the mono soundtrack subtle, clear and effective. This is one DVD which would have greatly benefited from some extras. Perhaps some insight into Victors' life from adolescence to his death, and some information on what became of Itard. Lack of extras notwithstanding, this should still be very high on anyone's shopping list, and is highly recommended. I believe this was Truffauts' crowning achievement, and is a truly beautiful and inspiring film.Reviewed by Ollie  "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everything about this movie is great. The acting is done perfectly, particularly Victor. This child has the ability to evoke every primal human emotion without doing anything but making sounds and using facial expressions. Perhaps only a child could be capable of doing this but I doubt any child could do it as well. We feel sympathy for him and want to care for him ourselves at the same time that we are anxious about the deep mystery he forces us to recognize. The scene when he is rocking under the full moon, and the look on his face as the movie ends, are brilliant and frightening. The fact that this actor, to my knowledge, has done nothing since, adds to the effect. Where did he go? Might he have been more in touch with this side of humanity than just as an actor? Just incredible. And Truffault's direction was perfect as well. Filmed in a minimalist style and cleverly utilizing early film techniques, he evokes a time period yet allows no distraction from the actual issues involved in the story. The viewer is forced to pay attention and forced to deal with the issues confronting the doctor and his relationship with the boy. I cannot recommend this highly enough.   "},{"Title":"A true story","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This austere ,black and white movie might be Truffaut's peak.Recalling sometimes,in its spirit,Penn's miracle worker,the work suffuses with humanism,belief in dignity of man .The child ,for Truffaut,is a frail human being,who needs (and deserves ) education.Hence,some critics called wild child the positive side of the 400 blows.Perhaps so,but ,in my humble opinion,the 1969 effort is much stronger than the rather academic first attempt.Following Doctor Itard's report with absolute fidelity,and portraying him with gusto,Truffaut is a much better actor here than he 's in Spielberg's close encounters.The production is pared down to the essential,using old-fashioned techniques,recalling silent movies.I do not think,like M.Maltin,that it loses steam half-way through.On the contrary,the most important scene in the whole movie comes in the last thirdVictor,the wild child ,unfairly punished,rebels.He can see the difference between good and bad.Might it be possible that moral conscience should be innate? Does society,as Rousseau believed it pervert man? At the beginning of the movie,remember how cruel was our civilized populace to the different child showed in public,like a queer animal,to make dough. All teachers in the world should see this masterpiece.NBIn France,in primary school,a lot of pupils read Victor's story. "},{"Title":"Does it really contrast socialization with instinct?","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is well made with good performances by Victor the wild child as well as Truffaut as his doctor and father figure.Truffaut's main concern is studying what humans really are when you strip away the socialization process. Do we have morals? Language abilities? Compassion? This was also the main question for Dr. Itard who raised the boy after he was found.However, the legitimacy of the wild child is called into question early in the film. Is Victor a normal human child or was there something abnormal about him that caused his family to abandon him? If he was abnormal to begin with, then we really can't conclude anything about what humanity would be like without the socialization process.Reading through Dr. Itard's notes, many have concluded that Victor was an autistic child. His parents probably found him uncontrollable and abandoned him in the woods. So while Dr. Itard believed he was seeing the results of a normal boy with no socialization, he was probably seeing the results of a normal autistic child.Despite this problem, the film is still interesting to watch but it ends up raising more questions than it answers. "},{"Title":"Truffaut asks the question through a dramatic narrative- can humanity be brought out through science?","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Wild Child could be the kind of movie that doesn't work. In a way it's hard to find what the dramatic conflict of the film would be if not for the push & pull struggle between the scientists and his 'test' subject of sorts, Victor, the wild child of the title. But somehow it does- Truffaut laces the film with a kind of undertone of logic for the audience (how can a boy for most of his life be out in the wild and become suddenly domesticated), while making a sort of nature versus society statement. The film also has the director's trademark lightness, which helps to not make the film's subject matter too bleak or disparaging. For it could be- Truffaut actually gives a kind of suspense to the narrative at times, that just when you think Victor is on his way to success, he stumbles and starts to act out on the floor or escape into the wild for a breather. It's a very curious film, not just because Truffaut (in one of his few times) gives himself the starring role, but also that the child- like Makim Munzak in Kurosawa's Dersu Uzala- had his only significant role ever in the film. And it's quite the seemingly impulsive, and always alive, performance that filmmaker's rarely get out of children.Victor is named this only halfway through the film, and it starts off with him being chased by a small mob and their dogs through the woods. It's maybe the most exciting part of the film, but then this segways into the early stages of the boy's troubles. He's placed in a deaf and dumb school, beat up by the other kids, and still with the passions and intelligence that the woods have given him. It becomes a fascination in the story of what the limits, if any, are for him to learn everything real boys do. Once he's put into Dr. Itard's (Truffaut) care, then the film sets off onto a very direct path- how will he learn, will he, and how long will it it take? As with his other films, the literary aspect kicks in as the scientist takes repeated notes on the boy, using a kind of pre-Darwinian way of scientific methods. But it's within the little moments in the film, like when Victor is out on his walks, or makes his little successes, where Truffaut as a filmmaker picks up the best parts of the film.This could be a very routine picture, and for some it may actually be a little dull and disheartening. Will the boy ever learn? The film actually does raise questions within its format, as it is based on a true case (from taking science classes I know there are also others of this kind as well). It brings to mind about what is pure and delicate about the ways of an animal and what separates them and humans. Each little test becomes dramatic conflict in the structure Truffaut puts forth, and in a way it's rather experimental. And it even becomes delightful in certain scenes, like when he first learns how to ask for milk, and then this expands. This, along with a sweet Vivaldi score in the background, and interesting visuals (love the iris usage), makes it a worthwhile entry in Truffaut's oeuvre. Not one of his absolute best, but up there. "},{"Title":"Well done but a bit misleading","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For those unfamiliar with the history of the wild boy of Aveyron, this film will be intriguing and informative. It follows the known facts of Victor's life closely, but does not reveal, even in an epilogue, that its terminus represents about the furthest that Victor ever progressed. In fact, Dr. Itard, who adopted the boy and attempted to educate and civilise him, abandoned the project soon afterward, and Victor died at about age 40 in a public institution. Whether or not it would have been better to allow him his nasty, brutal and short -- but free -- life in the wild presents a genuine moral dilemma.. Both Francois Truffaut's direction and the cinematography of Nestor Amendros are stark, and emphasize the paradox of intellectual riches and emotional poverty said to have been the lot of bourgeois children in the eighteenth century. "},{"Title":"A Victory for Truffaut","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An absolutely enthralling film, based on the true story of a real-life boy Tarzan. Discovered in a French Aveyron forest, in the late 1700s, The Wild Child was considered to be a deaf and dumb savage. But, young doctor Jean Itard (played by director Francois Truffaut) believes he can civilize the child. With tentative permission from the child's guardian Institute for the Deaf and Dumb, Dr. Itard takes the savage boy into his home. Itard becomes the child's teacher and, ultimately, surrogate parent. Housekeeper Françoise Seigner adds some expert motherly affection. Itard symbolically names the boy Victor due to his preference for the ending O sound.Director/writer/co-star Truffaut's L' Infant sauvage is a minor masterpiece. It's beautifully photographed (by Nestor Almendros), thought-provoking, and emotionally captivating. The ending events are, in fact, an emotional roller-coaster. Truffaut elicits a tremendous performance from Jean-Pierre Cargol as the savage young Victor. A great film for parents, teachers, and children (which means, of course, everyone). ********* L' Infant sauvage (2/26/70) François Truffaut ~ Jean-Pierre Cargol, François Truffaut, Françoise Seigner, Jean Dasté "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If it weren't for several other strong works from Truffaut, this one would be my favorite. And it somes ways it is my favorite. The interaction between Victor and Dr. Itard was splendidly done. It was a joy simply to watch Truffaut on- screen directing the boy's progress, much like he must have done off-screen to get some very human reactions. At no point during this film did I think a scene was overdone or unnatural. It just seemed to flow from one small triumph to the next. My only complaint was that the whole experiment ended abrubtly, and so too did the movie. We are told by Dr. Itard that Victor is a extraordinary boy, but he has much training left to master. There were many points along the way where doubt lingered as to whether the wild child could be fully trained at all until the final scene. There we learn that Victor has a new home.This movie was based on a true event which took place in the late 1700s. Unfortunately for the audience, the most pressing question of what became of Victor in his adult life is left unanswered. But fans of Francois Truffaut will find him even more engaging than in his role of Claude Lacombe in Close Encounters of the Third Kind. The roles are similar in many ways. If Lacombe could have taken home the child-like aliens to instruct, I'm sure he would have been much like Dr. Itard. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Francois Truffault's Film","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Provocative, engaging, and moving, this movie is an absolute wonder - elegant, artful, with breathtaking use of Vivaldi's music, with amazing performance form Jeanne-Pierre Cargol as a Wild Child of the title, the young boy who was found living in the forest outside a village in 1790th France. Based on the book of the physician Itard (played by Francois Truffault) who took the boy in and tried to teach him how to live among humans. The contrast between the narrator's (Itard's) passionless voice and his growing emotional attachment to the boy is heartbreaking.The Wild Child is my favorite Truffault's film - I think it is much stronger than his more popular 400 Blows. Highly recommended "}{"Title":"It is quite similar to Kaspar Hauser and Elephant Man","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French director François Truffaut always had a penchant for stories made for children.He has converted many brilliant stories about innocent children into wonderful films where children have been shown as people with their own psychological problems.L'Infant Sauvage is a different film for children.It must be hailed as a victorious effort for Truffaut.It is one of those rare films which gives full opportunity to its actors to succeed well in order to reveal the truth regarding inexplicable social phenomenon.It is a nice thing that through such a bold film Truffaut has decided to tackle obscurantism which was very much prevalent in the past.For those who have seen Kaspar Hauser directed by Werner Herzog,it is quite natural that certain comparisons would surely be made.However,it must however be kept in mind that although both of these films dealt with almost the same topic historical topic,their treatment is different from one another.It is because of Jean Pierre Cargol that L'Enfant Sauvage appears to be a purely,authentic tale of how a country doctor restored the dignity of a human being. "},{"Title":"Jennie's Second Movie Review","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The child, later named Victor, who is found living in the woods in France is very much in a state of nature according to Hobbes and Rousseau. Hobbes viewed the state of nature as people living savage lives that consisted of competition for necessities such as food and shelter. Victor probably lived a life in this fashion due to the scars he had on his body. He probably competed with animals for food and had to fight them for his own protection. In Hobbes' moral theory, he states that men are directed by their appetites and aversions to judge what is good or evil. They basically act on impulse. Victor did not have any concept of how to treat another human being. He kicked and hit other people when they would try to get near him.It could be argued that Victor was not treated morally as a human being because he was placed in an institution as a show animal for the media. One of the researchers ended up taking Victor to his home where he established a relationship with him, and tried to educate him. At one point, to determine if Victor understands morality, the researcher wrongly punishes him after he completes a task successfully. Victor fought back and the researcher realized he understood right from wrong.Rousseau believed men in the state of nature to be animals with reasoning. As the human learns more, they will desire more. Man is drawn out of the first state of nature which causes him to lose innocence of not entirely knowing good and evil. This theory could be applied to Victor because he learned what is acceptable and what is not because of the researcher's teaching. Rousseau feels that in the state of nature there is a type of tranquility because you are innocent of right and wrong since you have never been taught morals. Humanity will never be able to return to this state according to Rousseau because they now know too much to return to the simple living in the state of nature. However, Victor did not fully learn to communicate and only learned to speak the word milk in French. Towards the end of the movie, Victor runs away from home only to return. Even though Victor did not completely master communication, he learned enough to know that he would not enjoy returning to the solitude and survival mode he once lived in. "},{"Title":"morality in wild child","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the movie Wild Child, a savage boy is found in the woods is France, giving doctors an opportunity to observe him in what Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Thomas Hobbes describe as the state of nature. The boy is later named Victor, and has spent his entire life up until the point of capture surviving independently in the wilderness, gathering food and finding shelter without any interactions with humans. When he is thrown into a world where he must constantly come in contact with people, and learn to act how those around him act, the question Was it moral to remove the child from his own environment and force him to change his every behavior? can be asked. As Victor spent more time with the doctor that he lived with, he was taught table manners, how to ask for food, and how to begins to speak and recognize objects/words. Are these abilities that one can forget? When Victor escapes at the end of the movie, does he return because he has established a relationship and emotions towards those whom he lives with, or because he realizes he can no longer return to his state of nature and survive? This brings up the age-old debate over nature verse nurture; Just how influenced are we by the society around us? And are those who are less affected/less civilized than other less moral? Victor was not fully able to learn to speak, showing he was incapable of leaning some things in the time period he was with the doctor, so was he incapable of being a totally moral human being? Or was he human at all? "},{"Title":"A scientific vessel?","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Once in a while, one stumbles upon a cinematic work whose presence refuses to fade within you, even after its end credits have served their purpose of bringing one back to the same carefree state of mind as one enjoyed prior to seeing the movie. If scenes from the movie still turn up in your head on a daily basis weeks afterward, and these make you ask new questions each time, I think it may very well belong in that rare category. To me, François Truffaut's L'Infant SAUVAGE (THE WILD CHILD) has provided such an experience. The story is set in the late 1700s, covering the story of one Dr. Itard who is trying to raise and educate a child (eventually named Victor) who is thought to have been living with wild animals for his entire life.The film may appear to be be quite conventionally assembled, relying as it does on a narrator's voice throughout and following a strictly accessible structure. However, Traffaut's alert use of camera-angles, as well as the beautiful cinematography, often contributes considerably to certain points made in the story, though one may not even realize this at first. For instance, in one of the scenes depicting Dr. Itard's attempts at learning some of the obligatory knowledge of civilized society to Victor, we are positioned from the outside of Itard's house, granted a viewpoint through an open (but still distancing) window. It is a simple effect, but makes us quietly conscious of the fact that we, like Itard, are observing another person's state of mind (that of the wild child) which we can never expect to understand, and for that reason should probably be resistant of forcing upon our own world-view.Of at least equal merit as the direction are the performances; Traffaut himself is very convincing as the firm but, it must be assumed, not ill-intentioned Itard, while young Jean-Pierre Cargol strikes me as so unbelievably believable as Victor that it is aching to witness at times. Though superficially most viewers probably identify themselves with Itard's point of view, I believe anyone who's been a child would find it hard not to somehow connect the confusion Victor seems to suffer with some instance of confusion oneself may have experienced in childhood, no matter how mild that case of confusion may appear compared to what Victor goes through. At the same time, it is worth noting that it is not, necessarily, Victor who is most puzzled; Dr. Itard seems equally bewildered as to how to cope with Victor's state of mind, as the other way around. Victor's understanding of the world is not necessarily wrong; certainly not from his own point of view.Though generally said to be based on truth, it has been noted that THE WILD CHILD does not quite follow the story as written down by the actual Itard. For one thing, Itard was in fact still a student when he took it upon him to take care of Victor, and not an educated physician, and it has in later years been heavily doubted if Victor actually was brought up by wolves (wolves taking care of another species seems very improbable in itself, and even if it did occur, Victor would hardly have survived ten years in the woods under such circumstances; furthermore, Victor reportedly wore some clothing when found, if only barely). However, more interesting than how much of what we see presented here is indisputable truth, I think, is how the film raises its questions and dilemmas. Itard needed to be portrayed as an educated physician for the sake of symbolic effect, and whether or not Victor was raised by wild animals, it still remains a fact that he understood the world vastly different than most human beings, and was discovered at a time when it was not considered an inevitable alternative to give him a diagnosis (a strong case of autism has later been suggested).Was it right to bring Victor into the civilized world, though one assumed him to have lived by the laws of the animal kingdom for most of his life? Granted, this question is perhaps not so interesting to discuss from an ethical standpoint. After all, any reasonably empathic human being who found a naked, seemingly abandoned child in the dark woods would instantly conclude that s/he should be brought to authorities of the civilized world to be taken care of, irrelevant of whether such an act would deprive the child of the existence which s/he had come to view as normal due to his/her unusual circumstances. However, one question worthy of discussion, perhaps, is whether the intentions behind the attempts of civilizing Victor were sufficiently justifiable?At the time Victor was found, in the late 18th century, still during the era of the French revolution, parts of France suffered from poverty and uncertain prospects, with families starving on the streets in the larger cities; these were merely unfortunate ones. At the same time, Victor from the woods was granted entrance into upper middle-class existence and its comforts, and on what condition? That he could prove a valuable vessel to scientific experiments? If so, the gradual development of Victor's emotional life is particularly tragic, because though he learns to cry, he is not able to handle emotions that reach beyond his natural instincts from a rational perspective. If it was right to force civilization upon Victor, it was arguably done on the wrong basis.Anyhow, these are just some of the questions I found myself asking. You may also watch the film for its fine performances and cinematography; THE WILD CHILD can be enjoyed on several levels. "},{"Title":"Another good film by François Truffaut","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'The 400 Blows', directed but not starred by François Truffaut, is a good film. 'The Wild Child' is directed and starred by Truffaut and is another good movie by him.This film is realistic because it's based on the real case of a wild child. It happened in Southern France in late 18th century (1798) and this wild child was found living and acting like a wild animal, as a result of having been abandoned very early. He seems fierce but it's not his fault. This doctor gets interested on him and attempts to educate him... which is a very challenging task, one that requires time and the patience of a saint, as well as nerves of steel.It's an interesting and well-done film. Quality stuff. Had it been longer and it could have been more informative. In fact, it is a little uninformative when it comes to the wild child. There are a cup of questions about him that could (and should) have been answered.Truffaut is excellent as the doctor. Jean-Pierre Cargol resembles a gypsy tyke, his performance as the wild child is magnificent.Despite the seriousness, the movie displays a tenderness quality to it and Vivaldi's soundtrack gives it more of an emotional feeling.François Truffaut's cinema is interesting. It may sound a little strange to say this but 'The Wild Child' is an unusual film even for Truffaut and yet it is the kind of movie that could only have been made by him. Not sure if it makes sense to say this, but that's how I feel.This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Simple, touching and based on a true story","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best foreign films and one of François Truffaut's best. Like 'The 400 Blows', it was directed by Truffaut, but unlike that one, he enters as an actor on this one.Despite the movie's title and the wild child in common, it isn't related to the legendary story of 'The Jungle Book' or the wild child Mowgli. It's no remake or live-action adaptation of that. It's in a class of its own. Besides, it's based on a real story that happened in 1798. And despite the stylish colored cover, it is actually in black and white.The 1st time I saw this film was when I was at high school. A teacher of mine brought us the movie to watch it. At the time I found it very interesting, although I wasn't really at the right age to appreciate more mature films, unlike now.This is the touching story of a child who is found in a forest living and acting like a wild animal and can't talk, read, write or understand any sort of language. This because the child was abandoned at an early age in the forest, having spent many years in loneliness and without any contact with humans.When he is found and brought to an institution for deaf-mutes, a doctor shows interest in the boy and takes him to his home. There, the doctor and his housekeeper attempt to socialize and humanize the boy (who is later named Victor, as the boy immediately reacted to that name, as if he liked it).Of course, nobody can or should expect miracles. Naturally, to socialize a child who spent so many years completely isolated from his own kind and society is everything except easy. These things take time and require the patience of a saint. Despite the notorious and relatively fast progresses considering his situation, Victor's wild instincts don't totally disappear. It's not his fault, though. He never manages to learn to talk, aside from the word lait (milk in french). But he learns to develop and demonstrate emotions and feelings.A good film. Also short. I think it could have been longer, for I feel it ends all of a sudden. It could have shown more of Victor's fate.Jean-Pierre Cargol is superb as the wild child. We do feel for him. He really seems to be a wild child, so realistic and believable is his acting. François Truffaut is equally superb as the doctor and so is Françoise Seigner as the doctor's housekeeper.The film is notorious for its emotional plot and Jean-Pierre Cargol's superb acting, but also for its use of Antoni Vivaldi's classical music during numerous scenes (this same music is also used in the 1979 film 'Kramer vs Kramer').Title in Portugal 'O Menino Selvagem'. "},{"Title":"François Truffaut's very beautiful film with Truffaut it is still better","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Has the end of the 18-th century, a Parisian doctor tries to educate a wild child, arrested in the forest where from he had never gone out. Being inspired by authentic facts, François Truffaut signs a fascinating work. Deeply moving.  "},{"Title":"Powerful film","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Really love the Vivaldi music in the movie. We first see how this boy lives his life in the woods and how he was captured. It was 1798 the boy was first spotted in the Caune woods at the age of 10 while looking for food. He was captured by two woodsmen, bound then brought to the village (LaCaune) and was displayed in the village square near the ancient fountain. Villagers were curious about him (this was something new)-this was during the time the Revoloutinary War ended and some years after the king and queen themselves were executed. He escaped and went back to the woods then was captured a year later by three hunters and their dogs when he was around 11-he was taken in by an old widow, which he stayed with almost a week-then escaped back to the mountains (wearing only a tattered shirt). He was first spotted in St. Sernin in a field in January 1800. He was first spotted by a tanner, then taken in by a Commissioner of St. Sernin (whom he stayed with about two or three days) then taken to an orphanage in Saint Affrique (which he stayed about a month) then taken to Rodez. It was true according to the film during his capture he tried to escape in fields but was eventually caught, when he was captured in the village of LaCaune and brought to the Central School of Rodez, children did tease him. He was locked up after attempting to escape in Rodez. He did have a man who always treated him kindly in Rodez. Victor was examined in Paris (he was first examined in Rodez)-the scars on his body really made philosophers and scientist believe he could've fought animals to survive. The scar on his neck was a sign that someone tried to kill him and leave him for dead in the woods. Itard did believe the wound healed miraculously. Victor was first mistaken as deaf because of him not reacting to certain sounds. He was displayed during the time he was in the Deaf-Mute institute-he was bullied by the students. He was believed to be an incurable idiot which didn't occur in Itard's case. Victor did have hot baths, walks and his own room. Victor did learn the alphabet, sorting things, wearing clothes and to open cupboard doors. Even if a child didn't have language or never will-it's possible they can still have good skills. Many autistics (even mute) do have good skills-if only they weren't treated like mentally retarded. So inspiring and attractive was the character was. Even his feral-like behavior and autistic behavior looked attractive. "},{"Title":"A remarkable film","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on a real-life case study at the beginning of the 19th century, The Wild Child is spiritually in line with François Truffaut's other films about childhood.Truffaut himself plays a doctor who takes on the challenge of Victor, a nonverbal wild boy found abandoned in the woods.He brings the boy to his own home, hoping to establish a communication base with kindness and compassion.Austere and simple The Wild Child is a two-character film. This is why Truffaut decided to cast himself for the role of the doctor. As he explained in a 1970 interview It seemed to me that the essential job in this film was not to manage the action but to concern oneself with the child. I therefore wanted to play the role of Dr. Itard myself in order to deal with him myself and thus avoid going through an intermediary. Admittedly, Truffaut's performance is not the film's strongest suit compared to Cargol who plays Victor, or its luminous black-and-white cinematography and scrupulous period detail. However, in retrospect Truffaut was probably correct in his intuition that he needed to play the doctor in order to elicit the best performance from Cargol. "},{"Title":"This review deal with moral dilemmas found in The Wild Child","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" L'Infant Sauvage, or The Wild Child, is the story of a young boy found in the woods in the 18th century and a French doctor's attempt to introduce him to civilization. The wild boy, later named Victor, was in what the philosophers Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau would call one's state of nature. The boy was abandoned in the woods for around 8 years or so and grew up without any form of socialization, therefore no societal boundaries, or chains, as Rousseau would speak of. The boy originally lived in a state of nature where he had free will and lived by the motivating factor of self- preservation. When he was taken from his environment and brought to Dr.Itard, it was as if he joined (unwillingly) a Hobbesian society where all his rights were taken away but he was offered protection. The main things Dr. Itard wished to study were what kind of qualities the boy possessed without society's influence, such as compassion, sense of language, and ability to judge justice (or right from wrong). The boy had mostly animalistic instincts such as the ability to return to where he knew he would be provided food, such as after his one attempt to run away. These instincts also showed during his lessons and observations with Dr.Itard, he seemed more keen on memorization of something rather than actually learning it. It was however tested if the boy new the idea of justice when Dr.Itard punished him for something he did not do incorrectly and victor did seem to question why this was being done. Overall the boy was not successful in ever talking though he did seem to become accustomed to human ways such as wearing clothes. The question still lingers in the film if it was right to force our civilized lifestyle upon him or is a good life one that is lived with accordance to happiness and therefore humans brought Victor or the Wild Boy out of this state. "}{"Title":"Human Nature","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie brings up important philosophical questions about human nature. How much of our self comes from our culture and society? Thomas Hobbes, Jean Jacque Rousseau and John Locke made important contributions to the idea of our nature; however, theirs were simply thought experiments. They had no basis in fact of experiments. Much is left unanswered by their explanations. This movie manages to shed some light on this complicated issue. The boy does return to society in the end, but why? Was it because he was unable to fend for himself anymore? Or did he develop a human connection with the doctor? The boy never learned how to speak, giving us a defined window in which language acquisition occurs. Does his lack of formal ability to communicate mean he is less than us? Less civilized or less moral? Ultimately this movie causes you to question what exactly makes us human. How much of ourselves is pliable and defined simply by where we're born and who our parents are. There are many reports of other wild children just like Victor. Clearly our nature is much more changeable than many in our society would be comfortable admitting. While none of these questions are answered to a satisfactory standard we must still ponder these questions and how we define ourselves not only as individuals but also our society and our relationship to it, as well as our culture. Overall I highly recommend this movie. The cinematography was outstanding as well. "},{"Title":"L'Infant Sauvage with Rousseau and Hobbes","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Wild Child is a true story about a young boy who was found in the woods in France in the 1700s and was taken captive into society. Victor, as the child was later named, spent the majority of his life in the woods alone fending for himself. He had neither human contact nor any socialization with other beings except the animals who roamed the forest with him. While Victor was living thus in the state of nature, he foraged for wild berries and nuts to live off of, and he had never eaten meat. He has many scars on his little naked body which show he has learned how to protect himself and how to survive with no assistance whatsoever. After Victor was caught, he was taken to a school for the deaf and mute where he was essentially put on display so people could pay to gawk at him every day. One of the doctors there was intelligent enough to realize that the boy would die if left in that condition, so a Dr. Itard decides to take Victor into him home in the country and tries to civilize him.The rest of the movie is about Victor, the Dr., and Madame Guérin, the Doctor's housekeeper. The Dr. must begin Victor's education from the most basic level possible; he must teach Victor how to walk. From here the Dr. shows Victor the usefulness of clothing, teaches to him simple memory lessons, and begins to attempt to teach Victor how to speak. It is a slow going process because Dr. Itard had to start from ground zero with Victor's education. Because Victor had been without human socialization his whole life, things like water, milk, and long walks outside are great pleasures. The Dr. capitalizes on this to reward Victor when he does his lessons correctly. When Victor doesn't complete his lessons correctly, the Dr. sometimes punishes him by putting him into a closet; it was on one such occasion when Victor came back out of the closet crying. This is the first time we have seen any real human emotion in Victor and represents a turning point in his progress.This movie has marks of Hobbes' and Rousseau's theories all over it. Hobbes theory about the state of nature is that originally humans were in a state of constant warfare. Mankind had no communication skills and only cared about self-preservation. Although Victor makes wonderful progress while he is with the doctor, he never really learns how to speak and only develops an extremely basic form for communicating his wants and needs to other humans. This also coincides with Hobbes' view, he believes that it took mankind many many years to develop into the type of society we have today; just like it took Victor a very long time to even develop the capacity for human emotions such as crying. Hobbes believed that in order to have peace, each woman must give up many of her individual freedoms to the Sovereignty so that she, the Sovereignty, could control and bring peace to the people.Rousseau's view of woman's initial state is quite different; he believed that humans were in the perfect state of nature. They were peaceful creatures and only desired food, rest, and sex. The initial humans were peaceful people who had compassion and pity for others and I believe this begins to show as Victor gets to know the Doctor and Madame better. Towards the end of the film, Victor runs away into the woods and the Doctor and Madame believe he has gone back to his old life. Rousseau felt that society is what corrupted mankind in the first place and that Victor knew how much better his life was in the state of nature and desired to return there. However, Victor ended up coming back at the end. From Hobbes' perspective, Victor would have come back because he was hungry and knew he would be fed with the Dr., also that if he went back to the state of nature he would go back to being savage and in warfare again. Rousseau would have argued that Victor came back because he had developed amore proper, a love, for the Dr. and Madame and once civilized, women cannot go back to the state if nature ever again. "},{"Title":"Hobbes vs. Rousseau","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After watching L'Infant Sauvage I noticed a connection between the plot and the philosophical beliefs of Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, in particular, their respective ideas concerning the state of nature. Hobbes believed that humans in the state of nature were solitary, animalistic beings that were concerned solely on self-preservation by any means necessary. Men were equal only in their ability to kill one another, either through superior intellect or physical capabilities. In contrast, Rousseau spoke of the inherent sense of compassion and the susceptibility of humans to interact socially. In the case of Victor, the savage boy found in the woods of Aveyron, France, the theories of human development, social interactions, and primitive tendencies could be tested and observed. When Victor was originally found, he was naked and completely unaware of modern technology and the social structures of the time. He relied on his senses alone to survive and behaved in an animalistic manner. In reference to these two philosophical theories, where did Victor fall?Victor did display savage characteristics; however, he only seemed to be violent in the sense that he was defending himself, adhering to the concept of self-preservation. Dr. Itard tried relentlessly to develop Victor's comprehension and verbal reasoning skills. He attempted to teach Victor to read and to speak. Unfortunately, at the end of the movie, in my opinion, it seems as though the progress Victor made was more of memorization and less of application. He memorized letters and pictures of items and was able to distinguish them from others; however, he was never able to perform any critical thinking exercises and never got further in the stages of speech than the ability to say the word 'milk'. As far as social skills are concerned, very little compassion was seen between Victor and Dr. Itard. Victor showed emotion when he achieved certain goals and was awarded with water or milk; however, I do not believe those emotions were directed towards Dr. Itard as much as they were just results of reaping the benefits of performing a requested task. The end of the movie did not discuss Victor's later years, but ends with Dr. Itard coming to the realization that not much more could be done to educate Victor.In the end, I'm not sure if the life of Victor depicted in the film is conclusive evidence for either theories of the state of nature. Victor was not completely war-like and he didn't seem to have any compelling internal motive or a need to socialize. "},{"Title":"State of Nature","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film The Wild Child opens with a young boy around the age of twelve running around a forest in France acting as a savage. He seems to have had no true human interaction based on how he behaves. While in the forest, a woman sees him and reports to the authorities that she saw a wild child running around. The police are able to hunt him down and capture him as if he is an animal. Due to him being in the forest the majority of his life, he is not able to speak and cannot understand any type of language. They bring him to a school in Paris that is for deaf and mute children. While watching the movie, one cannot help but think about Jean- Jacques Rousseau's state of nature since he described how man before civil society acted as a savage. Rousseau described that while in this state, man was alone and had no need for language, but he only cared about his self-preservation and he had the ability to feel compassion. This form of the state of nature seems to describe how this young boy behaved. Because before civilized man captured him, he was roaming around on his own and only taking care of himself. When the wild child was brought to the school in Paris, his state of nature ended, and thus, his civilized state began. The young boy did not make much progress at school and he was subjected to a lot of bullying. Viewers may feel sad for the wild child at this point in the film because of how he is being treated. One of the school's doctors, Dr. Itard, noticed the bullying, and he decided to take the boy to the countryside so that he could focus on him. The doctor wanted to prove to everyone that the boy was not an idiot. Overtime, the wild child starts to behave more civilized than before, and Dr. Itard and the housekeeper, Madame Guérin, give him the name Victor. Similar to Rousseau's theory, Victor is not quickly progressing from being a savage to a civilized man. He eventually begins to learn words by associating them with certain objects. He even gets to the point that he does this task quite well, but his speech is still not developed. One of Victor's favorite things as a reward is milk. So, Dr. Itard takes this opportunity to teach him how to say milk when he wants some. The process is not easy, but Victor eventually does learn. During this time of teaching, Dr. Itard is similar to the absolute sovereign in Thomas Hobbes' state of nature. He decides what Victor will do based on what he considers just. Victor continues to make strides in his development as a civilized male until the day Dr. Itard is not able to take him on his walk. By not being able to go outside, Victor runs away and tries to revert back to his old savage ways. The film ends with Victor returning despite Dr. Itard and Madame Guérin thinking he would never come back. Some may argue here that he returned because he missed them or missed the comforts that he had become adapted to, but if one looks at Rousseau's state of nature again, one would see that he thinks man can never return to the state of nature once he leaves. And by going off this theory, it makes sense that Victor could never return to his wild child ways ever again. "},{"Title":"Victor and the state of nature","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Wild Child depicts a true story in which a young boy, who lived a significant portion of his life in the wilderness on the outskirts of French society, is brought from isolation into civilization. The importance of the Wild Child, as shown through Francois Truffant's movie, is in the anthropological implications of being able to study the nature of humans when they have no external forces to shape their behavior. This importance is accentuated through the works of philosophers Hobbes and Rousseau as the Wild Child could provide empirical evidence to support their theories on the state of nature.The movie begins with the young wild child, eventually to be known as Victor, living independently in the woods where it was believed that he remained alone, void of any human interaction or upbringing. Eventually, after being found, Victor is brought into the hands of Dr. Itard, who being aware of the scientific importance of Victor, attempts to prove that he could teach Victor how to interact within society. Dr. Itard believed that if he was successful it would provide empirical evidence to support claims that social norms are favorable to all, and that customs are not innately born.While to movie shows Dr. Itard using techniques that would seem immoral in contemporary times, Victor's ability to learn shows that there is some potential for growth, but his inability to grasp all of Dr. Itard's teachings leaves the Dr. with disappointment and inability to reach a conclusive hypothesis on the growth of human nature. As the movie reflects to Hobbes' and Rousseaus' claims on the state of nature, at the very end of the Wild Child, Victor is seen to run away from the doctor's care only to eventually return. This act of returning advances both theories of the state of nature since both philosophers believe that once you enter into an era of society that there is no return. However, just like the doctor's theories were inconclusive, the underlying principle for Victor's return does not prove either theory to be correct. Victor could have returned to the doctor's care either because he was hungry (Hobbesian proof) or because he desired care and cooperation (Rousseau proof). "},{"Title":"A State of Nature","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A child, left in the wild for most of his formative years, is captured and took into care by the doctor. What kind of explanation could there be for the behavior and the overall character of child soon to be known as Victor? The movie by itself is a joy to watch, but there are underlying hints at something called the state of nature which many renown thinkers such as Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau theorized on. The state of nature represents a time in which humans were uncivilized. Hobbes and Rousseau both try to theorize how humans would be before society. Take for example the Hobbesian view. Humans were a brutes, animals, and lived short lives that resulted from continual violence upon each other. Humans in this state of nature were actually in what Hobbes called a State of War (Leviathan I). In this primitive state humans desired peace as a means of self-preservation. To preserve one's life in a Hobbesian state of nature is a law of nature, or something humans universally wanted. Victor did not want to be taken from the wild. He wanted to stay in the violence that was his home. Hobbes believed humans were rational beings even in his state of nature. Was Victor really all that rational for not wanted to exit his state of nature for peace and self-preservation? It would seem that if Hobbes were right, the wild child would naturally want nothing more than to protect his own life. Through the desire to protect is life he would have willingly went into civilization and into the arms of some absolute ruler for protection; i.e the absolute sovereign (Leviathan I). This was not the case.It is not ironic that a French film would have such a popular French philosopher as Rousseau in the tacit footnotes. Like Hobbes, Rousseau also wrote on a state of nature of humans. In Rousseau's state of nature, humans were at their most perfect state. All that was desired was food, sex, and sleep (Social Discourse). Not a bad life, at least that is what Rousseau thinks. Due to land masses coming together and more populous areas of humans, certain things happened that brought about society and thus the corruption of humans (Social Discourse). If we took at Victor through a Rousseau's eyes, of course he would try to escape change and continue living his primitive life. Granted the doctor did make significant progress in the memory and educational facets of the boys life, but the fundamental faculties were already present. The doctor locked the boy in the closet for no reason and it was obvious the boy felt their was unnecessary harm done. This means there was some innate intelligence. Was the doctor even right in keeping the boy as he did? For Hobbes it would seem the boy should have accepted his new life because he valued his own life. For Rousseau, the doctor should have recognized the perfect in the life the boy was living and left him. Welcome to the world of philosophy. "},{"Title":"State of Nature in Wild Child","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Wild Child, a young boy who lives in the wild alone is taken to a school for the deaf and mute to try to become educated. When Wild Child was captured, he had no clothing on and his hair was very long and tangled. Dr. Itard attempts to educate Wild Child, whose new name becomes Victor, and the movie shows the ways in which Dr. Itard taught Victor.This movie follows along perfectly with Hobbes and Rousseau's views of the State of Nature. Although Hobbes and Rousseau both had definitions of the state of nature, they were very different. Hobbes views the state of nature as a state of war, meaning everyone is fighting one another. This movie supports this view because when Wild Child is captured, he tries to fight his way out of the men's' captivity. Also throughout the movie Wild Child, Victor, bites people, illustrating his warlike and aggressive qualities. This movie also supports Rousseau's definition of the state of nature. Rousseau sees the state of nature as a time of peace. Contrary to Hobbes, Rousseau claims that man is not in a constant state of war because he has the feelings of compassion and pity, which allow him to live a peaceful life with others. At first, Wild Child is resistant to Dr. Itard, but as the movie progresses we see him touch people's faces, which shows his affection. Victor also cries in one point in the movie, showing that he is upset when Dr. Itard gets angry with him. At the end of the movie, Victor runs away from Dr. Itard and his caregiver, and they think that he is gone forever. He attempts to steal food, but he is not successful. Victor comes back to Dr. Itard at the end of the movie. According to Hobbes, he would say that he was just hungry and new that to preserve himself he had to return to Dr. Itard for food. According to Rousseau, he would say that Victor could not return back to the state of nature that he was once in; therefore he knew that living with Dr. Itard was the only thing he could do, and he could also have felt compassion for Dr. Itard. "},{"Title":"The State of Nature","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Wild Child demonstrates the transition from the state of nature to society by a young boy called Victor. Victor is found living alone in the woods like an animal &#x96; walking on his hands and feet, sleeping in the leaves, eating natural berries or nuts and having no capability or need of speaking. Although this life seems savage to the civilized people, Victor is living a simple and happy life because that is all he has ever known, much like the savage life depicted by Rousseau's state of nature. Many people show interest in Victor's unique situation and he is soon shipped off to Paris to be observed by Dr. Itard. The Dr. wants to evaluate Victor and see if he can improve his education. Victor begins walking upright, eating and becoming aware of the utility for clothing. Eventually Victor begins showing more emotions and reacts to punishment, which he previously did not exhibit. This displays the type of self-love discussed by Rousseau that man acquires only after realizing how others view him. Victor shows that he wants to be valued by the Dr. and is ashamed when he is punished. The Dr. symbolizes a type of Hobbes' all-powerful Leviathan for Victor because there is fear of his punishment if Victor does not follow the rules. The Dr. wants to test Victor's understanding of just and unjust. He believes if he punishes Victor unjustly and he rebels, it will show his understanding of justice. Victor does fight back when the Dr. attempts to put him in the closet after Victor responded correctly. The Dr. thinks Victor understands justice and the morality of actions. Near the end of the film, Victor runs away &#x96; returning to his beloved state of nature. After searching for Victor and waiting to hear anything of his whereabouts, the Dr. believes he is gone forever. To the Dr.'s surprise, Victor returns. Whether Victor returned because of his need for food or his need of affection is debatable. Did Victor become accustomed to the civilized way of life and lose his ability to live in the wild? Or did Victor find himself lonely and wanting the affection he can only gain from others? In the state of nature, Victor had very little needs and only looked out for his own self-preservation, similar to Rousseau's state of nature. Unlike Hobbes state of nature, Victor did not have any possessions or an innate fear of punishment because he had no knowledge of this previous to becoming socialized with others. Victor made the transition into society, therefore becoming aware of the material things and views of others that corrupted his state of nature and ability to ever live that way again. "},{"Title":"The State of Nature in The Wild Child","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Wild Child depicts a young boy found alone in a forest in France. He was unclothed and his body was covered with lacerations, indicating that he had been in the forest of a long time. As one might expect, this discovery sparked nationwide interest. After initially being placed in a home for death and mute children, it became increasingly clear that he did not belong there. The movie documents the attempt of Doctor Itard to educate him and prove that it was his unusual circumstance that made him the way he was, not his lack of intelligence. The movie perfectly illustrates the human state of nature. Hobbes and Rousseau, two early modern philosophers, provided two different accounts of this state of nature and used them to develop the basis of each of their social contracts. The Wild Child further illuminates the importance of self-preservation, which is the fundamental concept of Hobbes's state of nature. Many characteristics of Victor's behavior, such as his ability to climb trees and his instinct to bite those who captured him, provide evidence in support of Hobbes's account. However, Rousseau, who agrees that self-preservation is important, also understands that compassion is a part of humans in the state of nature. The way he touches the face of the Doctor and his primary care giver is his form of affection and provides the viewer with the notion that he is capable of being compassionate. The return of Victor at the end of the movie could be taken two ways. On one hand, he could have returned simply because he was hungry which indicates the importance of self-preservation. This represents Hobbes's perception of the state of nature. On the other hand, Victor could have returned because he was conscious of the doctor and his caregiver's interest in him. This indicates the concept of amore propre and supports Rousseau's claim. "},{"Title":"The Philosophy of The Wild Child","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this short film, we are shown the progression of a child who has lived eleven to twelve years of his life in isolation from mankind with no education and no one to take care of him but himself. He is captured and sent to Paris to be studied by Dr. Itard who feels he could educate the young boy. The doctor is interested in learning how the mind works and develops from having no interaction or education whatsoever. Throughout the movie, the boy, given the name Victor, is shown many different techniques and skills that he has missed growing up, and he is taught memory skills as well as a few letters of the alphabet. Eventually coming to terms with his new situation, Victor starts to accept the lessons from Dr. Itard, and becomes comfortable with his new living arrangement. After so many years spent alone, he begins to make great progress.This movie is an excellent example of Thomas Hobbes' idea of the State of Nature. This is described in his Leviathan as a way to preserve one's self. He states that the State of Nature is also a State of War. One individual lives his life in order to maintain his life whether he has to undergo competition or even war with other individuals. In Victor's case, he had to learn to survive in the wild completely alone. He never had to communicate with people in order to maintain his life, so his communication skills were not developed. He often had to fight off enemies or other animals/human beings who he thought were going to cause him harm. The multitude of scars the Doctor discovered is proof of his many competitions within the wild, and the fact that he bit many of the people who tried to help him. In this state Victor was in, there was no justice for him. Everything was a competition and a means to survive, but when he was taken out of that habitat and placed into society, the rules and laws governed how he was treated. He was ultimately kept safe by a sovereign being that placed him in the care of the doctor, and he was taught the difference between justice and injustice as well as what was right and wrong. He learned many things that were good and many things that were bad. According to Hobbes, the laws determine limits, Victor was able to be educated and controlled. "}{"Title":"Social Contract Theory and Truffaut's The Wild Child","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Francois Truffaut's 1970 The Wild Child follows the real-life discovery of a young, uncivilized boy discovered in 18th century France, and a doctor's attempt to civilize him. This film deals with concepts of one's state of nature and the entrance into a civilization as found in the works of social contract theorists Hobbes, Locke, and Rousseau. The child certainly falls under Locke's assertion that a person in the state of nature is in a state of freedom to act as they wish; however, the child is most reminiscent of Rousseau's understanding of the natural man. The titular character shows no cultural trappings, such as language or clothes. Furthermore, in response to approaching hunters and their dogs, the boy remains solely concerned about his self- preservation. Similarly, the child is generally seen as peaceful, despite his instance of self-defense against the hunters, and is seemingly alone. Additionally, the wild child is seemingly only driven by basic animalistic instincts. Though a significant difference between the social contract theorists and the film is the boy does not willingly enter into to society (as the earliest members of civilization do in said theories), but, instead, he is coerced by others into it; regardless, the boy is trading his absolute freedom in the wilderness for obvious gains in security in the doctor's residence. These newfound limits affect the character throughout the film. He has to wear clothes, socialize with others, learn others' language, and, among other things, have manners. "},{"Title":"Hey, its the French guy from Close Encounters!","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am no expert in foreign film, but my first reaction when I saw the star, Francois Truffant, begin speaking, was, hey, its the French guy from Close Encounters! A famous film director, Truffant only acted in 14 movies, and this is a rare one in which he starred.A very unusual film, The Wild Child is filmed in black and white, though made in 1970. It is very similar in feel to The Elephant Man, made in 1980, 10 years later, also in black and white, and in its focus on a doctor taking charge of a social outcast, and trying to teach and help the tormented hero gain a life as close to normal as possible. In both movies, the doctors are generally kind and sympathetic, but not perfect both are cursed with large egos, and in both cases they too have learning curves, as they must figure out the extent of the intelligences of their charges (the wild child and the elephant man, respectively), and experiment with what works and what doesn't in their care for the poor souls.Other similarities abound; for example, both the wild child and the elephant man show an ability to create with their hands.I am not a big fan of child actors, but actor who played the wild child did a most spectacular job. He is very convincing in his portrayal of a completely dysfunctional animal-human. In his natural wild state, he walks around on all fours, and must be taught by Truffant to walk upright. But though Truffant has taken the boy out of the woods, he can never completely take the woods out of the child; quite eerily, Victor must every once in a while revert to his primordial instincts and clamber around outside back on all fours; I felt very physically uncomfortable watching him do this. Stand up straight, I would think, you are making my back hurt! On reflection, The Wild Child and The Elephant Man form an elegant trilogy with The Miracle Worker (1962). Again, a black and white movie, with a relatively normal adult voluntarily taking charge of a social pariah, here the deaf, dumb and blind Helen Keller, and all three based on true stories. In all three movies, moments of success are balanced by moments of frustration. Most interesting is the complete divergence in endings; The Elephant Man ends with the death of the hero, The Miracle Worker with success, and The Wild Child...an unknown, ambiguous ending.Lastly, The Wild Child is notable for its frequent technique of closing scenes by blackening out the picture from the edges inward, in an ever-closing circle, and opening other scenes by reversing the process, a technique very common in silent film.A very interesting and unusual film, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Fundamentally beautiful story of the human condition","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whilst Jean-Luc Godard focused on a more politically motivated form of cinematic expression in the late 1960's, his friend Francois Truffaut continued his own personal form of human experience cinema. Now that of course is no bad thing, when you consider this perfect little gem of a film. Not one of his most famous films, The Wild Child tells the true story of 18th century doctor, Jean Itard (Truffaut himself), and his discovery of the later named Victor (Jean-Pierre Cargol), a ferel child found in the forests and brought into Parisian civilisation.The film is a more sociological exploration of what it means to be modern and civilised. When the boy is brought into the modern world, he obviously experiences many things that frighten and confound him. The child is forced to conform to what civilisation sees as correct. But what exactly is correct? Is order and formality the key to progression, or is it simply an understanding and connection with the natural world? It's interesting that Victor never cries, until he is in the stages of being civilised. It is exactly this kind of order that upsets the boy. Which raises the question, are it the confusions and pressures of civilisation the root cause for modern extremes of emotions?Well, of course, we are not able to answer any of these questions that the film raises, and the film does not try to offer any. This aside, the film, shot in black and white, is a fundamentally beautiful story of the human condition, and the utter absurdity of the structures and societies we have constructed around us. The film was later reproduced for Greystoke The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes (1984), but was not nearly as successful in creating such beguiling reactions, and questions on the nature of reality. Wonderful.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Authentic, affirming and moving.","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As simply and lightly told as possible, Francois Truffaut's The Wild Child is an immensely interesting and fascinating study of childhood and the process all of us go through in order to be educated, civilized and forced into the larger confines of society. Children are a hallmark of Truffaut's cinema and he shows a deft touch in crafting this true story based on reports and notes left by an 18th century French doctor who took custody of a wolf boy found in the forest and trained him to walk upright, wear clothes, eat with utensils and even recognize letters from the alphabet. The bulk of this film is dedicated to the process of such an achievement and Truffaut's talent has rarely been matched as it is here. Shot in simple but beautiful black and white, the camera films more as a documentary than a feature film. Numerous montages are utilized to show the advances the boy makes with the doctor (played with subdued coolness by Truffaut himself) who tirelessly seeks to transform this savage into a noble human being. The textured greatness of the film lies in how wonderful the actors play off each other, especially Jean-Pierre Cargol as the wild child 'Victor' who is in every scene and never once appears as if he is acting in the conventional sense. He is absolutely convincing as this uncultured creature in every action he does, making the story that much easier for the audience to follow and understand.Truffaut is widely regarded as one of the greatest directors of children. This may be his quintessential moment with them and it is an uplifting and empowering vision. Here, children are seen to be capable of everything adults are. They are not children but little adults; this in and of itself is a transforming notion. "},{"Title":"Truffaut's Beautiful Study on the Primitive Human Condition","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Remarkable and quite unusual considering the director behind and in front of camera in a non typical style of film he is famous to direct, L'enfant sauvage (The Wild Boy) is another great work by François Truffaut to reveal the mysteries of human condition in the story of a young boy raised in the jungle who is captured by scientists who want to educate this savage and place him the civilized society.Jean-Pierre Cargol plays a very convincing wild teen with an uncontrolled rage towards anything and anyone while being educated by a important doctor (played by Truffaut himself in a excellent performance). The doctor is headstrong with his education process of educating the savage of how to eat, how to walk without jumping on things, teaches him how to read and talk which is a difficult task (he only knows how to scream), and the only letter he could spell was the letter O, and because of that the doctor and other assistants named the boy as Victor.Taken of a real event on the life of The Savage of Aveyron and the diaries of the character played by the director L'enfant sauvage is similar to films like Herzog's Kaspar Hauser and Tarzan films (Greystoke specially), and they're wonderful because of this similarity of themes and how we are dazzled and impressed by seeing a primitive being in a civilized time trying to comprehend the world around him. These stories always impresses me in a great way. The movie keeps going on the same road over and over again with the education of Victor and the doctor's attempts to teach him something, failing or succeeding at times, but never gets boring, it keeps the audience interested, wanting more and more, and you're gonna be hold it until the last minute.Nestor Almendros black-and-white cinematography is spectacular, and one of the most well photographed films of Truffaut, who once again made a beautiful and touching film that shows that even us the civilized have something to learn with wild creatures like Victor. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Man Is Born Free Yet Is Everywhere In Chains.","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In France during the 1700s there was a considerable interest in discovering the character of mankind in its natural state. That is, what would we be like without the benefits of society? Some philosophers, like Hobbes, argued that we'd be pretty rotten to one another without the control of some central authority over our animal passions. (The war of all against all.) Jean-Jacques Rousseau thought that human would be rather nice, that we were born with compassion for others. (The Noble Savage, which is a misrepresentation of Rousseau's anfractuous argument.) After all, even animals showed nurturance for each other. (He should have seen a herd of elephants coming across a skeletonized specimen. The herd goes ape, picking up the bones and running this way and that in confusion. You get the feeling they'd like to give the deceased a proper funeral and bury him.) Well, when the wild child of Aveyron came out of the wilderness in a state as close to nature as it was possible to get -- no clothing, no speech, no table manners, no religion, no nothing -- what an opportunity to test the theories of people like Hobbes and Rousseau.The boy was about eleven or twelve when he was brought to Jean Itard, a scientist who ran a school for deaf mutes near Paris. Itard brought him into his own house and raised him with the help of a housekeeper.The film is a kind of docudrama describing Itard's attempts to instill some social and linguistic skills in the child -- after they cut his hair, scrub him down, and put some clothes on him. Francois Truffaut, the director, is Itard. Jean-Pierre Cargol is the child, who is named Victor, and he's not bad for a kid his age.Now, the approach to the subject that Truffaut uses is likely to be off-putting for some viewers. If you had to choose a single word to describe it, clinical might do the job. Truffeau the director does not elicit any pity for the churlish Victor. He could be pretty bratty when he wanted to be.And Truffaut the actor is detached throughout. His narration, which sounds as if it had been taken directly from Itard's notes, is cold and almost Listerian. Itard rarely shows any warmth towards Victor -- and vice versa. Victor isn't much more than the subject of a longitudinal case study. What drama there is, is built around small incidents, like Victor's learning to drink milk from a bowl instead of lapping it up with his tongue. Compared to this, The Elephant Man is a blatant tear jerker.However, the script gives the story something of a happy ending. It ends after Victor learns to say lait and to spell it, too. The implication is that the kid will go one to master language and become a full-fledged adult human.It didn't happen. In Victor's case he never got much beyond lait and a couple of grunts, and that was apparently the state in which he died. There are other cases of children growing up in isolation. Probably the best known is that of Genie, a Los Angeles girl who was confined to an attic room by her father for twelve years, strapped to a potty. She didn't acquire more than the most fundamental of social skills. And she didn't learn to speak any better than Victor, though both were probably of normal intelligence. There seems to be a kind of launch window when it comes to learning a language. Once that critical period is past, it's gone for good.As for Hobbes and Rousseau, their theories were interesting thought experiments but in the few authenticated cases of real childhood isolation, the kids don't seem either warlike or compassionate. Mostly they're uninterested in adult activities. They lack curiosity and aren't eager to learn. As Rousseau might have put it, plus ca change, plus ca meme-chose, eh? "},{"Title":"The Wild Child","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wild Child, The (1970) *** 1/2 (out of 4)Brilliantly made drama about a wild child (Jean-Pierre Cargol) who is found in the woods and taken into society. Some see him as a dumb beast but Dr. Itard (Francois Truffaut) thinks he might be able to teach the kid something and turn him into something society would accept. This was my first Truffaut feature and I must say that its beauty really took me by surprise and makes me embarrassed to not have sampled the director sooner but at the same time it makes me happy because I know I have so many more films to check out. I think a lot of films would have fallen into a wild, more exciting story to tell. By that I mean a lot film, especially those in America, would have centered the story on more than just teaching this child. There would have been some sort of added drama about the doctor's personal life or some sort of drama about another doctor wanting to keep the kid locked up. There are a few minor things that happen outside the teaching but for the most part we are simply focused on this young animal and the doctor trying to teach him to be more human. We don't really learn what happened to him or why he turned into a wild child but it's really not important. I'm sure there could have been a great film made about it but this isn't that movie. It didn't really dawn on me until the final minutes of the movie but in a lot of ways this is a beautifully told love story. The love the doctor shows this boy was quite touching and the message of not judging someone is certainly on full display. What makes this work so incredibly well is how laid back the film is. There's never one scene more important than another but instead the entire film stays at the same pace and one thing is never given more credit than something else. A lot of movies want to build up drama for one climatic scene or payoff but that's never the case here. I guess calling the movie brave for doing that wouldn't be an overstatement. I was really amazed by the performance of Cargol who clearly steals the film. He doesn't have a single line of dialogue but he says so much just with his actions and movements. I would call it one of the greatest silent performances I've seen because that's pretty much what it is. Truffaut and Francoise Seigner are also great in their roles. This is certainly a very memorable adult movie that I think some kids could even enjoy. I can't help but look at the kid in the same way that I'd see Frankenstein's monster in the 1931 film. Kids certainly see themselves in the monster and I don't think they'd have any trouble seeing themselves in this wild child. I think adults could also easily see themselves in the role of the doctor here, trying to teach and bring this child up. The wonderful editing, terrific music score and extremely touching ending makes this a very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Wild Child is a film that resurfaces the true story of a young boy who is found living wild along the French countryside. The boy is like an animal in the sense he is untamed, self reliant, has a fear of humans, bares no clothing, and is accustomed to the elements of nature. The film begins with the capturing the eleven year old boy and his subsequent introduction to the civilized world. The child's fascinating story makes newspaper headlines in 1798 and among the many Parisians whose interest is sparked is that of a doctor played by Truffaut himself. Interested in studying the boy and discovering his potential, the doctor takes the young ruffian into his own home and begins a methodical series of learning experiments.Truffaut uses this remarkable story and creates a wonderful film set in the late eighteenth century. He also avoids the all too common trap of over dramatizing a film set in this era and simply concentrates on the subject matter at hand &#x96; the discovery of a wild youth and his introduction into civilized world. The film is beautifully shot and Truffaut's simplistic narrative keeps the viewer's attention at all times. Although one of Truffaut's most unique films, The Wild Child is not quite a masterpiece, but has much merit and is definitely worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently read T.C. Boyle's book of short stories Wild Child and Other Stories. The final story in the book was Wild Child that is about this same boy Victor. Boyle actually refers to this story as a novella. It is quite a bit longer than all the others.After hearing T.C. Boyle in a radio interview mention this movie, I decided to get a copy from my library after finishing the book. Compared to his story, the movie is very disappointing. I find his writing to be almost incomparable, and this story really captures Victor far better than this movie.If you have seen this movie and liked it, I can only recommend that you read Wild Child and Other Stories. And I'm certain that if you haven't seen the movie and read the book first, you too will be disappointed in the movie. "},{"Title":"well worth watching as long as you don't accept it as fact","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From my summary you might think this is a fictional story. Well, it isn't exactly. Instead, the movie is BASED on the true story of Victor, a feral child that was discovered roaming the countryside in late 18th century France.Much of the movie is true BUT somehow Truffault succumbed to the Hollywood idea that true-life stories need to be changed to make them more palatable to the general public. This is very odd indeed considering Truffaut was a founding New Wave director--a group who usually avoided clichés and Hollywood's style. Unfortunately for the real Victor, his life did NOT end positively (as the movie strongly implies) but he remained functionally retarded through his SHORT life.However, I still recommend the movie and I use the film in my high school psychology class. Despite much of it being subtitled, I have found that high schoolers enjoyed the film very much. It also gave us the opportunity to compare and contrast the true story with the film. In particular, I loved how this film showed the very detached and clinical manner in which Victor was raised--it really pulled at your heart and made you feel for this poor kid. "}{"Title":"Very uninformative.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For such an interesting topic, I found the film lacking in actual information about Victor. Then the film just ends. Victor is somewhere between 12 and 15(?) years old, if that old, and all we've seen are the attempts to teach him to read. The film was neither a film (acting was apparently not an issue) nor a documentary. I had to look up online to find out that he died 28 years later. Of what? What happened to him between where the movie ended and when he died? "}]