[{"Title":"A very silly but very fun movie","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  (No spoilers herein).My friend sent me this movie wanting to know my comments on it, without telling me even a word of what it was about or what he thought of it.  I went and checked out the entry on IMDB and was a touch confused why he was sending me a sort of musical half-western flick, being that neither of those categories would pop up at the top of either our lists.Needless to say, something about this movie surprised me -- I fully enjoyed watching it !  Right from the start the characters were interesting and the scenes quite absurdly funny.  Some of the singing was truly awful (in a funny way), and other songs were actually very toe-tappingly catchy.There is a whole lot of physical humor in this movie, from the opening scene after they bury the guy, to the ending scenes with the bull.  And holy crap the older man drinks a lot.  I don't think I've ever seen a movie where a single character drinks so much hard alcohol !  Along with the numerous sexual jokes I certainly wouldn't recommend this movie for children.As the movie came to a conclusion, I found myself attached to the main characters and wanting to see more of their adventures.  The plot had a very natural progression.  As silly and ridiculous as it certainly was, the plot made a strange sort of sense.I rate the movie an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Happily-Married ... Triple","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"       Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin - in a musical?  Yes, and it works rather well.      No expense was spared by Paramount in assembling the behind-camera talent.  Lerner and Loewe's successful stage show was beefed up by Andre Previn's compositions and Nelson Riddle's arrangements, and a script by Paddy Chayefsky.  If Clint and Lee aren't exactly Mario Lanza and Tito Gobbi, they are good enough.  Clint sings timidly but tunefully (I Talk To The Trees, Gold Fever) and Marvin's growly Wandering Star was a big chart success back in 1969.  The songs are strong, the lyrics clever and the choreography slick and busy.  At two and three-quarter hours, the film is rather too long, but it contains plenty of interesting things, including some excellent comedy.     No-Name Town is a rough and ready prospectors' settlement, one of many such ramshackle communities springing up during the California Gold Rush.  Two very different men link up as partners and grow into inseperable friends.  'Pardner' (Eastwood) is a straight, solid farmer from the Mid West, while Ben Rumson (Marvin) is a hell-raising wildman from no place in particular.  When a mormon auctions one of his wives (Elizabeth, played by Jean Seberg), Rumson buys her.  Things get complicated when Pardner falls in love with Elizabeth, and she falls in love with .... er, both men.     Added interest is provided by the arrival of a bunch of French whores and a party of rescued wagon-trainers (this last was drawn from a true story).     Good things include a barnstorming performance from Marvin, radiating enormous personality and a real flair for comedy.  His career flowered late, but he was at his best in the late sixties (Point Blank, Hell In The Pacific, and of course this one).  Previn's musical interlude which introduces the Parson (Alan Dexter) is superb, leading into one of the film's best songs, Here It Is.  The comical discords of the musical passage are a joy in themselves, and they pave the way perfectly for the Parson, who is at odds with everybody.  Hand Me Down That Can Of Beans is rendered by the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, guesting in the movie.  The boys obviously decided to stay on, because they crop up in various shots throughout the film.  Mad Jack is played with manic zest and a peculiar British accent by Ray Walston, none other than TV's My Favourite Martian.     The interminable gag of the collapsing tunnels stand as a metaphor of the film's shortcomings - over-elaborate, and over-long. "},{"Title":"A Nicely Naturalistic Musical","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Joshua Logan's screen version of Paint your wagon works a treat, perhaps because the original stage version is so little known and apparently has been given something of a make-over by screen writer Paddy Chayefsky. The fact that the leads (Lee Marvin, Clint Eastwood and Jean Seberg) can't sing matters not a jot; they perform with charisma, (even Seberg is less wan than usual) and bring a touch of realism to the proceedings, their songs seeming to evolve naturally from the action. Other singing duties are performed by the splendid Harve Presnell and a rousing, mostly male, chorus for this is a musical western of a more robust kind than Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. It's plot, which concerns mining for gold, polygamy and the building of a town, fairly races along. Logan handles the whole thing with great aplomb and brings to it some nice, naturalistic touches sadly lacking from his earlier musicals, South Pacific and Camelot. Most critics didn't warm to it, though and it remains largely under-valued. "},{"Title":"the cap on the timecapsule","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  paint your wagon is, in a lot of ways, the end of an era that I cherished the most (my teen years) the musicals were always there as a kid even though I didn't really like them in the fifties (except 7 brides) ....but there is something about the orchestration of those musical movies that sounded so similar....and true to its genre, paint your wagon's soundtrack had a timecapsuled, nostalgic feel reminiscent of those bygone days when musicals ruled.....the negative rap on this film is probably due to the timing of its release...the Vietnam war was hot and perhaps people couldn't accept its bawdy comedy and musical theme....even though it should have been a perfect escape type film...it is considered a major flop....like some others that took on an afterlife that superseded its theatrical run...word of mouth finds favor with the film in almost all venues....except some of the reviews I've read recently.I love the depth of the dialogue and the nitty gritty reality of the mindsets of those prospectors who took from life what they needed and created their own utopian world (or tried to)...and ironically were sad (inside)even though there was uproarious drinking and carousing...which characterizes man self destructive nature when left to himself to do as he pleases...not unlike ancient rome.lee marvin played the lead role so well...it was almost as if it had been written for him...even surpassing his clever coolness of a similar character a #1 (emperor of the north...a film about the great depression hobos)in paint your wagon so much of man's delemia is characterized in dialogue about growing up, doing what feels good, and paying the price for such behavior later.....the grim reminder of man's struggle with his own self can best be shown in the scene with ben rumson as he takes an assessment of his life in a few brief words to holmbrook (the mediator)....there are two kinds of people....them going somewhere and them going nowhere....I'm an exodus to nowhere....sometimes I get mighty homesick....then you hear the profound lyrics to the song born under a wander star where even the most blessed place one can get will never be satisfying enough to make these kinds of folk want to stay. another heady piece is the scene with clint singing gold fever and how greed will turn people into a total different character from what they were before the fever hit....this movie has a lot of heavy thoughts and depth even though it is a great comedy film...it's the reason it is my favorite movie of all times....really cool characters....outrageous comedy....mind provoking dialogue...and a nostalgic soundtrack that will take you back to the fifties....as for the bad rap on lee marvins singing...just how great would those songs have come off if he had had an operatic baritone with perfect pitch?...in a word...fake.  "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned fun","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I first watched Paint your wagon at the age of about ten when my dad who incidentally loves this movie had it on in the lounge. At ten years old it is a film that seems to rather drag and seemed so old to me I could barely watch, but now watching it again many years later have come to appreciate it as quite a comic take on the old west. Its characters are amusing and despite some criticism on clint eastwoods performance as partner i enjoy all the actors performances including his. My favourite song of the film would have to be 'no name city' as i remember as a child being amazed at how low the reverends voice goes during that song. Overall I enjoy this movie and will watch it if it is on television. An 9 out of 10. Good old fashioned fun. "},{"Title":"It still grabs ya","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Is the movie great? No, but it is a good one. If it were great, it would not suffer from it's long running time. A wider audience would no doubt warm to a shorter version. More is the pity, too, because the movie has much to offer. The scenery is beautiful; the sets reconstructions are first rate. Listen to the lyrics of some of the songs ('Gold Fever' and 'The First Thing You Know' are two good examples) and you can appreciate the wordsmithing skill of Alan Jay Lerner. If you like a large all-male chorus, the film offers some of the best singing of that kind you are likely to hear. Listen especially during 'There's a Coach Coming In'.I must confess a guilty admiration for characters who are unapologetically amoral and corrupt, at least as defined by 'respectable society'. I wouldn't necessarily want one for a neighbor or even a friend (well .. maybe), but they are fascinating on film or stage. If the film is a comedy, they can be hilarious and often steal the show. All you need is the right actor to fill the role. Paint Your Wagon offers one of the most uproariously amoral characters on film, brought to amazing life by Lee Marvin. He delivers Ben Rumson's imminently quotable home-spun philosophy of life with great relish and comedic timing. Can he sing? No. But then would a somewhat dissipated Gold Rush miner likely be a good singer? His non-singing actually fits.The rest of the cast is good but not exceptional. Ray Walston is memorable as Mad Jack. I still find it hard to spot the actor I am used to behind the beard and accent. He also has some great lines. Harve Presnell is the only truly major-league singer in the cast and delivers the most memorable song. The remaining actors are adequate. Eastwood is good but replaceable. Jean Seaberg is not Meryl Streep but is certainly easy on the eyes. The townsfolk are solid.An enjoyable movie, with Lee Marvin's performance worth the price of admission. It is too bad it requires such a long time commitment to experience it all.  "},{"Title":"Clint CAN sing. Movie is a hoot.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I once heard a critic state any movie where Clint Eastwood sings should be rated for violence.  He must have never actually listened to this movie. Clint may not be the best voice in the cast but he is surely not the worst. As a young man he has a pleasant everyman kind of voice I ENJOY.  And in addition to that this an outrageously funny and moving movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" ***SPOILERS, IF ANYONE CARES****And I HATE musicals! This film falls in with 'Little Shop of Horrors' and 'The Blues Brothers' in the very short list of musicals I really love.It's Lee Marvin who makes the film. You could have replaced Eastwood or Seberg with almost any other actor or actress; it's Marvin's performance as Ben Rumson that brings this movie to life. All the way through, his facial expressions communicate volumes about his character - for a quick instance, watch his eyes as he prepares to eulogize Pardner's dead brother in an early scene.Anyone else could have played Pardner or Elizabeth and done as good a job, but Lee Marvin gave us a Ben Rumson that I don't think anyone could equal. He does more just by his looks and body comedy than could be expected.If you disagree, please go back and watch what I think is his best scene Rumson trying to walk nonchalantly away from No Name City as it sinks into the collapsing tunnels he built under it.A fantastic film. It's only average, if you don't have the capacity to fast-forward through Eastwood's and Seberg's songs. "},{"Title":"Gotta Dream Boy, Gotta A Song, Paint Your Wagon, And Come Along","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Unfortunately Paint Your Wagon came at a time when big budget musicals were going out of vogue. The expenses of this film nearly bankrupted Paramount and it was many years before the studio recouped its investment. Another big Broadway hit from the same era, Finian's Rainbow also came to the big screen a few years earlier and bombed at the box office.Paint Your Wagon ran 289 performances for the 1951-1952 season on Broadway. Daring in its time, Paint Your Wagon had an interracial love theme. That was too tame for the newly liberated silver screen from the Code and here we have a woman, Jean Seberg, marrying two gold miners, Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin. This might be the first story on screen about polyandry unless you count Noel Coward's Design for Living and that was a heavily censored version.Listening to Lee Marvin it sounds like an eminently practical arrangement. Lee saves Clint Eastwood after a fall and nurses him back to health and he makes him a partner. Then he 'buys' at auction Jean Seberg who is the second wife of passing Mormon John Mitchum. Since Clint's a partner in everything, sharing a wife seems a sensible arrangement. Lee's character Ben Rumson has some very interesting ideas on morality, especially morality out in the wilds. You'll have to see Paint Your Wagon to hear him explain his views.Jean Seberg's voice is dubbed by Anita Gordon, but Eastwood and Marvin do their own numbers. For Marvin, he does it in the tradition of Rex Harrison and Richard Burton in those other Lerner and Loewe musicals and it comes off nicely. Clint Eastwood's many talents do not include singing however.But as it turned out Paint Your Wagon needed all the help it could get at the box office. They could have cast a singer in Clint's part, but where was there on who could play the role, be the right age, and bring in the dollars. By 1969 there really was no such male singer in Hollywood. Probably in the fifties someone like Gordon MacRae or Howard Keel might have done it then.The comedy is pretty raucous from Lee Marvin's original ideas on sex to the whole town caving in because of all the mine tunnels beneath. Paint Your Wagon holds up well and it's not as bad a film as has come down by reputation. It might be painful for Clint Eastwood fans to hear him sing though. "},{"Title":"fabulous film","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" i love this film, i think it portrays the idea of the last outpost of freedom before 'society' catches up brilliantly. I have always thought this film to be male orientated so maybe this is why it was not successful. Out in 'No Name City' there were no women till Ben hijacked the tarts stage remember. Still there was real camaraderie between the men, even love really when you consider how Ben and Partner shared everything ! But seriously those two men loved each other, speaking as a married non homophobic male I could relate to the affection that they had for each other. Some of us men if we would dare admit it have male friends that we have shared our lives with,laughed and cried with, got blind drunk with, ran from the law with, watched each others backs...etc etc. Great film, great songs 'theres a coach....Moria...get the soap and water...no name city... Full of free spirit, adventure, hope, whisky,women (eventually !) here it is I mean here it is  i give you the boy,give me back the man ! "}{"Title":"Unique and funny","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I recently viewed this movie for the second time and found it just as funny and entertaining as I did when it first hit the theaters all those years ago.Having just read through some of the reviews here I am startled that some people who are fans of the Western genre were disappointed because it was a musical and a comedy; others who love musicals were disappointed because it had a Western theme.I didn't mind that some of the singing wasn't of a high standard - most of the songs were of a humorous bent anyway, and didn't purport to be anything but an accompaniment to the visual romp on screen.Interestingly though, the couple of serious songs are actually quite beautiful, hauntingly wistful, lyrics lamenting the characters' forlorn lonesomeness. (They Call the Wind Maria, and A Million Miles Away Behind the Door.)Anyway I say to all that didn't like this movie, where is your sense of humor? It is light entertainment - a comedy first and foremost, and employs a good amount of slapstick and satire. And with just a truthful drop of the real history of that era with its sadness and desolation.An enjoyable fun movie. "},{"Title":"A Better Film Than Its Original Reviews","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Paint Your Wagon has often been sited as an example of a big-budget film that lost its way. The problem for the film was that it was released at a time that the traditional Hollywood musical was dying. Motion pictures such as Bonnie and Clyde and Midnight Cowboy were ushering in the age of dramatic realism. However, with the film's release now more than forty years in the past, it holds up amazingly well and is thoroughly entertaining.The film follows the life of two gold mining partners (Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood) who find themselves in love with the same woman (Jean Seberg). The twist is that she is in love with both men. The solution is that Seberg's character marries and lives with both of them. This unusual family is made possible by the fact that they find themselves in a rough gold mining camp in the California wilderness. Eventually, the tri-marriage breaks down due to a variety of circumstances and one of the husband leaves and one stays.The often-dismissed production values of the film now look amazing. Alan Jay Lerner shot much of the film outside of Baker City, Oregon in the wilderness. The town, No Name City, was recreated to scale. Indeed, no studio would green-light this kind of big-budget musical film today. One of the things that make it so special is that a modern audience is seeing something that could not be produced in the present.Along with the production values, the music is exceptional. There are no throw-away songs, and against the backdrop of the Oregon wilderness they come alive. When it was released Marvin's and Eastwood's voices were ridiculed. Once again, the passing of time has led to audiences that don't expect the perfect pitch-and-tone musicals of the 1940s and 1950s. Their voices sound like that of a couple of gold miner's.No matter the age group, this is a film that is worth seeing. Undoubtedly it will be a pleasant surprise for young and old. "},{"Title":"I've loved this movie since it was released","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" While this movie at times does move slowly, I love this movie. I saw it when it was first released and have loved it ever since.While the three stars of the movie are Jean Seburg, Clint Eastwood and Lee Marivn, Lee Marvin is the main star of the movie. The anti-social gold miner is a perfect character for him. Even his singing fits the character, rough and basic. I don't know about anyone else, but at the end of the movie when Lee Marvin's character, Ben Rumson, is leaving, looking for a place where the people haven't got to yet, I'm sad. I'm sad because I know that places where people haven't got to yet are almost gone, even though there are still a lot of this type of person around.The music, the lines, Harve Presnell, Ray Walston and Lee Marvin are terrific. The rest of the cast are OK. Harve Presnell would go on to play Miss Parker's father in The Pretender on TV, but in this movie he is young, flat-out gorgeous with a heavenly voice. Ray Walston is his usual best. Lee Marvin is great. Flat out great. I remember reading that his widow said that he identified with this character the most out of all his roles. Everybody seems to remember him singing A Wanderin' Star,but I remember him singing The First Thing You Know. That was perfect for this character. It said everything.If you haven't seen this movie yet, watch it with an open mind, no preconceived ideas, and I think you will love it as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Unfairly reviled","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Much has been written about how terrible this film is, how it marked the end of both the Western and Musical genres,  but to those of us who like both musicals and westerns this movie is a real treat.  Clint's vocal stylings do indeed leave something to be desired, but Lee Marvin's talky singing is reminiscent not only of Robert Preston in the Music Man, but to Rex Harrison in My Fair Lady.But the reason I recommend this movie is that it is dashed funny.  Clever, one might say, and not a bit bawdy, in a chaste-by-today's-standards sort of way.  I agree that people who don't like musicals--and it's not unreasonable to assume that many Eastwood fans fall into that category--wouldn't enjoy this movie any more than they would enjoy any other movie in which people wander in and out of songs at random.  But I do argue that it shouldn't be avoided on reputation.  It's divinely amusing.  "},{"Title":"Love this Movie","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I don't know why this film is so disliked by so many. Saw it when it was first in theaters loved it then and have the DVD today and I still consider it one of my favourites. Great actors, charming story and the music is what makes me want to watch it time and again. The bull chase at the end might be a bit off because of editing but everyone is having fun and I'm automatically swept along with them, don't even mind Clint Eastwood singing. Every time I read a bad review they always use this as the reason for their not liking the movie, don't understand and as a matter of fact it's just starting and I'm watching it again, see you in No Name City! "},{"Title":"The Great American Musical?","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I for one will take Paint Your Wagon over West Side Story any day. At least it's a story about a distinctively American phenomena - gold prospecting in the late 1800s - not the 57th contemporary take on Romeo and Juliet, rehashing the same supposedly timeless subjects again and again. In fact, it's a delightfully homegrown story, and its tongue in cheek awareness of its own make it up as you go ethic is wholly part of the movies charm. And what's not universal about striking out on your own in the company of kindred spirits met along the way? The music is downright terrific, there's not a bad tune in the bunch. I'm particularly fond of Hand me down that can of beans as performed by the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band (it doesn't appear on any of their albums). Wandrin' Star and I Talk to the Trees are so catchy that even Lee Marvin's croaking and Clint Eastwood's warbling, respectively, can't muck 'em up. The big hit of course is Maria (mar-eye-ah), but from the rousing opening opening theme (Where am I going, I don't know. When will I get there, I ain't certain. What will I do, I ain't equipped to say. But, who gives a damn I'm on my way! ) it's clear that the film is carried along by quite a different sort of manic-depressive momentum. From The first thing you know to Ben's wedding day to Four Cabin Walls to The Best things in life are dirty to No-name city the plot just rollicks along. Maybe I've been working in Silicon Valley too long, but anyone I know who's been here for a while thinks this is a great flick. "},{"Title":"A great film for melancholy","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The dynamics between Pardner and Ben were fantastic. The friendship and trust that grows in a pioneer settlement was something I really related to. The music and the timing of the songs was a feature of the movie. The song about civilization was particularly poignant given the rapidly diminishing availability of untamed land.Close to the best part of the movie was the dancing scene in the mud near the start of the movie. The careless, complete enjoyment of a group of men in a gold mining tent city dancing to some crazy folk music made me wish that everyone could experience that wild abandon.As a connoisseur of melancholy moments I really enjoyed this movie. The ending was not unexpected but well packaged and presented. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies, hilarious and touching","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The poor reviews of this movie just baffle me! I can only think it's a matter of assuming something is bad because it gives off a poor vibe Eastwood singing, a musical of the gold rush? But I loved it the first time I saw it and it was the first movie I taped when VCR became popular in the '80s.I still quote great lines from it, like Lee Marvin saying when you learn to lie a whole new world opens up to you... Maybe the disdain for this movie is reflected in the new Puritanical attitude of this country. This flick is so disdainful of foolish civilization that perhaps the casual viewer has his delicate sensibilities offended. I dunno, but for me life is a goldrush at best and it makes as much sense to share a wife with a buddy as anything else, especially if she's good to go...I don't get it. I don't get it. Watch it with an open mind. Maybe you'll recognize me. Why hey, I'm Schermehorn...  "},{"Title":"Golden fever","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Over 15 years, I've been thinking that the name of the film was Golden fever, because that was the translate of my country. Now I know. Even now I remember the song  I was born under the lonely star . In movie, singer was Lee Marvin. And I don't know the right title of the song. My father and me will be very grateful if You send us the right title of the song. "},{"Title":"Roaringly funny","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" If you're a stuck up type that can't stand any form of irreverence, stay far far away from Paint Your Wagon.However, if you have any sense of humor at all and can stand to see fun poked at any and every fixture of polite society, Paint Your Wagon is a riot.Although the movie is a musical, the story and the comedy are the main draws here. In my mind, the teenage farm boy telling his parents, Unless you've had a strong drink of whiskey and a good cigar, you're missing the 2nd and 3rd best things in life, is one of the funniest lines delivered in a movie, certainly one of the most memorable if you've seen this film.Lee Marvin is at his best as an unashamed hedonist. On a serious note, the writing of his role and his performance thereof helped me learn to take a good look at both sides of things. Society's status quo might often make sense, but not always. ;-) The modern cliché Thinking outside the box applies to this story in spades! "}{"Title":"Wouldn't give classic musicals the time of day?","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Are you a guy who wouldn't give a classic musical the time of day? This is a guy's musical. I was impressed with both Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood's singing ability. There is a little dancing, but it's appropriate ... The whole town doesn't break into song and dance moves everytime two eyes meet )   It has a cool story. Set during the California gold rush. We follow the rise of a Boomtown, from the first nugget found through it's self-distruction. This film is a comedy first and a musical second. If you like Lee or Clint this is a must see!!!  "},{"Title":"To be honest, I don't know what to make of this film","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I love musicals, but I honestly didn't know what to make of this film. Out of the Joshua Logan-directed musical movies, this film is my least favourite. It does have some nice photography, costumes and sets, and the score and songs are very pleasant and hummable. Out of the cast, Ray Walston and Harve Presnell(who actually has the best songs) come off best, and the chorale work directed by Roger Wagner is some of the finest ever heard in a musical. However, Joshua Logan's direction didn't work, I personally found it too stage-bound and smug. Also the dialogue doesn't convince, the film is too long and the story is forgettable and has one too many silly moments. The acting is nothing special, and while the singing isn't amazing it was passable. Lee Marvin's rendition of Wandrin' Star is listenable, and some of his comedy is a nice touch. Wasn't sure about Clint Eastwood though, I was perplexed at his casting initially and after hearing his singing my opinion hasn't changed. In conclusion, if I had to make an honest summary of this film, I would say worth watching for the music, chorale work and production values if little else. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Skidoo For Squares","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" There is something deeply touching about reading these positive reviews for the famously awful Paint Your Wagon as bad a film as Otto Preminger's Hip quasi musical of around the same time, Skidoo. Paint Your Wagon which tanked on Broadway in the first place, was transformed into a dirty minded attempt to capture a piece of the Sound Of Music market, the shoot went badly over budget, and Clint Eastwood later said he saw everything NOT to do on a set from the waste of time and money he saw making this film. On the very small plus side, this movie LOOKS great. The color and scenery are really a marvel. And that takes care of the plus side. Oh yes, I would also say the stars (including the tragic Jean Seberg) carry themselves with dignity and do not falter, though I had had enough of Lee Marvin by the end. And I am a BIG Lee Marvin Fan. For this is one tasteless, stupid, overwrought, sexist, moronic bad musical. Tommy Smothers was right, I Talk To The Trees is one stupid song and and they go downhill from there. Lerner and Lowe had some classics but also some other big bombs ( Little Prince anyone?) and this must be the worst. It's not that Clint and Lee can't sing (Rex Harrison couldn't sing either), it's that these are bad songs. It's a fine line, perhaps, that separates the tasteless from the funny. Many people here seem to find Paint Your Wagon good, bawdy fun. The anti-civilisation theme must please some libertarians. Surely, one of the good things about avoiding civilization would be the absence of terrible films like this one. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful musical.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Paint Your Wagon is a great musical, and despite its lack of singing talent, it gets the job done.  Acting is phenominal.  For a movie that's nearly 3 hours long, it has no slow spots.  It is upbeat and fun, and does justice to the original musical that opened in 1951.  How can you not like this movie? To compare this to musicals like Singing in the Rain and My Fair Lady would be unfair.  This is a musical of its very own.  And Jean Seberg was a fox. "},{"Title":"Frustrating in its storytelling approach, but at the same time it provides us with lots of laughs and an incredible performance from Lee Marvin","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Despite the fact that Paint Your Wagon seems to have a non-existent plot line (at least for the first two thirds of its running time) it is a film that I did find to be highly enjoyable. Although the storytelling is rather weak, the writers provide so many humorous scenes that to me it very rarely mattered. Lee Marvin is the main reason to see this and his performance here was nothing short of sublime. Although Marvin was great here, I was a little disappointed with Eastwood. The truth of the matter is that his character was a bit bland and nowhere near as interesting as Marvin's character. However, the blame for this lies with the writers and not Eastwood and I just didn't find his character that interesting and also found the chemistry between Eastwood and Marvin was a bit hit and miss.The musical numbers here are colourful, lively and very enjoyable (I don't think there was one song that I didn't like). However, usually with musicals songs are used to cover plot points or to convey emotions from characters. In Paint Your Wagon there were a couple of songs here that worked in this manner, but a lot of songs were rather random and had nothing to do with the story. Again this isn't a major problem as the musical numbers were fun, but again it made the story a little strange at times.Where this film really comes good is in its final third (when we get to the point of the story) and the final act was absolutely hilarious.On balance there is definitely more good than bad here. Despite the fact that there was no real story for the first two thirds of the film, there were still enough fun moments to make this worthwhile overall. However, Lee Marvin's superb performance and incredibly funny on-screen antics are definitely the biggest selling points here. "},{"Title":"For those who were born under a wandering star.","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" It only took seven years for Lerner and Lowe's Brigadoon to be made as a movie, eight for My Fair Lady and seven for Camelot. But for the team's second big Broadway musical, Paint Your Wagon, it took almost 20, and when the movie did finally get a release, it was at a time when movie musicals were beginning to tank at the box office. Unlike the first three movie musicals, Paint Your Wagon had not been a huge hit, running a season (which at the time was respectable and considered a semi-hit, if not a huge smash) and introducing several songs which have become standards in the world of showtune music. The movie altered the story a bit, taking on traditional themes of more recent westerns, and had some casting choices that while perfect for a western seemed questionable for a musical.Certainly Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood were known for westerns, and here, they share both co-starring billing and the same woman (Jean Seberg). What they also share is a lack of musical experience, and if you are going to put them together in a musical, it should be a genre in which they have experience. Their voices are perfect for the characters they play, with grizzled Marvin singing several songs in a very raspy manner and a very low-key Eastwood almost whispering his. Their voices pale in comparison however to Harve Presnell who gets the show's most famous song, They Call the Wind Maria, as well as several others, so there have been many a jokester who ridiculed this film by saying either, I never miss a Lee Marvin musical! or I never miss a Clint Eastwood musical!.All that glitters is not gold, and in the case of the photography in this movie, it's filmed in a sort of faded color that almost seems like sepia tone. Somewhat overly long, it gets boring and tedious at times, but there are some wonderful musical moments that make up for the lack of singing talent. Clint's I Talk to the Trees is performed heartfelt and moving, while Lee's Wandrin' Star is also sweetly done. But you'll never hear Hand Me Down That Can O' Beans at a piano bar or The First Thing You Know where Lee's singing voice really gets grating, making Elaine Stritch's raspy voice seem soprano in comparison. Jean Seberg fails to impress as the heroine torn between the two men. This is one of those movie musicals which probably seemed like a good idea at the time but even with a powerhouse stage and musical director (Joshua Logan) behind the camera, it comes out as a missed opportunity and basically, Too little, too late. "},{"Title":"A Western-Musical-Comedy","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When gold is discovered in California it creates a mad rush among certain people who want to get their hands on some. By chance, one particular person named Ben Rumson (Lee Marvin) has already arrived and as luck would have it happens to notice a wagon rolling out of control down a steep mountain. When he gets there he discovers that one of the men inside the wagon is dead and the other is badly hurt. Not long afterward some members of the wagon train arrive and they begin the task of burying the dead man. However, upon digging the grave they just happen to strike gold and immediately Ben claims the spot for himself and the badly injured man who he announces as his new Pardner (Clint Eastwood). Eventually, Pardner recuperates and they both set about digging for gold in the mining community that has attracted over a hundred men but is totally lacking any women. Then one day a Mormon man with two wives arrives at the mining camp which attracts the attention of all of the miners except Ben who is dead drunk. At the same time the two women get into a spat and the husband decides to auction off the wife named Elizabeth (Jean Seberg). As the auction commences Ben awakens from his drunken stupor and makes the highest bid before passing out once again. One thing leads to another and soon both Ben and Pardner wind up marrying Elizabeth. Anywary, rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this movie is probably best described as a Western-Musical-Comedy. As such it has some good humor here and there and a couple of good songs most notably Mariah and I Was Born Under a Wandering Star. Unfortunately, it also has some pretty bad songs as well. Along with that this movie turned out to be quite long and because of that there were some parts here and there which seemed to drag on for too long. In any case, it turned out to be fairly enjoyable and I have rated the movie accordingly. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"the Preacher","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I had the pleasure of being one of the last people to be a friend of Alan Dexter, he and his delightful wife were my neighbors in Port Hueneme, CA, prior to his heart attack. They were sweet people. RIP. Alan loved acting, had a long career, and was close to many actors, especially his close friend, Dick Powell. He had a lot of interesting stories to tell. He enjoyed making the movie and felt it was underrated. Personally, I think the movie is funny, irreverent, and scenically inspiring. The actors are not singers but more narrators, similar to Rex Harrison in My Fair Lady, and they are well cast as eccentric prospectors. Every California history buff knows that prospectors/rock hounds/gold bugs ARE diverse and eccentric! Hopefully, Alan has some fans, friends, and family that may see these comments. "},{"Title":"The best movie in which Lee Marvin sings","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Yes, this is the quintessential musical western on the subject of polygamy and mining. In a class all its own, this movie stands out beyond all others as being quite possibly the only Lee Marvin musical that I can watch, and then rewind and watch again. I was first introduced to this movie by a short parody thereof on the Simpsons several years ago. In fact, you may have arrived at this page simply because you were checking to see if this is a real movie. Well, my friends, it's not only real, it's fantastic. Despite the year-long lesson I (as well as all children in California) have received on the history of gold mining circa fourth grade, I never wanted anything to do with it; but after seeing this film, I have no desire but to rush to gold country and start panning. It's THAT influential. If you're not painting your wagon yet, I have only this to ask you, WHAT THE HECK ARE YOU WAITING FOR????  "},{"Title":"A Unique Masterpiece","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" It makes no sense to dislike this movie on the basis of bad singing, you already know before you watch it who the stars are, and they are not singers.It is a comedy, and some songs are great, some are good, and some are comedic.If you want to watch a rip roaring adventure of old west living, don't miss this one!It is a gas from beginning to end. It is the only musical I can think of where you can ignore the songs and still end up with a great movie. (unlike Chicago, where you can ignore the songs AND the movie)It is not on my list of best movies, but it is on my list of favorite movies.UPDATE 6/24/06 I saw the original release in 1969, with my girlfriend. There is no one element of this movie that I like more than the other...What I like is the music, the comedy, the camaraderie, and the brotherhood.It is silly to make fun of Clint's song, we should all sing whether it sounds good or not!As far as Lee Marvin's song, it was a number one hit after this movie.I really object to something I found in Presnell's bio 'The disastrous film version of Paint Your Wagon (1969) starring the highly miscast Lee Marvin, Clint Eastwood and Jean Seberg, was redeemed only by the presence of Presnell and his superb rendition of They Call the Wind Mariah.'How could they be miscast??? The 3 of them were perfect when Presnell was a minor character! Oh well, I love this movie, if others don't....then that's their choice. I give it 8/10. "}{"Title":"Excellent musical comedy in the best Broadway tradition","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is a very good musical comedy. Although the main characters are obviously not professional singers it works and fits the rough circumstances the play is set in. The production values of this film casting, cinematography and script are excellent. The only weak point of the film is the slapstick end to No Name City. "},{"Title":"Will a B-way musical be relevant enough for 1969?","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  As with other big Broadway musicals that didn't get filmadaptations until many years after their initial moment had passedsuch as Hair or Company this one is a bit odd. The film'sproducers hired Paddy Chayevski to spice up the rather staidoriginal libretto. I think the result is quite pleasing in all its weirdglory, Jean Seberg had one last chance to shine before the FBIhounded the poor woman to death. Lee Marvin, Clint Eastwood,Harve Presnell, and Ray Walston are all great. I even like thesinging. I will admit the lack of context for the song Eliza isunfortunate, but I think the idea was to articulate the often missinghumanity of a cool character like Eastwood. I like the road showgraphics (the mountains as painted in the titles) and The NittyGritty Dirt Band's Hand Me Down That Can of Beans. "},{"Title":"I'm not an Eastwood fan but.....","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  this is one of my won't miss movies when it comes on tv.  It's light, it's fun, the tunes are snappy, and even 30 years later I am still entertained. Everyone should see this movie at least once in their lives - and in my case -  10 or 20 times at least since my dad introduced it to me when I was a young teen. and besides - it's such a cute concept - a woman with two husbands, and stealing the gold from the floorboards etc... -) "},{"Title":"My favorite musical!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  As a Californian, whose husband work summers in a gold mine in the 1950's that movie wasn't as farfetched as it seemed. The tales of a 60 some year old miner told, were almost as entertaining. My guess is it wasn't appreciated because 1.There were actor who weren't singers in the conventional sense. 2. No one outside of people who know the CA gold county would really understand it. 3. That type of movie wasn't popular then.  "},{"Title":"Highly regard. An annual trip to No Name City's a tradition.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie is as true to the human spirit today as it was in 1969. Irreverent, clever, and funny, it shows foibles and fancies as well as the value of remaining true to oneself in varied circumstances.  As the years pass, we oldsters find it comforting to see the cast as they were back then, because it means we were younger once, too.  It would be a pure treat to see this in its original stage play production. "},{"Title":"Great movie, in spite of what they say","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Perhaps it's because I grew up in New Mexico, but I've always enjoyed watching this movie.  It was the first video I ever bought.If you're looking for perfect-pitch singing, don't bother, but if you want to listen to singing that is moving and very listenable, this is the movie. (OK, Harve Presnell is a good singer, but Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood would never make it into Julliard.)  And the plot is engaging, the songs wonderful, and the scenery breathtaking.An interesting side note is that the plot of the Broadway play from which this was taken is COMPLETELY different.    "},{"Title":"It brings a smile to my face","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" While Hello, Dolly! is a movie that some viewers feel compelled to admire, Paint Your Wagon is a movie some viewers feel compelled to criticize. I don't feel compelled to do either. What counts is whether you enjoy a movie, not whether you are supposed to admire a movie. I did not enjoy Hello, Dolly! despite giving it my best try several times. But I have enjoyed watching Paint Your Wagon, even with several viewings over the years. I enjoy musicals. As a kid in the Sixties I would borrow the LPs of the Broadway cast or movie soundtrack from the library, before there were VHS or DVDs. I enjoyed listening to the great songs. But now we don't have to limit ourselves to just the music excerpts. This provides a clue to the difference between these two musicals. Hello, Dolly! had some very good music, of a Broadway sort, so we assumed it was an equally good musical. Paint Your Wagon had musical roots going back to the Fifties, and was a musical non-entity.Hello, Dolly! the movie has lots of good Broadway songs and incredibly lavish sets and dance numbers, which are its raison d'etre. But the movie has a plot that is astonishingly weak, in light of its Broadway success. Watching a fleet of dancing waiters performing absurd acrobatics is not my idea of fun.Paint Your Wagon has some decent musical numbers, and some almost feeble attempts at dancing, but no one in their right mind would see it just for its music and dancing. So judged on that score, alone, it would rate a flop. But it's got a reasonably interesting story and very good acting, including a fine comic performance by Lee Marvin (!), not to mention some memorable croaking that passes for singing. If you snipped out all the singing and dancing, Paint Your Wagon would still be a film worth watching.Hello, Dolly! on the other hand, has acting that varies from mediocre to miserably atrocious, and a story line you wouldn't pay more than $100 for someone to write. If you cut out the music and dancing, the audience would walk out. The sore point with Paint Your Wagon is its budget. Reviewers relish reminding people of its $18 million budget. But Hello, Dolly! cost $25 million, and they both came out in the same year (although Dolly was filmed earlier and shelved). Because so much money was wasted on Wagon, we are not supposed to enjoy it. While it is easy to put down the musical side of Wagon, it should be pointed out that Lerner and Lowe, Nelson Riddle and Andre Previn are hardly slouches. And Clint Eastwood acquits himself remarkably well. With Wagon, the producers wisely picked actors who were right for the part, and dealt with the singing later. What I find most curious in comparing the two, is that Dolly seems two or three times as long as Wagon, even though it has faster pacing and is 146 minutes long, to Wagon's 158 minutes. Dolly is rushed, and painful to watch, while Wagon has a relaxed pace and is fun to watch. It is nice to see a movie that is not in a hurry, though Wagon could fit its story line into a shorter movie.Part of the problem with Dolly is that it is a comedy that just is not funny. With Wagon, the humor is built into the awkward situations and odd characters, so it works with repeated viewings. But it is those situations that may provide the real clue to Wagon's hostile reception it's menage a trois. It was rated M, or R today, just because of its implied three-way sex. It is something viewers hardly notice today, but in 1969, Wagon must have been viewed as sneering at religion and all morality (which is about right). This may be why I like it so much, but it is also undoubtedly why some people despise this movie, even today. Wagon is the original louche musical.For some people, musicals are supposed to embody family values. Wagon ridicules them. It makes a mockery of marriage, while glorifying prostitution, drinking, cigar smoking, violence and thievery. Dolly, on the other hand, couldn't be more old- fashioned and square. You cannot imagine, in your wildest dreams, Matthau and Streisand having sex, and yet Matthau, out of the blue, proposes to her, without even a kiss. Now that's family values. Wagon certainly is not one of the great musicals, but it is still a fun movie worth watching when you have a long evening and a lot of popcorn handy. The bottom line I find Paint Your Wagon entertaining, but Hello, Dolly! pretentious. Watching Wagon, or even just recollecting it, brings a smile to my face. "},{"Title":"One Bride for Two brothers","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This massive western musical made at Paramount in 1969 costing $20,000,00 is crudely and cruelly dismissed as a financial flop (it did NOT ... that was DARLING LILI.... and WAGON repaid its budget) and rudely regarded as a big dumb musical...... well I believe time and attention has vindicated the sneerers. PAINT YOUR WAGON was and still is a very funny colossal western musical produced on an amazing scale. Every single prop and costume is clearly hand made, from scratch, and set in a glorious mountain setting that constantly defines spectacular. There is so much to enjoy in this film, but today in 2007 for me it is the detail in every aspect of the art direction and the production design that I personally find attention grabbing. I first saw it in 1970 in 70mm in its 7 month run in a picture palace in Sydney... WAGON was a very popular film in Australia... and as a bawdy One Bride For 2 Brothers musical with modern sexual tones it struck audiences as an adult musical. People today can see the amazing sight of Clint Eastwood singing and Lee Marvin falling about yelling and being another aspect of his Kid Shaleen character from CAT BALLOU. There are many quiet delights in this huge film... the two most rewarding for me are Harve Presnell singing MARIAH... and the exquisite Jean Seberg plaintively singing A MILLION MILES AWAY BEHIND THE DOOR surely one of the most beautiful character songs for any woman in any film ever. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  this is a good movie - a little unusual perhaps - one reason i like it is because it is funny and the people who are in it aren't who u would expect to be in it but they are the ones who make the movie. lee marvin was wonderful as ben rumson and clint eastwood reminded me of his character in raw hide - gentle loving and caring someone whom women can empathize with which is exactly what elizabeth does. two thumbs up. it has wonderful songs and music that make the movie what it is. i was born under a wandering star is a great song that marvin just does perfectly - he looks unhappy sings unhappy and acts unhappy and depressed and the song reflects that - for crying out loud the man's wife didn't want hi maround - how else should he be expected to act?  "},{"Title":"the cap on the time capsule","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  the part that no one ever mentions is the soundtrack and its vintage throwback to the grand musicals of the fifties...but of course the film was based on the Broadway musical of the same name and those tunes jarred my memory of growing up in the fifties...this inspired a kind of nostalgia for the film when it debuted in 1969....my favorite film of all times...lee Marvin at his very best...almost as if the character was written for him alone....the only other role that has that much soul is his hobo film...emperor of the north (pole)...and thats saying a bunch for all of lee's characters had depth (no doubt created from what lee brought to the table with his own persona)....in many ways it was the nail in the coffin on the Hollywood musicals...considered a major flop, it went on in reruns on TV etc..to be a wonderful romp with word of mouth being a thumbs up in every respect...I still don't know why it wasn't a success at that time...(it was perfect escape from the Vietnam war era) but in retrospect..I guess its musical theme overshadowed its bawdy comedy...for musicals by then were dead....even Elvis' seemingly inexhaustible musical career had spurted its last time as Hollywood seemed to be getting into a new version of noir type pictures....in any regard...it is still the best movie ever made...profound in dialogue that reaches the heart of man's struggle with his/herself in regard to doing whats fun and free spirited as it opposes their own moral obligations....and yet fully knowing the losing side of both....Ben's quote preceding his song born under a wandering star...said it all...their are two kinds of people...them going somewhere and them going nowhere...I'm an exodus to nowhere...sometimes I get mighty homesick.  "}{"Title":"These boys can sing, no matter what people say.","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I will stand up for the singing of Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin in this movie. I think they are just great. You must take this in context. Here you have some rough miners (49'ers?) who do a lot of hard work just to survive. Then you have men coming to the American West from all the over world, just to have a chance at unspeakable riches. You have the thousands of men forming a rough-hewn town, complete with all the stereotypical saloons, whorehouses, do-gooders & a fundamentalist preacher. This is a good way to interpret the historical saga of the California Gold Rush; song-and-dance is a good way to make dry history more palatable.Pardner is a sweet young man who dreams of a beautiful lady, Elisa. I think Clint Eastwood's voice in this song is excellent. I have taken many acting classes, and I feel that he becomes the character and sings about Elisa in a most heartfelt manner. I have also studying singing, and feel that Clint was coached by a singing teacher, for this movie, and was taught how to use his voice as a sincere instrument. ... I would never go to see Clint Eastwood in a movie about Dirty Harry. I saw 1-2 of his spaghetti westerns, & also Play Misty for Me (a very scary movie). I think I like Clint in Paint Your Wagon, best of all.What can I say about Lee Marvin?? Such a tough guy. Ex-Marine. Leader of the Beatles Gang in The Wild One, where Marlon Brando gets the most press. I don't like the masculine tough-guy movies in which Lee Marvin mostly played, BUT I thought he was such a trip in Cat Ballou. That was such a funny movie!! Lee played the double characters of Tim Strawn & Kid Shelleen. It was so uproariously funny!! In Paint Your Wagon (done 4 years later), Lee Marvin is again a comedic genius, with his slow-uptake dry humor as Ben Rumson--a wily rascal if there ever was one. And I think Lee Marvin's song Wandrin' Star is SO excellent. His character is so charmingly bawdy and yet moral in his own way. Ben never sets out to be the hoity-toity leader of frontier society. All he wants to do is travel from *here-to-there*. Of course he must have had a singing coach for Paint Your Wagon, too. Lee & Clint were certainly playing against their typecast reputations, & I feel they did a damned fine job. They seemed to have a fun time doing this, & course it's a movie that all the haters of tough-guy-western-criminal-prison movies can enjoy.I always stand up for the musicals. I do love them. Someone's got to. They were not dumb. They may be out of the movies these days, but they are still hot on Broadway. Let's hear it for more Broadway musicals making it to Hollywood soon. If they are made, the audiences will come. Dance, acting & singing classes are more popular than ever in 2003, and to this day singers still prepare Broadway songs for auditions. "},{"Title":"Eastwood as singer.....horrible but fun","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  So the acting on Eastwood's side is wooden, on Marvin's side is over the top, scenery chewing, tries too hard and the woman is just a cipher. Still, the great scenery, the memorable songs, the reminder that we are still the Wild Wild West in terms of gun-slinging is sorta' enjoyable.So why has it taken me three night to see both tapes?  The action is SOOOOOOOOO slow, and the writing so stilted.  Subconsciously, I'm probably reacting to the Mormon women as wives and merchandise for the sex-starved men of the gold mining camps.  They are just objects, reasons for the men to do something.  None of them are fleshed out and given a real character.Just once I would like to see a woman of the Wild Wild West given a realistic story (understandably impossible in a musical), so that our daughters could walk away with some understanding of what it really must have been like back then.So, enjoy it for the music, as well as the strange sight of Clint Eastwood singing.. pre-jazz, pre-Dirty Harry, pre-Line of Fire.  And if you think of Rowdy(?), the part he played in that TV series, it's understandable.  In his interviews, he seems to have quite an affection for this movie, an opportunity to show the world a side of him never seen again. "},{"Title":"It's just a delight!","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is the first pre-21st century Clint Eastwood movie I've seen, and it was great. Clint and Lee Marvin did great as actors, and they are amazing singers, since this is one of the few older movies to have the actors to do their own singing. It's rare to find a western musical, and this definitely satisfied.A film that focuses on the Gold Rush in California, it portrayed everything well enough. The beginning was very solid and fun to watch, it formed into seriousness and actual development of the characters, and then the end turns around and makes you think. It is a great cinematic achievement and I suggest it to anyone who appreciates older movies. "},{"Title":"Better On The Small Screen","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  One of the first Broadway musicals I ever saw was James Barton, Olga SanJuan and Tony Bavaar in Lerner and Loewe's PAINT YOUR WAGON. Mind you,this was in 1951 (I was a mere child!). It took almost twenty years tomake the film version and when I saw it I was astounded that they evencalled what came out PAINT YOUR WAGON!In the first place the story is totally different. In the original BenRumson is a single father. He sings I Still See Eliza about his deadwife. (In the movie Clint Eastwood sings it leaning against a tree as asong with no relation to the story at all.) In the Broadway play, Ben istrying to raise a young and anxious daughter who falls in love with aMexican prospector. Yes there are prospectors and yes there are Bawdywomen, but the heart of the original has been cut out for the movie.All that's left in the screen version are some of the beautiful songsfrom the show by Lerner and Loewe, (and some not so beautiful oneswritten for the film by Andre Previn,) some characters with the samename as those in the play and that's about it.Needless to say I was very disappointed when I saw the film on areserved seat roadshow version in London in 1970. (I doubt if I havelooked at my watch more than at that show, except maybe for THE PERFECTSTORM and DUDLEY DOO-RIGHT.)  Recently however, a friend gave me the DVDof the film as a birthday gift and, wanting to hear at least a few ofthe good songs, I popped it into the player last night. Surprise!  Thefilm is not as bad as I had remembered.  I think I know why. That thistime I am not expecting  the Broadway play is a given, but mainly thefilm just plays better on home video.  On it's initial release, Lerner'ssimple story got dwarfed by the 70mm projection and the booming sound.Seen on a 32 inch screen (with surround sound), the film can be seen forthe almost chamber piece that Lerner conceived. All at once thebrilliance of Lee Marvin's performance shines through, an incrediblyyoung Clint Eastwood accounts himself well (and sings pleasantly!), andthe tragic Jean Seberg comes across as a far better actress than I hadimagined.  Yes, the destruction of the mining camp is still ridiculousand yes, Joshua Logan's direction is stultifyingly dull (as it was inCAMELOT), but all in all the film is a surprising treat. If you hatedPAINT YOUR WAGON the first time, give it another chance. I think youwill be pleasantly surprised.  "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I can't remember another Hollywood musical where the two leads weren't non singers, yet here you have Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood making it work.  Thank goodness Harve Presnell was their to give some credence to it all.  Great acting, plus a sparkling musical score and finely tuned directing from Joshua Logan, turn this production into a real treat for theater patron's and home video buffs.  The part of Ben Rumson had to have been created with Lee Marvin in mind.  Add a solid performance by Clint Eastwood, great support from Jean Seberg and Ray Walston and you have an outstanding musical.  To bad Hollywood gave these films up so long ago.  I rated this an 8.    "},{"Title":"Despite...","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" the ratings this movie received; the fact that Lee Marvin considered it 'crap' and only did it for the money; and, that 'tough-guy' Clint Eastwood sings in it, which most considered silly...I believe this to be a very good and entertaining movie.Sure, it's likely all of this - it received low ratings and it's crap to those who dislike musicals; and, seeing 'Clint' sing and be all lovey-dovey was probably too much for most viewers and only appealed to children in a Doctor Dolittle sort of way.However, it is also a 'fun' movie in the way that the characters interact; especially how these two men (the two main stars) ALLOW and ACCEPT to be the husband(s) of the same beautiful woman, Elizabeth (Jean Seberg).In a time when musicals were on their way out, this movie actually makes me wish they came back.This is a very enjoyable movie! ) "},{"Title":"Nevertheless, I still enjoy it.","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The film has its detractors because of its running time and the quality of the singing from non-singing actors such as Eastwood and Marvin. Nevertheless, I always find a lot to enjoy when I watch the film. Strangely, when I saw the stage version of PYW, I was quite bored by the story and the songs which were sung by better voices but with a lot less character. I am sure Josh Logan knew that Lee Marvin's voice was not the note perfect baritone expected in a stage performance but it was the voice of a dishevelled and disillusioned yet crustily resilient gold prospector of the Californian gold rush.I love Marvin's work in virtually every film he did - although I think at times he hammed it up just a little too much in this film. For most of PYW though, his comic timing is perfect and his wryly philosophical arias are funny with the ring of a human truth.Perhaps my enjoyment of PYW is increased by my interest in gold rushes. Many of the key elements of gold fields life and gold diggers although perhaps not faithfully reproduced are nevertheless explored. Solid citizens like Eastwood's Pardner are transformed against their better judgement by gold fever into opportunistic and greedy scramblers for gold. Egalitarianism of the gold fields. People from all backgrounds and nations lived together as equals - except for the Chinese who were always the outsiders on the field. Women were scarce and men did come from miles away just to see a woman. Men often fainted at the sight of a woman on the fields. Who wouldn't have walked a mile or two to see Jean Seberg? And, of course, prostitution flourished.I am still thrilled at the moment that Harve Presnell steps up into frame and hits the line Way out west.. Logan was right to get a real singer to do the one song that truly needed a powerful voice. The drama and pathos of the song is helped by the chorus of miners dolefully singing as the rain and wind exacerbates their alienation from the comforts of home and of female companionship. They Call the Wind Mariah in this film is a gem of sound and vision.I also love the scene in which Ben attempts to corrupt Horton, the young newcomer from a pious apple farming family, who unexpectedly and hilariously takes to drinking, cigar smoking and finally sex like a duck to water.Paint Your Wagon is not a classic but it is fun and has some excellent moments. Enjoy the good parts and try to forgive some of its excesses. "},{"Title":"Paint Your Wagon","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Paint Your Wagon is based on the 1951 Broadway musical of the same name, but for the usual reasons the plot has been altered somewhat. Also, it would not have been possible to portray a ménage à trois on stage in 1951.Having said that, there isn't a great deal to the plot prospectors during the California Gold Rush erect a new town called No Name City. Before that though, with four hundred men and no women at all...then two women arrive with their husband - singular. What happens next is far from edifying, and it is a little surprising that third wave feminists haven't organised a worldwide boycott of the video.Nevertheless, this is primarily a musical, and although most of the songs are not particularly strong, they are certainly passable, the two exceptional ones being They Call The Wind Maria and Wand'rin' Star, the latter of which was performed by the gravelly voiced Lee Marvin and was a surprise number one hit in the UK. "},{"Title":"Better than good!","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This is a simi-accurate picture of what California was like 150 years ago. I was born in Sacramento, I can see and feel the reality every day. The farmers they deride now own millions of acres and are fabulously wealthy (the decendants). A state built on whiskey an' gold! An if there wasn't a Lee Marvin there, there shoulda' been!! Sutter's fort, Coloma, its all right here. I wish I could swipe six bawds from Sonora! (about 100mi from here) My high point is when the Chinese play the french national anthem!! Research the story of French Hill!! It didn't last long I tell you!! Claim jumpin was the way of the land, no law, only mob rule! At the restored town of Columbia (made of brick), there were stories of the people throwing gold bags at the stage of the entertainers! This movie is as factual as any story ever told!! Shot in the foothills where this really happened!! Paint your wagon and come along!!! "},{"Title":"Great music, goofy cast","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I first saw this movie ages ago and even then it was truly weird to see and hear Clint Eastwood sing. I love the soundtrack for the movie, especially the one They call the wind Maria(h) that Harve Presnell did. It still gives me goosebumps like hearing Ole Man River or something...just a simple song so well sung that it clicks with you. Jean Seberg in her role ? - go figure. I didn't realize that the original stage version was so different from what I had seen on screen. I don't understand why it didn't do that well considering how many other western musicals made great hits, like Unsinkable Molly Brown and Annie Get Your Gun. When you see all those old faces in the crowd of actors, like Ray Walston, it's amazing to think these people were in such a musical. "}{"Title":"That Rumson,him smart man. Smart like General Custer","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The above is my favorite line from Paint Your Wagon. I saw the play back in 1976 in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. The above is spoken by the Indian. Ben Rumson is a prospector in the California goldcountry. Rumson takes on a partner named Newel. Newel's aneastern farmer who's befriended by Rumson. They soon buy and marry the same woman and get into other misadventures. I also saw the movie the same year I saw the play. Both are very funny. Way out here they've got a name, for earth and wind and fire. The earth is sage, fire is Tess, and they call the wind Mariah! "},{"Title":"A pleasant diversion","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Even though this movie has never gotten any good press, it is definitely enjoyable. As the movie unfolds, it shares with us the rise, golden age, and fall of a California boom town while treating us to some wonderful performances and silly plot twists in the unorthodox format of a musical. The performances by Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood are fantastic. To see Clint in a role where he does not shoot anyone and even sings a couple of songs is a very nice change of pace. The subject matter of many of the gags is certainly of an adult nature -smoking cigars and drinking whisky are the second and third best things in life! - but it is all presented in a family-friendly way. If you are looking for something different, this is it. While you are at it, I would suggest Goin' South with Jack Nicholson and Mary Steenburgen. "},{"Title":"I hate 'musicals', but Paint Your Wagon is simply too good to resist...","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Musicals have not been one of my favorite film genres in the past.  They are neither enjoyable to watch nor do they make the best use of the twentieth century film medium. Please - musical playwrights - keep your musicals firmly in the safe confines of your theatres. Usually too, they consist of the same stereotyped, recycled plot - the young protagonist who cannot withstand the urge to instantaneouly break into song and verse when he is a) in love or b) sad. They are usually complemented by poor cinematography and reluctant editing. If we followed the Korean example of cutting all the musical scenes out of Sound of Music, we would find a most rudimentary, big-budget-but-still-student-film-maker-quality film. I think that musicals are a disgrace to film-making. In fact, I regret the fact that many consider some of the better ones worthy of Mr Oscar.However, you can TOTALLY disregard EVERYTHING I have said when it comes to PAINT YOUR WAGON. Starring two of the best later 60's / early 70's rough anti-hero types - Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin - this is FUN! FUN! FUN! Decent comedy set in the California Gold Rush of the 1840's. You'd be fairly surprised, but the songs (sung mainly by Marvin but also Clint liberally through the film) actually help carry the story along. A much underrated movie (Come on Paramount, get your act together and release the DVD!!), but perhaps a bit too long for some (maybe you consider the role a little watered down for Clint), I promise you, you'll AT LEAST be subtly amused from the opening credits to the end frame.  In any event, I don't think there could be one reason for anyone hating it. Watch it, borrow it, like it  "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie is plain and simple fun. Sure, you have to suspend your disbelief, but so what. I like to escape with movies, and this is 2+ hours of escape. Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood are not gifted singers. But they are gifted actors and they do a great job in this movie. I love the male chorus songs, as well as the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. They Call the Wind Maria is perfectly placed and perfectly sung. Staging this in the Sierra's was genius. It adds a touch of realism when it comes to the gold rush story. Wet, nasty, sometimes foreboding weather is very realistic. If you have the DVD and the making of the movie is available, it's very interesting. "},{"Title":"The Best Things in Life are Dirty!","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This epic Musical Western may not be an artistic triumph but is an unbeatable entertainment with larger-than-life star-power. By sharp contrast to the elegance and sophistication of the Lerner & Loewe team's exquisite MY FAIR LADY, GIGI and CAMELOT, the entirely revised movie version of PAINT YOUR WAGON throws all grace and poise to the winds in its raunchy celebration of the pure joy of dancing and wallowing in gloriously filthy mud.The original 1950's Broadway show was daring at the time for its interracial romance between a white woman and a Mexican native, but by 1968 this theme had become dated. Thus producer/lyricist Alan Jay Lerner based his bawdy screenplay on an entirely new story by playwright Paddy Chayefsky, which parodies Sodom and Gomorrah as a grandiose comedy of colorful moral follies in Gold Rush California. The previous Lerner & Loewe film, CAMELOT -- also directed by Joshua Logan (SOUTH PACIFIC) -- had focused on an adulterous triangle relationship, so the new PAINT YOUR WAGON seeks to top that with a marriage-threesome at center. But in place of the tragic fall of a shining ideal, the inevitable collapse of No Name City (the Las Vegas of the Old West) is played entirely for uproarious belly-laughs.Seven songs from the original show are retained, including I Talk to the Trees, There's a Coach Comin' In, and (supremely) the show- stopping aria They Call the Wind Maria (powerfully sung by Harve Presnell in full Howard Keel mode). In support of these are five new songs written by Lerner with composer Andre Previn (standing in for the retired Frederick Loewe).The production and costumes are spectacular, but it is the bold casting that makes this a memorable show. Clint Eastwood has natural singing ability and demonstrates how cool an old-fashioned Musical can be with Gold Fever (the one Lerner-Previn song that gives the vintage score a real challenge). In other respects Eastwood is in good form as the easy- going side of his unique screen persona. Jean Seberg is fine as well, leavening the broad comedy with an underplayed wry humor.However, the movie truly belongs to the great Lee Marvin, who is its heart and soul. Besotted old Ben Rumson is one of the actor's most memorable characters, evoking his Academy Award-winning role in another comic Western, CAT BALLOU. Taken as a super-vehicle for Marvin, this PAINT YOUR WAGON becomes something special.As for the caliber of Lee Marvin's talk-singing Don't let it be forgot that the soundtrack recording of his rough yet poignant performance of the Lerner-Loewe classic Wandrin' Star was a #1 hit in England.Rating 8/10 **** OUTSTANDING. "},{"Title":"Not the turkey it's rumored to be.  It has merit.","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Landing at the tail end of a string of big-budget musical busts, this film has garnered a reputation as a deadly, leaden failure with stars who can't sing. It may be true that the stars can't really sing, but the film itself does contain many pleasures. (Fans, however, of the original Broadway show, should be prepared for some major changes to the storyline and score!) Marvin stars as a lonesome drifter who takes in a wounded farmer (Eastwood) and calls him 'Pardner', setting the two of them up as gold prospectors. When the area they are panning starts to grow, the makeshift town full of men begins to long for some female companionship. Fortunately for Marvin, a Morman comes by and decides to offload one of his wives in exchange for ready cash. The wife (Seberg) joins with Marvin, but also has an eye on Eastwood. Eventually, her presence causes some jealousy and animosity to build within the community and between Marvin and Eastwood, but Marvin believes he can allay the situation by importing a half dozen French tarts to work in casino owner Presnell's hotel. Before long, the gold is getting harder to find and several more tough decisions will have to be made. All along, the cast sings songs here and there, aided by a pronounced male chorus. Marvin decidedly overacts his grizzled character, but is generally amusing to watch. Eastwood is quite handsome at this stage of his career (this film is sandwiched in between his Man With No Name spaghetti westerns and his Dirty Harry series.) Seberg is lovely. Her potentially sleazy and tasteless role is made palatable by her natural beauty and her inherent dignity. None of the rest of the cast is given a whole lot to do, but Presnell sings an impressive number and stalwart Walston digs into his comic role with gusto. Ligon also gets a nice showcase as a grinning dimwit whose 'first tries' at every vice he can come upon end up with him mastering them right away and wanting more! Marvin's voice is about on par with Lucille Ball's in Mame if not worse, but at least it's authentic to the locale and character. No one expects a man of his background to unleash some melodious voice. Eastwood's voice runs hot and cold. His ballad I Still See Elisa is perfectly serviceable (even if he sings it next to a raging river and not one trickle can be heard on the soundtrack!) I Talk to the Trees is preposterous and has an ending that's a bit beyond his comfort zone. The less said about the anachronistically 1960's Gold Fever the better. Seberg's voice was dubbed (and she really rather overstated the lip-synching and emoting during the number.) Fans of men's choruses should find a lot to like here as this one is featured throughout and tends to be strong. The scenery is lush and colorful, the cast is large and authentically rustic and the film itself actually runs shorter than the seemingly bloated runtime of 164 minutes once the intermission and end credit music are discounted &#150; approximately six minutes or so. There could have been a little pruning here and there to shore the pace up a tad, but it goes by rather nicely all in all. There's an extended slapstick finale that will be a matter of taste (and is obviously where a hunk of the sizable budget went.) Seberg would star in the gigantic hit Airport a year after this before beginning her downward spiral that would lead to her horribly premature death. "},{"Title":"I can't get these damn songs out of my head","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  My parents hounded me for years to see this song, and now that I have, I can't get Mary, Ma-Ma-Ma-Mary, My Sweet Canary. . . out of my head.Anyway, this is a fabulous movie, if for nothing else just the fact that they took two of most villianous anti-heros in the Western genre and successfully put them in a musical.  Go watch any movie with either Clint or Lee Marvin before you see this one, just to get an appreciation for how different this movie is.  No, they're not singers, but I think that was half the point.  It's definitely a movie you have to see to believe.There will never be another movie like this made.  Some might say that's the best news of the year, but I think it's because there are no actors or any roles these days that could have this kind of total reversal from their norm.Anyway, I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Better than I ever expected.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I've heard Clint sing. I wasn't impressed. At least they kept him in his range. Lee Marvin did surprisingly well, again they gave him vocals that didn't require much stretch. And the movie is unexpectedly funny! Next time someone suggests a Clint Eastwood-Lee Marvin shoot-em-up for movie night, give them the surprise of their life! "},{"Title":"Great music, great script, great acting","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Lee Marvin. Clint Eastwood. Musical comedy.What more needs to be said? The only thing missing is naked women, but with this movie, you hardly miss them. "},{"Title":"A one of a kind","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Musical that takes place during the Gold Rush days at a place called No Name City. Ben Rumson (Lee Marvin) a hard-drinking, ill-tempered man is partners with a man named Pardner (Clint Eastwood). Through some circumstances too convoluted to get into, Ben gets a wife named Elizabeth (Jean Seberg). However she starts falling for Pardner. What will they do? For 1969 that was pretty adult and strange subject matter for a musical.This movie was plagued by problems when it was being filmed. Marvin was impossible to get along with, the director and producer were constantly fighting and it was filmed in the dead heat of summer where temperatures ran over 100%. It went way over budget, was released and bombed almost immediately. It's no undiscovered masterpiece of cinema but it's not as bad as its reputation would have you think.There are many problems with this film--Marvin and Eastwood couldn't sing so (naturally) they sang. Marvin was quite obviously tone deaf and Eastwood was OK (he's introduced singing in fact) but had a very thin voice which didn't do justice to the songs. Seberg was (thankfully) overdubbed. The songs themselves aren't bad but not exactly memorable. There's a show stopper called There's a Coach Coming In which is fun. Acting varies--Marvin chews the scenery and Eastwood downplays his scenes which contrast Marvin beautifully. Seberg was beautiful but never was a great actress as this movie shows. For some reason the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band plays a few songs and appears briefly on screen. Also Paddy Chayeksky adapted the screenplay! It's overlong (almost three hours) and very strange but fun and interesting. I give it a 7.Not tonight parson, these folks have suffered enough. "}{"Title":"Lively as a Mirage; Colorful, Funny, Large-Scale and Raucous Musical Fun","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" As a writer and director, I find the Paint Your Wagon cinematic project to be a fascinating one. A play first staged on Broadway, Alan Jay Lerner's and Frederic Loewe's first popular hit was done with human beings, lighting, effects and music. As a film., director Joshua Logan opened the production out; he showed men trekking West in a fantastic array of wagons and rolling vehicles, founding a city amid tall trees in the hills of California, striking gold and building their town No Name City from nothing. The feature was scenic, big in appearance, outdoor-oriented, spacious and colorful I suggest--and he downplayed the musical numbers with the exception of They Call the Wind Maria. So, we as appreciators and viewers of his large-scale work need to look at how and why he did what he did to make this a very cinematic experience--one which begins by the camera resolving fractured or hazy images into clear forms and which ends with an opposite devolution as the city's dwellers trek off to the next goldfield and vanish like the elements of an improbable mirage or fever-dream. Logan had directed Picnic with extraordinary skill, moving it to real locations and out-of- doors; but the difference was that he then had a cast of mostly stage-trained actors to work with. Here, his attempt as in South Pacific to use plausible physical types and not trained actors did not work as well, once again, I suggest. In a musical, singers are not always good actors--which is why they are frequently replaced on soundtracks by dubbed voices of singers; and so the director's priorities are to find the right actors if he is having them sing or else plausible actors among available singers. The story-line of Paint Your Wagon, as written for the screen by naturalistic author Paddy Chayefsky and Lerner, is amusing but not important. The narrative follows men West who are misfits, seekers after gold, and/or men with an inordinate desire, wish or lust of some sort. These men find gold in California's hills; they labor months on short rations under rain, stormwinds, cold, privation and loneliness. And two strike up a firm friendship as a tent city is raised--bright, moody, hard-drinking Ben Rumson (Lee Marvin) and Pardner, a Man who is obviously new to the West. The two eventually end up agreeing with the young woman who suggests the solution to the fact that she is in love with both of them, Elizabeth (Jean Seberg), that she ought to marry both of them at once. This is a mining camp--no one objects. From this point on, the wild West becomes even wilder. The men hijack a stagecoach after holding a huge meeting to discuss the action. And its cargo is brought to No Name City--six shady Gallic ladies. The growth and wildness of the place continues unabated. There are saloons erected, gambling houses running full-bore and vast underground tunneling operations being conducted. Instead of the gentle I Talk to the Trees, the evocative Paint Your Wagon, and I Still See Luisa now the songs become hard-edged, Gold and I Was Born Under a Wand'rin' Star. There is rough humor involving Ben introducing a young man to sex with the help of the Madam of the local cathouse and being amazed by his progress. There are arguments between Ben and Pardner. And Elizabeth finally refusing to leave the house they build for her, as a wild-eyed preacher predicts the fall of No Name City--and watches as it collapses as if on cue as a bull stampedes down the main thoroughfare. The qualities of the film are opulent but a bit inconsistent. William A Fraker was the feature's cinematographer, John Truscott did the good production design. Carl Braunger did the vivid art direction and the set decorations were supplied by James L. Berkey. John Truscot also designed the many admirable costumes. In the cast, Lee Marvin dominates in a nearly-award-caliber and lively attempt. His renditions of Gold and Wanderin' Star are very effective despite his lack of singing ability. Clint Eastwood is pleasant and adequate as Pardner, even though he cannot sing at all. Jean Seberg is rather good as Elizabeth, showing maturity as a star performer. Others in the numerous cast include Alan Dexter as the dynamic preacher, Ray Walston (charismatic) as Mad Jack, Harve Presnell, Benny Baker, H.B. Haggerty, Tom Ligon, H.W. Gim and Robert Easton, Carl Bruck, Alan Baxter and Paula Trueman. The film has the defects of director Logan's methods as noted above. I assert; but the film's breezy success as an entertainment owes much to Logan's eye for physical and interpersonal moments the staging of They Call The Wind Maria to symbolize the loneliness of a grey winter; and the cheerful industry of the miners singing Gold as they tunnel happily away, the great meeting etc. I admire much of the film's drive and attempted realism; and I appreciate many of its best moments, its lighting, its lack of pretension. I saw the film in New York City in 1969; and I still enjoy it as much as ever without being insensible of its imperfections. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" After reading some of the reviews, I have to agree that Lee Marvin makes the movie. In the trivia section it says he was drunk everyday of the filming. Well, Ben Rumson was supposed to be drunk everyday also. Either the role was written for him, or he was the living embodiment of Rumson.I believe someone made a mistake regarding the lyrics of Wanderin' Star. It was I'm an ex-citizen of nowhere, and sometimes I get mighty homesick. I loved that song the moment I heard it, and it really sums up the character. I was very surprised to learn the record went gold in England. I never thought Lee Marvin had a gold record. He can't sing worth a damn, yet this musical would have been nothing without him. Go figure. "},{"Title":"The Leads can't sing, but who cares?","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  OK.  Cling Eastwood for all his grimacing and through clenched teeth muttering, can't sing.  If any doubts existed in this film, he removed them all with his son, who showed he sings worse than his dad, in Honky-Tonk Man.  Then, tough guy Lee Marvin growls I Was Born Under a Wandering Star... Ugh! Awful, terrible, ouch, my ears... But, hey.  This is a funny, funny film and not dependent on the singing of its main actors.  Besides, Harve Presnell in his long-before Fargo role thrills us with his rich baritone singing They Call the Wind Mariah.  I've always thought that this musical was just so-so, but Eastwood, Marvin and the gorgeously gorgeous Ms. Seberg have a chemistry.  The scene where Marvin takes the kid into an adult initiation is priceless as is the comic, slapstick scenes where the town is collapsing and Marvin stops at the lantern, pulls out the pint and takes a good six gurgle slug.  Folks.  This movie is fun.  Funny and who gives a rat's patoots whether Eastwood or Marvin can sing.  If you really want great singing, listen to Presnell again.  It's worth it. "},{"Title":"Not the longest movie ever written. Just feels that way.","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Clint Eastwood sings in this movie. Unfortunately, that's not even the worst thing about it. Mr. Eastwood can at least carry a tune, sort of, though not very far. He, Lee Marvin, and Jean Seaberg all turn in nice acting performances and have some good lines. But with the notable exception of They Call the Wind Mariah, which is beautiful, the songs are boring, unmelodic, and odd (one of them celebrates dirt). They're so bad, in fact, that it's hard to believe that they came from Lerner and Loewe, the team that wrote My Fair Lady, or that the original Broadway musical ran for more than 280 performances.The movie doesn't look any better than it sounds. Aside from some scarily vivid makeup on the town prostitutes, the film's palette is muddy and monochromatic -- nobody even paints their wagon, unless I dozed off and missed it. Its pacing is as aimless as the failed gold miners who populate the makeshift town. And for some reason, Mr. Eastwood doesn't wear a single article of clothing that fits him properly. (One longs for the poncho.)On the other hand, if you're looking for a movie musical about cheerfully bigamous failed gold miners who live in mud, this is the only one.  "},{"Title":"My Favorite Musical","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Eastwood & Marvin, 2 tough guys, sharing a friendship, trying to strike gold and SINGING. IMO they did all that very well. Also Jean Seberg, Harve Presnell, Ray Walston and The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band had musical numbers which were great. The women had it rough then, doing what they had t do to get by, but the majority of men were gentlemen and any wrong doings were delt with swiftly, not like in modern day civilization. People then trusted one another, went by their word and made laws simple for everyone to understand without a lawyer. They made their own kind of paradise. When civilization came in, you had the option to stay or leave, it was your choice. The story line, scenery and music score made this movie great. Also a great trivia movie, which I thing it was the only movie that Clint Eastwood sang in.  "},{"Title":"Blast from the past","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Just watched this movie for the first time since the 70's. What a light hearted and wonderful blast from the past. I have always been a massive Clint Eastwood fan, and a big Lee Marvin fan, so this was a double treat. Clint was good in this, but Lee Marvin was brilliant! All round great movie for me and my wife, and her parents love this movie also!The songs were original and entertaining, but Lee Marvin's  Wandering Star is a classic, and probably the main reason why i decided to purchase the DVD for a second viewing. So glad I did. The laughs were frequent and often subtle. The theme was slightly irreligious,but isn't that a treat? Another Clint Eastwood classic to add to my collection! "},{"Title":"Music!","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" You miss the point. Music is the focus, in a weird setting to boot! Great fun. Had to see Clint sing. Lee is always great. Fun..you'll be singing along for days. Good staging and new sound was the treat. Saw it in San Jose And paid 12.75. Cinerama ...3 split screens with small line vertically between. Great acting on all accounts. Film work and stunts are the best. Place was packed and a good time was had by all. Before IMAX this was the best job by studios. I think Clint was laughing under his breath. I was born under a wondering star! Winston was the best! Blue Ray would do this fine film justice. Ext. sound wouldn't hurt either. Get off my mountain! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I don't know what to say about this movie. It was funny and entertaining and pointless. I also rolled my eyes quite often. I also did double takes because I couldn't believe certain things were said or done. There were quite a number of shocking moments and shocking language throughout. Who wouldn't want to hear women referred to as tarts several times as they're talking about hijacking their wagon and forcing them into prostitution? The songs were...songs. It will entertain you. Whether it entertains in a good or bad way will depend on the viewer's sense of humor. My final thought is that I can't believe such a movie was made. Furthermore, I can't believe that Clint Eastwood was in it. "},{"Title":"Naughty Fun along the lines of Caberet and The Best Little Whorehous In Texas","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This wild Romp from the director of Camelot and South Pacific is a rip-roaring look at the gold mine camps of the gold fever era in pre-statehood California. Naughty, bawdy and full of fun it could not have anywhere nearly as good with anyone other than Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood as Ben Rumson and Pardner (Sylvester Newel.) Jean Seaberg was also excellent in her role, even though her singing had to be dubbed by another actress. Rounding out the leads of the cast are Ray Walston( Damn Yankees) and Harve Presnel as Rotten Luck Willie, who has the greatest song in the movie, that haunting They Call the Wind Mariah The film is PG-13 rated because of the bawdy humor and sexual situations and some of the language, but is still a magnificent entertainment. Lee Marvin can't sing a lick, but he makes up for it in shear verve and panache as Ben Rumson. Clint Eastwood, surprisingly has a pleasant if not a great voice. This is the story of a different breed of man, the seeker of adventure, the soldier of fortune, and those who seek to live free beyond the stifling constraints of Civilized society. You might not agree with them, but you can surely understand them. They are the kind of men that kept pushing back the frontiers. The best description of their philosophy is when they hang the sign naming their mining town. Noname City, Population Male and yet later Noname City, Population Drunk. So have some Apple Jack, sit back and Paint you wagon and come along. "},{"Title":"Paint Your Wagon is an enjoyably uneven musical starring Eastwood and Marvin","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Paint Your Wagon is one of the last of the big-budget movie musicals made in the late '60s after the phenomenal success of The Sound of Music. Like most of them, this one is a bit overlong but there are good scenes and performances throughout including the three leads of Lee Marvin, Clint Eastwood, and Jean Seberg. As in the Sergio Leone westerns, Eastwood is not given a character name, at least not until the end, referred to only as Pardner which is funny when Seberg looks for her two husbands and and asks for Ben and Pardner! Not bad singing from the two male leads with Wanderin' Star a highlight for Marvin. Good support from Ray Walston and Herve Presnell who sings the most memorable song, They Call the Wind Mariah. Uneven in the beginning and end but the scenes after a family of farmers arrive are some of the movie's best especially after the older son goes with Marvin to No Name Town. Director Joshua Logan doesn't always keep things together but it's not entirely his fault since the story seems to clash the styles of Paddy Chayefsky and Alan Jay Lerner. Still worth a look for seeing Eastwood and Marvin in a musical. "}{"Title":"Problems, But Still Good","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" So the acting on Eastwood's side is wooden, on Marvin's side is over the top, scenery chewing, tries too hard and the woman is just a cipher. Still, the great scenery, the memorable songs, the reminder that we are still the Wild Wild West in terms of gun-slinging is sorta' enjoyable.So why has it taken me three night to see both tapes? The action is SOOOOOOOOO slow, and the writing so stilted. Subconsciously, I'm probably reacting to the Mormon women as wives and merchandise for the sex-starved men of the gold mining camps. They are just objects, reasons for the men to do something. None of them are fleshed out and given a real character.Just once I would like to see a woman of the Wild Wild West given a realistic story (understandably impossible in a musical), so that our daughters could walk away with some understanding of what it really must have been like back then.So, enjoy it for the music, as well as the strange sight of Clint Eastwood singing.. pre-jazz, pre-Dirty Harry, pre-Line of Fire. And if you think of Rowdy(?), the part he played in that TV series, it's understandable. In his interviews, he seems to have quite an affection for this movie, an opportunity to show the world a side of him never seen again. "},{"Title":"Excellent Old Movie and Soundtrack","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" After reading the above comment, I have to give my 2 cents worth. I think Paint Your Wagon is one of the best movies ever made. Clint Eastwood does a wonderful job of actually Acting in this movie as do the other actors. This movie is a comedy with a terrific soundtrack. It even includes a song by Clint who doesn't do too bad. I remember listening to the soundtrack over and over and I love it. The songs are simply great.If you haven't seen paint your wagon, you are missing something but don't expect a big extravaganza of song and dance. I'm not sure if there is any dancing in this movie. Just great songs and an interesting story. "},{"Title":"Yes, a western musical w/ Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood Exist","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I though it was made up when I saw it on the simpsons. That particular scene does not exist but the movie does. The funniest part of this movie is just the fact that it was made. It isn't terrible, but it is much too long and much to strange to watch. It is just unnatural to see those actors in a musical comedy like this. I guess it works better than I would have expected, but I would not recommend it. It should be entertaining just knowing about the movie, you don't need to actually see it. "},{"Title":"Better Comedy Than A Musical","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I'm not a big fan of westerns; nothing against them, it's just they don't hold my interest, but this movie has a lot more going for it as a comedy than as a musical western. Some of the songs are very good, and it's kind of interesting to see Clint Eastwood jaw When I Talk To The Trees, or to see Lee Marvin warble Born Under A Wandering Star, but the best part is watching these manly prospectors become millionaires in the wilderness, build a city just the way they want it with just saloons and gambling halls and then hesitantly bring in women just to have the prostitution. Marvin has many of the funniest lines, and Eastwood more or less is his straight man. Former Martian Ray Walston is also on hand as another equally whimsical character as is Harve Presnell (whose song They Call The Wind Mariah is my favorite), William O'Connell, Alan Dexter and the Henry Higgins of Hollywood, Robert Easton. I think the character actors are part of the appeal this movie has on its loyal cult of fans. Timeless Jean Seberg begins to carry this movie with her virginal presence just as the testosterone level becomes over-bearing as she becomes the balance in the the act between Eastwood and Marvin. In short, she is the Dorothy Lamour to their Hope and Crosby. Even with the songs, some of which aren't as good as others, this is a great comedy with an unusual take on a man's paradise. "},{"Title":"Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood Singing? It Works...","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" It's the frontier days, it's a musical, there's Mormons... and it stars Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin. That's really all you need to know.Clint Eastwood is really the primary draw, being a very striking personage. Lee Marvin, if you're familiar with him from The Dirty Dozen, will seem very foreign to you -- his look and personality are radically altered. Which, of course, only means he's not given enough credit for how great of an actor he is.The film creates the argument against civilization, saying that laws limit freedom, something of an early anarchist or libertarian perspective. This could be seen as the flip to The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance where Jimmy Stewart makes the argument that civilization would bring education, safety and order. As presented, both make valid points.The other really interesting twist is the polyamory... with Clint and Lee Marvin sharing a wife (Jean Seberg). Initially, Clint thinks it doesn't make sense. It don't in Michigan, it does in California, says Lee. And that raises questions about the Mormons or any polygamy... why is a man with multiple wives seen as more natural than a wife with multiple husbands? I can speculate on that, but won't.For Eastwood fans who are used to seeing him all rough and rugged, this is a bit of a different perspective and you should check it out if for no other reason than to see how much he can range as an actor. "},{"Title":"Why Bad Movies Sometimes Produce Good Results","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I watched Paint Your Wagon on ABC back in the early seventies because my idiot older sister told me that it was really good. People often start smoking, watching American Idol, and voting for Democrats for the same reason.Then I saw this thing, with Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood . . . singing. The film was mildly funny, but Marvin and Eastwood should have kept their day jobs--shooting people. The only positive force in the film was Jean Seberg (easily one of the more beautiful woman God ever created) in a corset cut so low that an errant breeze would have caused, well, you get the picture.That's all I remember--off key warbling and Seberg looking uncomfortable in obsolete underwear. Which brings me to why this movie actually was a Godsend. Marvin and Eastwood went back to what they did so well (and Eastwood took control of his own destiny by creating Malpaso). Clint made more movies with musical themes, but he never overstepped his limited talent again.And we can remember Jean Seberg, frozen in time and the only adult in sight. "},{"Title":"MovieBroadwayappleorange","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The first time I saw the movie, I was appalled! I had performed in the stage production of it and just about the only things that connected the two were the name Ben Rumson and gold. The stage production is about Ben and his daughter who is smitten by a Spaniard. There is no Pardner - Ben isn't the one who sings Wandrin' Star - The Spaniard sings I Talk to the Trees - I could go on and on. The whole plot is approximately 95-percent different from the stage production. They even wrote brand-new songs for the movie and left out some wonderful ones from Broadway.I have watched the movie a number of times, now, and have gotten over the differences (for the most part) and enjoy watching it. I think the stage production, however, is a much more believable story. Ben does, indeed, bid on and win the unhappy second wife of the Morman, there is no second husband situation...he doesn't share her with anyone. There. That's my two cents. "},{"Title":"Minus Clint's singing not bad","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  In fact, this may be Lee Marvin's best role as the irascible Ben Rumson. He's absolutely hysterical and on perfect timing. Spoilers the scene where he teaches the Mormon kid the best 3 things in life is one of the funniest in movie history. Interesting role for Clint but mostly painful to watch him attempting to sing. Lord have mercy. All in all a fun movie and well worth the watch. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood at His Most Loverly","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This couldn't have been produced in the previous decade at the height of musicals because it has too much sex and things like polygamy. The year 1970 marked the death of musicals. So, it was most likely the musical's last gasp in 1969. Clint Eastwood is at his sexual peak--he has never been so beautiful and wonderfully photographed. When you look at this movie against he previous TV career, it is so obvious he was a closeted gay man! He was somebody's bum boy because his characters were always softer, sweeter, gentler. His voice alone melts buttah. He is like the most beautiful 12 year old boy on the cusp of manhood here. You want to take him home and cook him a good meal. His costumes are oddly different than anyone else's. They are overtly feminine. He has wide Peter Pan collars and lush quilted vests in nonmanly colors. It has to be plain to even the most naive of viewers that the only way Eastwood can tolerate sex with a woman is to have his buddy Lee Marvin around as a third. Poor Jean Seberg is miscast, yet again. She's lovely--sylphlike resembling Faye Dunaway. She even sounds like the Faye of the 60s. Lee Marvin has no business being in a musical and it is apparent. The rest of the cast is entirely forgettable. Ray My Favorite Martian Walston is always good to watch, but even he falters in a bad script. One would need a packet of 'NoDoze' to watch it in its entirety. If you can find a cut version that just includes the musical numbers and softly lit moments, watch that instead. This would've worked well as an MTV video. "},{"Title":"Paint Your Wagon (1968) was the last major movie to depict pioneer Westerners as heroes....and despised by the Left for that reason.","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Paint Your Wagon (1968) was the last major movie to depict pioneer Westerners as heroes....and despised by the Left for that reason.It was one of two big budget movies of the 1960's made when glorification of the pioneers and the Old West became socially and politically incorrect according to the lights of the political and social left which dominated the 60's, and decreed social and cultural standards for at least the next 50 years (to the present time...this is written in 2013).The other famous, well done, big budget movie where the main characters were clean cut heroes was How The West Was Won (1962).Paint Your Wagon (1968) is an excellent movie, well done by any standards usually applied to movies artistically.The movie experimented, successfully, with non-singers singing main songs the way normal people with adequate, but not trained or performance voices usually sing.Alan Jay Lerner, lyricist, screenplay writer, and producer of the movie had good luck with non-singers in lead roles performing songs in MY FAIR LADY (1956) when Rex Harrison was hired for the stage version of that show, and won a Best Actor Academy Award for the movie version in 1964.Throaty singing which isn't even is NOT necessarily bad singing, and MY FAIR LADY (1956) proved that. Paint Your Wagon (1968) singing is OK, enjoyable, and advances the story, perhaps better than show stopping vocalizing of the operatic Howard Keel variety.Alan Jay Lerner was the guiding force behind this much maligned movie.He was a great artist, and the Paint Your Wagon (1968) movie shows that.Attacks on the movie, and defamation of it made retrospectively are not justified.The visual part of it was shot in Oregon, and it is breathtaking.The story about unequipped, uneducated pioneers trying (and failing) to set up a Utopian place for themselves mirrored the 60's and efforts and ultimate failures of the counterculture's efforts to do something different. The 60's were not a complete failure in all ways, and at all times. Some of it worked, for a while.Same is true in the setting and with the people shown in the well acted, well scripted Paint Your Wagon (1968) movie.It was a big budget road show movie first shown in limited road show movie house venues in big cities in late 1968, then later released in the normal way to normal theaters.Many other road show movies also didn't do well (or as well as hoped....not the same thing as didn't do well) during this period.The times, they were a changing....at high speed, and the world was never the same again when the dust lifted.The America which entered the 1960's was not the same as the America which entered the 1970's...... and the profound changes over the 10 years between 1960 and 1970 probably exceeded those which took place over any other decade of USA history. For better or for worse, the decade really was a time of profound revolution which disowned important values of the past. All this affected the movies, and the way movies like Paint Your Wagon (1968) were treated and assessed by movie historians.Revisionist history written by Left sympathetic social historians defamed it, accused it of being a famous failure.But it wasn't and isn't.It was put together by one of the performing arts giants of the 20th century...Alan Jay Lerner.The main actors were among the most important movie stars of the century....the two male leads were both Academy Award winners (Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood).Lead actress Jean Seberg was a gifted actress....and was good in this movie.The technical part of the movie, the photography, the editing, the sound presentation, the direction........all were and are good.Like Citizen Kane (1941), Paint Your Wagon (1968) was a good movie not honored by movie historians for decades........The reasons have little to do with it's actual merit as a film and work of cinematic art.See it often! You won't regret it.----------- Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor. "}{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Ever","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When this movie is brought up, the instant response from the government educated idiots who love such classics as Star Wars IIII, is  oh, I remember that movie, Clint Eastwood sings. I never hold anyone in contempt for their stupidity when it come to movies. After all, Star Wars hits gold and no one can remember The Third Man. I have friends that constantly advise me to see the current hits, all filled with their required political correctness, political statements and tolerance. I try to explain to them that there hasn't been a decent movie since 1975 for these very reasons, but they don't understand. All I know is when I look around at the human race, I gotta wonder what the hell God was thinking - quote from Ben Rumson (Lee Marvin, in this great movie). Museums, schools, churches, yuch, all one big, bad dream. Paint Your Wagon is not just a movie in which Clint Eastwood sings. It is in line with most of his other great movies, where he represents anti-society, vigilante, and not anti-hero but true hero. As in Dirty Harry, The Outlaw Josey Wales, The Good The Bad and The Ugly, and all those Spaghetti Westerns, Clint represents, along with Lee Marvin, a desperate flee from civilized society, which is all but truly civilized. Along the way, they both marry Elizabeth (Jean Seberg), the hottest, and only female this side of the Mississippi, live as a happy threesome, steal gold from the floors of the town whorehouse and poker parlor, and Ben introduces an 18 year old farmboy (Horton) to the three best things in life - a shot of whiskey, a good cigar and Grace (that's the best, pop), in the second greatest seduction scene of all time. This movie follows those who helped make this country alive and free, chased down and controlled by those who miserably st rived to change them and their land, and the resulting flee for freedom to the next wilderness. Paint You Wagon is excellent and the writer, producer and director each had that gene of freedom and liveliness that can only be present in producing such a fun and adventurous dream. Unfortunately, a lot of folks proclaim freedom but wouldn't recognize it if it bit them on the ass. Ben Rumson is a role model, in the sense of leave one another alone, and this movie is my favorite ever. Girls, if you don't like it, watch the latest Tom Hanks chick-flick with Horace Tabor. "},{"Title":"what a film!","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I cherish this film. I first saw it in 1970. I have memorized much of the dialog. I find it ironic, that the stars Marvin/Eastwood/Seberg are not singers, but they do their own singing in the film, with no dubbing. Also- the only professional singer in the film- Harve Presnell (Rotten Luck Willie) has only one song in the film, and it is a smasher They call the wind Maria..The set design, and the props are all fabulous, I especially like the new city. My favorite character is Homer Fenty, who was coming of age, at the same time I was. I love his introduction to whiskey, cigars, and the other more intimate aspects of life.One of the most profound statements of religious tolerance, ever uttered on film, is made by Mad Jack, when he states- I don't give a good damn, how a man prays, there's room enough in hell for all of us! "},{"Title":"Nice movie, nicer soundtrack","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When I started watching this movie I thought oh no, it's a musical.., but as the story continued I found out that I panicked for no reason, a lot of songs that I somehow knew already. Lee Marvin singing wand'rin' star, just awesome. After seeing the movie I bought the soundtrack. There aren't a lot of movies with there own songs (= not know already from the radio or MTV, etc. ..) that I actually like +/- the entire soundtrack. The movie itself is a combination of western, musical & comedy. Daring part of the story is that two men sharing one women (especially when keeping in mind that this is a movie of 1969).So I'd say, watch this movie & try not to sing along ! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie Musical","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" When asked what I think of movie musicals in general I invariably recommend watching an actual stage production for at least ten times the price...And when asked to identify the most faithful adaptation of a Broadway musical to the silver screen, The King And I gets the nod.But this is my favorite movie musical. Simply put, its concept, originality, flaws and peculiarities are its most endearing qualities.The opening credits provide the first clues Lerner and Loewe, Nelson Riddle, Andre Previn and...Paddy Chayefsky? I wonder if Chayefsky thought of the sea-change to the book from the stage version (ca. 1951).Strange as it may feel to try to put that spoiler into so many words (and I won't) you actually play right along with it, and for that all credit goes to the players and the spot-on historical context.You may recognize precisely one song. Harve Presnell is clearly the class of the singers. How many musicals do you know with precisely one female voice, and a solo at that? But that's not Jean Seberg singing. And that IS Lee Marvin singing, indisputably in character.As does Clint Eastwood. Before you wince, the man has a credible musical background that he utilizes to this day. With Riddle as arranger the studio execs must've thought Clint could pass as a crooner. Witness the results...As for the choreography, well, for the most part they're singing and dancing in the mud if not the river proper. The scenery makes up for that quickly enough.The genuine movie magic enters with William Fraker's outstanding photography. As for production design, No-Name City convincingly progresses from a creek bed to a boomtown and (quite literally) bust. The aftermath of the bull-and-bear fight is positively surreal.This one lingers. The best musicals do. "},{"Title":"Last of the truly great musicals of the 60's","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Musicals were rapidly dying out since the early 60's. Paint Your Wagon was one last attempt at delivering a song (and no dance) filled movie that could be enjoyed by many. Unorthodox compared to the typical style of musicals, I feel this movie captured the hearts of many and gave it a more realistic nuance. Lee Marvin had long since established himself as a rough and tough character in so many of his movies and yet dared show how talented and tender he could be with his singing, especially with the song Wanderin' Star. I can't remember having ever seen Clint Eastwood sing in any movie before or after this film. As with many stars of the musical era Jean Seberg's singing was dubbed in but did an excellent job of acting. America, in many ways still wasn't quite ready for all the sexual innuendos in spite of it's timing with the sexual revolution. The place-setting for this movie was somewhere in the mountains of California but filmed just northwest of Baker City, OR where for many years the movie was brought back and played in the town's one and only theater. Many locals played extras in the film and loved to see to see themselves. "},{"Title":"Best Musical Ever","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This has to be one rip roaring ride of a musical. Good tunes, Wandering Star was a huge hit on the charts, great actors, Clint Eastwood and Lee Marivin in the leading roles. Would have loved to see this on stage. Lee Marvin comes across as the typical type of Westerner that shuns anything remotely looking like civilisation, but then can you blame him? Clint Eastwood as the straight laced god fearing settler on his way to new lands and gets an education in life. The lure of gold and the excitement of the rush of 1849, gambling, prostitution, bigamy, the list goes on. No Name City, population male gets a work over with the diversion of a stage full of french whores, a preacher that nobody wants, scheming gold tunnelers, a frozen wagon train containing a young bloke who gets the full Lee Marvin education on life. Funny, memorable and completely enjoyable. I have watched this film again and again, and I know they will never make them like this again. "},{"Title":"actually...a lot more fun and watchable than I would've thought, maybe for some wrong reasons","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" How could one not at least try and watch a big, bulky western yarn where Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood play prospectors who are not only married to the same woman but, yes, sing. Lots of singing. And surrounded by enough extras to give someone a hemorrhage. I did try and watch it, and got through it pretty much unscathed. It's not a movie that one would ever want to put in someone's hands that one trusts and say yes, this is Clint Eastwood's finest couple of hours or Lee Marvin, such a bad-ass (albeit for the latter it might be so if talking about his facial hair). But digging deeper into the careers of either actor, there are slip-ups that looking at them now actually have a good deal of entertainment value to them. It's just that it's executed- if one were to take this seriously- with such a portend of EPIC (in caps) quality, of the production values at a level that would be comparable to the 1995 Waterworld at the time that it becomes too much to comprehend on a human level.Yet there's also the sense of buoyancy to it that makes it kind of admirable as it chugs along. Even in the climax, when the entire town is dragged down thanks to the bull that runs through the tunnel, is cheerful up to a point or at least lighthearted. In fact, there's something kind of charming to a movie that takes its subject matter so not seriously. Like, for example, how hundreds of men all drool at the mouths at the sight of Jean Seberg when she arrives into town, and yet the men decide to hold a sort of auction in order to bid her out (why not gang up on her? guess the M rating at the time still carried some provisions as part of the puritanical beats of the ol' West). Or how Marvin and Eastwood both become husbands to Seberg when she just can't decide who she loves more (and, thanks to the most faithful of all, whiskey, the men reach an agreement on the prospect). It's all very ridiculous, from the many, many BIG BIG musical numbers- and I say BIG BIG as they are all loudly produced and with a typical movie studio harmony, only without much choreography organized- down to that hat that Marvin wears as he goes about gathering up more prostitutes for the miners.And what about the songs? Equally insipid, and if taken as real 'quality' music is to have to smell your socks for an equal effect. But it's also like a good quality brand of cheese you take a bite and want a little bit more, and the block is still there for the taking. Songs like I talk to the trees and They call the wind Mariah, plus anytime Marvin has to sing, is classic stuff on the corniest levels. Oddly enough, Eastwood isn't half-bad as a singer, even with some lift and grace to his voice. Marvin, however, can't sing a note for his life, and the song that apparently won a golden globe or Grammy or whatever has him singing like he's Eeyore the donkey from Winnie the Pooh. When Marvin has to act like a drunken wheez of a prospector who's jealous, greedy, driven by humble melancholy and ego in equal measure, he does alright, and Eastwood, who says more dialog here than in all three of the 'Dollars' films combined, does what he can. Seberg is also a honey of a starlet, who didn't seem to do much aside from this and Breathless.But as I said, you should go into this knowing what to expect. There was an episode of the Simpsons years ago where Homer looks forward to watching a movie on TV that has Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood, and suddenly he finds that they're singing, a lot. It should be a joke, and it's a hilarious bit of irony really, because it's true. 'What the hell' will be the first thing to come out of some viewers mouths on finishing the movie, if they get that far. As for me, I just have to smile, crack up laughing a few times, and realize that this is one of the reasons the 70s had to happen. "},{"Title":"Bawdiness is not enough","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Although it is interesting to watch Clint Eastwood sing - assuming that's really his voice - and Lee Marvin does a sturdy job as Ben, there's simply not enough to the plot. Drunken miner jokes and Oh look how naughty this is whore jokes stop being amusing after the first 75 or so. "},{"Title":"Paint Your Wagon It is true!!!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This crazy musical is a bit long but rather funny, Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood in the same film is something ... but you thought this was suppose to be a bloody rough Western, didn't you? You are wrong man, and they won't stop singing! They have their guns, why won't they kill each other?I'm gonna paint your wagon, I'm gonna paint it real good ... !Rating 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"Truly awful","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This film is near the top of my list of worst films of all time. Granted, other films may be worse in many ways, but I have a special dislike for films that start with good source material and destroy it. Paint Your Wagon was a classic show. To make the film, Hollywood rewrote the story and removed many of the best songs. The songs that were added in their place were totally forgettable. As one of the other reviewers in this space has noted, the song I Still See Eliza is wrenched out of context. In the original, it was sung by an old man remembering his dead wife; in the film, it is sung by a young man about a woman he has made up, and the words don't even make sense for a young man. As for the story, was Hollywood willing to portray a bigamous relationship but not daring enough to depict a romance between an Anglo and a Mexican? The only good scene was the staging of They Call the Wind Maria in a rainstorm. The sad thing is that many people will see this film and not realize what a great musical the Broadway version is. "}{"Title":"A badly maligned but really fun musical well worth watching","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I really don't think I can have a spoiler for a 40-year-old musical, but just in case I have made the notice.This musical was just trashed by the critics when it came out in 1969 because, guess why? Well, the critics said neither Lee Marvin nor Clint Eastwood could sing. They did sing as their characters in the movie, and the movie was trashed as a consequence. But who cares? Their singing only added to the dimensions of the characters they were portraying.I got a book as a Christmas present in the early 1970s entitled, The 50 Worst Movies of All Times. Paint Your Wagon was among them. Why? Because Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin can't sing.The critics say Eastwood and Marvin were terribly miscast. But no critic has ever said who would do a better job in these roles Well, as far as I'm concerned, both were great in their roles and their not-the-best singing only added to enrich the quality of their acting for the characters they portrayed. "},{"Title":"Paint Your Wagon","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I have to admit two of the only reasons I wanted to see this film was because of the great actor we got to know in the spaghetti westerns singing, and The Simpsons spoofed it. Basically from a cart accident, prospector Ben Rumson (Golden Globe nominated Lee Marvin) and Michigan farmer Pardner (Clint Eastwood) form a partnership in No-Name Village in the California gold country. They have a couple of adventures as the almost slow plot goes, including buying and sharing a wife, Elizabeth (Jean Seberg), hijacking a stage, kidnapping six prostitutes (so the village had more women, they originally had none), and turning the village into a boomtown. Filled with plenty of gambling, drinking and singing, and some creative gold mining. It was a slow film when there was no singing, but it is still a good film, and both Marvin and Eastwood are great at singing. Lee Marvin in fact was number one for the song Wandrin' Star. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Nelson Riddle, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. It was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Miscast Your Musical","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Successful California Gold Rush prospector Lee Marvin (as Ben Rumson) is in his element after digging a grave for the brother of singing cowboy Clint Eastwood (as Pardner). A self-described boozing man, Mr. Marvin likes to live under the influence. Like Mr. Eastwood, Marvin also likes to sing. The two men become companions, sealing their relationship with a simple exchange Marvin says, I like you Pardner, and Eastwood says, I like you Ben. Since they are heterosexual, Marvin buys beautiful Jean Seberg (as Elizabeth) to be their wife. At $800, Ms. Seberg's a steal.Simply put, Paint Your Wagon is a too long, stupid, and wasteful movie. But, it didn't have to be&#x85; Since the studio was obviously spending money, why didn't somebody suggest paying Frank Sinatra to do Marvin's role, and giving Elvis Presley whatever Colonel Parker was asking, to take Eastwood's part? Then, think about the fun in casting Elizabeth. The mind boggles. Anyway, the musical highlights are Marvin's Wandrin' Star (late in the film) and Harve Presnell's They Call the Wind Mariah (early in the running time). Ray Walston is a supporting asset, and Tom Ligon catches on fast.** Paint Your Wagon (10/15/69) Joshua Logan ~ Lee Marvin, Clint Eastwood, Jean Seberg "},{"Title":"Lee Marvin reprises his Cat Ballou characterization...","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" PAINT YOUR WAGON is one of the messiest musicals I've ever seen on screen, but there are a few compensations among the cast of non-singers in the principal roles.One, is getting to hear HARVE PRESNELL do a nice professional job on They Call the Wind Maria in one of the film's opening musical numbers--and the only really great song in the show sung by a pro. Unfortunately for Presnell, he's hardly seen in the rest of the movie. The other halfway decent number is performed by CLINT EASTWOOD (I Talk to the Trees) but it's practically a throwaway.The other is the compensation for seeing LEE MARVIN reprise his Cat Ballou characterization all over again with a liquor bottle to his lips and the most impoverished looking costumes and make-up this side of skid row. He makes the most of his role as a scroungy looking boozer and even gets to recite some of the screenplay's wittier lines. And all of the rustic humor of the piece gets some nice backdrop with the Oregon scenery looming majestically in the background. But given the final pictorial result in rather muddy looking color, it wouldn't have mattered if the scenery was painted or not.Still another compensation JEAN SEBERG looking lovely as the woman who has all the menfolk staring at her good looks (there's a huge shortage of women in camp). She, Marvin and Eastwood are a pleasant trio and bring some energy and humor to their roles.But the songs by Fredrick Loewe are poorly integrated into the plot, most of them not even remotely approaching Loewe's earlier musical collaboration with Allan Jay Lerner.And worst of all, it's directed at a snail's pace by JOSHUA LOGAN who made such a mess of other Broadway hits, like SOUTH PACIFIC. Strangely enough, for a musical, there's no choreography to speak of--the songs just seem to happen and most of them are highly forgettable, especially the Gold number sung in the mine. A nice ballad called Wandrin' Star gets some nice male choral background treatment but has Lee Marvin talk/singing the lyrics.Two hours and forty-eight minutes is a long time devoted to a musical where only one professional singer is given a decent song to sing. This is the pits. As a comedy full of brawling gold-miners, it has some passable moments. As a musical, it just comes to a standstill for the songs and then lumbers on interminably until the No Name Town crumbles and falls into the earth like a modern Sodom getting its final destiny after a sinful existence.PAINT YOUR WAGON seems to exist in a strange no man's limbo, an uneven mixture of passable rustic comedy given a weak, almost bland musical score. No wonder that despite being given the roadshow treatment when it opened, it fizzled at the box-office. "},{"Title":"Whoa, Clint Eastwood Sings","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Oh for cryin out loud...  Perhaps I'm tainted in the fact that I'm just a bit to young for this kind of movie.  But really now...  Clint Eastwood singing?  The only thing that could possibly be worse is Lee Marvin singing...  You get both singing in one film watch out.  Neither one of these truly classic and highly respected actors are comedic either, but yet here they are delivering their lines...  Ouch!Perhaps if I had seen this before seeing anything else either starred in this would have been tolerable and not painful.  I'll call this one the worst caste movie I've ever seen.  Well filmed and expertly timed, the movie moves along at an adequate pace.  At over 2 1/2 hours its too long in today's theatre's, but probably not for the time it was released in.Listening to Clint Eastwood singing Talk to the Trees alone makes this an unforgettably bad movie.  "},{"Title":"Not bad but I'm glad this is Clint's only musical","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  If you have wasted your precious time by reading my other reviews you have probably figured out by now that I'm a huge, devoted long-time Clint Eastwood fan. Actually my fanaticism is nearly perverted sort, I practically consider him a closest thing to a god that an actor can ever be.If I would have to name couple of flicks that are not quite my biggest favorites Paint your wagon would definitely come up. Perhaps because this comedic western musical is the most anti-Eastwood type of a film he has ever appeared in and I'm more into so-called classic Clint. As far as I understand the man himself isn't too proud of this one either.However, if you don't like Eastwood mainly because he's normally way too cruel, violent, coarse and brutal you'll love him in Paint your wagon. The sentimental sight of him walking alone in the woods, singing I talk to the trees couldn't be further away from dirty Harry Callahan. I've seen Paint your wagon twice, once on the television and I watched the dvd copy this morning (I bought the damn thing yesterday).Paint your wagon is certainly not a bad film, it didn't bore me at least one second (well, maybe just a bit when Seberg was singing). Some of the songs were surprisingly quite good, like the main title and The Gospel of no name city, Best things and Lee Marvin's catchy classic Wanderin' star. Nevertheless, if I want to see Clint Eastwood getting all nice and jovial I'll be much more comfortable watching Bronco Billy instead. "},{"Title":"Three For The Money","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Alan Lerner was like Oscar Hammerstein inasmuch as both men preferred to write both libretto and lyrics of shows that they worked on and produced arguably their best work with one composer (respectively Fritz Loewe and Dick Rodgers) despite collaborating with other composers. Whilst Fritz Loewe was still active in 1969 - he wrote the score for a movie version of The Little Prince with Lerner in 1974 - he was more or less ready to call it a day and put his feet up, Lerner, on the other hand was still very much involved in musical theatre and would go on to write book and lyrics for another half a dozen shows up to 1983 so it's hard to understand why he would have agreed to allow Paddy Chayefsky to beef up his original book and share screenplay credit with him. He was already working with Andre Previn (their Broadway show Coco opened that same year) so was probably more conducive to writing extra material with Previn. Overall this is a disappointing effort as was, to be fair, the original stage show dating back to 1951. The film has a bravura performance by Lee Marvin more or less replicating his role in Cat Ballou but the other two leads, Clint Eastwood and Jean Seberg just about get by and direcor Josh Logan puts a little too much faith in rousing male choruses like the title number and 'There's A Coach Comin' In'. Just about worth a look but one is enough. "},{"Title":"Leaden, earnest hippie-western-musical-comedy isn't Clint's finest hour","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" A little background...I've been a Clint Eastwood fan since around 1990, when I and about three other fans nationwide saw White Hunter, Black Heart, his ambitious box-office flop examining John Huston filming The African Queen. It was pretty clear that this was a guy who had gone beyond the stereotypes I had of him as Dirty Harry and The Man With No Name. Though I skipped seeing The Rookie in the theater (and who can blame me?), since Unforgiven I've seen every film the man has directed and/or starred in first-run.And I've also caught up to his back catalog. I think by around 1999-2000 I was basically complete as far as his starring or costarring roles back to Fistful of Dollars. Except for the 2 1/2 hour musical with a wretched reputation, filmed in 'scope but unavailable in proper aspect ratio at the time. Shortly before I moved away from Chicago, I managed to tape it, uncut and widescreen, from the then-quality Bravo channel. And it has sat unwatched until now, when dear readers after the joy I felt at watching a master at work in Gran Torino I decided to finally dust this baby off...The title song isn't bad - but it's sung by an off-screen chorus as a wagon train heads into California full of farmer-settlers. One of the wagons alas goes off the trail and down a cliff, and Eastwood's young Pardner (he's never named anything else until the end of the film) almost dies along with his brother, only to be saved by drunken, curmudgeonly gold-miner Ben Rumson (Lee Marvin). Gold is found as Pardner's brother is buried, and Rumson quickly stakes a claim and cuts Pardner in for half - riches are to be found, and songs are to be sung.The Singing Pauline Kael accurately described Clint's voice as something like pleasant, light, thin. There's nothing horrible about listening to him, but you forget it immediately. Good thing he didn't try to make a career out of it. Marvin can't sing at all really but apparently enough people found him over-the-top bad that his Wand'rin' Star became a minor cult item. Female lead Jean Seberg (you knew there had to be a woman to cause trouble, didn't you?) was apparently even worse so she's dubbed. The various choruses aren't bad, and They Call the Wind Mariah became something of a small classic due to the powerful baritone of Harve Presnell, a real singer. But apart from that, nothing about the music is particularly interesting and I can barely call the instrumental score to mind now 16 hours after watching it.The Dancing uh, the less said the better. Really.Sex As mentioned, Elizabeth (Seberg) arrives on the scene to help cause disruption and dissent, as her Mormon husband auctions her - the second of his wives - off to the highest bidder, the dead-drunk Rumson. This may seem (well, is) horribly offensive and sexist, as the film treats it all like a good joke, but a fascinating twist soon develops as Elizabeth decides she's in love with Pardner - but also with her husband Rumson - and the three all consent to a plural marriage with Elizabeth as the more-or-less dominant member. Interesting stuff for 1969 and a mainstream release, but again it's all just treated lightly and jokily. It's hard to find the sexual politics either offensive or progressive, they seem there just to provide jokes and perhaps to bring in the youth audience (which they apparently failed to do).Plot development Do you care at this point? Suffice it to say that Rumson slowly corrupts Eastwood with drink and gambling, the two of them hatch a scheme to dig underneath the town and nab all of the gold dust that falls through the floorboards of the various saloons and whorehouses (oh I forgot to tell you, the settlement develops quickly into a boom-town when Marvin diverts 6 French hookers to No Name - clever town name eh? - and sets up bawdy houses and casinos). Eventually the tunnel system undermines the stability of the ground, the town collapses, Marvin the wandering spirit moves on, and thankfully the damn thing is over.Overall Marvin gives the best performance by far - if he was even acting - and there's a weirdness to the whole thing what with the odd sexual situations that does make this kind of fascinating. But Clint looks wooden and bored if not angry throughout (damn, I can't believe I'm in this) and Seberg is just dull.For serious Clint, Lee Marvin or musical completists only. "},{"Title":"Make My Song- Punk","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Clint Eastwood does sing in this. So does Lee Marvin and they both share the same woman while they sing. This is a musical based upon an extremely successful Broadway play of the late 1960's.The music is very good with songs like I Talk to The Trees. The gold rush type of western boom town and the plot involving same are very contrived. Ray Walston does one of his usual good supporting jobs in this film. Walston is quite busy during this era because of his fame as Uncle Martin on CBS.This is an R rated musical film which does contain some salty dog language along with adult themes. Overall not a negative experience but I think the Broadway play must have had something the film lacks as it was a much bigger success. "},{"Title":"Funny ,but could have been better without Eastwood","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Funny comedic western musical type movie that made me laugh over and over.I love Lee Marvin and those wonderful big hands of his and that big ol stache.He is a big belly laugh of fun.This movie i'm told was also a stage play as well. My beef is Clint Eastwood, What the hell is he doing in this movie? What idiot cast him ? I mean thats like making the movie Tombstone into a musical and having Sam Elliott sing My Clementine and waltz across the screen. Lee Marvin can pull it off as he just exudes silliness and fun with his expressions and has fun. Eastwood cannot and belongs in serious roles only not comedy. Casting against type doesn't always work ,would have been better to get someone like Harvey Korman or Gene Wilder even. They could have pulled it off better. Sorry clint but in this movie you suck.  "}{"Title":"Thoroughly mediocre","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" (some mild spoilers) Paint Your Wagon isn't a bad movie. it;s very watchable, but it just seemed to badly squander its potential. It has several major flaws. The first is a lack of a central conflict. The illegal mining plot which is the basis for the apparent climax of the movie is introduced more than halfway through. The love triangle which should be the basis of the conflict isn't very well handled. The filmmakers were apparently not interested in making any sort of point about multiple marriage and don't handle a lot different than any other triangle situation, nor are we ever really sold on Elizabeth and Ben.The other major problem, and this is a huge problem for a musical, is that the songs seem to be essentially interludes in a straight movie, not integral like they should be. They serve to make the movie longer, but very few actually move the plot around, revolve around characters making decisions, etc as is usually the case. In fact, I can't think of any singing conversations. It's all solos and chorus stuff. The parody on The Simpsons was catchier than any of the songs actually in the movie. The song with the town-folk and the Parson in front of the whorehouse is the only song that actually seems like it belongs in this movie, though They Call the Wind Mariah is also decent. There are related problems with the music. For instance, the French tarts aren't given a single number, which seems like a huge oversight.IMDb's trivia says that Paint Your Wagon went way over schedule and over budget. I'm guessing this was a case of too many cooks in the kitchen and with a tighter creative team, it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"a must-hear movie","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie is certainly a lot of fun to watch and is a lot of entertainment packed into just one film. I really like to watch PAINT YOUR WAGON and have seen it several times. However, there is absolutely no way I could with a clear conscience give it a higher score because the notion of having Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood star in a musical is completely nuts!!! While Eastwood's singing is quite poor, Lee Marvin sings worse than a cat in heat. But, it is because of this that I like the movie so much! In other words, the awfulness of their singing is amazing and captivating!! Now, the rest of the singing actually is good--particularly the songs sung by the townspeople. Plus, the script is witty and memorable. So, it's worth seeing but terribly bad in some ways that makes me assume the producers were either insane, abusing drugs, tried to make a flop (like in the film THE PRODUCERS) or did this all as a big joke (and considering how much the film cost to make, this is the least likely possibility). "},{"Title":"Total crap.... but Lee Marvin is great","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I'm a big Lee Marvin fan, and although I just knew I wasn't going to like this film very much I still had to see it at some point. Sure enough, it's just tosh. I do like musicals, but Lerner and Lowe never did anything for me, and a week playing in the band in an amateur production of Brigadoon killed all interest in them as far as I am concerned. But I digress.Even if the singing had been any good, the score is rubbish and I'll say no more about it (and the less said about Clint's singing the better).The redeeming feature is, of course, the great Lee Marvin. This is the role he was born to play. But it doesn't really make up for the rest of the film. Pity.  "},{"Title":"Interminable.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is an inappropriate lead for a musical. Not so much because he can't sing very well (although he CAN'T sing as well as the genre requires), but mostly because he is too closely identified, at least in our minds, with his tougher roles, and we just can't take him very seriously when he suddenly starts singing. Lee Marvin isn't a very accomplished singer, either. And the two miscast leads aren't the only problems of this musical-Western. It's also pointless, slow and plodding. Its only strong redeeming quality, which keeps it bearable, is the lovely presence of Seberg. She gives the best, the most likable performance in the film, providing a center of strength and dignity. If she wasn't around, this movie would be nearly unwatchable.As for the songs, there are lively ones (like the title song) and there are boring ones (like I Was Born Under A Wandering Star). "},{"Title":"You're Not Recognized","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is very strange. It clearly was the inspiration for the recent `Bandits,' but the dating makes this seem like science fiction Eastwood's hairdo, the now uncompelling beauty of Seberg, Eastwood's awkwardness... Marvin has a few good physical comedy routines, but Walston steals every scene he's in.More science fiction polygamy both ways; a purchased wife is a `stake;' kidnapped whores spawn a boom; extreme piousness as the marker of `civilization.' A tremendous (for the time) effect in a series of building collapses. That's on top of the basic strangeness of people punctuating life with demonstrations in song, as if they were preaching. (But preaching is the sole thing pilloried here.)The first half has some rather clever, then expensive slow fade transitions, starting with the titles. And Josh Logan spends as much time on the dirt as a unifying `ground' as his handlers would allow. "}]