[{"Title":"An Indie if there ever was one.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Interesting approach to revealing the world of photo-journalism, news journalism, and political activism, conceived and directed by award&#150;winning cinematographer Haskell Wexler. Fictional narrative features a Chicago TV news crew intertwined with actual news footage in and around the Democratic Convention of 1968.There is a good balance between the fiction and non-fiction elements in as much as Wexler attempts to make his point. The fictional story line (a love story) is real enough to keep us watching and deflective enough to make the harsh realities of the non-fiction elements palatable.Attention to detail defines Medium Cool as a very personal film for Wexler. There definitely is a political perspective. Second and third viewings will call attention to painstaking perfectionism in construction of shots, timing, and pace--the subject matter and cinematic approach (low budget, hand-held, docu-style) may suggest a `student film' so don't be confused. This is an extremely well-crafted highly professional product. Nice interjects of great era-defining music compliment the visuals.Inventive, some say ground-breaking, certainly well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Something very special...","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Absorbing, thought provoking and, above all, a unique record of an important place & time, why Medium Cool still fails to gain the attention it deserves remains one of life's great mysteries.First off, it's a pretty good if somewhat disjointed story&#133; two world-wise middle class news reporters are sent to film the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago and become unwittingly involved in its political demonstrations, the inner city problems that have precipitated them, and the lives of a single mother and her young son in this harsh, confusing and seriously under-privileged world. Its acting, in particular from Robert Forster as the lead reporter and the 13 year old Harold Blankenship as the son, is excellent and at times so effective that it's difficult to remember you're watching a rigidly sequenced film rather than a social documentary. And, it's overlaid with some quite stunning cinema-photography from director Haskell Wexler, one of America's very best exponents of the art, backed up by a perfectly pitched late 60's soundtrack.Good enough so far, but that's just the start. Add-in its extensive live footage from the streets of Chicago as the riots develop, taken by the film's camera crew as they themselves are caught-up in a very real political drama, its ominous sequencing of the build up of events from a fun day in the park for the hippies/yippies to serious police state level violence, its equally chilling images of what was going on inside the Convention Hall while all of this was taking place, and the clever and disturbing scenes of the mother's desperate search for her lost son as Wexler films her within the increasingly anarchic crowds of demonstrators & troops actually on the streets at the time, and you've got&#133; something very special.Part film and part documentary, not all of what you think is real in Medium Cool is, and the lines between live and acted scenes are sometimes confusingly and frustratingly blurred, as in the famous call from one of the camera crew of look out Haskell this is real as a tear gas canister lands in front of them, which was in fact over-dubbed afterwards. But that's the whole point of the film as the final, almost startling scenes reveal. How far is the media in control? Is what you're seeing real, distorted or contrived? Wexler's brilliance is to take this underlying theme and to mould it into a fascinating exploration of inner city life, American society in a period of huge change, and the power/needs of the media in a TV dominated world, while, in parallel, producing a gripping record of what it's like to be in the centre of a demonstration that's spiralling out of control. Juxtaposing the impersonality of reporting with the very personal situations that are involved, it raises a whole series of questions on the way without falling into the trap of most films of the era in trying to ram home too many answers. And, as a result, it remains as relevant today as it did then.Quite rightly regarded as one of the best counter culture films of the late 60's and much richer and more thought provoking than this classification usually implies, it remains one of the most under-rated films out there. "},{"Title":"a totally original pastiche","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A rare directorial outing by all-time great cinematographer Wexler, this is generally acknowledged as the most politically radical film ever produced by a major studio. In freewheeling, semi-improvised, ideologically calculated scene after scene, it depicts an apolitical television cameraman's awakening of consciousness and abandonment of the role of passive observer. The class and race politics are four notches up on any comparable contemporary studio feature, that's for sure - with the surprisingly patient explanation of how 6-o-clock-news ideology oppresses minority communities, leading in to a love affair with a working-class single mother instead of some vanguard hippie, you could even argue that this Americanization of Godard has better ideological legs than the master himself. Sure it meanders a tad, and the stylistics can date, but there's nothing else in any movie ever that compares with the climax, as the actors make their way through actual documentary footage of the 1968 Democratic convention and attendant street battles. I mean, how did such a finely balanced mix of integrated narrative, Euro-tics, American underground film and straight-up documentary even occur to them? And how did they then manage to actually pull it off with honors? Pretty damned impressive. "},{"Title":"A groundbreaker","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haskell Wexler, a cinematographer by trade, practically invented the technique invented we know today as cinema verite with this striking drama that plays so much like a documentary, you'd never guess it was fiction without being told.  It's less a story and more a voyeuristic look into the lives of ordinary people thrust into extraordinary circumstances, in this case reporters who are covering a political convention and other Chicago locals who are just minding their own business when the legendary riots break out at the 1968 Democratic National Convention.Even more groundbreaking is the approach Wexler takes in framing the film's final scenes.  He had ample warning that there would potentially be some unrest at the convention, so he decided to thrust his cast right into the thick of it, sending them to the foyer and front entrance of the Chicago Convention Center and the crew right along to film the events.  No one knew exactly what would happen, making this perhaps the most creative and timely piece of improvised drama in the history of filmmaking up to this point.Every documentary filmmaker who chooses to make his/her film about actions and events rather than simply a bunch of talking heads owes a debt to Wexler and his creative team on Medium Cool.  "},{"Title":"MEDIUM COOL (Haskell Wexler, 1969) ***1/2","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A brilliant film and a seminal one - a product by a major Hollywood studio handled in cinema-verite' style; besides, the various issues it raises - social, political and media-related - have scarcely been treated with such directness and power. The lack of star names in the cast (Peter Boyle, who appears briefly, was not yet established and, even if he had debuted in John Huston's REFLECTIONS IN A GOLDEN EYE 1967, lead Robert Forster's role was originally intended for John Cassavetes) certainly helps sell its inherent documentary feel.Though, understandably, most meaningful to people who witnessed these turbulent times first-hand, and Americans in particular, despite its specific time-setting - Chicago 1968 (partly shot at the actual Democrats convention site, the film proved prophetic because the script involved riots breaking out...which is what actually happened!) - many of its concerns are still very much with us!! Fascinating therefore if slightly overlong - the subplot involving Verna Bloom and Harold Blankenship feels a bit like padding at first (and was actually what remained of a proposed film, with animal interest, about a poor country boy's adjustment to city life!)...but, ultimately, its point is made during the film's latter stages when Bloom goes to look for her missing son - creating an indelible image of a perplexed figure (incongruously dressed in a bright yellow outfit) getting embroiled in all the commotion hitting the streets at that same moment. This, however, results in a goof involving the unexplained presence very early on of Bloom (already wearing the yellow dress but whose introduction proper in the film takes place quite a bit later!) at a cocktail party for members of the press - a sequence intended to immediately precede the riots but which was then pushed forward during editing, so as to deal straight off with the film's major theme of media responsibility! The tragic yet ironic ending - presented as matter-of-factly as any of the news items covered by dispassionate TV cameraman Forster - is very effective.This is certainly renowned cinematographer Wexler's most significant directorial effort; his camera-work (some of it hand-held) is simply incredible, as is Paul Golding's editing (which must have been quite a headache and, in fact, he mentions in the Audio Commentary that several scenes remained on the cutting-room floor; pity they weren't available for inclusion on the Paramount DVD - nor, apparently, were the rights to the 2001 documentary about the film, LOOK OUT HASKELL, IT'S REAL THE MAKING OF 'MEDIUM COOL'!). Also essential to the unique texture of the film is the fantastic soundtrack (mostly by Mike Bloomfield but also featuring songs by Frank Zappa, among others). "},{"Title":"Fascinating Sixties Document","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a mixture of documentary footage and conventional narrative.It tells the story of a tough news camera-man (Robert Forster) who falls for a young widow (Verna Bloom) and befriends her thirteen-year-old son, against the back-drop of the riots in Chicago in 1968.The film utilises both professional actors and non-professionals, to very good effect.  In fact there are scenes, such as the riot sequences, where there is a genuine sense of danger. The main flaw in the film is that the love story is not well-handled and often quite dull, the far more interesting events are happening elsewhere.This is a deeply political work and is savagely critical of the callous and cynical media, which distorts people's perceptions of the world.Worth watching for anyone interested in the sixties, political cinema or American independent film.Great soundtrack too. "},{"Title":"Superb integration of the political and social aspects inherent in the film medium.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haskell Wexler's film generated much debate on just where American Cinema was headed upon its release in 1969. Its  narrative revolves loosely around the relationship of a TV cameraman and a lower-class widow living in Chicago during the summer of 1968. The true focus of the film is on the Democratic National Convention and its devastating effects on that city during the long hot summer it was subjected to. With the care of an expert social journalist Wexler films the riot caused by the civil authority in that city with an unfaltering naturalism that Soviet Realists would kill for. His cinematographic gifts are never called into question as he edits the body of the film with patches of documentary and staged scenes. It's to the credit of the filmmaker that in one section a fellow cameraman has to admonish him as to the danger he is apparently embroiled in as he shoots a sequence. This wonderful play on the reflexivity so rarely admitted in film is reason enough to give this challenging but brilliant work of art a chance to leave its mark on you.  "},{"Title":"Captures the time, place and feeling","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movies have a way of capturing the moment better than recreating it. I can only dread what a recreated 1968 in Chicago would look like from a Hollywood perspective. It would probably resemble something out of Forrest Gump. But Medium Cool happened to capture some brutal fight scenes with police in Chicago as well as scenes from the black ghettos. You can't recreate this stuff. This isn't a documentary but cinema verité and combines fiction and non-fictional elements. It's all shot with Chicago of 68 in the background. A landmark and infamous year for the US with the assassinations of RFK and MLK as well as the 1968 Democratic National Convention which was met with severe state repression. The state wasn't negotiating at this time, it was brutally sending men off to war and attacking those at home with the hired goons of the police force.It's a great movie which manages to combine fiction and non-fiction and shows us what the sixties were really like. It wasn't all love beads and LSD, although there is an amusing psychedelic sequence which takes place in a club.I think what I liked most was that even people who were non-political were being dragged into the politics of the time. Events were that serious at the time and people had to begin picking sides, the pleasant, white, middle-class interior of the Chicago DNC or outside fighting and raging against the police. "},{"Title":"A time capsule","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is better upon the second viewing, the first time I saw this I thought it was somewhat dated or boring, I couldn't have been more wrong. Initially I watched this film because it was directed by Haskell Wexler whose work I admire, and I'm from Chicago and had heard it shows much of the city and the riots of 68. I enjoyed seeing the city forty years ago to see what was the same and what had changed, much has changed yet much remains the same from what I have seen of the people, places, buildings etc. It was great to see the Kinetic Playground on there, Chicago's electric ballroom, and other area's such as Lincoln Park. On the second viewing, I realized that this is a very important film in that it adroitly captures a moment in time, a moment we can never have again that is lost forever, that one second in our history that pivoted us as a nation between innocence and awareness and possibly that crucial moment which has brought us to the point we are at today. This movie is very important as a document of history, not to mention how well it's shot. The angles, the color, the way he goes in and out of focus make this a true gem that gets better the more you see it. Great soundtrack as well, Zappa, Mike Bloomfield and others. "},{"Title":"Medium Cool is an extraordinary piece of cinematic art of the cinema verite-film style by Haskell Wexler.","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I often like to watch films more than once and I recently did that with Medium Cool, which was originally released on August 27, 1969.The film was directed, written, and cinematography recorded by Haskell Wexler. He invented and used an unforgettable cinema vérité-style documentary filmmaking technique, as well as combining fictional and non-fictional content.Medium Cool was actor Robert Forster's first film in a lead role. Medium Cool is one of those films that shows cinematic footage of a nonfictional event in the movie - the 1968 Democratic National Convention protest activity. At that convention the protesters and the Chicago Police Department fought in the streets of Chicago while the US Democratic Party met during the convention in the International Amphitheater.John Cassellis (played by Forster) is a Chicago television news reporter and cameraman. Cassellis and sound man Gus (played by Peter Bonerz) are reporting about the violence and racial tensions in the ghetto. One of people that interviewed is an African American taxi driver who lives in the ghetto. Cassellis later discovers that his network had helped the FBI by providing some of his video footage from the protests in order to aid the FBI in their search for suspects. When Cassellis protests, he is fired at which time he then decides to go to the convention to record more footage.Cassellis ends up befriending Eileen (played by Vena Bloom), a welfare recipient who'd moved from her West Virginia home when her husband was sent to Vietnam. Eileen has a 13 year old son named Harold (Harold Blankenship).Ruth (Marianna Hill) is an attractive nurse, who has a relationship with Cassellis.Medium Cool is an extraordinary piece of cinematic art of the cinema verite-film style by Haskell Wexler. The way that the film combines a fiction and non-fiction story was very well explained and detailed due to Wexler's filmmaking style. The cinema verite genre combines well with a dramatic genre. One example the argument scenes in the film that involve John Cassellis.Haskell Wexler did an amazing job with the cinematography. The way that he recorded the 111 minutes of the movie was very well accomplished. I especially found his cinematography style of the film to be influential. Wexler's amazing style of the film could influence other filmmakers. The reason why it could influence filmmakers because the cinema verite style that used was very revolutionized for its time and young filmmakers has never laid eyes on this type of film style before. Wexler's film style mostly influenced documentary film makers.The plot of the film was excellent and enhanced by the realism of the footage containing political protests of the late 1960s. I loved how the plot well captured and symbolized America in the 1960s and its political protests. One particularly interesting moment to me in the film is showed people setting up for the convention. Then, the black screen appears with the sentence America is wonderful. After that, John and Eileen are dancing in a psychedelic rock concert. This matters to me because this moment of the movie could bring back memories for people, who experienced late 1960s political conventions and psychedelic rock music concerts.Here's my advice The movie is a definite must see for all generations. I give the film an strong 4 out of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"Incredible Semi-Documentary","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A TV news cameraman in Chicago find himself becoming personally involved in the violence that erupts around the 1968 Democratic National Convention.Roger Ebert credited Haskell Wexler with masterfully combining multiple levels of filmmaking to create a film that is important and absorbing. That is an understatement. This film is great on its own (without the real world footage), but Wexler really lucked out on his choice of subject matter. He was in the right place at the right time to get these kind of shots.What results is not only a film of the highest caliber, but a piece of American history presented in a way that might even be called entertaining. And heck, it has a young Peter Boyle, so you cannot beat that. "},{"Title":"60's Novelty","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This unusual film combines fictional narrative with live footage of the turbulent 1968 Democratic convention.The movie made a splash upon first release. At the time, it couldn't have been more topical for the explosive political events then taking place. Director Wexler had his camera fortuitously placed to catch the bloody clash between protesters and Chicago cops backed up by the National Guard at the 1968 Democratic convention. Wexler caught the afternoon clash in the park, but not the probably unfilmable bloodier riot of that evening. Nonetheless, it's near documentary footage of an historic event that remains the movie's chief attraction.The movie itself is non-linear, with little narrative or dialogue. Instead it fades in and out on reporter Cassellis (Forster) as he learns some ugly truths about the state of the nation, circa- 1968. His and cameraman Gus's (Bonerz's) run-in with the black radicals in a Chicago ghetto remains a haunting slice of angry cinema and appears, to me at least, to be largely unscripted. I expect it was the first personal exposure many white audiences had to black rage then bubbling up in urban centers. This angry encounter, combining with raucous anti- war protesters and paramilitary police, present a vivid profile of the civil unrest of the time-- (Oddly, however, I don't believe the word 'Vietnam' is uttered once in the dialogue).We also get a sense of dislocation through the characters of Eileen (Bloom) and small son Harold (Blankenship). Uprooted from their West Virginia home by an absentee father, Eileen now ekes out a living in Chicago, while Harold tries to adjust to city ways. Their rural background and accents mark them as hillbillies in their new surroundings. Nonetheless, the sophisticated Cassellis finds Eileen's naïve simplicity appealing, and their little tour of the psychedelic nightclub reveals something of the urban counterculture flourishing at the time.I get the feeling Wexler wasn't sure how to end the quasi-narrative part of the movie, and there, I believe, he stumbles by settling for a clear contrivance. Nonetheless, the movie's last shot of his turning the camera onto us suggests we too are part of the story, which seems fitting for a film of this innovative sort. Anyway, the movie remains a one-of-a-kind, and though no longer topical, does furnish a fascinating glimpse of a turbulent time, which in many ways is still with us. "},{"Title":"I Wish I Could Make a Documentary Challenging Top Critics to Prove the Greater Imprint of Any Other Film of Its Decade.","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most truthful moments I've seen in a film in a long time We hear MLK speaking on TV, a professional cameraman watching. We hear King's immortal words which have resounded through the decades, and when Forster finally speaks, he says, God, I love shooting on film. Medium Cool is full of moments like this, where we see or hear something that plugs into what we're truly thinking, disconcertingly enough, at times when what we're thinking seems to obviously be something else. In Medium Cool, we respond to these things and, some forty years later, aren't quite sure what's real and what's not. This most head-on and seemingly makeshift of films was released in 1969 to reaction and surmise. Five years before, it would have been deemed unintelligible to the general movie audience. What happened, I suppose, is that by then we'd become so trained by the quick-cutting, idea suggestion and stream of consciousness of concepts in TV commercials that we process more quickly than feature-length movies can move. We get cinematic fast-sketch. And we like movies that recognize our intelligence.Traditional film narratives pronounce themselves We know all the main techniques/content and archetypal characters. Haskell Wexler's Medium Cool is one of several movies of the late 1960s and '70s that's conscious of these things about movie audiences, like Seconds, Easy Rider, Mean Streets, Who's That Knocking At My Door, The Graduate, The French Connection, etc. Of the bunch, Medium Cool is probably the most visceral. That may be since Wexler, for most of his career, has been a cinematographer, and so he's conditioned to see a movie pertaining to what's being shown and not shown on-screen more than its dialogue and story.Wexler fabricates a fictional story about the TV cameraman, his passion, his profession, his girl and her son. There is also documentary footage about the riots during the Democratic convention. There is a chain of conscious scenarios that supposes reality (women taking marksmanship practice, the TV crew confronting black militants). There are fictitious characters in actual documentary scenes and vice versa. The misstep would be to segregate the real-life elements from the made-up. They're all equally meaningful. The National Guard troops are no more real than the love scene, or the artificial collision that ends the film. All the images have significance due to the way they are connected to each other.Wexler induces our recollection of the zillions of other movies we've seen to import things about his plot that he never elucidates on screen. The essential account of the romance (young professional falls in love with war-widow, eventually obtains companionship of her resentful son) is surely not innovative. If Wexler had formalized it, it would have been commonplace and dull. Rather, he specializes in the emblematic and important features of this histrionic (the boy likes pigeons, the woman is a teacher, the location is Uptown, the time is the Democratic convention, the woman feels more authentic to the cameraman than the model he's living with). And these are the scenes Wexler shoots. The leftovers of the relationship are implicit and never shown, eschewing the often essentially unnecessary 2 on our way from 1 to 3.And Medium Cool also sees not images but their purpose Wexler doesn't see the hippie kids in Grant Park as hippie kids. He doesn't see the clothes or the folkways, and he doesn't hear the words. He distinguishes their purpose; they are there completely owing to the National Guard being there, and the opposite. Both sides have a purpose just when they encounter one another. Without the encounter, all you'd have would be the kids, dispersed all over the country, and the guardsmen, dressed in civilian clothes and spending the week on their daily grinds. That's interesting too, but it's not what they are that's significant in this film; it's what they're doing there.Medium Cool is ultimately so seminal, and engaging, owing to the way Wexler braids all these components together. He has made a nearly consummate model of the movie of its time. Since we are so conscious this is a movie, it feels more pertinent and authentic than the graceful fictitious artifice of most other films, including better ones. This befits the last scene all by itself, that chance event that occurs for no reason at all. Chance events are invariably chance events, not fate, not God's will, not karma, and they never occur for a greater purpose. When we get it, it hit me that it's the first movie collision I've ever seen that we weren't anticipating for five minutes before. "},{"Title":"Medium Cool, Fully Disturbing","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" MEDIUM COOL is one of the most terrifying films ever made.The photography is beautiful, set up by the man who would one day be responsible for the inimitable DAYS OF HEAVEN. The result is visceral. It seems so incredibly real.But MEDIUM COOL occupies this bizarre, hollow land on the spectrum of cinematic realism. Realism is an abstraction. Never attainable and, at least in cinema, never wanted. By nature, movies present a clearly fictionalized atmosphere where events, people, and influences from reality are inserted. MEDIUM COOL inverts that system by inserting fictional characters into situations constructed from genuine human anger and fear. As far as cinematic innovation goes, this may be the most dangerous.Wexler is fabricating reality. Our culture is so full of corporations, politicians, and interests trying to construct their own portrait of reality. The movies might be the most famous example of this abstraction. However, MEDIUM COOL's danger exists in its presentation. Wexler was a genius. How he thought he could get away with this film I will never know. He inserts Eileen into the climactic riot, helplessly walking against the tide of police officers, clueless about the issues and only concerned with finding her son. His confidence in such direction points to the horrifying fact that he also believes that history is a malleable material. By inserting a fabrication, a symbol, into tangible human danger, Wexler argues for his ability to alter history. That delusion wouldn't be so dangerous if the material were not presented as a veritable document of late-1960's violence and ethics. The counterargument asserting that all cinema is presented such only strengthens this point -- if all films possess the trappings of realism, MEDIUM COOL attempts to create one anew. Ultimately, the moral argument is murky and Wexler's left-wing fortitude is made silly by the bookending car-wreck. The film turns out to be a self-indulgent autobiography on Wexler, himself. He doesn't try to hide his Godardian influence, but it becomes trite and facile with the final hijacking of LE MEPRIS. His obsession with the power of the camera eventually usurps fringe cultural concerns like Racism, Violence, Political Upheaval, and Feminism. They're all there in MEDIUM COOL, but in the end they only exist because of the camera.Much scholarship is made about Cassellis' responsibility as the hero. So many admire his calm inversion of stereotype. He is the archetypal revolutionary hero. Unmoved and unshaken in the face of tragedy (the opening, for example), he is depicted as someone who lives for the camera. As footage of MLK is shown (who was shot that year), he says Jesus, I love shooting film. Cassellis is Wexler -- a grounded permutation of heroic behavior. But with plenty of faults to balance everything out.Maybe the most interesting question is -- why Wexler? why 1968? why distort filmic tradition now? The answer might be revealed when Wexler films a series of Black adults in the ghetto. They make (somewhat garbled) pleas for Cassellis to get in touch with the real people. What was the late-60's revolution but a demand for individual attention and the premature glorification of youth? In MEDIUM COOL, Wexler makes an impossible attempt to faithfully represent the little man. This brings us back to the terrifying message of the film.All of this is not to say that MEDIUM COOL doesn't have brilliant sequences. If Wexler wandered around with a camera for a year, I would be fixated. The opening scenes at the security base, the final riot prelude (whenever Eileen was absent), and most scenes with Harold are perfect instructions for cinematic suggestions of reality. The pictures are colorful, focused, and energetic and most of the acting is realized successfully. Indeed, as long as the audience has the capacity to understand the fabrication they are seeing, the photography does enough to resurrect the broken ideology into a formal revolution in itself.MEDIUM COOL is a unique study in cinematic representation. Many passages render and preserve a critical cultural paradigm. One only wishes that Wexler might have actually filmed the events without feeling the need to dress them up.53.7 "},{"Title":"The whole world is watching! The WHOLE WORLD is watching!","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Still-relevant and thought-provoking essay on violence--and the voyeurism of violence via television--in America circa 1968. Docudrama-styled film centers on a TV-news cameraman in Chicago (Robert Forster, lean and mean while resembling a young Charles Bronson) and his love/hate relationship with his work, which is constantly being undermined by bureaucratic decision-making from network suits who aren't on the front-lines. Cinematographer Haskell Wexler also produced, directed, and wrote this microcosm of race relations (and its mind-boggling double-talk), youthful protesters of government, and clashes between civilians and the armed forces--all occurring during the 1968 Democratic convention rallies. Despite a tough, cynical veneer, a trace of bitter-tinged humor manages to come through in Wexler's conception, though the picture runs too long and is saddled with a bummer climax determined to make a statement. Forster is charming in a moodily low key, yet his budding romantic relationship with an abandoned mother of one is left a bit unformed. Real convention footage is integrated smoothly within the fictionalized drama, though these overtures (used for atmosphere) do call attention to themselves, as do a few stray acting moments from amateurs behaving too 'naturally'. However, this heatedly emotional and viscerally-charged film is still quite potent and arresting on many levels. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Hardly perfect, but a must-see","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not a film for those who like comfortable Hollywood polish, production values, and formulas.  It was shot in a documentary-style, and thus has an immediacy and intensity at a level that can only be found in a handful.  It is completely unique in its blending of fact and fiction.  The kitchen scene is brilliantly staged and carried off, and the ending is definitely chilling, although more than a little abrupt.  (Did they run out of film?)  But the truly exciting moment in this film comes when you are watching the demonstrations outside the Chicago convention, and it suddenly sinks in  This is real.  It isn't staged for your benefit.  The city really was an armed camp, and the police did beat up civilians.  The film has a lot of pointless scenes, and the outer story is rather mundane, but the scenes at the convention are an unprecedented achievement - simply brilliant.  This film is a must-see for any student of film or history. "},{"Title":"Interesting but flawed depiction of a tumultuous era.","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MEDIUM COOL is a documentary-like motion picture that contains actual footage of the Democratic National Convention and anti-war demonstrations, which occurred in Chicago in 1968.  This gives the film, which is actually a work of fiction, an ultra-realism not usually found in Hollywood movies. Unfortunately, the excessive use of this footage near the film's somewhat extended conclusion helps distance us to the story of the main characters, which up to that point we had been following with great interest.  Quite often in real life, major news events and the inevitable sensationalistic media coverage of them, tend to drown out all individuality and humanity. Perhaps this was the director's point.  Still, by concentrating 'too' much on surrounding events, he allowed his characters to become only half-realized, and as a result the viewer only half cares what happens to them.The movie does have its share of positives, from Robert Forsters thought provoking ghetto interviews with African Americans to the quite jarring and ironic ending.  In between, we see the very attractive Mariana Hill in her birthday suit, and are treated to some cool guitar music by  The Mother's of Invention.  These aside, my overall reaction to the film is Medium Cool.Final Verdict     6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Narrative is weak and improvised but it is interesting, informative and still relevant today","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Cassellis is an investigative journalist for a TV news station, unafraid to go into the areas that others avoid. In the course of his work he gets involved in the black ghettos of Chicago and the racial tensions they hold. As he interviews his subjects, John is challenged by them as well &#150; forced to see what he is doing and why he is greeted with such hostility at times. When he finds that the station have been giving his tapes to the FBI to help them track down suspects he quits his job and tries to go alone, leading to his involvement in the Chicago riots at the 1968 Democratic Convention.I only knew a little of this film when I came to watch it &#150; so little in fact that I didn't know if it was a docu-drama or a documentary. After a few minutes I realized that this was a docu-drama and by the end of the film I was left impressed by what the film had done, even if I wasn't totally impressed by the film as a whole. The plot, for what it's worth, follows Cassellis as he reports on tensions in Chicago and then gets personally involved as he gets to see more than just subjects and is forced to take a stand as his tapes are not used for impartial purposes. In terms of narrative the film is pretty messy &#150; the main characters aren't interesting and scenes where we are supposed to get to know them don't really work. At more than one point it seems to totally forget that it has characters and just wanders with the most basic of framework - and the ending is poor in terms of this story. However this film is not about John Cassellis as a character in a story it is about a cameraman's conscience, it is about comment and as such it is very interesting and really captures the period while making some very good points in a very even handed manner.The film opens really well with a group of journalists discussing their role and in a way this is what the film is about. It is actually moments like the opening that are the best &#150; for me the standout scene was where Cassellis is not allowed to leave a flat full of black people and is forced to not only listen to them but hear them as well. In these moments the film is great &#150; totally of it's time and with a lot to say that is still relevant today. However at times this isn't as good as much as it is interesting and the ending is far, far too obvious and lazy and does an injustice to the intelligence of what has gone before.Because the narrative is pretty weak the cast have very little to really work with and are caught up in the film (much as Wexler was caught up in real events). Having said that Forster gives a very good performance and it's not his fault that the film's aspirations leave him behind. The rest of the cast are OK and throw up a few faces including Boyle and Wexler himself but generally the focus is Forster at first and then later the setting of the period.Overall this is a good film and one that is worth seeing, however if you expect it to be a traditional narrative then you will be disappointed. Instead watch it with an understanding of the period and the tensions/fears in America at the time as well as plenty of interesting points and ideas. On top of this film I heartedly recommend that you find and watch the 'making of' documentary called 'Watch Out Haskell it's Real!' as it really does a great job of fleshing out not only the period but also the characters and their story lines.  "},{"Title":"Little has changed since 1968","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Criterion Collection has brought out a remastered, stunning 'Medium Cool'. America's answer to 'Cinema Verite'. Haskell Wexler's film could have been made yesterday, given the conditions in the US today. Although the technology of filming has changed drastically. In fact, given the success of 'Tangerine', it is easy to envision 'Medium Cool' shot exclusively on a Smartphone. Gone are the 40 pound cameras, the heavy television cameras set up at conventions, the one way voice boxes and the like. As Marshall McCluhan, the high priest and theorist of communication, posited 'the medium is the message'. And Wexler took this guru's words to heart. We're in Chicago on the eve and during the infamous 1968 Democratic Convention. The story is half fiction half cinema truth, of a fun loving news photographer whose passion is the story and getting it right. Through his camera, we travel through the racial, economic and political stress and high drama of the times. (For good reporting, see Norman Mailer's 'Miami and the Siege of Chicago'). The 'hero' John Cassellis is shocked that his footage has been handed over by his employer to the FBI. So what else is new today? In scenes with blacks militants he is accused of being an undercover FBI agent, and they knew what they were talking about, for until then he was clueless. The world of the poor whites from the coal mines of West Virginia, the banter in the newsroom about the role of journalism. The spirit of the turbulent 60s has run out of steam but in some eddies here and there of on the fringe reporters, social media and streamed dailies or weeklies. And yet, documentaries are making a comeback, and showing the grim side of life and some moments of good works. Episodic as the film is, it is worth seeing, to see how everything old is new again "},{"Title":"An artifact of an earlier Time of Tension to ponder in the current one","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 9/11/2011 is probably the wrong time to be writing a review of this ground breaking film, but it was an almost perfect time to re-watch this evocation of some of the painful events of our college years.The cinema verité look of this film has taken on a somewhat dated feel with the years, and Robert Forster's intense stares have not gained in stature as examples of great acting - but both still accomplish what they did originally, wrapping us up in the emotions of a world gone slightly mad, being pulled apart by generations unable to agree on how best to defend freedoms both believed they believed in.The riots - youth and police - that marked the 1968 Chicago convention (following the other party's now generally forgotten charade in Miami) were the beginning of something we are only now beginning to recover from in this country. Then as now, a foreign civil war which part of the country felt it was in our interest to meddle in was tearing the country apart. (Meddling which proved mistaken in that case - misunderstanding how nationalism trumped a foolish Domino Theory and not helped by the failure of the media to adequately REPORT the ramifications and LEADERS of the independence movement which had transformed the former French Indochina into Vietnam in the 1950's, making the ultimate victors in the civil war all but inevitable). MEDIUM COOL was a somewhat disjointed but stirring attempt to come to grips with and hold a mirror up to a nation uncomfortable with seeing itself - let alone establishing a dialog across generational lines or dealing with the issues dividing it.Perhaps edgy popular entertainment was a hopeless tool to try to bridge that cap, especially without addressing the external causes driving the rift, but it was a start - and the artifact remains today a powerful glimpse back at what seemed like a world of irreconcilable political differences that may help us put some of today's stresses in perspective.One can only wish that rather than preserving two holes in the ground (no matter how prettied up by trees and benches) someone would genuinely memorialize the tragic events Americans have come to know as 9/11 by making a MEDIUM COOL-type film looking at the well meaning terrorists on both sides in the ten years since the Towers fell. That might be the best memorial - one people could actually learn from - to the thousands of people killed that day and in the wars and political upheaval which followed. "}{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A news cameraman from Chicago and a single mother from West Virginia. What are the chances of these two meeting and having a relationship? It happens in this movie and what's more, it happens in the midst of intense social and political turmoil. This movie captures the intensity of the political turbulence that surrounded the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago. It conveys the anger of the protesters and their suppression by the police and the military. Indeed, this movie dramatizes the power of the government and what can happen when the government decides to assert its power. Robert Forster and Verna Bloom give incredibly strong performances as the two people who unwittingly get caught up in the maelstrom of the protests. "},{"Title":"'The Age of Awareness'","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Medium Cool (1968) Dir Haskell WexlerWhen I first saw Medium Cool I was far too young to appreciate it for what it actually is. I loved it anyway, perhaps partially because it baffled me. I was born in suburban England in 1986, and thus had no frame of reference for the setting of social unrest that is used as an omnipresent main character, alongside Robert Forster's brilliant John Cassellis - news cameraman, modern professional, and casual womaniser. Critics of this film have said that the plot is too thin and unlikely to support its pretensions, and that the final scenes are merely opportunistic instead of profound. I disagree with this, but not directly - it does have pretensions, and it is a little thin on plot. But the final scenes are literally stunning, and have deservedly assured this film's place in history.Cassellis is clinical about his job and cynical towards his employers. In his own words, he loves to shoot film. He documents occurrences without judging them. In a way, he is like Gene Hackman's Harry Caul character in the equally brilliant The Conversation, who doesn't care what people are talking about as long as he gets a nice fat recording. But Cassellis is not an obsessive. Throughout the course of the film, he grows to accept the cultural and philosophical impact of his profession as a kind of vessel for public information. When he discovers his tapes are being viewed by the authorities, his principles are violated. We are shown the mutually antagonising relationship between 'the people' and 'the news media' as John realises the implications of what he has been contributing to. This sounds less than exciting, but the backdrop itself is Chicago circa 1968 - a city so restless and colourful that this fairly heavy concept is counterbalanced by the images themselves. We watch Cassellis and his soundman cover the National Guards' riot training, the morale-raising songs of a civil rights protest group, campaigners for Robert Kennedy, and more. A particularly memorable sequence involves the black residents of a tenement block explaining to the cameraman how he, as a representative of 'the media', carries the baggage of institutionalised prejudice through their front door. Sure, the tenants are actors (as is Peter Boyle as the Gun Clinic Manager) but they fit seamlessly. In this scene, as in most of the movie, the cameraman being spoken to is both the character of Cassellis, Haskell Wexler himself, and by extension everyone who is watching.How Harold and his mother Eileen relate to all of this is a more abstract and difficult question - they are natives of West Virginia, and the flashback scenes of deep country woodlands and old-fashioned religion seem to suggest that they represent the past, the age of innocence in the movie's tag-line. But this isn't the effect they have on the plot. They are out of place in this volatile city, but so is everyone else, John included. And when we are plunged into the heart of the riots for the last scenes of the film, we have no time to speculate on what exactly Wexler was trying to say; because he himself is there - the director is holding the camera, dodging tear gas and avoiding the batons of the riot police, and filming the injured protesters. Its significance is elevated beyond mere entertainment. The fiction in Medium Cool exists mainly to highlight the intimidating labyrinth of fact.There is technical boldness to be admired too the cinematography is an impressive framing of undiluted reality, and the editing and soundtrack is inspired. The performances of Forster and the young amateur Harold Blankenship are equally captivating, with Verna Bloom not far behind. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't want to watch 10 movies like this one...","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...but if you have to see one, Medium Cool would be it. This got a lot of attention in its day for some of the cinema verite style filming, and letting Verna Bloom wander around through the riot of the Democratic National Convention...it can be tiresome and confusing at times, but also rather thrilling and moving. By the end I was glad I had watched it. It also serves to remind one of how different the American movies of the late 60's and early to mid 70's were from those being made today. Today's made-for-the-megaplex movies just seem so safe in comparison. And good for Robert Forster, he was never one to play it safe...Medium Cool is yet another movie in which he's willing to strip down and show off every bit of his fine body, front and back, for the enjoyment of the audience. You won't catch too many American male stars who'd be willing to dare that today. "},{"Title":"An incredible film. You appreciate it more with multiple viewings.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Famed cinematographer Haskell Wexlers landmark 1969 film Medium Cool is quite remarkable. Filmed around the time of the Democratic Convention in Chicago circa 1968 the film is mainly from the perspective of a tv camera man ( played by Robert Forster) covering the event, but trying to distance himself from everything around him.  Verna Bloom plays a widowed mother who has moved recently to Chicago from West Virginia with her young son. Forster's character becomes romantically involved with Bloom which drives the initial plot. Although this is superflous compared to Wexlers technical genius. Aesthetically the movie is stunning with many incredible shots and camera angles. The scenes of  real protesters rioting gives a sense of heightened tension and realism not seen in other films. Overall Wexler perfectly captures a moment in time, a criticism on the social and political welfare of the United States as well as an examination of the medias sensationalism of violence and our fascination with it. Notice the chilling opening sequence and compare it to the cruel irony at the unexpected climax.The score by Mike Bloomfield is terrific also   "},{"Title":"Medium Cool Captivates!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is an intelligent story filmed in a documentary style, showing what it was like in our country 32 years ago. Just as Blow-Up showed swinging London in all it's glory, Medium Cool showed our country in full swing of that turbulent period of time. Robert Forster, and Verna Bloom were so realistic in their roles, that one gets absorbed in them completely without ever being bored of their characters. This is one of those cinema experiences that stays with me for quite some time afterwards. Anyone with a sense of appreciation of what happened in our country at that time, deserves to treat themselves to this film. "},{"Title":"A film that blurs reality and fiction like no other...","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is really a pretty remarkable film. As a story, it's fairly interesting - a callous TV news cameraman softens in the face of the political turmoil of 1968, and falls in love with a widow. But cinematically, it's a tour de force. The most thrilling portion of this film is the scenes shot on location in Chicago's Grant Park, while the protesters outside the Democratic convention are beaten back by a brutal force of Chicago police officers and National Guardsmen. The part that sticks out in my mind is where the tear gas starts to explode, and we can hear someone say Watch out, it's real! At this point, the film turns into something else entirely. The story of the reporter is pushed to the background, and the examination of fact vs. fiction is pushed to the forefront. This is one of the most daring films ever released by a major studio - it almost completely dispenses with narrative convention 2/3 of the way in, and becomes a gripping experimental film. It's not perfect; it does take awhile to get going, for one. But once it gets rolling, this is riveting and chilling. "},{"Title":"A document of its time","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is not quite as shocking as it probably was in 1969, when it earned an X rating.  A sad sign of our times  We are not as numbed by realistic violence in film anymore.  This is a good movie about what arrogance and apathy and do to a confident cameraman during the most turbulent of times.  As detached as Robert Forster's character is, he and the woman from West Virginia are just observers, and (this being a '60s cultural statement film), paid the price for it. It was funny (if that's the right word) to see Peter Bonerz warm up for his character on The Bob Newhart Show.  This is definitely one for the time capsule, like Easy Rider. "},{"Title":"A unique One of Kind Film experiance","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stunning one of a kind feature about a young hot shot reporter who in his pursuit of the 'human interest' story misses many more important stories.  A excellent, intelligent look at the news media.  Examines everything from how the media may inadvertantly 'create' a news story, to who decides what is news and what isn't, and how being 'detached' from your subject may actually be a detrament.  Ingenously incorporates its actors into actual protests of the 1968 democratic convention. These scenes alone are exciting and amazing. Director Wexler ( who is also a renowned cinematagrapher) seems to capture each scene like you are actually there.  Only drawback is that a couple of songs from THE MOTHERS OF INVENTION have been edited out of recent versions due to a copyright dispute. "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  They really don't make movies like this anymore. A documentary-style look at the press and media - fascinating! Stylings are very '60s-ish but the story and conversations will never grow outdated! A very influential film, expertly constructed and directed by Haskell...good luck finding it on video. You'll have better luck waiting for it to air on television.The acting is very good, and convincing. Sometimes I wondered whether they were _really_ actors at all! The direction is shaky and utterly superb, capturing the feel of these sort of documentaries broadcast on 60 Minutes, etc.All in all a very fascinating look at the media during the 1960s and beyond. It still relates. Vietnam has passed but the media is still the same! "},{"Title":"A real masterpiece","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the great American movies.  The reasons for its obscurity have everything to do with mass consumerism in the late 20th century and nothing to do with its quality.  In my opinion this film captures the essence of the late 1960s better than Easy Rider, The Graduate, or any of the other popular films that have come to be associated with that era.Wexler combines a very European (Italian Neorealist/French New Wave) style with a very American subject matter in a way that comes across as completely natural. It is an art film that plays like watching the evening news.It is exciting both formally, and culturally  not only does it provide a lasting document of the late 1960s counter-culture in conflict with the aging, square America of the Eisenhower era, it more specifically does a fine job of representing the more general cultural conflict of rural people (here white Appalachians) thrust into the Yankee city environment.All this, and the movie is fun to watch, not some intellectualized snorefest.  It a great movie.  "}{"Title":"a true representation of everything that happened in 1968","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is hard to believe that Haskell Wexler was able to shoot a movie amid the turmoil surrounding the 1968 Democratic Convention, but he did it. Robert Forster plays a cameraman covering the event. He's not exactly enthused about his job, and in the process develops a relationship with single mother Verna Bloom.The scenes of the protests almost eclipse the main plot. Chicago's mayor calls in the National Guard to attack the demonstrators, while in the convention, people seem unaware of what is going on outside. As the protesters remind everyone The whole world is watching. It's so mind-boggling to think about 1968. That year, it seemed like one thing led to another. The Tet Offensive, the My Lai Massacre, Martin Luther King Jr's assassination, the Paris uprising, Bobby Kennedy's assassination, Prague Spring, the Democratic Convention, the Mexico City uprising (while the Olympics were happening there), and to crown everything, Nixon got elected. "},{"Title":"surreal disjointed experimental counter culture film","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Cassellis (Robert Forster) is a TV reporter. This follow his work and personal life. It's a scatter shot of his life and Eileen (Verna Bloom) and her son. It's a semi-documentary where the lines of fiction and reality are often blurred. Sometimes, the only way to tell is the presence of a recognizable actor like Peter Boyle.The film could be very disjointed and experimental. It's diving into the counter culture head first. None of the black activists are willing to discuss anything other than that they don't trust him to do an interview. There is a roller derby match, and a psychedelic Mothers of Invention concert. It is one big jumble.Then it get surreal with Verna Bloom in her bright yellow dress walking among the protesters of the 68 Democratic convention. The riot police are out in full force, and so is the army. I would suggest anybody who find themselves drifting to stay with it to see final section. It is utterly fascinating. "},{"Title":"Very interesting","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Medium Cool's best feature is the way it is made. It is filmed with the characters of a fictional plot going into the real life riots of the 1960s Chicago Democratic Convention. So we see these riots as if it's a documentary, but the movie is not about them. They are merely in the background. It's perfect because if this was a documentary just about the riots, it would get tiresome. This way they have their plot upfront and the background situation is great as well. The plot is about a reporter and his relationship with a woman and her son, but it is also about the society around them. There is much mention of violence and the media and we see it up close as well. The plot with the woman isn't great, but it's enough. The riots are what make this movie truly unique. The great thing about this movie is that there's practically something for everyone in it. You want to watch the riots, they're all over the film. The relationship, it's there. The commentary on society (the thought provoking portion of the story), it's all there. Combining so many things usually fails because movies tend to show them each separately. Medium Cool has them all run with each other so that your almost always watching two things at once. It works out great. "},{"Title":"A Visually Stunning Film","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though somewhat hampered by a weak, semi-improvisational script, this nevertheless stands as one of the most visually stunning films of all time. Wexler, a cinematographer, took the directing helm in this film, and his skills as a director of photography show through.  After seeing the film, you will remember less the story, and more the visual bravado present in every frame of the film.  And, for what it's worth, this film contains what is nothing less than one of the most powerful shots in motion picture history watch for the scene in the kitchen. "},{"Title":"An interesting movie with some noticeable flaws.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was an interesting movie that was perhaps too ambitious.  The movie is really two different movie with different goals crammed together into one production.  There is a fairly standard love story coupled with scenes of the violence around the Chicago DNC.  The connection between the two stories is fairly tenuous.  Having said that, the movie is still very good and is definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Chaotic 60s from Journalist's POV","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (A Little Spoiler Included)A simple story of an affair between a TV journalist and a housewife, whose husband is in Vietnam, encapsulates the chaotic late 60s Sex Liberation, Black Power, Anti-Vietnam War Protest, and Rock'n Roll. With aggressively rough camera work, Medium Cool reveals the harsh reality of American life at the time, and at the same time self-reflects the manipulative nature of film media. Influences from several cutting-edge directors, such as Cassavetes and Godard, whose Contempt is referred at the end, permeate on the screen. "},{"Title":"I take back my previous comment","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I made my previous comment after seeing this film once.  Having now seen it twice more, I can say with some degree of certainly that it is one the most meticulously constructed films I have ever seen.  It has a documentary-like intensity that can only be found a few other films (most notably Dog Day Afternoon) combined with a degree of authorial playfulness from Wexler.  He has something serious to say (actually, many things), but he keeps a sense of humor about the material.  The scenes at the Chicago convention are spine-chilling; one of the finest and most affecting scenes in cinema history.  Everything that has come before is preparation for those scenes, and Wexler's message comes into clear focus.  The performances are uniformly excellent; watch for Peter Boyle as the owner of a Gun Clinic.  This film will stay in your memory. "},{"Title":"Intriguing Lefty Sixties News Media Docudrama","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Cassellis, a news cameraman in Chicago during the 1968 Democratic Convention, is caught up in the political and civil unrest of the times.This is an interesting early film by gifted cinematographer Wexler, which courageously attempts to mix a fictional narrative (Forster and Bloom meet and begin a romance) with real footage of the time (specifically a riot in Grant Park, near the end of the movie). It doesn't really work either way for me - the characters are a bit distant and the hippy ideology has long grown dim - but it deserves kudos for trying something different. As a document of its time however, it is fascinating; '68 was an especially grim year, with Vietnam at the height of its outrages, constant clashes between public and police all over the US, the notorious student riots in Paris, and both the Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy assassinations. It captures the tensions of the time with frightening clarity - when Forster goes into the ghetto to do a human interest story, a black activist responds, It makes a person wonder whether you're going to do something of interest to other humans or whether you consider the person human in whom you're interested.. It also ponders the disaffectment of the media; in the opening scene Forster films a wreck on the highway and then calls an ambulance as an afterthought. It has an intriguing title too, which I take to mean that the TV news would rather behave in whatever way puts itself in the best light, rather than reporting objectively and responsibly - a problem now more than ever. Whatever my opinions, this is an incredible achievement for cameraman-writer-producer-director Wexler. "},{"Title":"flawed yet thought provoking","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film really takes a while to get going. Much random footage is pieced together and it takes a good time before one can truly understand the purpose of the movie.As for the actors - the main protagonists are beautiful - the very handsome Forster and his various female partners all light up the screen.This film is also a great insight into the style, culture and atmosphere of the 60's - intermittent use of music and extensive camera shots of 60's USA all really serve to make this movie very stimulating as regards to the background setting.This film is inventive, its acting performed by talented and attractive actors also adds some flavour. If it wasn't for the slightly cumbersome narrative and the characters not being all too interesting this film would be a stone cold classic.Nevertheless, its original and definitely worthwhile viewing. "},{"Title":"everything it had to say could have been said in 20 mins.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not partiucularily care for this film.  Although I do like the social commentary that it brought up.  It is shot in a largly documentary style, there is little editing, and almost no story until the half way mark. Some okay performances, but I am not really sure if they were really performances.  Watch it as a documentary, not a real film. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Can you dig it?","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This experimental late 60's effort is a great time-capsule movie. It captures feelings of unease and paranoia that are synonymous with the time. This was at a time where events such as Altamont and the Manson murders helped kill the hippy dream. Medium Cool depicts a cynicism that is very much in line with times.Set in Chicago during the '68 Democrat National Convention, the film follows a dispassionate news cameraman and his relationship with a country woman and her son. The story is slight. And the message is not entirely clear. But, apart from the time-capsule factor, what makes this movie worthwhile is the way in which it has been captured on film. The cinematography excellent in places. The opening credit sequence where the camera follows a dispatch bike rider through the streets of Chicago to the psychedelic main theme tune by Frank Zappa's Mothers of Invention is particularly well done. Similarly, the later shots of Verna Bloom walking through the anti-Vietnam riots clad in a little yellow summer dress is incredibly striking. Director Haskell Wexler was primarily a cinematographer so it is unsurprising that the look of the film is so important. On top of this, the idea of filming the actors in the settings of actual events, such as the riots and the Convention, gives the film a timeless quality and uniqueness that serves it well.On the negative side, some scenes do go on too long and 'the message' aspect can get slightly tiresome at times. The acting is good but characters are maybe a little too detached at times, making it hard for us to care too much for them. That said, however, the ending still packs an emotional punch.Other things to check out An extended nude scene that must've been pretty shocking at the time. The psychedelic soundtrack is no too bad either &#150; including a groovy rock concert scene. Lastly, a black radical who talks in fluent jive &#150; 'you cat', 'you dig', etc &#150; very funny.If you're looking for a film with a great narrative then give Medium Cool a miss. If you would like to see a late 60's psychedelic/political mood piece with some great visuals and music, then give it a go. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Filmed","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haskell Wexler, one of the best cinematographers of his time, created with Medium Cool one of the best photographed films of all time.  The plot of Medium Cool is forgettable, but what will never fade are the film's images, which make it shot for shot a textbook example of the inventive, revolutionary filmmaking of the late sixties and early seventies.  It's eye candy for those of us who love to be excited as much by editing and shot construction as by plot.  And for what it's worth, the single shot which takes place in a kitchen (to give away more would be a crime) is easily one of the most brilliant, shocking and unforgettable moments in film I have ever witnessed.   "},{"Title":"Finding your conscience","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The great cinematographer Haskell Wexler not only photographed this film but he also wrote it and directed it as well. It's about the soullessness of his own kind; cameramen and the media in general. The hero is a venal news photographer who sort of finds his conscience when he discovers the footage he has been shooting is being used by the police and the FBI to target dissidents. Did he really believe in the sanctity of what he was doing? For somebody so wrapped up in his own ego could he really be so naive? As a drama the film is weak and inconsequential. Wexler uses a working-class woman and her son as a plot device to link the vacant hero with his inner self. But he films it against the backdrop of the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago and he puts his actors in the middle of the action. He doesn't recreate it the way fictional films do but uses the actual events themselves. Was this fortuitous for Wexler or was this exploitation? As the woman, played by Verna Bloom, wanders among the rioters you ask yourself, what direction was Wexler giving her. The documentary footage of police brutality that ends the film is effective in a disturbing kind of way but it cheapens the film. Wexler seems as soulless here as the rest of us. He obviously doesn't care about the photographer or the woman as people, so why should we? In the end, we don't. "},{"Title":"discusses the reality behind the riot scene and how that affects the movie itself","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think the most amazing part of this movie was the fact that it was ACTUALLY filmed during the live 1968 Democractic Convention riot...it wasn't filmed FOR the movie, the movie was filmed in the MIDST of the crowd...it brings a certain amount of reality to the main character as she walks through the masses of people. The director had to edit out several scenes of actual police brutality, and the actress herself had to avoid being targeted by the cops during several shots. When asked, the director told people he was filming a documentary. The only negative of the scene is the seemingly perfect line of one of the gophers telling the director to look out haskell-they're real! referring to the smoke bombs being set off by police officers. That line was edited in during the final process, instead of being heard at that point in time. Otherwise, the movie was great!! "},{"Title":"Maximum Bull","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Medium Cool is one of those hippie-dippie time capsule pictures that was probably dated by the time they released it. Now it's mostly laughable to watch as an attempt at art; it barely passes as memorabilia. The film was written and directed by cinematographer Haskell Wexler, so the emphasis, understandably, is on the look of the film, the images, and which is why the story and character development are so sadly lacking.The film centers around a local Chicago cameraman (Robert Forster) and his travails in and around the high-tension scene around the time of the 1968 Democratic Convention, but the general theme that dominates the movie (yes, friends, it's a crusty old message movie) is the way the media controls our lives by controlling what we see and how we see it. Wexler presents this in a variety of ways, none particularly successful. The TV station's assignment editor is shown nixing a proposed feature on inner city suffering in favor of, among other things, baseball, and news events are depicted as staged. When Forster goes into a rant at his white trash girlfriend (Verna Bloom) about media tyranny (the big message scene which is, naturally, the low point of the film), one wonders if she has any idea what the hell he's talking about. A sequence where Forster is hassled in a black neighborhood is riveting, then that devolves into a message scene.But where the movie fails is that IT looks staged when it's trying to be authentic. We see Verna Bloom's character tiptoeing behind a police barricade looking for her runaway son (by the way, is a political riot normally where a 13-year-old goes for kicks?), but the introduction of a paid actor into what is essentially news footage undercuts the seriousness of what Wexler is trying to sell. The opposite effect takes place, which is that the demonstration takes on the feel of staged drama; the documentary feel is lost. In another scene, two non-actors are heard shouting Remember Prague and Don't forget Budapest and it has all the legitimacy of a second-grade nature pageant; it was obviously looped on to the soundtrack in post-production. Wexler mixes true convention footage with drama and the hybrid stuff, and it doesn't really work on any level. I commend Wexler on the general look of the picture, it radiates the color of the times while mostly avoiding psychedelia a shot of a father and son in a wheatfield is terrific, as are the shots of Verna Bloom searching for her son under the city lights, which are spectacular. The editing is curt and keeps the picture moving.At the end, when Forster and Bloom have the auto accident, Wexler's camera pans over to a shot of another camera filming the wreckage. I guess Wexler's message is that they were just pawns in the game. But they're pawns in the movie too, and when they wipe out, we don't much care, since they were just implements for Wexler to put across his commentary on the state of things. Watching a young Robert Forster, I couldn't help but think how much I enjoyed him as the bail-bondsman in Jackie Brown. Now THERE'S a movie I recommend. With this, you take your chances. 2 ** out of 4 "},{"Title":"60's historical gem","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A television cameraman becomes romantically involved with a widow during the 1968 Democratic National Convention.  Rather ordinary plot and bland acting is merely a vehicle for a look at the 60's anti-war culture.  Actual footage from the events gives the film a realistic, documentary feel and impact. Viewers who like this film should also see Strawberry Statement (Rating A-minus) "},{"Title":"Radical left propaganda","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Part of this movie is a documentary filmed during the infamous Democratic convention of 1968. The selection of material is highly biased we see crowds of peaceful and idle young people and threatening and brutal police force. We don't see that these people are mostly high, that they will loot and burn half of Chicago, that the riots are planned and coordinated. How else could Haskel Waksel bring the whole crew in the middle of the action? There are two equally biased fictional political episodes, which are supposed to create an impression of documentary. One shows a group of militant black activists, whose obvious racism and hatred is underplayed by the camera; and then there is a group of white women at a shooting range, who are trying to learn self-defense. This last scene is more like a cartoon. Finally, there is a melodramatic story poorly woven into the rioting, with the main character developing from a cruel and cold-blooded reporter to a sweetie who courts an unattractive widow of a Vietnam soldier by caring for her son. The plot is so weak that the authors end it by killing main characters in a sudden car crash. Summary watch if you want to see how liberal lies are created. Pictures of Chicago in 1968 are colorful, though. "},{"Title":"Ice Cold","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seriously, what is this movie? I am a young man, and I know my generation seemingly all suffers from ADD but I can sit and watch the original Pride and Prejudice without feeling super antsy. I am familiar with classic Hollywood, I am familiar with exploitation films, I study films which might make this all the more surprising to hear me say that I absolutely hate this film. I feel that there is no central plot and honestly there is nothing about the Dem. convention until very late in the film.Before I go any further, I have seen this film only once, it could take more than one viewing to fully appreciate the direction-less train wreck that is Medium Cool, but I will never take hours out of my life for this movie again. To those who have not seen it, unless you need some background noise for your nap, skip this. To those who praise this film endlessly for no apparent reason, please inform me as to why this movie is so great. I am not trying to be condescending in any way, I truly am curious as to why people rave about this film. "}]