[{"Title":"A curious serial-like Western melodrama packed with stars and pretensions above its situation&#133;","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" The film opens with a narration by Victor Jory about an Apache legend a hidden canyon, guarded by the Apache gods and rich with gold&#133; As long as the Apaches kept the canyon a secret and never touched the gold, they would be strong and powerful&#133; Marshal Mackenna (Gregory Peck) wasted three years chasing that wild goose&#133; He immediately knew the place and identified it as 'Shaking Rock' but insisted to the old Apache dying chief who was keeping the map that there is no gold around there The only dust I found was prairie dust! Before the chief dies, Mackenna destroys the map, confident it is a myth&#133;When the ludicrous Mexican bandit Colorado (Omar Sharif) appears on the scene with his gang, and discovers the useless burned map, he took Mackenna&#151;his living map&#151;to his hideout in a little box canyon and forced him to lead him to the legendary canyon&#133;Colorado's gang includes Hesh-Ke (Julie Newmar), an attractively jealous Apache woman who was once involved with Mackenna, Hachita (Ted Cassidy), a strong and deadly Apache warrior, and a captive girl called Inga (Camilla Sparv), daughter of a murdered judge who put a price on Colorado's head&#133; Along the way, the group is joined by 'good' citizens, dirty scheming ambitious men, a lot of bronco Apaches on the prowl, and the U.S. Cavalry after anybody and everybody&#133; Probably after the gold too&#133; Mackenna's Gold remains a curious serial-like Western melodrama packed with stars and pretensions above its situation&#133; The script completely wastes the fine cast&#133; On a lower level, it is quite enjoyable&#133; Julie Newmar is a delight, a natural beauty and a distinct presence that immediately captivates the audience&#133; There are scenic location shots of the vastness of the desert, exciting action scenes, pretty spectacular scenes of danger but all hampered by frustrating special effects&#133; "},{"Title":"fast paced western based on a treasure hunt story","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie will always remain a favorite on my list. I am surprised that it received such a low rating on this board. It deserves its rightful place as one of the best western movies ever made. The cast is good with some powerful performances including Gregory Pack as the small town sheriff who accidentally stumbles onto a treasure map leading to a gold mine protected by the Apache Indians. The outdoor locations in this movie (with The Grand Canyon as the back drop) are simply breath-taking.The story is fast paced with lot of action scenes including some thrilling footage of high speed horse chases. If you like western genre, don't miss this one. You will not be disappointed. It has everything - story, cast, locations, horses, shooting and a very happy ending. "},{"Title":"The Old Turkey Buzzard","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" With so much talent and such great location cinematography from Arizona and Utah where Mackenna's Gold was shot, you would think the film would have wound up a classic. Sadly it tries and misses by a good deal.Gregory Peck at his noblest is a town marshal who is ambushed by old Apache chief Eduardo Ciannelli. Peck kills him and finds out that the old man thought Peck was one of a gang of outlaws after a map of a lost canyon of gold. But as Ciannelli dies, Peck inherits the map which he burns. Turns out Peck inherits a lot more than a map. Word of what the old guy had has reached the strangest places. The U.S. Cavalry, a group of settlers from the town Peck was the marshal, and unfortunately one unscrupulous bandit played by Omar Sharif. He kidnaps Peck and since Peck knows the location of where the lost canyon allegedly is, that fact keeps him alive.Gold does terrible things to the human soul as we discover watching this film. Part of the problem here is that Peck somehow seems to rise above the whole business. Maybe he's just a bit too noble in this film and that's my problem with it.The townspeople are an interesting crowd, the citizens that Peck has sworn to protect turn on him quite savagely. Gambler Eli Wallach, newspaper editor Lee J. Cobb, storekeeper Burgess Meredith, a pair of traveling Englishmen, Anthony Quayle and John Philip Law who think it would be jolly good sport, and even the local preacher who convinces himself God has ordained this so he can build a tabernacle. That role is played by Raymond Massey in his final big screen performance. And of course there's Edward G. Robinson as an old prospector who claims the canyon exists because the saw it and for that the Apaches burned out his eyes.Camilla Sparv is another of Omar Sharif's hostages who's having a big problem choosing between Peck and the gold. One of the more ridiculous sequences in the film has Sharif and his band coming across an Eden like waterhole they spend a bit of time skinny dipping and satisfying some lustful desires.The two best performances in the film are from Julie Newmar in a role with no dialog as a murderous Indian squaw who travels with Sharif's band and has a personal score to settle with Peck and from Telly Savalas as a cavalry sergeant who murders his own men and declares himself in on the gold hunt.Hovering over the characters in the sky throughout the film is an old turkey buzzard and a song is sung intermittently throughout the film by Jose Feliciano. It's a kind of running commentary, the way some of the westerns in the fifties had Frankie Laine and other singers performing the same function.A lot of the same themes were done better twenty years earlier in Columbia films classic Lust for Gold that starred Glenn Ford and Ida Lupino. Mackenna's Gold is an entertaining enough western, but considering all the talent in this film it should have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Gimme a map, a dusty trail and wild Apaches chasing me...","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  And I can find GOLD.  I just recently viewed the DVD release of this little western nugget.  I was taken aback by the wide screen splendor of the film, the grand location shots in Monument Valley and Canyon De Chellye, not to mention some tricky switcheroo in Zion and Bryce National Parks as well.  The movie is campy yet serious, a shoot-em-up one minute and relaxing in a cool secret waterfall filled pond in the next. And the film has its' moments, like Julie Newmar (who can think of her and not say statuesque?), the vicious-obsessive-compulsive-Apache-squaw camp-follower, or Hatchita, played by Ted You Rang? Cassidy or the grande dames of acting all seated around the fire.. Keenan Wynn, Edward G. Robinson, Eli Wallach, Burgess Meredith,  Anthony Quayle, Omar Sharif, Raymond Massey and Lee J. Cobb like the Fellowship of the Ring gone a hunting gold in the old west. And near the end, Telly (Who Loves Ya Baby?) Savalas joins up as a sadistically cruel Army seargent. I highly recommend this blast from the past, and Jose Feliciano singing Ol Turkey Buzzard, sends chills down my spine.  I saw this movie in the theatre when it premiered. This is already approaching cult status folks.. a real keeper.The main reason I wrote this review is to pay tribute to Gregory Peck, who was MacKenna,  Josef Mengele, Dwight Towers, Charles Keith, Robert Thorn, Monsignor Hugh O'Flaherty,  Atticus Finch, Keith Mallory, David,Ahab, Harry Street and many many more. He will always live in my heart and mind as a great actor, the like of which may never again be seen.  Nobody held a candle to him, or ever will. JUne 12, 2003 "},{"Title":"Mackenna's Gold","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"26 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I first saw this film a few months ago on TV and i thought it was so good i bought it on DVD.Now I'm not really a fan of westerns but this film really got me interested in them.The Film is set in the Arizona territory of the 1870's. Gregory Peck is brilliant as Sam Mackenna who is the only living person who knows the torturous route to the fabulous canon del oro. During his journey Mackenna is captured by Colorado played by the great Omar Shariff, a brutal Mexican bandit who has long sought his death. But, if Mackenna is to lead the cut-throat gang to the lost treasure, Colorado must keep him alive. En route, Mackenna and the outlaw band are joined by renegade soldiers, vengeful Indians, cold-blooded killers and gentlemen from town As they near golden canyon, all but Mackenna are swept by a sudden fever - the naked greed for Gold. Mackenna's Gold is one of the most exciting Westerns ever made. "},{"Title":"A beautiful western in the genre's twilight","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This grand, sprawling western is an entertaining picture with mega cast names that results in an enjoyable adventure. Gregory Peck and Omar Sharif are the main adversaries here as a diverse group of ranchers, soldiers and assorted types search for a hidden canyon of gold in Indian country. The expensive production has several cameo appearances of stars well past their prime and a message about greed and the corrupting influence of gold fever and the risks people take to acquire untold wealth. There are two women in the story, one to meet the romance requirement while the other represents pure menace. The great beauty of the American west is the highlight of the picture as the plot plays out against the deserts, mountains and canyons of the great southwest. Indians are the main danger but the party of whites have their share of infighting with gun fights, chases and double crosses. The film was one of Hollywood's last great screen westerns. "},{"Title":"The worlds first Sci-Fi Western","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  Its got everything! Two fisted action! Gorgeous females! Catfights! Gregory Peck! Camilla Sparve!      a Whos Who of  yesterdays character actors! Hokey dialog! Excellent Special Effects! Great scenery! Ultra-Panavision&#153;!  Directed by the guy who did Bridge Over River Kwai! ah well, according to several sources this movie was supposed to be over 3 hours long, and was going to come out as  a Cinerama-type Road Show...but the days of that were dying and Columbia got cold feet, so it was cut to a little over 2 hours;  There are some minor differences between 35 and 70mm prints; This movie is a hoot-see it!       "},{"Title":"The map was on his mind.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  1969 was a very good year for westerns (The Wild Bunch, True Grit), so this film went by without being noticed, but every second of it is enjoyable. Gregory Peck is great as always, Omar Sharif as Colorado does surprisingly well, also  Julie Newmar as the Indian girl, Edward G. Robinson as Adams, Telly Savalas as an army officer. No doubt this was a precursor to Raiders of the Lost Ark. It is also very similar in certain scenes to the 1949 western Lust For Gold. Seeing it today in DVD with widescreen is quite an experience, because  of the beautiful way the scenery is shown (it looks like Monument Valley and the Grand Canyon put together with a bit of fantasy) also the unusual places the camera is placed, like at certain moments you are following the feet of the horses, or in other scenes you feel the camera is riding the horse.  "},{"Title":"Pretty much splendid adventure western","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  When I was a kid I used to totally love this movie. I thought it was one of the greatest and the most exciting westerns ever made. When I saw Mackenna's gold some years later and I was considerably older it seemed pretty lame and I wondered what was so special about it in the first place. Last night I saw Mackenna's gold again, I guess it was the third time. I admit that it wasn't difficult to understand why I adored the film when I was a child. Mackenna's gold is not a traditional western, it's more like an entertaining and unique larger-than-life adventure - just the kind of a stuff that appeals to young boy.There's an interesting script with lots of thrills, action, Indians, lost gold treasure and a bit peculiar characters. I wouldn't be surprised if Steven Spielberg would admit that he's taken plenty of influences from Mackenna's gold for his Indiana Jones trilogy. (J. Lee Thompson himself directed afterwards couple of classic adventure flicks, such as two sequels to The Planet of the apes and Richard Chamberlain classic King Solomon's mines.)When I look at Mackenna's gold nowadays I frankly have to acknowledge that even though it's not among the best films of this genre it's a bloody great western and considering that back in 1969 westerns weren't so popular anymore this one's a marvelous classic and one of the finest of the time. Gregory Peck is just as superb as MacKenna as the splendid Omar Sharif in his amusing bad guy role. Supporting cast is excellent too, late Telly Savalas who played Blofeld in James Bond movie that very same year, Julie Newmar and Burgess Meredith (The Catwoman and The Penguin in the 60's tv series Batman) and the legendary Eli Wallach. I understand that Clint Eastwood turned down the chance to play the leading role of Mackenna's gold. With him this would have been one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Western with stellar cast and breathtaking outdoors","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This is one of the major movies of 1969 . It is a marvelously rambling frontier fable packed with extraordinary incidents, amazing encounters , nasty characters and virtuous rewards . It follows a sheriff (Gregory Peck) and a group of ambitious men (formed by all star cast  Omar Shariff , Elli Wallach, Lee J. Cobb, Edward G. Robinson, Raymond Massey, Keenan Wynn and many others) in search for gold in a big lost canyon and being pursued by soldiers(Telly Savalas) and Indians.This is an overwhelming Matinée Western plenty of intrigue, double-crosses, gold-lust clichés, adventures and action-packed especially in its final part ; ending in an abrupt, ironic denouement. The film is an exciting story though disjointed and with numerous loose ends ; it is originally written by Carl Foreman and based on the novel by Will Henry. Some ridiculous especial effects such as the bridge scenes at the beginning and abundant matte paintings. Furthermore, contains excessive use of absurd transparency. Packs a colorful and glimmer cinematography in Panavision , shot at Monument Valley from Arizona and Utah. Moving and stirring musical score by Quincy Jones with today classic songs by Jose Feliciano. The film is lavishly produced by Carl Foreman who formerly produced some excellent movies . The motion picture is regularly directed by J.L. Thompson (1914-2002) during his splendorous and successful time in the 60s, when he directed ¨Cape fear¨, ¨Taras Bulba¨ and ¨Guns of Navarone¨; though in his last period he only directed Charles Bronson vehicles, such as ¨Death wish 4¨, ¨Kinjite¨, ¨St. Ives¨,¨Messenger of Death¨, among others. This delicious embarrassing movie will appeal to Gregory Peck devotees. Rating  6'5 , acceptable and passable. "}{"Title":"I've never seen so many men dying so badly","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" How can a western with Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif, Telly Savalas, Eli Wallach, Lee J. Cobb and Edward G. Robinson be mediocre? Well, it can.This could have been a classic, an intriguing treasure hunt action, adventure, growing paranoia, shifting factions... instead, it's a waste.The big cast is handled terribly. We are introduced to this huge group of people, played either by famous stars or by respectable character actors. We get some quick character-building scenes. Then, after five minutes, 90% of them get killed. To quote a much better western, I've never seen so many men dying so badly. Try to imagine, say, a version of The Dirty Dozen where eight members of the squad die a few minutes after their introduction. Anticlimactic doesn't quite convey it. Peck is not at his top form he looks uninterested, even bored. Sharif goes for an over-the-top approach.Worth mentioning is a bit near the end which just cracks me up - movie villain stupidity at its most glorious. Sharif's Colorado has the gold and all the horses, he can ride away and live happily ever after; instead, he grabs an axe and goes free-climbing after Mackenna, who is far away on the top of a mountain. It's so dumb it's brilliant.There are a few effective scenes - like the arrival at the valley and the gold fever with the heartbeat pulsating in the soundtrack - but, overall, Mackenna's Gold is sadly mediocre.I enjoy the main theme of the score, though - catchy.5/10 "},{"Title":"A ridiculous waste of talent","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Gregory Peck is Mackenna, a one-time gambler who's settled down as the Marshall in a small desert town. Rumors of a lost Apache valley full of gold causes a mass rush that catches both the best and worst elements of the town up in its force. His nemesis Colorado (Omar Sharif) is the chief ringleader, responsible for kidnapping the local judge's daughter (Camilla Sparv) and Mackenna after Mackenna destroys the only map to the valley.By far the strangest thing about this movie is the way that so many great character actors are basically wasted in tiny roles. I see no reason for the townspeople, who only play in one scene, to be performed by actors of the caliber of Lee J. Cobb, Burgess Meredith, Ray Massey, Eli Wallach, and Edward G. Robinson. It seems to me like a gimmick, a trick to make the audience think that the film will be full of great stars when in actual fact they only paid them for what looks like a couple days' work. The big roles in the film go to incompetent performers like Sparv, or to the stale theatrics of a born TV actor like Savalas (who looks incredibly odd and uncomfortable with his tiny fat legs perched on a huge stallion). Only the excellent Sharif is able to do anything really memorable or interesting with his character, and that's a bit of a stretch since the character himself is so typical. Peck is fine, but that's about it. He has none of the fire or passion that fueled his best western performance in Duel in the Sun here. Poor Julie Newmar is stuck as a mute with brown makeup on as an evil Apache woman.Another odd thing about the movie is the way it consciously evokes Lean's Lawrence of Arabia, a far better film. The landscape shots are fantastic, but the shots of Sharif riding through the desert ring a note of deja vu. And it can't be a coincidence that Anthony Quayle shows up in the movie. I half expected Peter O'toole or Alec Guinness to make a cameo towards the end.There's nothing horribly wrong with the film or bad about it as simple entertainment. But considering the cast assembled and the money that was spent, it's very underwhelming. The story is rather dull and predictable, the direction is bland and impersonal. This is simply functional western film-making of the kind that killed the genre. "},{"Title":"60s Pop Epic & Pure Escapist Fun","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I have very fond memories of seeing Columbia's MacKenna's Gold before it was even released, as a sneak preview in Washington, DC. It was a glorious throwback even then. Critics at the time (as well as other commentators on this page) have noted the cheesy insertion of phony exteriors and I did too at the time, as well as scenes like a conversation between Gregory Peck and someone where actual location medium shots were inter-cut with studio ones against a rear projection screen. OK. But we must remember that some of the craftsmen involved here cut their teeth on large-scale color features of the 40s and 50s, and this is how they made the big ones then (examples the second unit cameraman's first credit dates back to 1931; Art Director Cary Odell had been working at this studio, and no other, since 1942).As for the continuity and motivational problems, I didn't notice any of them; perhaps I saw a version before trimming. But even I, at the age of 18, winced at the hokey Turkey Buzzard title song, Omar Shariff looked and sounded funny and out-of-place in a Western, and Italian character actor Eduardo Ciannelli, as the dying Indian Peck finds in the wilderness (who passes along his plot-motivating secret), was comically miscast, but once again, this is how such things were done in those days. This was indeed twilight time for the old Hollywood. The same year, Once Upon A Time In The West and The Wild Bunch would change the Western forever.But bad special effects? MacKenna's Gold was supposed to be exhibited in Cinerama, but the studio executives abandoned that idea in favor of a general release, which would still be in&#133;..SUPER PANAVISION 70...!You had to be there, in that old movie palace in downtown Washington, on that day to see those cheesy special effects through those young eyes on that ultra wide screen. The desperate ride down the sides of the canyon wall, seen from the riders' points of view, (with the two competing women fighting it out, until Julie Newmar takes the Big Fall) and the climactic collapse of the canyon itself, was thunderously, unexpectedly, thrillingly vivid! I left the darkness vibrating with excitement. Of course my preview comment card reflected my youthful approval! Corny? Over-the-top? Hammily written and acted? Sure, but like I said, you had to be there&#133;. "},{"Title":"what a letdown!","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" For all fans of the genre, this should have been the Western epic's last hurrah. All the ingredients are right - Gregory Peck, Carl Foreman, score by Dimitri Tiomkin, vocals from Jose Feliciano, veteran Hollywood stars like Edward G Robinson and Raymond Massey, spectacular scenery, marauding Indians, lost gold, and a nude Julie Newmar. Instead we get a chaotic shambles, with wooden acting, dire script, ridiculous characterisation,uneven editing, preposterous storyline, crude special effects and scientific impossibilities (shadows lengthening when the sun rises). What can we salvage from this? Gregory Peck as always provides gravitas, although the poor man must have wondered why he signed on the dotted line. The scenery certainly is wonderful, and Dimitri Tiomkin delivers as always. But the rest of the film crumbles in a heap, rather like the climactic earthquake. "},{"Title":"Masochistic western...ridiculous, overblown, and generally miscast","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" In 1874 Arizona, a marshal is bushwhacked by an elderly Apache Indian chief carrying a treasure map detailing the whereabouts of a hidden valley of gold; upon the chief's demise, the marshal (who has memorized the map and destroyed it) becomes the prisoner/reluctant ally of a bloodthirsty outlaw and his men who want the gold all for themselves. Trimmed by Columbia Pictures before its release from a three-hour length down to just over two hours, Mackenna's Gold features a simple-minded narration by Victor Jory--ostensibly to fill us in on the bothersome story details--but the filmmakers needn't have gone to so much trouble, because their picture is a catastrophe anyway. The Super Panavision 70 vistas are breathtaking to behold (as are the roller-coaster point-of-view shots from the galloping horses), but the intermingled studio footage is an eyesore by comparison, and the film has some of the choppiest editing I've ever seen in a major motion picture. Worse, the strong cast of supporting players are mostly used for target practice, allowing maniacal killer Omar Sharif to practically own the film's entire second-half. Sharif is game but he isn't convincing, and his character Colorado falls prey to some glaring gaps of logic in Carl Foreman's messy screenplay. As the stalwart marshal, Gregory Peck looks understandably sheepish--not even two attractive females in the group rouse his excitement. The finale is a jaw-dropping display of effects, noise, and brutality, and it makes no more sense than the rest of the picture, yet interest is sustained (incredibly) and one is apt to feel they have witnessed something here. Something most definitely wrong-headed, but peculiarly intriguing nonetheless. ** from **** "},{"Title":"TeeVee Battlefield","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Everything about this disaster reminds us of the battle that raged in those days between TeeVee and movies, meaning movies exhibited in a theater. The battle was hot and heavy with a major industry severely threatened. Now of course it is both TeeVee and theaters that are running scared.Movies had scope, bigness, grand music, stars and budgets that TeeVee didn't have, so studios made movies that spoke to those values. In this case we have 70mm wide screen, the actual demolition of an impressive canyon as if it had been created for this one event. We have nudity (!), and there's a parade of big names from both TeeVee and Hollywood. The original scope was 2 1/2 hours with an intermission after the townspeople get massacred.But everything about this is wrong. Everything. In part it was because they started with components and shoved them together without any coherent tone a hee-haw narrator, a comically toned score, what looks like the goals of three or four scriptwriters and in the end some radical chopping of scenes.But there are other problems too. Peck is supposed to be an ordinary character, modeled after Maverick, the character in the runaway Warner TeeVee western. A man with a rogue past, many women, drinking, gambling, who has turned good and cleaned up the town, perhaps heavy-handedly.He encounters one of his lovers, here a sexy Indian maiden who he has not only thrown over, but disfigured. He is played by Gregory Peck, but because the director is so weak, Peck reverts to his Mockingbird lawyer. It screws the whole thing around. Lucas and Harrison Ford were one of the bad things to happen to the world, but you have to admit they got this center right. Egyptian Sharif as a Mexican bandito is similarly bungled.Everything else is sullied in the same way We have some actors that have been adequate elsewhere, but here we see Lurch, Cat-woman, Kojac, the wife of the studio boss and a bunch of cameos from movie-land. Here, movie-land is shoveled in as The Town. All the Hollywood actors are townspeople (who are killed by the audience/cavalry) contrasted to the TeeVee folks passing through.The explosions that bring the walls of the canyon down are compromised by some of the cheapest, junkiest effects you'll see. The wonderful location shots are interspersed by artless backprojection. The nudity is by Julie Newmar or her double and consists of a very strangely assembled nude swim during which she tries to seduce Peck, is rebuffed, so she tries to drown the apparent new girlfriend in underwater shots made murky in postproduction.Its a curious piece of history. In lots of other places we have movies poorly assembled from prefabricated parts, some which spend a lot of money. Its the overt role that TeeVee plays that makes this interesting, plus the obvious self-reference of goldseekers that come away empty-handed and in the process destroy something beautiful.So much of life is dealing with old battlefields.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"A game of two halves","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Marshall Mackenna (Gregory Peck) becomes the recipient of the location of a legendary hidden valley of gold. This makes him of considerable interest to assorted individuals who believe the legend to be true (Mackenna doesn't), chief among whom is outlaw Colorado (Omar Sharif).This 1969 western is a curious mix of extremes - when it's good, it is very good, and when it's bad it is truly awful. The workmanlike story is perfectly serviceable (if a little overburdened with sidetracks), but the script is abominable. The extensive cast is peppered with high profile names, but most of them have little to do while the obscure and uninspired Camilla Sparv is on screen through the latter two thirds of the film. The scenery is eye-catching and spectacular, but there are big chunks which are heavily (and obviously) studio-bound. The action is mostly pretty good, but the special effects are lamentable (poor rear projection, standard ratio shots unsqueezed, out of focus model work etc.).Peck is his usual upright self, and Sharif has fun chewing the scenery. Most of the support cast is OK, and Julie (Catwoman) Newmar as a moody Apache woman with her own agenda, puts in sterling service with a nekkid dip in a mountain pool. "},{"Title":"A enjoyable Western saga","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- MacKennas Gold, 1969, An Indian legend tells of a valley of gold protected by the Indian spirits. This valley was found twice and a group of Western gold hunters go on a quest to find it with varying degrees of failure and success in the late 1870's.*Special Stars- Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif, Julie Newman, Telly Savalas, Ted Casidy *Theme- In the West, mother nature and the Fates are nothing to bet your life on. You will lose.*Trivia/location/goofs- Monument Valley, but the film was shot mainly at Glen Canyon of Utah and Canyon DE Chelly of Arizona, specifically Spider Rock. The Old Turkey Buzzard theme song sequence was shot at Monument Valley, on the Arizona-Utah border.Some very interesting horse riders POV camera shots during chase scenes were used in this film. Also there are some aerial glider shots to show the spectacular landscapes during the 'buzzard' flying scenes. Julie Newmar's work on this film interfered with her re-curring 'Catowman' role that made her so famous in the 'Batman' TV series as such two other women filled the Catwoman role (E. Kitt & L. Meriweather) on the TV series. GOOF The action of the rock promontory's shadow('Shaking Rock') showing the secret valley entrance is wrong at sunrise. It is only when the sun goes down in the west would the rock spire's shadow get long, not in the morning which would shorten it's shadow until noon when no shadow or a small would fall directly downward. George Lucas was a film school interns of this film and helped in suggesting some scene matters. Julie Newmar's swimming scene was changed by her to a nude scene. Clint Eatswood was offered and turned down the Marshal MacKenna role. John Garfield's son, David appears as the young many caretaker of the blind Mr. Addamms, Edward Robinson role. Eduardo Ciannelli appears in another of his famous ethic roles as native American 'Chief Prarie-dog' and he was the villainous Tug GURU leader in the original 'Gunga Din'.*Emotion- A enjoyable Western saga, one of a dying few produced at this time. In the same mold as 'How the West was Won' and others. An interesting large cast of screen favorites put into some dramatic scenes. More should have been done with the townspeople especially since they were the major bluff of stars receiving roles in this film. Julie Newman is and continues to be a beautiful 'force of female nature' on screen to deal with...Yum! "},{"Title":"5 out of 5 action rating","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" See it &#x96; This is Indiana Jones disguised as a western. It is overflowing with action and adventure as a group of outlaws, Indians, soldiers, townspeople, and a sheriff played by Gregory Peck search for fabled treasure in the old west. The impressive cast also includes Omar Sharif, Telly Savalas, Eli Wallach, Edward G. Robinson, and Lee Cobb. Although most movies during this time period were very family friendly, be aware that in addition to some violence, this movie has one of the first female nude scenes in a western. So keep it in mind before watching it with the kiddos. But if you are looking for a movie with non-stop action, this is one of the most action-packed, epic westerns you'll ever see. You've got Indian fights, cavalry fights, gunfights, knife fights, tomahawk fights, and&#x85;belt fights? No joke. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Daft Wezzie","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Gregory Peck leads a tremendous cast in what has to be the daftest wezzie ever. It's intended to be serious, but it contains so many tough-in-cheek moments, including events that border upon science fantasy, that it's more like a comedy with the jokes deleted.There's gold in them thar rocks. Or so the legend goes. It's Apache gold, but any gold belonging to Injuns belongs to palefaces. The way to the wonderstuff is itself scarcely less wondrous, entailing a convoluted yarn of Apache Injuns, US cavalry, bandits, opportunist townsfolk and the downright weird. Familiar faces and movie stars pop-up and vanish like prairie-dogs, whilst an intermittent voice-over from some evidently bewhiskered sourdough attempts to maintain the confused narrative. Eli Wallach appears long enough to be slaughtered by the cavalry in some inexplicable ambush. Anthony Quayle raises his head only long enough to be scalped; and so on. You can read the credits for yourself. A tall, muscular, scarred-but-still-sexy Squaw who has the hots for Peck's McKenna (no sordid pun intended) and who features throughout the yarn, is dispatched over a cliff without the least ceremony or afterthought. At another time, Omar Sharif demonstrates his gecko-like ability to scale a vertiginous redoubt on a par with Beachy Head in about 2 minutes, simply because it has footholds hew into it. Fred Dibnah would be proud.But by then, the whole plot has tumbled off the precipice, as a critical clue is the shadow of a tall rock, pointing the way to a cave at daybreak. Impossibly; the shadow lengthens as the sun rises! And if that isn't wacky enough, the whole 'secret canyon' is brought to apocalyptic destruction by the sound & vibration of galloping horses! It's stood for thousands of years; the Indians have lived there long enough to hew a trail down to the valley floor and build adobe houses in the cliff face. Yet despite all this, plus the wind, rain, thunderstorms and what other natural phenomena, a few galloping horses drop it like the walls of Jericho. Yes.The needless, theatrical slaughters, the implausible dramas, and the supernatural scenarios, have a hint of Indiana Jones about them. But there's no jokes, no intentionally witty one-liners. It's serious; and that makes it daft. "}{"Title":"One of the best ever made.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie is one of the greatest films ever made.  Don't look on it as a typical western.  It just happens to be set in a western setting.  This movie is centered around GREED.  The character interaction between MacKenn a(Peck) and Colorado (Sharif) is classic.If you want a very enjoyable evening this is definitely a winner.  "},{"Title":"A comedy adventure unparalleled in its simplemindedness","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Hilarious! This is a movie ostensibly about the search for a hidden canyon of gold. How the lure of riches this canyon will provide and how this lure affects various characters is what drives the plot.What you get is a gorgeous 5 ft 11 inches Julie Newmar as a jilted, angry, Apache renegade warrior trying to do in Greg Peck and anyone else who shows an interest in him. Also, Ted Cassidy, all 6 ft 9 inches of him, plays yet another Apache warrior with evil on his brain. Though they do NOT say it these two must have been from the tall tribe of Apaches. Omar Sharif plays the head villain Colorado with an accent of undetermined origin. When he starts chewing the scenery in the 1st act, you know this movie will have some unintended laughs.How so many stars got involved in this movie is a bigger mystery than the one posed in the story and the main reason I gave it a 4 rating.The difference between this movie and Bride of the Monster or Plan 9 from Outer Space is the number of A-list people involved. Don't tell me this is an unintended comedy. Have you listened to the Old Turkey Buzzard theme song? The middle word in the title song best describes the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Too much of a sow's ear to make into a silk purse","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Mackenna's Gold is based on a similar theme to that of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, namely how people can be corrupted by the lust for gold. Unusually for an American Western, it had a major success in the Soviet Union, where the authorities doubtless saw it as a parable of capitalist greed, neatly ignoring the fact that it had been made by a capitalist corporation with the express purpose of making money. Whenever Hollywood satirises greed and lust for money, it generally does so for good business reasons. An old legend tells of a vast fortune in gold lost somewhere in the Arizona desert. The Apache Indians were well aware of the gold, but made no attempt to exploit it, believing that it belonged to the spirits and that their tribe would only prosper so long as left it untouched. The plot is too complicated to set out in any detail, largely because there are so many diverse groups and individuals in pursuit of the gold. The title character, Marshal Mackenna, is one of these, although he is sceptical about the existence of the treasure and is only in pursuit of it because he has been forced to accompany a gang of outlaws who believe he knows the location of the legendary Cañon del Oro.The film might share a theme with The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, but in quality it is far inferior to John Huston's masterpiece. The main reason is that the plot is far too complex. Besides the two main leads, Gregory Peck as Mackenna and Omar Sharif as Colorado, the leader of the outlaws, the film features several big-name stars, including Telly Savalas, Lee J. Cobb, Anthony Quayle and Edward G. Robinson, most of them only in minor roles and some of them with surprisingly little to do. There are too many characters, most of whom end up dead, and it is very difficult to keep track of who is who, who has been killed, who has killed him, and why. The ending, with that sudden earthquake burying the gold forever, seems far too neat and schematic. On the positive side, the acting is not all bad. This is far from being Peck's greatest film, but he gives a reasonable performance as Mackenna, seemingly the last man of decency and integrity in a world driven mad with greed. Sharif is also watchable as the only Egyptian bandit in the Old West. (Actually, Colorado is supposedly Mexican; Sharif seemed to specialise in playing characters of every nationality except his own). There are decent performances in supporting roles from Savalas as a villainous Army officer and Julie Newmar as the Apache woman Hesh-Ke, a former lover of Mackenna. Newmar does not speak a word throughout the film, yet still dominates every scene she is in by charisma alone. The lovely Julie's talents clearly stretched much further than Catwoman in the Batman TV series, the role for which she is best remembered today. The film was directed by J. Lee Thompson, a British-born director who worked both in Hollywood and in his native country. His work tended to vary in quality, and although Mackenna's Gold is not his worst film it falls a long way short of the likes of Yield to the Night and the original Cape Fear. (1969 was the year in which he also made the seriously weird Country Dance, aka Brotherly Love, about incest among the Scottish aristocracy, but his all-time worst must be the dreadful King Solomon's Mines). Yet in this case it would be unfair to blame Thompson for the relative failure of the film. His direction is generally good, there is some striking photography of the desert landscapes, and sequences such as the fight scene between Mackenna and Colorado and the final earthquake are well handled. The problem lies with the script, which was always going to be too much of a sow's ear for any director to make a silk purse out of. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Boring, Inept And Overlong","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Smack in the middle of 1969, that last amazing year of classic westerns, came this turkey buzzard of a movie that goes to prove a big budget and amazing scenery don't do anything if built around a lame story and lifeless characters.It's 1874, and Marshal Mackenna (Gregory Peck) finds himself in the desert the unwilling killer of a renegade Apache chief (Eduardo Ciannelli) who has a map to a legendary deposit of gold. Now you have the gold, but you wish you never see this map, the chief grunts with his dying breath. The spirits will kill you.Those being the spirits of bad Hollywood westerns, apparently, hovering over every bedraggled scene of this film. Bad process shots, corny dialogue, lame motivations, senseless horse chasing, a pathetically undercranked whitewater run, pointless ambuscades. They are all here, in a movie that makes less sense the longer it goes.Peck isn't terrible, just typically inert and mannered with his half- grin and raised eyebrow. At least his role doesn't shut off as abruptly as those of other Hollywood stars cast in this movie. A group of six name performers pop up at one point as The Gentlemen From Hadleyburg, including personal favorites like Edward G. Robinson, Lee J. Cobb, and Eli Wallach, all apparently afflicted by a combination of gold fever and lazy agents. Before we get to know much about them, they are gone in another pointless scene. Sadly, the film trudges on, picking up an anachronistic Telly Savalas as a greedy cavalryman to tarnish another decent star's legacy.To me, this movie is a prize example of how bad editing can help sink a movie. One early scene cuts from Mackenna and the dead chief to our main group of bad guys, led by Omar Sharif, in the process of killing a rancher and kidnapping his daughter somewhere presumably far away. The next thing we know, the same bad guys have surrounded Peck, still in the desert burying the dead chief. The movie moves like this all the time, abruptly and with no explanation.Other reviewers here single out Sharif for hammy overacting, but I won't. He's the only actor who stands out, working in some real menace in the part of John Colorado even if the plot depends on everyone else acting like an idiot by trusting this obviously ruthless rogue. Gold fever is a term we keep hearing as motivation for everyone's blindness, and it doesn't work.Director J. Lee Thompson shoots every scene in the same lifeless, overlong way, four or five long shots communicating the same idea. He even manages to render dull a fairly revealing nude scene by an undoubled Julie Newmar by shooting her swimming underwater over and over in the same way. She tries to make out with Peck, then kill the rancher's daughter, and all I could think was how I couldn't believe how ready I was for this scene to end.The core idea of the film is promising. Mackenna doesn't want to go looking for gold, he doesn't believe it exists, but he's forced by Colorado. Mackenna burned the map, you see, and as Mackenna is a well- known card sharp, Colorado knows he will remember what it showed.The scenery is gorgeous, like I said. There's even a denouement where a giant canyon collapses which was apparently done with a real canyon. But any impact of this impressive if ecologically disastrous effect is lost as Thompson cuts from that to bad process shots showing Mackenna and the others trying to gallop to safety. I don't even want to get into the silliness of a big slow finish which involves watching three principals bent on killing each other climb up a ridiculously steep cliff-face and then back down again.Apparently this was supposed to be a three-hour film but was cut by the studio after a first screening. I can't imagine how dull that must have been; this version is shorter apparently by an hour but feels terribly padded all the same. Unlike another flop western from 1969, Paint Your Wagon, it doesn't even work as unintentional comedy, slowness being its main flaw.Yes, they still made great westerns in 1969, like The Wild Bunch and Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid. Ted Cassidy from Butch is here, too, as a stoic Apache killer, his famous Lurch voice poorly dubbed. The overall effect of Mackenna's Gold is much like that, wholly artificial and completely unconvincing. Fool's Gold would have been a more worthy title. "},{"Title":"Shadow","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" There are 57 previous reviews, so I am only going to talk about how the secret location was pointed out by the shadow of the rock pillar. I will ignore the obvious problem that shadows get shorter as the Sun rises. 1) It may only point correctly on 1 or 2 days of the year. For example, the first day of Summer, or 1 month before and after the first day of Summer. The rising point of the Sun changes with the seasons. This mess was mentioned in the Lust for Gold movie, in that case regarding the Moon. 2) A real shadow would sweep across the ground and the walls of the canyon - from left to right in the morning. So how would you know when it is aiming at the correct spot? I guess they were thinking of a scenario where the Sun or Moon would be lined up with a narrow passage so that only one place could be illuminated, or only one place the shadow would fall. The day of the year would still be important for this to work. "},{"Title":"Tepid and often underwhelming Western which is largely out of control when it isn't just rather dull.","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" From its bizarre ornithological opening to its brash and clumsy finale featuring two people duking it out on a cliff top because generic framework structure demands they do just that, Mackenna's Gold is an uneasy and often stupid exercise in style over substance; a film attempting to feed off the the success of a certain Sergio Leone and his array of westerns from a mere few years before. Like the opening bird to whom a certain song of which five whole minutes of screen time is dedicated, it is a scavenger looking to live off scraps from a kill made by a bigger, better animal; a film cashing in on an approach to material that was fresh and daring in its character depiction and treatment of the genre whilst wanting to keep things on the straight and narrow so as to not be too alienating. Mackenna's Gold is all fancy camera angles and macho posturing, a film with a bored looking lead; film with an idea at is core that is too worn and not executed freshly nor made to feel like it isn't something we haven't already seen; a film that is essentially all but daft shootouts unfolding throughout an episodic script plagued by problems with tone.Our lead is the titular Mackenna, an American marshal from the Old West played by Gregory Peck who's; a man chasing outlaws and doing his best to uphold peace, even if it means having to go against one's principals in shooting dead an Apache old-timer on account of self defence. You see, Mackenna is a killer and a good killer and a warrior in battle able to negotiate around his surroundings so as to garner the upper hand if needs be, but he is the sort of guy the film wants us to realise most probably despises violence. Peck, looking as if he is in pain for most of the movie, comes across a map possessed by the mentioned dead elderly Apache, a map directing the owner towards an infamous stash of gold in amidst the hills and canyons of this land supposedly as plentiful as the sand to everywhere else on this damn frontier. Memorising it and then burning it, he is picked upon by Omar Sharif's larger than life Mexican bandit Colorado, plus gang, who were looking for the map and its now deceased owner so that it may direct them to the gold. Fresh scenario in mind, they are forced into dragging him along rather than leave him in a shallow, lonely grave.Standing in stark contrast to Mackenna, Colorado is an animated and full of himself individual; a man with a ruthless streak which rubs off on his compadres as they run from their wanted status' and happily ransack an elderly gentleman's house if it means new horses, food and the companionship of the endowed Camilla Sparv. She plays the young Inga, of whom they take along from the ranch on the quest for the Apache treasure but is ultimately no more than a pretty thing to look at; a 'one for the road' character primarily existing to look nice and get a little grubby later on. Chasing Colorado are the American Calvary headed by Telly Savalas' cutthroat Sergeant, named Tibbs, and after Mackenna is an Apahce tribe looking to avenge the death of that elder. The presence of Eli Wallach brings about several supporting acts, a series of townsfolk inexplicably looking to get in on the treasure hunt but are essentially clichés in that they range from the well-spoken and seemingly informed Brit to the cocksure 'kid' character through to a mostly unmoved holy man and must, quite literally, be introduced to us via a pointing and a verbal reiterating of who they are. They exist to play that of the film's cannon fodder.Cue several madcap episodes and some rather disjointed content ranging from goofy oasis-set would-be romances to full on Native American assaults; the film coming at us with pretensions to be as good as, or even as intelligent as, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly but mostly ending up as a badly choreographed precursor to something like The Cannonball Run. In essence, an awful lot needs to go and a good deal more needs to be changed dramatically; the voice-overs, periodically updating us on the voyage when they aren't attempting to infer a child-like fableist tone to proceedings, are ultimately superfluous.The women of the piece prove equally problematic, in that Sparv's character is an angelic, unmarked and more grounded member of the adventure, although ultimately exists so that she may be dragged about in the mud and get a little bit filthy on top of the fact she appears too photogenic for the era within which the film is set. In keeping with this apparent idea of binary opposition between the two warring males, that of Mackenna and Colorado, Julie Newmar's young Native American girl Hesh-Ke (as in, former international footballer Emile) is a dangerous temptress and a scarred, often overly aggressive, woman capable of murder. If we're going to go down this fatuous route of women cast for their looks and brief moments of 'skin' at pools of desert water, why not exploit the fact the dangerous one had a fling with Peck's character a few years previously and have them come together for a brief, violent fling? Why not attempt to insert something daring or a little off kilter amidst the drudgery to keep us interested? Alas, the film is too cute in its shacking up of its lead with someone 'safer' so as to not generate thinking amidst its audiences. J. Lee Thompson aims high with Mackenna's Gold, but both he and the project fall well short of where the bolt should have landed; the film somewhat obnoxiously self-aware of its own 'hunt' for gold (box office receipts) and popularity via the opening Jose Feliciano song and in truth, just coming across as a tad daft. "},{"Title":"Golden Girls and Lads.","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" The sprawling epic Western has a cast that includes most of the Hollywood names you've ever heard of. I won't bother to list them. Some, like Edward G. Robinson, have only one speech. Others, like Lee J. Cobb, have only one line. These big Westerns, usually shot in Durango, often indicated the performers' careers were on a downward slope. The Duke made some. Rock Hudson, Dean Martin, many others. They tended to imitates of Sergio Leone's spaghetti Westerns. Teeth glistened in the sunshine. Faces were mahogany in close ups, sheened as if covered with a thin coat of lard.That downward slope applies to most of the cast members here in 1969, including the director, J. Lee Thompson, who was later to direct a couple of rock-bottom Charles Bronson urban crime thrillers. I don't know about Gregory Peck, though. He still looked like a leading man, but I suppose his best films were behind him.The story is pointless and rambling. Groups of people come together adventitiously and find they're all looking for the same thing -- a valley full of gold that may be mythical. Speaking of that, these guys (and two girls) go through more adventures than Jason and the Argonauts. Without describing them, they reveal that except for Peck and his new girl friend, Camilla Sparv, they're all treacherous, deluded, or out of their gourds. The climax is a special effects extravaganza, minus Ray Harryhausen.Just a few observations. Some of the men wear tightly tailored trousers, sometimes with a back pocket that buttons, but nobody is carrying a wallet. It's a minor point, I admit. It's just one of those points that strikes a modern viewer. They probably didn't carry wallets because they had nothing to put in them -- no credit cards, no driver's license, no social security card. As for cash, I suppose that's what money clips were for.There is a scene, too, in which some of the cast go swimming in a desert pool. Sexy Julie Newmar swims under water with no clothes on. She climbs out nude as well. I thought the scene was very artistically done. In fact I admire it beyond all reason. The entrance to the valley of gold is hidden, nothing more than a tiny recess in one of the many monumental sandstone bluffs lining the horizon. The dozen or so men reach the area designated on an old Apache map but how in the world will they find the minuscule niche to the fortune? Here's how. There is a giant pinnacle, resembling Totem Pole in Monument Valley. And when the sun rises, the preposterous pylon's shadow crawls across the floor of the valley until it points directly to the cave. Now, get this. As the sun rises, the shadow of the stone pillar LENGTHENS. You have to admire the sublime indifference shown towards geometry. It's as if Euclid had never existed. The hidden valley, by the way, thanks to matte paintings, is so vast that it makes the Grand Canyon look like a waddy in West Texas.But that's symptomatic of the whole movie. Not much of it makes a lot of sense. You want another example? Omar Sheriff is a sly Mexican bandit and has always sworn that he would share the gold, once found, with nobody else. Okay. They're in the valley of gold, surrounded by mountains of the stuff. Everybody is dead except Sheriff and a couple of horses on the valley floor. After killing his Indian companion, Sheriff looks around and spots Peck and Sparv slowly climbing to a ruined Indian pueblo half a mile up a cliff. He has no gun, so he grabs a tomahawk and begins to climb after them to kill them both. Why? He has nothing against them personally. If he wants them to die, all he needs to do is fill the saddlebags of the three horses with gold nuggets and ride off, leaving Peck and Sparv to die and mummify in the middle of nowhere.Not that the movie isn't momentarily diverting, but once is enough. "},{"Title":"A Western SO Bad It Defies The Laws Of Physics","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This Review Contains Spoilers.Maybe it's me. But after reading all the reviews, I found the positive reviews are almost directly proportional to the distance of the reviewer from the West. I was a kid growing up in the Mother Lode country of California's Sierra Nevadas, where they have their own lost gold legends, and have actually worked for the past few years on microwave radio sites in New Mexico, including the area of Reserve, Quemado, Datil and Magdalena where the Lost Adams Mine legends are said to be located. I'm also a Brother of Equal Indignity of the Ancient & Honorable Order of E Clampus Vitus, A 170-year-old Historical society with roots in the Mother Lode. So, I'm always interested in gold mining stories from the Old West.I had seen this movie as a kid not long after it first came out, probably for Julie Newmar's nude scene more than anything else, and liked it then despite it's more hokey elements. Since then, I grew up and actually worked in areas of the Jicarilla, Mescalero, White Mountain and Chiricahua Apache reservations as well as the Navajo reservation. So I watched this film today with a much more informed and jaundiced eye than when I was a kid. How bad IS this movie? Let me count the ways.1.Cinematography that wastes the natural beauty of Arizona, Utah and New Mexico while adding unbelievably cheap special effects including shadows that LENGTHEN in the morning(the defying the Laws of Physics part).2.A script that wastes the talents of the actors, especially the townspeople played by Wallach, Wynn, Cobb, Massey, Meredith, Quayle and Robinson whose on-screen appearances and deaths shortly after reminded me of the guest stars in the opening credit scenes of the old Police Squad TV series. Sharif horribly miscast as the Bandit chief, Colorado, whose secret ambition seems to be to become Louis Jourdan in Gigi. Peck as the stolid, stalwart hero at his MOST stolid. Camilla Sparv as the damsel in distress made of wood. Ted Cassidy and Julie Newmar as Tall Apaches which worked OK when I was a kid until I met REAL Apaches and realized how SHORT Apache people REALLY are. And Telly Savalas playing, well, Telly Savalas.3.Direction and production values that changed so much because they couldn't decide whether to shoot in cinerama, 70 mm or 35 mm, so they just decided to shoot some of the movie in each format and then edit it together with bubblegum, two band-aids and some spit.4. Quincy Jones' execrable score that should be played on loudspeakers in front of his house for a month as penance.5. The unbelievable ending sequences where the mere echoes of rifle fire and hoofbeats are loud enough to trigger a seismic event.If there's ANY saving grace to this movie, it's having Newmar play her character, Hesh-Ke as a mute. Considering the roles I've seen Newmar play where she SPEAKS, that was the single most effective direction in the entire movie. That and her nude scene, which was apparently her OWN idea so kudos to HER for that.So I give it three stars. One for the location shots, one for Newmar's Mute portrayal and one for her nude scene. If you want to watch a GOOD Greg Peck western, rent Duel In The Sun or The Big Country. "},{"Title":"Best viewed as disposable time-waster.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  It must be pointed out that Mackenna's Gold is a heavily flawed movie. From a technical viewpoint, it constantly borders on the inept. The rear projections stick out quite embarrassingly (especially when the actors are pretending to be riding) and the bits of sped-up film look pretty laughable. Others have also mentioned the sloppy editing and the poorly executed earthquake in the film's finale, clearly done with models.Despite the numerous shortcomings, I have to admit I found myself enjoying the film to some extent. The story keeps moving along at a good enough pace and several veteran actors (Edward G. Robinson, Burgess Meredith, and others) pop up to keep the viewer interested. However, it's quite astonishing to learn that this was made by mostly the same people who were involved in the masterful Guns of Navarone... I wonder what happened? "},{"Title":"Mackenna's Gold as Heavywight Champion","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Since stakes are high and beef is already on the table, I will try to relay brief. I browsed the IMDb and then browsed the Wikipedia source, so it seems there to be good concordance between hush admiration and secret appraisal of raw facts. But my point lies elsewhere while not being resident American, I have been there some 20 years ago as exchange student in the California desert (much similar to New Mexico where the plot of the Film develops). Then I had a driving license and made some traveling. Subsequently, I flunked my studies and get engaged in other things. No interconnection with the review!Now let me get to the point. I rate this Movie highest as a Western genre and since Hollywood was made by Patent based on Westerns and less so on Workers cinema (as some critiques try to imply). I feel sorry for Charlie Chaplin, though he is great actor, he really is not my type. I as a kid was fascinated firstly by Westerns and this Film was my favorite. Maybe it should share with Magnificent Seven (1960) but gold is here, anyway.What else to say? I looked here and there, and found a small book in my library - Bill Yenne's Lost Treasures Guide. A whole chapter is devoted to the Lost Adams Diggings and the material is presented slightly different. Bill Yenne describes himself as gold prospector in the first place and then as Carlos Castaneda fan. Courtesy of the author and I want to comment on his presentation. Obviously, Will Henry's novel is cold turkey if not for the Movie release or because of it. Then some of the Mexican terminology I didn't met in Wikipedia - canyon is bien escondido (well hidden), mountain tops are El Morro Messa (now National Monument), wagon trail is el malpais (leading to the fort), Sno-ta-hay is Z shaped (in Chiricahua Apaches language), Chief Nana and company are berserkers, etc. More indulgence to anyone who could consult the sources.To be more precise, I have some knowledge of anthropology (have studied Anatomy). By and large the Apache Indians and many other tribal entities are depicted in Cinema since at least from the 1900s. The overwhelming impression is their stupid Mongoloid faces. Let us be more tolerant, per se. They were savages but not so much. Latest genetic research reveals three main linkage types - Pima, Maya and Columbia. The Pima type were tallest and propagated along the Pacific shores down to Patagonia. The Columbia type were firstly met by Columbus, short and stocky but cannibalistic, along the Caribbean zone and inland. The Maya type were most civilized.I finish here with some general remarks on the Movie credits. The cast is brilliant, most of the male staff is dead (Omar Sharif died recently but he is talent one in hundred years). The female staff is less credible. I rate them in following order - 1. Julie Newmar as Hesh-Ke (Indian woman with scar face); 2. Shelley Morrison as Pima Squaw (Indian woman that is drunk and bailed to Cavalry); 3. Camilla Sparv as Inga (dead judge's daughter and somewhat celluloid on screen). Thank you! "}{"Title":"Its more than jus a western movie. Nice cinematography n opening score.","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Quincy Jones' opening score and the theme song Old Turkey Buzzard are so emotionally powerful (especially combined with the magnificent photography) that sometimes I will just play the beginning of the film for my enjoyment. This grand, sprawling western is an entertaining picture with mega cast names that results in an enjoyable adventure. Don't  look on it as a typical western. It just happens to be set in a western setting. This movie is centered around GREED. Its directed by J. Lee Thompson (The guns of navarone, cape fear). The direction is generally good, there is some striking photography of the desert landscapes, and sequences such as the fight scene between Mackenna and Colorado and the final earthquake are well handled. We also have quality thespians like Omar Sharif (Hidalgo, Lawrence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago). Eli Wallach ( The good, the bad n the ugly). Edward G. Robinson ( The Cincinnati Kid, The Ten Commandments). Raymond Massey ( How the West Was Won). Telly Savalas (dirty dozen, cape fear, on her majestys secret service). Burgess Meredith (Rocky, clash of the titans). Lee J. Cobb ( The Exorcist, Our Man Flint, 12 angry men, On the waterfront). Keenan Wynn (The Mechanic, Point Blank, The Night of the Grizzly), Anthony Quayle (Lawrence of Arabia, The guns of navarone) n Ted Cassidy ( The Addams Family, Poor Pretty Eddie). Screenplay by Carl Foreman ( The Bridge over the River Kwai, High Noon, Guns of navarone). Cinematography by Joseph MacDonald ( The Sand Pebbles, Taras Bulba). Edited by Bill Lenny. "},{"Title":"The Studio System&#x85;Not With a Whimper but a Bang","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Infamous, Infantile, and an Enormous Flop. Critics and Fans Agree This is One of the Most Bloated, Clunky, and Mostly Incoherent Westerns of All Time. Mimicking How the West Was Won (1962) in its Clueless Pretense of Big is Better Banality.It is a Watchable Wonder of Odd Stylistics, Grand Landscapes, and Known Actors. The Sophomoric Script is Listless Tripe that Says Nothing Beyond Greed is Bad. The Characters are Barely Recognizable as Flesh and Blood Humans, the Desert Scenery Fluctuates From On Location Beauty to Back Lot Boredom, and the Action Draws Attention to Itself with POV Shots, Odd Angles, and Funky Sound Effects.There is So Much Magnificent Mediocrity Up On the Screen that it Can Be Entertaining to Watch it All Play Out. Depending On One's Perspective this Box Office Bomb is Either Highly Enjoyable, Unintentionally Laughable, or You Can Have a Good Ol' Time Making Fun of its Failings.Recommended to See the Studio System on its Last Legs Producing a Picture that is a Good Example Why Thing Changed So Drastically in Hollywood Around This Time. The Previous Money Men and the System They Milked for Decades was on Life Support and This Movie is a Good Example of a Big Studio Production Not Having a Clue and Here is the Last Rites. "},{"Title":"Classic western that aims high","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" A favorite of mine since a kid. Read the Will Henry book many times (the book is of course better). Very enjoyable western however. Stellar visuals, music that is memorable, excellent cast. Omar Sharif does great as 'Colorado' the bandit leader but if anyone reads the book, Colorado is described much as Telly Savales looks but it's Hollywood, having said that Sharif does a great job IMO.A lot of people knock the effects, I can over look it, its' a great old school western that really tries to be a spectacle & mostly it succeeds; one can forgive the occasional visual short comings when U consider the intent & desire of all involved was to make it as good as possible.Lottsa great actors here! Crazy cameos & they almost all are wasted in terms of screen time or contribution to the plot. The central actors are very good. I am not a huge Peck fan but he's good. Julie Newmar is fantastic needless to say.All in all one of my favorites since it was such an early influence on me, I owe to this movie & of course WIll Henry's source novel which I highly recommend as well. "},{"Title":"The Wild, Weird West","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" There's something curious about this all-star western; the eclectic cast - Omar Sharif as a bandit, Julie Newmar as a lethal mute squaw, Ted Cassidy (aka Lurch) as her murderous Apache companion and a galaxy of stars (Burgess Meredith, Keenan Wynn, Edward G Robinson, Lee J Cobb et al) as townsfolk - complemented by some amateurish special effects creates an offbeat western memorable if only for its eccentricities.Peck plays the marshal Mackenna abducted by Sharif, forced to lead him to a hidden valley where gold is reputed to be found. Along the way they pick-up greedy cavalry deserter Savalas and form uneasy alliances for the temporary purpose of finding the elusive treasure trove, whereupon all hell breaks loose as greed and mother nature emerge to claim their taxes. It's sort of an It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World western, though more bloody (the tone is at times quite sadistic, director Thompson dispatching some of the cast with callous indifference).There's a great girl-on-girl scene in which Newmar tries to horse-jack Sparv as the pair barrel down the mountain with a memorable outcome. Jose Feliciano provides the soundtrack and J Lee Thompson directs - the word weird comes to mind when trying to comprehend the sum of the parts; it's not homogeneous, but Peck is typically watchable and it's a curiosity at the least. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining 1969 Western!","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I remember catching MacKenna's Gold on TV with my dad a couple times, but both times I only made it about an hour into the movie (with commercials) before having to go to bed; I made it to the campfire scene where old Adams describes the legendary secret canyon containing incredible natural gold treasure. I was upset that I couldn't finish the film because the film builds up a great amount of anticipation concerning the secret gold canyon.Well, in the early 90's I spied a VHS copy of MacKenna's Gold and immediately purchased it. I finally got to see the ending and wasn't disappointed.Brilliant author and Western expert Brian Garfield (Death Wish) comments on MacKenna's Gold in his outstanding book Western Films thusly it hasn't a single redeeming quality. It has got to be the most expensive star-studded two-hour B movie ever made; a gargantuan dud of absolutely stunning dreadfulness. It hasn't a SINGLE redeeming quality? Okay, let me list a smattering Outstanding cast, including Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif, Ted Cassidy, Julie Newmar, Telly Savalas, Carmilla Sparv and many more, albeit mostly cameos; one of the greatest Western scores of all time, which ranks up there with How the West Was Won, Rio Lobo, Duel at Diablo, Bandelero! Bonanza, The Magnificent Seven and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (to name a handful); an incredible theme song, Old Turkey Buzzard, sung by Jose Feliciano and written by Quincy Jones; and magnificent locations (Utah, Arizona, Rogue River Oregon) & cinematography.Plus, although the story has an undeniable comic booky vibe to it (which explains why Mr. Garfield refers to it as a B movie), it is played out in a completely serious manner and successfully holds your attention while, once again, creating much anticipation regarding the legendary canyon.Gregory Peck, who plays Marshal MacKenna, and Carmilla Sparv are definitely the good guys in this picture. The film was made at a time (1969) when characters in Westerns tended to be unlikable and amoral (e.g. The Wild Bunch, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and Macho Calahan), so it's just nice to have some quality people to root for, if you know what I mean.Omar Sharif plays the head Mexican bandit Colorado excellently. It's sort of an atypical role for him, but he performs so fabulously that it seems he was born to play the part. Ted Cassidy, well-known as Lurch on TV's The Addam's Family, plays the intimidating, laconic Indian warrior Hachita. He superbly fits the character (regardless of whether or not he has Indian blood running through his veins). Julie Newmar, although obviously not of Native American heritage, is great as a crazy -- and I mean CRAZY -- squaw. Red-blooded males will be interested to know that she has a nude swimming scene, while fans of Brokeback Mountain will likely appreciate Omar Sharif during the same sequence (lol).Quincy Jones' opening score and the theme song Old Turkey Buzzard are so emotionally powerful (especially combined with the magnificent Southwest photography) that sometimes I'll just play the beginning of the film for my enjoyment, which runs a full 6-8 minutes or so (!). I've heard some complain that Old Turkey Buzzard is corny, but nothing could be further from the truth. I'll be perfectly honest with you, although open-minded, I've never been much into County/Western music, but Old Turkey Buzzard is just simply a POWERFUL composition, regardless of the musical genre. It potently comments on man's temporal nature and the insane & contagious condition of gold fever, i.e. greed, which is what the film is about.While MacKenna's Gold certainly lacks the gritty realism of, say, the contemporaneous The Wild Bunch, it is indeed a SERIOUS film despite some undeniable cartooney aspects. One could also probably nitpick about the not-quite-successful F/X miniature sequences, but that's not important; what IS important is the film's entertainment value. At the end of the day MacKenna's Gold successfully entertains.GRADE B "},{"Title":"If you love Westerns, avoid this movie!","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Though Mackenna's Gold came out in 1969, I saw it for the first time recently and wish I hadn't. When it hit the silver screen, it was notable for Julie Newmar's topless scene, and that scene may be the only one in the movie worth watching. If Mackenna's Gold appears on TV with that scene deleted, it's a total waste of time. The producers shove impossibilities in the viewer's face that are simply too insulting to ignore. Apache Indians who are 6'9 tall and have big muscles? A magic shadow that ignores the basic laws of physics? A huge vein of pure gold that runs through a sandstone cliff? Add to that bad special effects, a waste of beautiful scenery and the complete waste of the performances of some truly great character actors and you have a movie that is both frustrating and obnoxious. "},{"Title":"In old gold days, gold went to the man who had the least desire for it.","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" The movie started with a song where a vulture was flying high and high and watching below for the persons to die. In search of Gold in a canyon called canyon del oro many a prospectors died and kept alive the myth of Apache Gold. Marshall Sam Mackenna was disgusted with that Myth but was captured by Colorado to guide him to the treasure. Ultimately five of them could see the gold, but greed and nature couldn't allow them to carry the bacon home. A tremendous quake made the gold buried and the desire, greed, dreams around that gold came to an end. In the last scene when Colorado parted empty handed, it was that the horse, Mackenna rode carried the gold which Srgt Tibbs collected. Gold went to the honest Marshall who had the least desire for it.Gregory Peck was as usual at his best in this movie. An honest, intelligent, handsome person with style and awesome voice. Sometimes it seems that Gregory defined gentleman-ship in movies. He was the benchmark. Omar Sharif also portrayed well a character of greed, but a person with courage and exuded faith. When he showed Mackenna the old Newspaper about a millionaire in Paris and confessed that he wanted to be the same with that gold, he pictured an honest illusion. To sum up, the movie is about greed, illusion, jealousy and scheming around Gold and about the ultimate victory of honesty. And how can i finish without saying a word about the scenery. There is a beauty about dry hills, canyon and green valley. Riding a horse through that path can be my dream though not in search of Mackenna's Gold. "},{"Title":"great entertainer","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I remember this movie when I saw this in my college days, in 1970. Logic or no logic this was very entertaining with superb sound effects, 70 mm, good background score and a kind of variety. No wonder this was a MEGA HIT, for movie buffs of Indians, running for 25 to 50 weeks in all cities. Went for several repeat runs. The dialogues were easy to understand for non English people like us. Certainly better than the graphics oriented current age films. The shadow problem is not something illogical but deliberately shown like any other action movies. The red indians horse chase near the river was awesome. Also a bit of comedy dialogues at several places by Omar Sheriff and a few others. "},{"Title":"One of the best treasure map/get rich quick movies ever made.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  The movie is outstanding!  It keeps the viewer satisfied for that 'lotto fever' we all dream about if we win the jackpot prize.  It also shows how that same excitement can be dashed in a heartbeat if fate should deal a tainted hand to us. The saddlebag gold is a good example of using the time available to gather bounty before the onset of doom and gloom.  Nice! One of the best aspects of the movie is the opening/closing song by Jose Feliciano.  It's very memorable! "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This is a Western that ought to have everything amazing vistas; larger than life characters; Indians; the Cavalry; a US Marshall and a Mexican bandit; and a treasure worth dying for. It looks as if it should have been a Spaghetti Western and probably would have made more sense had it been. Unfortunately the nearest comparison is more like It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World.The huge cast seems to exist just to give most of the actors cameos in the film. No sooner are most introduced (and some with extended explanations of who they are and why they're here) than they are killed one way or another. Omar Sharif is utterly unconvincing as a Mexican, and Gregory Peck seems to have phoned in his performance (which puts his performance as General MacArthur in the 1977 film in a good light).Also, the plot doesn't make a great deal of sense. The ending is contrived and not really explained well - the special effects have aged horribly over the 40 years since this was made. Also, any films that requires a voice over to explain the plot or the characters motives all the time, can't be that good at telling and explaining things naturally. A pity. because as a Saturday/Sunday Afternoon film on TV (to be watched while you're doing something else) it's not bad! In fact, so bad it's good. "}{"Title":"I'm sure there are worse movies...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" ...but none come to mind at the moment.  Stellar cast squandered. Wonder if the director is actually a pseudonym like Allan Smithee?Don't get me wrong, I like spaghetti westerns, but GOOD spaghetti westerns - like Once Upon A Time in the West, etc. This movie is, unfortunately, not only not good, but also pretty horrible.  It's not even a beer movie.  I barely made it through the first half hour.It is, however, an excellent example of actors taking a job because the price was right, and proof that the best cast in the world can't save a bad script and a director with no direction.Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif, Anthony Quayle, Edgar G. Robinson, Eli Wallach, Burgess Meredith, Lee J. Cobb, - sounds like a line-up for a Stanley Kramer film, but you couldn't get further from Judgment at Nuremberg if you wanted to.  Total waste of good film.  Maybe the catering was good?  "},{"Title":"American western with a little taste of Spaghetti","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Mackenna's Gold' is an American western movie produced after some big success of movies made in Europe, especially great spaghetti westerns as 'Cera una volta il west', 'The Good, The Bad and the Ugly' and others like that.That point is important to say that 'Mackeena' Gold' is intensely influenced by the style of the spaghetti western made in the sixties. But its success is not at all close to the movies enlisted here as a reference.Directed by J. Lee Thompson, a veteran director, 'MacKeena's Gold' is strange, sometimes interesting and most of the time really boring. The movie has a great number of problems first of all, the obnoxious Vicor Jory making a completely ridiculous narration, that compromise all the elements of surprise and involvement; second, the bad use of the geography as a background for the story (Sergio Leone was a master with this kind of resource, but Mr. Thompson is not) and some bad performances, especially by the lead man, Gregory Peck, a good actor (but not very good) that develops here a tiresome, restrained acting that compromise the final result.The story has nothing new. In fact, it's just a gold hunting in which a great number of people get involved, under the ruthless command of a bandit named Colorado (Omar Shariff), in a performance fitted to the style of the westerns made in Italy. Sometimes, he remembered me of Fernando Sancho, a always present villain in Italian movies. There is a respectable list of great names in the cast, like Edward G. Robinson, Raymond Massey and even Eli Wallach, who worked some years before with Sergio Leone in 'The Good, the Bad and The Ugly' all of them in little roles.It's very difficult to make a great movie about gold hunting, treasure hunting or whatever after the classic 'Treasure of Sierra Madre' by John Houston. But this is not a excuse for the failings of 'Mackeena's Gold'.I give this a 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  Looking through the cast list, you might be forgiven for thinking that this film will be a rare treat. Well, it is, but not for the reasons you might imagine.Most of the big name stars don't appear until about 3/4 of the way through the movie, and then only last for a few scenes (literally) before they are removed permanently from the film. Perhaps the intent was to have all these people show up and then savagely remove them to shake the viewer's complacency. Who knows? Anyway, my partner went to make a cup of tea and when she came back the likes of Edward G Robinson, Anthony Quayle, Lee J Cobb, Burgess Meredith and Co had all vanished. It was such a surprise that she looked at me accusingly, like I'd had something to do with it! So be warned, blink and you might miss them.Regardless, it was nice to see so many famous faces in one film. I'd find it difficult to name a modern film where such an array of talent was assembled for a film, much less one where half of that talent is removed almost indifferently after a few scenes.Anyway, I said this film was a treat, and it is. Seeing all those old faces from the good old days of cinema is pleasure enough. But combine it with a hokey story and hilarious effects and it's just a treasure.My favourite of the lame effects has to be the back-projection horse riding sequences. These are just so funny to watch. Odd to think that at one point we wouldn't have batted an eyelid at them. How time, and technology, have moved on since those simpler days. Also watch out for the canyon collapse scene and the stop-motion mule on the bridge.It's also great to see Lurch (Ted Cassidy) in quite a prominent role here as Hachita, the Indian guide (you could still call them Indians in those days). He doesn't really look much like an Apache, but who cares!Apart from the hokum and silly effects the movie only made me scowl at one point. You see, there's this big rock spire and when the sun rises, see, the shadow points to where the hidden canyon is. Or that's the line you're fed. However, nobody apparently seemed to care that, as the sun gets higher, shadows get shorter in real life. So here we're treated to the rising sun casting longer and longer shadows. Or rather, just the rock spire's shadow. All the other shadows didn't change at all that I could see. A pointless oversight that could have been remedied by changing the line rising sun to setting sun. Ah well.Overall it's a standard treasure hunt story with a few big names doing it. Others have already mentioned the similarities to the Indiana Jones stories, so I won't go into them. The only real sub-plot concerns the identity of the female hostage of Omar Sharif and how to keep it a secret from him.The movie is worth a watch as it'll have you smiling most of the way through. "},{"Title":"Plodding and pretentious, a great cast is lost.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  A morality play in the American west that was told perfectly 37 years earlier by Eric von Stroheim, this exercise in futility casts some great veteran actors in one of the most caricatured scripts in motion picture history.  Violent for violence sake, and without artistry.  Peck has done so much better. "},{"Title":"How to succeed by failing big?","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Mackenna's Gold is directed by J. Lee Thompson and adapted for the screen by Carl Foreman from a novel of the same name written by Henry Wilson Allen (AKA Heck Allen, Henry Allen & Will Henry!), which in turn is loosely based on the legend of the Lost Adams Diggings. It stars Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif, Camilla Sparv, Julie Newmar, Ted Cassidy & Telly Savalas. It's photographed by Joseph MacDonald in Technicolor and Super Panavision, with a music score by Quincy Jones. It begins so well, the credits inform us that not only do we get Peck, Sharif and Newmar in lead roles, but that we also have in support a role call of quality thespians Eli Wallach, Edward G. Robinson, Raymond Massey, Burgess Meredith, Lee J. Cobb, Keenan Wynn & Anthony Quayle. We are then treated to some gorgeous aerial photography of Monument Valley, a Vulture glides gracefully thru the air, and then, we hear the awful strains of Old Turkey Buzzard warbled like it belongs in a seventies porn movie by José Feliciano. It's there that the true marker for Mackenna's Gold is set. The idea and source for the plot is safe, Lawman Mackenna (Peck) has the knowledge of where the legendary Canyon of Gold is. A fabled place awash with gold but guarded religiously by the Apache. With the map safely tucked away in his brain, Peck is quickly captured by blood thirsty Mexican bandit, Colorado (Sharif), and his companions, one of which (Newmar playing Indian Hesh-Ke) has past history with Mackenna. But that's not all, pretty soon Mackenna's party are joined by a whole host of other gold seekers, all seemingly gripped with Gold Fever. So in fighting and suspicion ensues, and with the Cavalry in pursuit of Colorado and the Apache still to come, this is as dangerous as it gets. If only the film wasn't so choppy and flat. The film was originally a three hour epic, complete with intermission, but the budget probably all went on securing the cast and the producers don't seem able to deal with the task of making a big budget epic. Thus the film was cut to just over two hours; thank god for small mercies! Looking at the cast assembled it's obvious that this was a very ambitious project meant to keep the Western flag flying high and enthral the adventure seeking cinema goer. And you can see why such a quality cast signed on for the film, tho Peck was second choice after Clint Eastwood wisely chose to make Hang Em High instead. But what plays out is a series of clichés and absurdities that makes one unintentionally laugh. The effects are awful, I mean OK we don't expect back screen work to be high class, but here, with the actors half heartedly pretending it's real, it belies the fine work of MacDonald for the exteriors. The problems don't just stop with the effects, before we even get to the issues in the cast, there's Jones' dreadful score to try and ignore. It sounds like he thinks he's scoring a Keystone Cops Gold Rush type movie! Dimitri Tiomkin, along with Foreman, is on production duties (hmm), I'm sure he could have knocked up something better for this film in his sleep. Peck is actually OK, with that laconic way of his, he suits the tone of the narrative. Sharif is grossly miscast, while Sparv is simply woeful. Newmar raises the temperatures of audience and cast alike, which you sense was her only instruction, while the lauded support cast file in and out without time to impact on proceedings. All of which leads to a finale of ham, model work and predictability. Yet there's been just enough to make the undemanding stay to the end. We wonder if indeed there is a Canyon of Gold, and Peck is so likable we just want to see him win out and defy the baddies. Does it succeed by failing big? Well it is fun, but coming as it does from the makers of the Guns of Navarone, you have to believe that the end product is not the sort of entertainment they originally set out to craft. 3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very Bad- and extremely watchable","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Where do you start with reviewing this movie? Big cast mostly wasted. Shoddy but compelling special effects. This thing moves, at least, and I've watched it twice in the last year- after finally seeing it for the first time and never having read ONE good thing about it. I got totally caught up in it's basic insanity. It struck me as being sort of a mythological western- the fabulous lost gold canyon and all those intense, crazy people scrambling to find it. I would ask people to at least give this show a try and forget about things such as subtlety and logic and just enjoy the forward momentum (and great scenery). Mr. Peck seems to be the only one in the movie with even a shred of sense. "},{"Title":"Big, spectacular western which attempts to be as extravagant and overblown as possible but ultimately suffers from overkill.","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Before he began making lousy Charles Bronson actioners and sleazy horror titles, J. Lee-Thompson was a director with a pretty enviable track record. So much so, in fact, that he was entrusted by Columbia Pictures to helm this gargantuan all-star western. MacKenna's Gold is actually a somewhat disappointing film, but it's not really the fault of director Thompson. The film is just too busy for its own good. It's as if scripter Carl Foreman and the executives at Columbia studios have decided to present the biggest, most action-packed, most unbelievable, most spectacular western ever made, but in their hurry to throw everything at the audience they've inadvertently made us suffer from sheer overkill. Just as It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World was a comedy epic that aimed too high for its own good, so MacKenna's Gold is a western that steps into exactly the same trap.MacKenna (Gregory Peck) knows the whereabouts of a horde of Apache gold, guarded according to legend by the Gods. However, instead of keeping a copy of the map (which could, of course, be stolen from him) he has committed the route to the treasure to memory. Various types want to get to the gold - bandit Colorado (Omar Sharif) being the main culprit. Colorado captures MacKenna and forces him to lead the way to the gold, but many adventures and surprises lie in wait along the trail.The cast if filled to the brim with fabulous actors, but some have such tiny roles that one has to question if a less familiar actor would've been just as suited to the part. Sometimes the all-star cast becomes a distraction and, instead of listening to the dialogue and following the plot, the audience might find themselves drawn into a game of star spotting. The plot is good fun, but very predictable and filled with so many genre clichés that it defies belief. Unusually for a western, there is a certain reliance on special effects, but sadly these effects are somewhat second-rate. MacKenna's Gold is worth catching for its curiosity value, but it is most definitely not the western-to-end-all-westerns that it aspires to be. And be warned that the full uncut version runs for well over two hours. "},{"Title":"What an ugly movie!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  Mackenna's Gold is definitely a very ugly movie. We have a completely wasted all-star cast. Gregory Peck seems (justly) bored and distracted. Omar Sharif endeavours to draw the character of a ruthless-yet-nice rascal, with sadly poor results. The list of supporting actors include names such as Edward G. Robinson (!), Anthony Quayle, Eli Wallach, Lee J. Cobb, Burgess Meredith, Keenan Wynn, Telly Savalas. They all have minor, meaningless roles, though most of them excruciate the audience with endless, useless chats.The story is flat, the script is often ridiculous, the film is extremely lengthy. The editing is incredibly shabby and poor. The scenes in the Arizona locations are so plainly acted by stunts! I wonder whether Peck and Sharif ever moved from some Hollywood studio during the making of the film. There is a continuous jumping from scenes in studio (with Peck and Sharif) and in location (with the stunts riding, shooting etc.) so badly and clumsily made... alas! Even the colors are completely different! The scenographies are evidently fake like in B westerns of the early 50's. Yet we have a 1969 high-budget flick.There is a good deal of action, but always clumsy, boring and untimely. Some episodes are unwanted comic nonsense. One instance OK, we easily gather that Peck is (secretly) in love with the blond girl, but... well... he repeatedly risks his life since he refuses to sleep with a gorgeous Apache girl! This might only be explained by either insanity, or serious physical trouble, or both.Is there something to save in Mackenna's Gold? Even the wonderful landscapes of Arizona are spoiled by a confused, inaccurate photography. My Goodness, in a further effort to make the movie worse, there is even a narrating voice included! I regret to say that Mackenna's Gold is just awful, and that's all.   "},{"Title":"There were better movies released in 1969.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  At times it seems that it is better to watch a bad movie, only because it makes you appreciate the good ones more. Sometimes when you watch so many great films, like I've been doing lately, it becomes a little tiresome, and you really don't care about that particular movie, you just know it was great, but there is a numbness about it.I have never been insistent on watching Westerns, mainly because I live in a desert and I really don't care to have it thrown back into my face for a couple of hours that it is dry and hot and miserable. That doesn't mean that I don't like Westerns period, but I'm just not into them. But seriously, who doesn't like a classic like The Wild Bunch? My dad, being an old Western movie fan, recommended Mackenna's Gold to me as my favorite movie with Gregory Peck. I generally don't care for his advice, but I thought to myself, what the heck, why not? So I watched this supposedly good film with an open mind, and I got a trashy piece of celluloid. When I read the opening credits, at first, the cast seems to me like thy might make this movie pretty good. It came out in 1969, and some rather great films came out that year like Midnight Cowboy, The Wild Bunch, and Z.The plot revolves around Mackenna, played by Peck, who is a sheriff from the town of Hadleyburg, which we only hear about. Mackenna has seen a map that supposedly leads to gold, from an old Apache legend. Mackenna burns the map, and is found by an old rival and outlaw Colorado, played by Sharif. We spend the next two hours while Sharif forces Peck to lead him and two other Apaches to the gold, since he is the only person who saw what was on the map. Along the journey, we encounter Apaches, who are trying to protect the gold, and US soldiers who are trying to get a piece of the money too. I was not surprised, because when you've seen one cowboys vs. Indians movie, you've seen them all.The dialogues exchanged between Peck and Sharif throughout are so idiotic and laughable, that it made me shake my head. If it had been any worse, I'm sure I would've had a concussion. It made Peck look bad, and I thought this guy was a great actor (who saw To Kill a Mockingbird?). He almost literally sleepwalks through his performance. I figured that since he did have the good guy role, that I should've at least been interested in what happened to him; I could have cared less. Omar Sharif-oh jeez-wasn't this guy in Doctor Zhivago? His acting was unbelievably over-the-top and laughable (including that dumb spanish accent), that even a jerk like Val Kilmer could've wet himself. It feels as if the writers didn't care about what they were doing, and just wrote one draft of the script. The actors are stuck working with corny dialogue, yet Sharif was the only one trying to distract from that, but it made him look and sound terrible.The direction was just as bad. At one point in the film (or should I say movie since it doesn't deserve to be called a film), Peck, Sharif, and three other people on horses are escaping from a large group of Apache Indians. They get onto this big raft with their horses and escape down a river. They come upon some rough rapids, and right before they hit them, they take their horses and jump off into the water. As they did this, it looks like the filmmakers somehow speeded up the film, and it looked terribly choppy, in dire need of some good editing, and convincing special effects tricks. This same kind of editing job is seen two more times in the movie. Now, if you compare this to The Wild Bunch, that came out the same year, you'll see that Peckinpah's editing is so much smoother, and the action happening, for example the end battle scene, what we see actually makes sense. It seems in Mackenna's Gold, at the last minute, they tried to do the same thing, but with skewed results. If they had just cut out the entire first hour and fifty-eight minutes, and just kept the ending, it would've made a pretty good short. The action finale is one of those `roll-your-eyes' kind of things, but the editing wasn't half-bad, although the special effects showing the mountains crumbling are some of the shoddiest I have ever seen. The resolution is also another `roll-your-eyes' moment, and if you enjoy `rolling-your-eyes', I'm sure you wouldn't mind watching this movie. However, I must confess there is one shot in the entire movie that evades itself from all the preceding and following shots. It is of Monument Valley in Northern Arizona, just as the sun is rising. It shows the whole valley from above looking outward into the horizon, and if I could, I would frame that picture and hang it on my wall.Movies cease to be enjoyable when, in your mind, the phrase, `oh my God, what were they thinking,' seems to be set on repeat, and you just can't seem to get that stop button to work.*1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Feliciano is the best, all the rest is very little.","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" If you take away Peck and Savalas there is not much less, oh yes, Feliciano. In this magnificent landscape Mr. director should make a better movie. Even Omar Sharif is not convincing. It's a pity, so much magnificent actors and such a bad movie. There is not enough tempo, too much senseless talking, unconvincing dialogs and too much boring people. The Indians are unnatural and so both female actors too. Mostly I enjoyed the scenery and the colors. Also the music is great, but it's not enough for the better impression. The movie was made in the year 1969 when spaghetti westerns were on march and the directors should learn something out of them. "}{"Title":"Hideous Mess Directed By J. Lee Thomson","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  Who can blame Omar Sharif for chewing up the scenery as the larger-than-life bandito Colorado?  Someone has to appear interesting in the movie.  This is unnecessarily violent and altogether stupid shoot-em-up with an impossibly stiff-lipped Gregory Peck in the lead.  Ted (Lurch) Cassidy and ever-statuesque Julie (Catwoman) Newmar get to ham it up as menacing minstrel-show Indians.  Telly Savalas steals every scene he's in as greed and lust personified.  Keenan Wynn looks like he'd be happy enough to collect his paycheck and go home.  The stupid script makes no sense whatsoever, and the subtle-as-a-crutch allegory at the end is completely out of place.Avoid this mess!  1/10. "},{"Title":"When I was younger, I climbed on MACKENNA'S GOLD . . .","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" . . . only it was just a bunch of dirt, rocks, and dust. It was called Canyon De Chelley National Monument, and you could camp there for about five bucks. The ground was 100% stable, except maybe for a few pebbles displaced every now and then by reptiles. However, this area is historically popular among Native Americans for Vision Quests. These spiritual journeys were often taken under the influence of peyote, but some Hollywood producers probably dropped LSD to come up with the ending of MACKENNA'S GOLD. Now, in 2015, you can see the Truth in their Prophecy by just looking around. Nearly every chick in the South wears a crazed Sarah Palin-type expression as she's waving her brassiere above her head, snarling, Frack, Baby, Frack! Last year our old Indian Territory, Oklahoma, recorded HUNDREDS of times more earthquakes than ever before, all due to Fracking, which is now taking place on a large scale coast-to-coast. So MACKENNA's GOLD is not so much about the people who caught gold fever in the 1870s as it is a drug-induced prophetic vision of Barack the Fracker, and his Big Oil henchmen. What we have coming will make the close of MACKENNA's GOLD, as well as the recent feature 2012 and the upcoming SAN ANDREAS look like child's play! "},{"Title":"A needlessly long western potboiler","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Not awful but this film does dedicate an inordinate amount of time to the bickering between Gregory Peck & Omar Sharif. Sharif is a bandit who bushwhacks Marshall Peck with the hope that he'll lead him to a seemingly mythological valley teeming with gold. It's an arduous trek with run ins with the US cavalry, Apaches and A LOT of greedy townspeople. Directed in Panavision by J Lee Thompson, who makes great use of the wide screen. It's unfortunate that the script is so weak. A number of characters in this densely populated film don't even seem to have names. Peck and Sharif make good adversaries and the cast includes Camilla Sparv, Telly Savalas, Keenan Wynn, Julie Newmar, Ted Cassidy and narration by Victor Jory. There are cameos by the likes of Anthony Quayle, Burgess Meredith, Raymond Massey, Lee J Cobb and Edward G Robinson. The exciting score is by Quincy Jones. "},{"Title":"Over the top","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This oater is not your typical western. There are so many well known and famous actors and actresses in this movie that I am surprised they got all of them to appear in it. Gregory Peck gets top billing as the no name, judge appointed marshal, of some nameless town. Omar Sharif is very campy as a bad ass outlaw who I guess is suppose to be Mexican. He portrays a totally venal, amoral, character His accent makes it hard to tell at times. The white's playing the Apache's in this movie are a little outre to say the least. It is refreshing now days to see actual indians playing indians. Julie Newmar as an Apache woman who has a history with Peck is decent since she doesn't speak. There is some humor in this movie from time to time, but overall it is a fairly serious movie. "},{"Title":"No classic, but that doesn't mean its not fun to watch.","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I first saw MACKENNA'S GOLD on TV when I was a kid and loved it; to me it was the perfect mix of the western and adventure genres. And I have always been a sucker for a treasure hunt story. It didn't matter that the film was considered to be a big overblown failure; a ridiculous attempt at a western epic, the kind of film that was going out of favor with moviegoers when it was released in 1969.I will gladly concede to the critics that everything they say is wrong with MACKENNA'S GOLD is valid the script meanders; most of the acting is over the top; interesting characters wander into the action and then are promptly disposed of for no good reason; the whole thing runs too long.None of that matters, because MACKENNA'S GOLD is just plain fun; even after all these years. It was made by the same duo that gave us THE GUNS OF NAVARONE producer Carl Foreman and director J. Lee Thompson, and if they did not recapture the greatness of that earlier classic, it was not for want of trying.Like NAVARONE, MACKENNA'S GOLD is a about a mission, but this time the mission is to find a mythical valley of gold hidden away in the badlands of the Southwest and guarded by fearsome Apaches. The plot concerns a motley group of various and sundry individuals who brave the dangers and each other to find a fortune. Gregory Peck (who was in NAVARONE) is Marshall Sam MacKenna, the only man who knows where to find the valley; he's being forced by the outlaw Colorado, played by Omar Sharif, to lead him and his gang there. Along the way, they pick up and discard a collection of greedy fools all driven to forsake their homes by the lure of gold.This group includes Telly Savalas as a treacherous Army Sergeant; Eli Wallach as a store keeper; Raymond Massey as a preacher; Lee J. Cobb as a newspaper editor; Edward G. Robinson as a blind old man who saw the gold when he was young; Anthony Quayle (another veteran of NAVARONE) as a traveling English gentleman; Keenan Wynn as a bandit. Add to them, Julie Newmar and Ted Cassidy as Apaches and Camilla Sparv as a hostage taken captive by Colorado. Everyone, except for Peck and Sparv (who naturally fall in love along the way) are driven by the dream of getting rich instantly, and before it's over, even those two will succumb to the itch for gold.Besides the cast, what makes MACKENNA'S GOLD so memorable? The great location scenes, some of them shot in the legendary Monument Valley. The sequence at the deep water desert spring, where villains Newmar and Sharif go skinny dipping while Peck, ever the hero, dives in with his clothes on. The laughable miscasting of Arabs and Italians as Mexicans and American Indians (The great Eduardo Ciannelli as Prairie Dog); the equally great Victor Jory's narration. Ted Cassidy and his awesome voice. Telly Savalas in one of his best bad guys roles after THE DIRTY DOZEN. Jose Feliciano's rendition of the unforgettable theme song, Old Turkey Buzzard (with music by Quincy Jones). Did I mention Julie Newmar swims in the nude? And then tries to drown Sparv because she has a thing for Peck? The way Peck plays Mackenna like it's still 1958 and he's in THE BIG COUNTRY and working for William Wyler, while the rest of the cast hams it up. Even little things like the sound effects of rifle fire echoing off the canyon walls stick in the mind.If the ambition of MACKENNA'S GOLD was to be a serious commentary on human greed, then it fell short. But in its own way, it went somewhere better into the hearts of legions of fans who don't care that it's not THE WILD BUNCH, TRUE GRIT or ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST, three classics westerns that came out the same year that MACKENNA'S GOLD was released. And if Quentin Tarantino is looking for a follow up to DJANGO UNCHAINED, I'd suggest he dust off the screenplay for MAKENNA'S GOLD. It has a lot of possibilities. "},{"Title":"best of best-must watch-what an film...!!","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" i have heard read about this film many time before reading about it here-and downloading watching...this is really fantastic film with best cast-story-direction-settings...gold-the bloody yellow metal which made human fools-greedy and forget relationships and kill even those who's close..((start to finish film is so superb and after watching it u sure say what an film....!!i watched it many times and still wanna watch again n again.. i think this film is classic n needs remake every ten yrs....this film truly appreciable... climax is quite surprise....!!go watch it...don't miss it...only some days back i watched client Eastwood's best-the good the bad and the ugly which too has a story of finding treasure in a grave...i give it 10/10 n it deserves even more.... "},{"Title":"An enthralling story from start to finish","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I saw this movie on release in 1969 with my parents and was absolutely captivated by it. I had already seen quite a few classic Westerns but this had an extra ingredient - the kind of plot we are now so used to in the Indiana Jones movies. In fact I am certain that Raiders Of The Lost Ark owes at least one debt to Mackenna's Gold.Visually the film is stunning. Henry Ford's classics spring to mind but again there is more much more. All the principal characters are well drawn and it moves along at just the right pace. The conclusion is a tour de force that sends shivers down my spine. The use of special effects may have offended traditionalists but I think they work brilliantly. A much overlooked adventure that bears repeated viewing. "},{"Title":"Great Western Epic with a Moral story from we can all learn!","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" First, I saw this movie in a small country side cinema in 1970 or 1971 in Hungary when I was 15 years old. At that time I didn't speak English, nor did I know who were famous movie stars in American Cinemas, e.g., Julie Newmar, a famous actress of her time, nor did I know about Gregory Peck, nor Omar Sharif. Second, the story line has been told many times There is a canyon filled with gold that belongs to the Apache. As its rumor abounds, greedy men with their dreams of a new life seek the gold while fueled by their greed. I found this premise to be nonsense and contradicting my knowledge of Native Americans' culture that had never revealed any greed or desire for shiny metals. Native Americans were happy living their daily existence by hunting and gathering, or surviving off the land as any farmer would. I believe the notion of greed in this film's theme was based upon the European's greedy culture that robbed the Native American's of their own habitat. Third, for a 1970's production, there were decent special effects and this is an entertaining story with its all star cast of the 1970's (I don't know if Julie Newmar appear nude in any other film? She swam nude in a river, but no offensive views of her were shown.). I picked up the DVD of this Classic Western today and have just finished watching the movie for the first time in more than 35 years, but I felt as if I were watching it for the first time in 3 decades! I felt very entertained by the film! In closing, I rejoice that I now have the 2010 DVD version in my Classic Westerns Collection! If you decide to watch it, I hope you shall enjoy it as much as I did!! Steve, Chicago, IL "},{"Title":"I got more than I had expected...","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Very enjoyable movie with a cast, that is unimaginable nowadays... Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif, Eli Wallach and Telly Savalas, to the last man they're all legends! The plot is quite interesting and exciting too and the whole movie has a unique style that makes it more pleasurable than anybody would expect. I couldn't get by Quincy Jones's wonderful music without a word, because his composition made the picture better. Well, in those times hundreds of westerns had been made, but only some of them had style and these became evergreen. This movie is definitely an evergreen and as far as I'm concerned one of the best westerns as well. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Oh dear,with so many stars the should have been a great film.It looks like the were experimenting with different types films and making the story up as they went along. Not one of Gregerory Peck's best films. He looked completely disinterested. The story was so far fetched. Why did Omar Shariff leave the gold at the end to go rock climbing after Peck. Scenery is stunning but what a waste of stars. The final sequence with group coming down the mountains was ludicrous . The horses kept turning and turning I thought they were never going to stop. The final scene with the mountain's collapsing were very stagy and rather summed up the film. "}{"Title":"Good Adventure film.","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" a nice and decent western combined with some good old fashioned treasure hunting or a canyon of gold for that matter. Peck shoots and kills an old man in self defense. this man has a map that shows the way to the golden curse. peck burns the map thinking it is gibberish. but as a old school poker player he is good at remembering what he sees. a little later Omar Sharif and his band of thugs arrives ready to kill Peck. but he cant kill the man with the treasure map in his brain. soon even more people show up, wanting a share of the gold of course. as of yesterday i had never heard of this film. it's a shame. it is pretty good after all. i recommend this one for fans of adventure movies rather than westerns. "},{"Title":"Fake Indians, Process Photography, Fake Looking Special Effects, Julie Newmar and Lurch, oh my!","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Okay, this is a good movie, a decent story, but from the opening credits of the movie and Jose Feliciano's song about Turkey Buzzards, I knew this would be an interesting movie.A few technical issues and other stupid things that bug me about this movie For you young movie fans, 1.This film was made well before the days of computer graphics. The Special Effects are 'old fashioned' by today's standards.If you don't know what old fashioned 'process' photography is, here is brief simple explanation, to the best of my knowledge. This technique was often used in movies when actors are shown driving, with the road behind them, which is rear screen projection, a film is being run on a giant screen behind the 'car' on a set on a sound stage, they are not actually driving, or in westerns, the actors are riding horses and they aren't actually out in the desert, the background is a projected film as well. Another example of process photography is the use of hand painted matte paintings, to give depth to fake indoor sets or actual filming locations, such as the desert in this movie.OK, now that I sort of explained what I am talking about here....2.There are many scenes filmed on a sound stage. I understand why they did this. It's expensive to film 100% on location, I get it, OK? But...The 'desert' sets that are obvious fakes look cheesy by today's standards. Yeah, I know,... it was the 1960's.3. I am trying to figure out why a certain couple of medium shots of Omar Sharif and Gregory Peck switch from the actual desert location to rear screen projection and back again. I am wondering if the light wasn't so good on location for these medium closeups or something? This happens in older films a lot! It's a bit odd, but maybe a film historian who knows a bit more about the technical side could explain this to me.4. Actors I always think that white Jewish/German/Irish/Polish/Italian/ actors playing ethnic parts, especially Native American parts look really lame and is disrespectful and stereotypical to real Native Americans, or 'Indians'. Again,... yes, I know it was the 1960's. But, watch Arthur Penn's 'Little Big Man' from 1970, one year after this film was released to see real Native Americans playing real 'Indians'. Also 'A Man Called Horse' is another great example of honest to god 'Indians' playing 'Indians'!But Ted Cassidy as an Indian? C'mon, Hollywood! I don't think that there were that many 6 foot 9 inch tall Indians in the old west!Julie Newmar as an Indian? Bad wigs and brown makeup on all! Yikes! Also, Omar Sharif as a Mexican? OK,....Creative License by Hollywood, maybe?There is also a scene where Gregory Peck is being taken across an old decrepit rope bridge tied to a horse, and in the long shots, it is the lamest 'fakest' looking miniature set I have ever seen! Ay Yi Yi!Maybe the quality of the picture for DVD brings out visual detail in the film that nobody could see when this came out in 1969, or unlike me, nobody gave a crap!I am a major film buff, not just your casual fan, and I just HAD to comment on this movie.Good film,...with flaws, like many good movies of yesterday and today. "},{"Title":"Nothing much here, folks, just move along to the next movie&#x85;","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" There has to be a worst western ever made. In my view, this is it. Let me tell you why...First - the story. It's another banal hunt for a lost gold mine, a line that's been done to death already, and long before this movie was ever thought of. The producers should have thought of that.Second - the plot. Even though there are claims the movie was ruined by lousy cuts, there are too many inept jump cuts, too many holes in the narrative, too many bizarre changes of landscape (it's all supposed to occur in a desert), and way too many unnecessary characters.Third - the photography. Granted the desert scenery is imposing and impressive, but I've already seen better in Koyannistqatsi (1982). Unhappily, the director ruined it all when he insisted on placing the camera, too many times, on horse so that we look through a character's eyes. And, most egregious, the not-so-special effects guaranteed the ending was no where near as good as that I've seen in any Japanese Godzilla movie from the 1950s.Fourth - the acting. Even at best of times and in his best movies, Peck was usually quite wooden, but adequate; in this, he's just dead wood. Sharif was totally miscast as Mexican; where was Anthony Quinn, or Eli Wallach? Oh, sorry, Eli turned up in this turkey as just another gold digger along with Lee J. Cobb, Burgess Meredith, Anthony Quayle, Keenan Wynn, Raymond Massey, and Edward G. Robinson - all great actors and who all get killed off within twenty minutes or so. Telly Savalas at least managed to stay alive until near the utterly absurd end. Good job he missed it, in my opinion. And, to cap it all, the sub-plot of the rivalry between the two women, Inga (Sparv) and Hesh-ke (Newmar) simply weighs the story down with unnecessary non-sex. On the other hand, it's inadvertently comedic.Finally, the music and voice over (the latter by Victor Jory, an actor I admired) should have been removed entirely - the first because it's worse than a Roy Rogers outing, the second because it's totally unnecessary in a movie that's beyond resuscitation.Considering all the good or great westerns of that time - A fistful of dollars (1964), A few dollars more (1965), The good, the bad and the ugly (1966), Once upon a time in the west (1968) and The wild bunch (1969), there was absolutely no need for producers to spend the estimated seven million to finance this waste of time and resources.This movie is so bad, I'm sure it will never get back the money invested. And it shouldn't.Not recommended at all - except for those who actually want to see the worst western of all time.Give it one out of ten - and that's for old Prairie Dog (Eduardo Ciannelli) for suffering so much for being in it.February 23, 2014. "},{"Title":"What a waste of a great cast","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Watch this movie for one reason only. Julie Newmar.Plot holes the size of the Grand Canyon. For example - bad guy Omar Sharif keeps the white woman around for no reason, she takes up desert water and a good horse. Gregory Peck saves white woman innumerable times but ignores beautiful apache woman who of course is killed by useless white female who can't do anything but look pretty.The supporting cast of awesome actors is completely wasted with idiotic dialog and roles that do nothing to help the movie. The editing is horrible.Omar Sharif is actually pretty as the over the top but somewhat likable bad guy.Yet he forgets in the end that Peck actually took the vaunted gold. "},{"Title":"First American western in the Soviet Union","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Mackenna's Gold was released in the Soviet Union in 1974. Firstly it was shown in 1973 in Moscow, and then in 1974 released in the whole USSR under the title Золото Маккенны. It was my favourite movie and I saw it many times along with many other kids from our district in the theater. I was 11 years old in 1974, and although it had a nudity scene there, this epic movie in the USSR had no age restriction. It should have been rated Children under 16 years old are not allowed. In the USSR the movie had an original lyrics for the entry song performed by Valery Obodzinsky Birds are not people/ And they do not fathom/ What tempts us to the wilds (my translation of the first lines) "},{"Title":"An exciting and imaginative film","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Legends have persisted for hundreds of years of a mine in Arizona that contained vast amounts of metals, was very ancient, and was kept by the Apaches as their secret source of gold. According to the tale, Apaches claimed the gold as their property and kept the canyon a secret, killing any prospectors who might enter. Based on books by Texas historian J. Frank Dobbs and Will Henry that recount the legend of the Lost Adams gold mine, Mackenna's Gold tells the story of Ed Adams, an adventurer who claims that he found gold in 1864 but whose camp was attacked by the Apaches and was blinded for life. It is an exciting and imaginative film made at the end of the Western era with its elements of lost treasure lore, secret canyons, and a lost gold mine, although its special effects are severely dated.Shot around the Grand Canyon and the area north of Flagstaff and west of the Hopi Mesas in Northern Arizona, the film reunites actor Gregory Peck, producer and screenwriter Carl Foreman, and director J. Lee Thompson, the same group that had made The Guns of Navarone in 1961. Narrated by Victor Jory, Mackenna's Gold has a stellar cast that includes Peck, Omar Sharif, Telly Savalas and such prominent names as Keenan Wynn, Burgess Meredith, Eli Wallach, Edward G. Robinson, and Raymond Massey. Omar Sharif, an unlikely looking outlaw, plays the villain, a bandit named Colorado who captures Mackenna (Peck), a local marshal who saw a map to the secret canyon given to him by an old Apache warrior.Though Mackenna burned the map, the fact that he has committed it to memory is enough to prevent him from being killed by the ruthless Colorado who makes a deal with Mackenna. In exchange for leading Colorado to the gold, Mackenna will get back his guns and his freedom &#x96; as well as lovely co-hostage (Camilla Sparv). Along the way, the group is pursued by both the Cavalry and Apache warriors and are joined &#x96; or attacked &#x96; by a variety of thieves and desperados, each interested in a share of the gold. With his hands tied, Marshal Mackenna crosses a precarious rope bridge across a narrow, but very deep canyon with Colorado and his gang which includes Hesh-Ke (Julie Newmar), a jealous Apache squaw who was once involved with Mackenna, and Hachita (Ted Cassidy), an Apache warrior.When they emerge, they are on the north side of what is most likely the Little Colorado River Gorge, an area that today is off-limits and roadless with much of it lying in the Navajo Reservation. Somewhere beyond this crossing, Mackenna and Colorado look for the secret canyon with its rich vein of gold, spotting ruins high on a cliff which might have been part of an ancient mining operation. Though the film has first-rate acting, a compelling story, and gorgeous photography, it recycles most of the clichés of the genre shrieking semi-human Apaches bent on wanton killing and macho men either protecting weak women or fighting off aggressive ones and is marred by a dreadful decision to dynamite some of the most beautiful rock formations in the West as an example of retribution by the Apache gods. "},{"Title":"Euro-Style Western tries too hard to be world-class..............","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Yes it has some good western photography, but no better than many other wide-screen westerns. The highlights are the swimming scenes featuring Julie Newmar and Omar Sharif. By the way, Newmar's screen presence is strong and effective in this movie, both clothed and unclothed.Sharif's acting is fine but he oozes European charm as a Mexican bandit. Doesn't work for me because he's a Mexican bandit, not a bandit in Paris, France. Why not Anthony Quinn or Jack Palance, or some good Mexican actor for the bandit role? Also in the cast is Gregory Peck who is heroic but just that- heroic in a wooden role. Peck is OK but the role is wooden.This film is nowhere near as good as the classic Euro Once Upon a Time in The West (1969). Its not even as good as another Euro-style western Duel at Diablo (1966). Also, the excellent modern-style musical scores created for these two films are much better than the mediocre score of McKenna's Gold.This movie tries hard to be the ultimate world western but falls flat on its own over-ambition and pretensions. There is some obvious in-studio fake horseback riding and very set-piece, staged studio drama scenes that just don't appear very gritty or western to me, and with a bunch of Euro actors thrown in for the purpose of looking international. However, the internationalist style does work OK in the above-mentioned Duel at Diablo.Except for the timeless integrity of Edward G. Robinson and the timeless phenomenon that is Julie Newmar, this movie has little to offer the film world or the Western genre. In fact, you could hardly call it a Western. Its more like a special-effects movie featuring an assorted collection of good 1960's actors. "},{"Title":"Great Western!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Sure it's a spaghetti western, but this one is worth watching ... if you've dreamed of lost treasure, you'll love it (and the Lost Dutchman's Mine has still not been found). Fantastic cinematography ... reminded me of my own visit to Monument Valley in 2004, and Canyon de Chelley in 2000 ... both really mystical places ... of course the story takes generous fictional liberties with the historical facts, but it's a great tale to get your imagination rambling ... the only thing this movie is missing is a guest appearance by Clint Eastwood! So many movies are seemingly discarded in the annals of movie lore but this one demands viewing ... the all-star cast reminds me of another great from that era, The Poseiden Adventure (why did they need to remake it?). Not a 10 by any stretch, but for me sort of a trip down memory lane. "},{"Title":"..as many write, it IS a hoot....","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Younger users have to remember when this film was made, it was done with every new technology available - WITHOUT CGIs! 70 MMs! Those are huge negatives and a bunch of cans of film and special projectors to show it. Entrance-fees had begun to climb in the 80s, so you certainly expected to be amazed AND entertained by such a big-budget film, with everyone you can think of in it......I do have to laugh about Gregory Peck (Mackenna) in a western. But, I realize - just like workers in every field - don't get paid if they don't work. That's why you see so many actors/actresses miscast. Peck was a hoot to watch, and one wonders how he EVER remembered just where the gold was. Omar Sharif (Colorado) was also a giggle as an outlaw who wanted to be a gentleman, and rich. Telly Savalas (Sgt. Tipps) played his part well, but bald (for that era) ???? If you look at IMDb's line-up, you'll see that Inga Bergman is listed in place of Camilla Sparv. Edward G. Robinson (Old Adams) also must have been late with his rent. The countless other members of the cast were entertaining, but really were marking time till the end. The circling buzzards had good meals, eh? As TCM's Robert Osborne comments in hosting the film, the most important aspect of their work in Gold was just to stay alive.The earthquake episode was created by those canyons being blown-up - the studio bought them. I, too, wondered why Colorado would bother to stick-around after he got his gold, just to beat-up on Mackenna. I also wondered how they got that tunnel through the mountain so square. To me, the most exciting part of Gold was the ending - very close to the edge, there.So, yeah - I rate it a ten because it WAS entertaining - and still is after all these years. I wouldn't say it is an epic, although it was intended to be one. It's just a good watch, so take it with a grain of salt and enjoy.....for all ages. There are so many better films about the old west to watch, such as The Far Country. "},{"Title":"The best western movie ever made...","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" In India we make hundreds of movies in lots of languages. English movies (especially Hollywood) are very popular here. MacKenna's Gold is the best Western movie I've seen and enjoyed. It's perfect & sheer entertainment! I've seen many Hindi movies inspired by MacKenna's Gold. The locations are fabulous. I loved the title song Ol' Turkey Buzzard... Wonderful song. I want to know if this song is available on CD/MP3. Everything in this movie is so grand & adventurous!!! I give it a 9/10. 10/10 is only reserved for films like Casablanca, Sound of Music, Where Eagles Dare, Titanic, Shawshank Redemption, and a few more... "}{"Title":"exceptionally uneven","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie has just about as much wrong with it as right. While the plot involving greed and a search for gold is excellent and there was a good movie underneath it all, several things help to derail the production and keep this from being a better film--despite its wonderful cast. First, the beginning and ending song by Jose Feliciano is very dated and very annoying. I hated it thoroughly. Second, a lot of really fine character actors enter the film and unfortunately, in most cases, they die so quickly and without making much of an impact on the film, it's a real waste. Third, the ending is great if you have a strong ability to suspend disbelief AND you believe in a lot of spiritual mumbo jumbo. I didn't and so I thought the ending was pretty dopey. Gregory Peck is fine in the film, as always, but I thought it very odd that they cast Omar Sharif as a Mexican and Ted Cassidy and Julie Newmar as American Indians but this is only a minor quibble. "},{"Title":"Big, opulent, and ...","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" ... that's about it. Fans of the various actors involved, particularly the always excellent Peck, will probably enjoy this movie. What is arguably Quincy Jones' best film score that isn't Roots is also a plus. Other than that, though, MacKenna's Gold is a big, sprawling, and, alas, almost instantly forgettable western from an era when certain studio minds seemed to think that bigger was better. You'll enjoy it, to be sure, but a couple hours later you're sure to have trouble recalling the plot. It's not dull, just not that outstanding, either. "},{"Title":"bad guys go for the gold","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  Bad guy forces a sheriff to lead him and his band in search of a hoard of gold. They must go high into the mountains, and while there they cross paths with some evil cavalry men. Then a group of rascally citizens and a band of injuns take an interest in things. Below average western, not enough action and excitement. Hokey plot, hammy acting. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is 100% Crazy","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  MACKENNA`S GOLD has got to be one of the craziest movies I`ve ever seen . Watching this I was very worried that someone had spiked my local water supply with LSD The opening title sequence alone sets off warning bells with the music being very similar to a sixties spy shows like THE MAN FROM UNCLE . After the bizarre title sequence comes an even more bizarre opening scene featuring an expositional voice over complete with a corny song called  Turkey Buzzard . Structure wise this is somewhat similar to the opening of NO BLADE OF GRASS released a year later but in terms of execution it resembles THE DUKES OF HAZZARD .  Well lookee here if it ain`t Boss Hogg come to get his hands on Apache gold  . This voice over keeps appearing when you least expect it to . As the film moves on to the story proper more and more ridiculous things take centre stage . People have already mentioned the choppy editing like the bridge sequence and the river scene , but throughout the movie we see characters in one scene only for them to appear in a following scene which does seem to interfere with the time frame , and there`s some very jarring cuts from studio exteriors to location filming which is laughable , not to mention the long shots of characters riding on horses which cut to actors bouncing up and down on an imaginary horse against back projectionThere`s also a subplot about half way through where a load of characters are introduced who want to find a legendary valley of lost gold . Many of these characters are played by big name actors ( They don`t come much bigger than Edward G Robinson ) which led me to shriek  Hey I know where this is heading . They`re all going to slit each others throats to get the gold  . Logically a film should play out like this but you`ll never see a film less logical than MACKENNA`S GOLD because most of these characters are written out in the next scene . I`ve no idea why the producers did this or why they decided to cast so many big names for something that accounts for one cameo sequence . The fact this movie cost seven million dollars ( A big budget for a movie in those days ) and has very poor production values makes me believe most of the money was spent on the cameo performances . Talking of production values why has no one mentioned the outrageous and sidesplitting revealing mistake of the stuffed dummy falling off the cliff ?The climax takes place in a valley of gold and again there`s very little logic involved . The hero Mackenna doesn`t want any part in it so decides to escape after he arrives there . If that`s the case then why has he spent the whole movie telling everyone he doesn`t know where the valley is ? Did he know where it was or doesn`t he ? And if he knows where it is but didn`t want to show the bad guys the location what was stopping him from waiting till everyone was asleep and running off ? As everyone else seems to have noticed the last twenty minutes of the movie seem to have been inspired by if not mystical mumbo jumbo then at least by illegal substancesProduction wise MACKENNA`S GOLD is an awful film , but I couldn`t help but enjoy it . it`s a turkey for sure but it`s a turkey buzzard that earns seven out of ten for entertainment value  "},{"Title":"Late 60's Western with a plot of gold...","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" One of the all-time great Westerns with solid plot, character development, unique settings and cinematic techniques, especially given the available technological tools of that time period. Starting with Victor Jory's solid, no-nonsense narrative, accompanied by Q. Jones/J. Feliciano's Turkey Buzzard, the wheels are set in motion for a rousing good tale of greed and how it festers itself inside men of varying social and/or economic strata everyone comes up with his/her own pattern of excuses and sanctimonious justifications for following the elusive gold score.This film's story line develops using a fairly linear and logical plot line which is executed by a gifted and enthusiastic cast using an extremely well written script. G. Peck, as the title character, is his usual solid self with his signature stage presence, but O. Sharif steals the show with his lusty and vibrant portrayal as the film's main desperado antagonist. His scene with McKenna where he tells him about what he'll do with his share of the supposed loot (a gentleman in Paris!) is short but emphatic, as it shows the scoundrel in a much different light, adding to the film's flavor. The old guard of actors, such as R. Massey. L.J. Cobb, B. Meredith, etc. have limited roles, but make optimal use of their brief time allotments. The exception here, however, is E.G Robinson's 5-10 minute gripping soliloquy of his experience at the canon del oro, where the whole cast (and probably the whole audience!) is engaged in rapt attention to what he says.But the cinematic magic really takes form as the movie draws to its conclusion as the remaining gold-seekers arrive at the canyon and prepare for their mission's conclusion. The audio and visual impact of the ride to and through the canyon and what might happen at any given point in time makes for a breath-taking segment. With today's computer simulated graphics software, I wonder what a modern film-maker would have at hand to simulate the canyon scenes. But, alas, I digress. Modern technology or not, those scenes really played out well, as did the cool conclusion to a most enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"most here wouldn't know a good western if it bit them on the butt","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" this movie is a GREAT movie... sure its got some mistakes, as all movies do, and its not as slick as more modern pictures can be...special effects aren't up to 2006 computer enhancements, and there was obviously some really bad scene cutting/splicing going on by somebody back then in 1969.and so?none of that detracts from what it is...a marvelous Lost Treasure/Action movie set in western days and with wonderful, big-name actors all playing together in it.i've sat here and read bad comment after bad comment about this movie from people that wouldn't know a good western if it bit them on the butt. they point out this mistake and that mistake and the poor special effects and Peck being stoic and the other big name actors dying quick in the film and they attempt to make everyone think that if THEY had done the movie THEY could have done OH SO MUCH BETTER! lol! OK...if so, then why aren't they doing it? why are none of those know-it-alls not directing or starring in their own super sensational films? why aren't they in charge of some multi-billion dollar Hollywood production company and living the good life? good questions, eh? the real deal is that most of those people don't really know what makes a good treasure movie...or especially a good western. and maybe that's not entirely their own fault...being born when westerns were on the low end of Hollywood's thoughts and productions and what few they saw growing up being completely NOT what us older people considered true westerns.you see if you grew up in the '40s or '50s (and early early '60s) you knew a good western/action/adventure when you saw one...we were (still are) practiced, so to speak, living and breathing them all day and all night on TV and seeing them in the movies back then like we did. we had a certain frame of mind...living under the shadow of the bomb like we did, and growing up with TV and movie stars that were really TV and movie stars to the max. unlike today's slipshod and boring poor performers that pretend to be stars.we needed escape-ism---to keep from thinking about silly Duck and Cover routines during A-Bomb attacks. and great fantasy western adventures like Mckenna's Gold gave that to us. if you read the comment from the guy about his dad LOVING this movie and HIM hating it...well, there you go. different minds from different times. of course his dad loved the movie, he had too, being born and raised when he was. and of course the child wouldn't love it... after all, not one time did Mckenna or any of the Mckenna's Gold cast leap into the air and perform exotic kung-fu moves a la The Matrix (or any other TV episode or movie that's been made in the last twenty years.) Mckenna's Gold is an excellent movie for what it was made to be...nothing more---true---but certainly nothing less either. don't let the people that only try to convince you of their own good taste and movie making ability make your mind up for you by running this great motion picture down. WATCH THE MOVIE and make up your own mind. and as you watch it...put yourself back in time (pre-Terminator, pre-Star Wars, pre-Lost Ark, pre-Matrix, pre-Snakes On A Plane) and imagine how people from that era actually saw---and loved, that movie. if you can manage that, you'll certainly see the movie's true worth.Salute! "},{"Title":"Great Western with Spectacular Screenplay/Cinematography","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" Gregory Peck in his perfectly cool and composed persona was poised to lead the cast. Omar Sharif as Colarado has also projected an equally ruthless and cunning image of an outlaw. But the direction of J. Lee Thompson has remarkably outperformed the both.The truly magnificent appeal of MacKenna's Gold appears on a cinemascope wide screen where one can profusely enjoy the rugged beauty of the rocky desert terrain and countryside. The swimming and seducing scenes at the waterhole are also worth mentioning which may seem outdated but stir the audiences sensual intellect in a cinema hall.Good fiction movie, serenely filmed on western style without the stupid childish imagination witnessed in present day fiction films, which are usually over blown with hype and computer animated frenzy. At least, the viewers don't get a show of weird and ugly creatures like the ones in The MUMMY Returns. "},{"Title":"Yep bad movie","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I saw it when it was first released, and I remember thinking Plus the sound. (particularly the use of stereo which we were still getting used to) Minus.. Almnost everything else.I remember thinking too that Americans seemed to have a major preoccupation with long hair then. The gentlemen from Hadleyburg spoke on behalf of the establishment when they mocked a long haired youth. At a time in history when most people were long haired!Considering it was made in 1969 when long haired hippies were still a worry to the establishment, the prejudices of the society are clearly reflected. This film is memorable to me only for that insight. "},{"Title":"Somewhere up above the ole turkey buzzard circles endlessly...","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I'm sorry,I simply refuse to believe that Mr Quincy Jones,possibly the coolest dude that ever walked the earth wrote a song called The ole turkey buzzard.By the time I had wiped the tears of laughter from my eyes Mr Gregory Peck had already shot Mr Eduardo Ciannelli not too convincingly disguised as an Apache chief,apparently mistaking him for someone else(quite possibly the scriptwriter). Mr Peck,a former hell-raiser/Gold Prospector turned Sheriff then burns a map found in the dying chief's effects that might have led him to the Golden Canyon and riches beyond his wildest dreams.Well,I never said he was smart. Soon enough the world's best bridge player turned actor turns up.He is the man Mr Peck mistook Mr Ciannelli for despite the fact that he is 40 years younger and Mexican(you know he's Mexican despite being calledColorado because he has a moustache,white teeth and a knife). He persuades Mr Peck to lead him to the Golden Canyon ,trusting the Sheriff's photographic memory but not,presumably,his eyesight.The bridge player has quite a multi - cultural entourage with him,Mexican,Native American and White European. Of them,Mr Keenan Wynn is far the most memorable,with a racially insulting performance of the Die,gringo peeg variety.He also laughs rather more than is justified by the script,possibly buoyed up by the thought of the old rope he is supplying for the studio's money. For fear of being accused of sexism I will not criticise the performances of Miss Sparv or Miss Newmar other than to mention that their careers didn't progress by leaps and bounds after their appearance in this movie. A motley crew of Townspeople join the expedition(you can almost hear them muttering rhubarb..rhubarb in the crowd scenes).Mr Edward G Robinson and Mr Anthony Quayle do their best to look serious about this but fail dismally.I lost track of what happened to most of them,but whatever it was they undoubtedly deserved it. Mr Telly Savalas,for once only the second worst actor in a movie,cuts his head whilst shaving.That,for me,was the highlight of the picture. A ludicrously drawn - out climax leaves Mr Peck,Miss Sparv and the bridge - player all surviving.You know I'll be coming for you,growls Mr Peck as the bridge player's teeth reflect nicely in the sunlight. Somewhere up above the ole turkey buzzard circles endlessly. That was seven million dollars well spent then. "},{"Title":" As long as the Apaches kept it a secret, they would remain strong ","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" From the beginning the legend was created, the Apache were advised, so long as they never touched the Gold, they would remain undefeated. Among the N'Dee or Apache as they are called today, they believe the legend. Once the Americans traveled across the countryside, they corrupted the Native Americans, by introducing the value of Gold. Today of course, the legend of 'The Lost Adams' or 'The Canyon del Oro' or as in this magnificent movie,  Mackenna's Gold  is one which has left an indelible image in anyone who see the film. It's the story of a town marshal named MacKenna (Gregory Peck) who is on the trail of a notorious outlaw named Colorado (Omar Sharif). The tables are turned when MacKenna is taken hostage and forced to lead Colorado and his outlaw band to the Legendary Valley. Along the way they are joined by a group of gold hungry citizens from Haddleyburg. To further complicate matters for the Marshal. Colorado also captures a judge's daughter (Inga Bergmann. Things get more interesting when a traitorous Calvary Sargent (Telly Savalas) called Sgt. Tibbs, joins MacKenna on the way to the Canyon. If things weren't bad enough, a band of renegade Apache is after the entire group, seeking to kill them before they arrive at their golden destination. The sheer star power of this movie, has so many big names, it's difficult to tell whether its they or the film which excites the audience. Here her have Keenan Wynn, Julie Newmar. Ted Cassidy, Lee J. Cobb, Raymond Massey, Burgess Meredith, Anthony Quayle, and Edward G. Robinson as 'Adams.' The adventure of the film culminates when they find the valley, but the odds are, none will live to tell the story. A Classic movie if ever there was one. ***** "}{"Title":"Colorado Sharif and the Lost Addams","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" I had had fond memories of Mackenna's gold when I had seen it as a young kid. When I revisited the film years later I was disappointed to a certain extent but it still held a great deal of fascination too. Upon re-visiting the film years later, I was disappointed as quite a few posters on this page were that the large cast was largely wasted, hardly utilized in the story at all. The large cast of characters were introduced only to be killed within minutes of their introduction which brings me to the next comment.One of the postings had mentioned that this film had originally been intended to last three hours long but studio considerations had a shorter 2 hour cut imposed on it. If this is in fact the case, perhaps there were many more scenes with Lee J. Cobb, Raymond Massey, Burgess Meredith, Anthony Quayle, Edward G. Robinson, Eli Wallach & Keenan Wynn that were cast on the editing room floor.Most Directors cuts in my opinion ever do a great deal to improve a film with exceptions of course. An example that comes to my mind is the directors cut of, 'The Abyss', by Cameron, that had a whole sub-plot that got relegated to the editors room floor -this made the film vitally more interesting and coherent because the MacGuffin had been completely excised in the studio cut.The biggest flaw for Mackenna's Gold I thought was as other posters had mentioned, the incredible supporting cast was not utilized well and prematurely excised from the story.In the case of Mackenna, the MacGuffin was not affected but some potentially interesting character interaction was precluded.Many of the postings have in my opinion ruthlessly attacked the special effects which, by all means had some substantial flaws, but never the less were competent special effects. Wide and medium miniature shots of the Lost Addams canyon shots were acceptably good, but as the camera got in closer to some falling canyon rubble shots the focus got soft. In the balance though, I think the effects are perfectly adequate.The under-cranked horse chasing sequences were a bit clumsy but they didn't use it to nauseating extremes.I am willing to excuse quite a bit in effects work if its supporting essentially sound script content.I agree with one commenter about using Caucasians to play Indians which to a large extent spoiled things for me, but never the less, did not inhibit my basic enjoyment of the film. Another posting to which I agree to an extent is that Omar Sharif's character was too sophisticated for a Mexican bandit, but on the other hand, Sharif plays the character so well, and whose to say that a would be Bon Vivant desperado could not have existed. The scene where Colorado tells Mackenna what he's going to do with his gold money showing Mackenna French newspaper clippings of Parisians in cafés and dancing girl parlors was delightful; it was interesting that Colorado showed a little bit of vulnerability showing Mackenna what he really wanted to be doing, living as a millionaire in Paris. It was interesting with a track of Parsian music playing and Mackenna imagining Colorado in a Parisian Gentlemans dress suit with top hat & cane. Sure Colorado may not be a totally realistic character but I thought Sharif in many way stole the movie with his character.one of the postings cited Peck as giving an understated performance in the film, but I think you got to consider that after all, in nearly the whole film he was an unwitting prisoner of Colorado. Events were in control of him and not the other way around; plus Shariff as Colorado was chewing up the scenery and stole the show so if Peck looked understated that would be natural in contrast to the over the top character Shariff playedThere was one little bit with Keenan Wyn near the beginning of the film after Addams played by Edward G. Robinson finishes telling the story about the lost gold, and Wyn, playing one of Colorados cohort Mexican bandits starts dancing with J. Robert Porter who plays the young Englishman with long hair; Wyn says to him, You Pretty! I can't tell if your a boy or a girl. If you a boy, I'm going to cut your hair. If you a Girl, I kiss you -I think you a girl! (Wyn kisses the young Englishman who immediately slugs him). It was about the only time that Keenan Wyn, a very gifted character actor got to shine in the film.So although Mackennas Gold certainly has a significant amount of weaknesses to it, I certainly don't think its a total write off either.It does seem inexplicable that such a heavyweight team, J. Lee Thompson directing, Carl Foreman as producer & writer along with Dimitri Tiomkin co-producing, a Quincy Jones score which I liked just did not ignite as they did with 'Guns of Navarone'. I liked the 'Old Turkey Buzzard' song, I don't care what anyone has to say bad about it.All in all, an epic scale Western on the edge of the realm of mystical. One last thing I really think Spielberg must have seen this film & borrowed a scene from it because of the map room scene in Raiders of the Lost Ark where Ford uses a scepter with a crystal that focuses a beam of sunlight to show where the Ark was is very similar to the Shaking Rock scene where the shadow from the rock points to the entrance to the canyon. When I think about it, Colorado almost seems like the kind of character that Indiana Jones would encounter. "},{"Title":"Had to Quit Before the Blook Started Squirting from my Ears","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" This guy who got famous for standing around watching crazy people and occasionally commenting on humanity plays the lead, a man who stands around watching crazy people and occasionally commenting on humanity.So in the movie, this guy is ambushed by an Italian guy who was a leader of an Indian tribe. In the end the Italian guy dies and the other Italian Indians get mad.Then the guy who gets famous is captured by this Greek guy who heads the local Mexican gang which is made up of white guys playing Mexicans and/or Indians.Lurch just stands there, but Catwoman does her sexy killer routine.So far, after 40 years, that's as far as I've gotten. Peck is the slowest moving action hero known to man. Van Cleef, by the way, still gets that award in the villain and overall categories. Lurch is as good as needed. Catwoman is truly strange. The godawful music must have been written in 5 minutes (by one of the best in the business) and also recorded in 5 minutes (again, by one of the best.)...... Parts I didn't see because they happened after Minute 5 which is the point where my aneurysm always starts throbbingThe producers felt that having just one Greek in a Mexican gang was not enough so they import another guy later on. But two Greek guys is not enough to make an authentic Mexican gang.They bring in stars such as Edward G., but they had to poke his eyes out.From what I hear, this is sort of a messy road movie. You could remove the Mexican bandits or the townspeople or Telly and the army, and the movie would be the same. It is one of my lifelong goals to sit through this pile of manure. I failed again today. I plead unpreparedness. All my towels are white and with this aneurysm throbbing, I felt that I was looking at a potentially devastating laundry bill.This movie gets one star because I like Lurch "},{"Title":"Mediocre.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":"  Pretentious Western, with a routine, ordinary get-the-gold script that can't match its pretencions. Still, there are some spectacular scenes and the unpredictability of the story does produce some mild suspense. Many big stars appear, but they don't give particularly memorable performances; Sharif comes off best.   (**1/2) "},{"Title":"This legendary Western is not to be missed!","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Romance, Western","Review":" The quest for gold or treasure has long been a theme of popular literature and cinema. The audience too knows too very well that the protagonists will ultimately reach their goal in the end, but will still watch it through with all curiosity. Mackenna's Gold is one such legendary Western, a trend-setter for Adventure and Wild West Cinema!Gregory Peck plays Marshall Mackenna who accidentally shoots off an old Indian who attacks him. Mackenna learns of a treasure map from the old man, though not too keen to believe it, he memorizes and then destroys the map. Outlaw Colorado (Omar Shariff), a long time adversary of Mackenna traps the latter but discovers that he can't kill him because he the only living person who knows the map now.Mackenna reluctantly joins hands with Colorado on the condition that he and another hostage girl are let off when they reach the destination. The group moves on and is joined by some gentlemen from the city and a soldier and follow through an adventure where they pass over ravines, cross rivers and fight with apaches. Ultimately, they come across a gold laden canyon which, at the end collapses in a typical filmy style.Some of those classic moments oft seen in other movies are the crashing down of humongous mountains and earthquakes that bury treasure, enemies parting off with a smile but warning each other not to cross paths, brandishing of guns, the background western score, the lair of Colorado in the rocks, and many more. I need not emphasize more say more; this one is a true classic for its action, performances and dialogs.Since I didn't exist when this movie was made nor remember to have ever seen it on TV, what I write here is a review of the video version. Watching it in 2008, i.e. almost four decades after the movie, though made me feel that the flow of the story was pretty slow; I fully appreciate the fact that in those days, this must have been an awesome effort! So, if you can lay your hands on a DVD, don't miss watching this all time great Western! "}]