[{"Title":"Truth is often stranger than fiction","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"59 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Truth is often stranger than fiction we know. What's more perplexing is having seen 'The Bridge At Remagen,' you may think it more or less happened that way which was intriguing to say the least.*** SPOILERS ***In reality, the events surrounding the capture of this bridge were even more bizarre and surely never was there such great coincidence. These elements of the movie happened in reality-the bridge at Remagen was accidentally captured intact by US forces;-the Germans unsuccessfully tried to blow it up, repeatedly;-the Americans lost a lot of men in the fighting around the bridges;-the German commander of the defense at the bridge was court martialed and executed by the Germans;Following are the more bizarre real events of the bridge at Remagen. The commander of the US re con force that spotted the bridge first, was an man named Karl Timmerman! This US Lieutenant was of German descent. His father had stayed in Europe following his tour of duty during the First World War. There his father met his future mother in Germany. Karl Timmerman was born and grew up in Germany, NEAR the bridge at Remagen. He and his parents then moved to the States.Timmerman and his men took the bridge and the Germans guarding it completely by surprise. No men were lost and the relative small squad quickly disabled the defending machineguns and captured all defenders without firing a single shot! US high command didn't think the bridge at Remagen of strategic importance as there were no major roads leading from it. However, remembering his youth nearby, Timmerman explained and persuaded his commanders because he knew from memory that a dozen kilometers nearby, was the major highway to Frankfurt!Although it had cost them not a single man to capture the bridge, the Americans lost a LOT of men in the days and weeks following the capture, because the Germans were desperate to recapture it. They made many attacks and bombed the bridge from the air, even with the first jet-bombers.The movie was really okay, much much better than 'Battle Of The Bulge' or even 'The Battle Of Britain.' "},{"Title":"Intelligent War Movie","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I remember seeing this movie in the late 1970s and liked it a lot and still watch it every time it's broadcast not infrequently on television . I was very disappointed that it didn't make the recent list of Channel 4 's 100 GREATEST WAR MOVIES list What I like about THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN is its cynical edge . You see in these type of movies the Yanks are invincible knights in shining armour while the Jerries are invariably goose stepping Nazi dumbkopfs and while there is an element to Uncle Sam winning the war single handed it's nowhere enough to drag the movie into mediocrity . When I say  cynical  the screenplay is very even handed - The Americans loot from the bodies of the dead and come close to fragging a senior officer at one point while German civilians bleat that they're not Nazis seconds after taking down prized portraits of Adolph Hitler Of course much of the cynicism is helped because of the period setting . It's only a few weeks from the final end of the war in Europe and everyone knows what the outcome of the war is going to be but everyone still kills and dies regardless . There is something more poignant about this than say the battle of Stalingrad in 1942 or D Day in 1944 hence the obvious war weariness from the Americans . It's different for the Germans who are fighting the enemy in their own borders . It should also be pointed out that in reality they know the Nazi death camps have been found and someone will be paying a heavy price for these crimes against humanity hence the Germans are in no hurry to surrender Being made in 1969 I wonder if the war in Vietnam was at the back of the producers minds ? The one major German character Kreuger is portrayed as just a soldier protecting his homeland while we see scenes of American bombers dropping ordnance on innocent civilians that include young children and woman in their eighties . Maybe it's just another example of cynicism ? but one things for sure - You won't be seeing something like this coming out of a Hollywood studio today If you like war movies you'll like THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN a lot . It's intelligent , cynical and contains a really great score from Elmer Bernstien "},{"Title":"The best war movie I've never heard about","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a no-nonsense, gritty, thoroughly well made war film. As a recreation of war it is quite convincing, I couldn't spot anything wrong with the military equipment. The battle scenes are exciting and give a good, clear picture of the fighting instead of just chaotic shots of shooting and explosions. However, the people are never lost among the warfare. These are complex, solid characters, and the actors are good throughout. There is nothing superhuman, just individuals, very low on humanity or manners.  Tired and ill-motivated Americans, desperate and scared Germans. Nothing glorious or patriotic there is even a scene with American planes bombing refugees and Germans trying to protect them! This is not an adventure, more a depiction of an interesting situation and the people in it. However, the story flows on and there isn't a dull moment. Why this film hasn't acquired more recognition is beyond me. As a war film I think it is better than most of it's contemporaries, like The Battle of the Bulge or Anzio. "},{"Title":"Classic & Enduring War Movie","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Released in 1969 THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN is a gritty action packed war movie. Produced by David L. Wolpor and beautifully directed by John Guillermin the picture has, over the years, gained something of a cult status and besides being a great favourite with collectors is regarded as one of the more memorable war classics of cinema. Released through United Artists it was photographed in Panavision and colour to dazzling affect by Stanley Cortez and is underlined throughout with a super gutsy score by the always welcome Elmer Bernstein. Also of note is the location filming. It was filmed in 1968, not in Germany, but in Czechoslovakia which wonderfully doubled for Germany with the Remagen Bridge scenes shot at Davie on the Vitava River using the old bridge where fake towers were constructed.It is the closing weeks of WW2 and the only escape route for Germany's 15th. Army is across the Obercassell Bridge over the Rhine at Remagen. But Berlin wants it destroyed in case the Americans can put it to their own use. Germany's General Von Brock (Peter Van Eyck) instructs Major Paul Kreuger (Robert Vaughan) to blow it up but to delay its destruction as long as possible so as to facilitate most of the 75,000 retreating German troops who will be crossing the bridge. Meanwhile the Americans under acting C.O. Lt. Phil Hartman (George Segal) head towards the bridge to destroy it. But later however Brig. Gen. Shinner (E. G. Marshall) changes his mind and decides not to destroy it but to secure it instead. The picture ends with the Americans storming the bridge and taking it.Performances are superb from all concerned. Taking the lead is George Segal as the laid back cynical but dutiful C.O. Usually cast in romantic comedies this was a real departure for the actor and is the best thing he has ever done. Excellent too is Robert Vaughan as the ill fated German commander desperately trying first to save the bridge then failing to destroy it and Ben Gazzara as Angel the colourful brash and thieving Sergeant. Those in smaller roles are also outstanding like Bradford Dillman as the the self absorbed Major detested and distrusted by his company and the always impressive Peter van Eyck as the General of the German high command. This was to be Van Eyck's final screen appearance. He died the same year from Sepsis at the age of 54. And carrying the whole thing along is the rollicking score by the always pleasing Elmer Bernstein. Best known for his many scores for westerns the composer here turned in a powerful score of great depth and excitement. His main theme is a dramatic martial statement which segues into a reflective melancholy theme pointing up the plight of the many hapless refugees trying desperately to cross the bridge to safety and not forgetting the bold and engaging trumpet theme for the German Command. The score is Bernstein's best work for a war movie.THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN is a gripping and exciting well produced war epic and hasn't dated at all since it was made in the sixties. It remains one of the best post war movies of its kind,An ironic postscript on the final frame of the movie reads -Ten days after the Americans captured the Obercassell Bridge it collapsed and fell into the Rhine. "},{"Title":"Well-acted WWII Drama with Excellent Battle Sequences","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" American director John Guillermin, known for several epic clunkers, pulls together this rather tense look at one of the most important battles of World War II American forces clash with the Germans at Remagen, where the last intact bridge over the Rhine stands between the two opposing forces.The script divides attention evenly and fairly between the two forces. George Segal (The Longest Day) is Lt. Hartman, a burned out and pretty tired junior officer who doesn't want to accept the responsibilities of command when his company commander is killed. The war is almost over, and Hartman is concerned with getting his men home. On the other side of the river, German Major Kreuger (Robert Vaughn) is equally concerned with saving lives &#150; German lives. He becomes obsessed with keeping the bridge intact in order to allow retreating German soldiers to attack, despite orders from the High Command to blow up the bridge to prevent its' capture by the Allies.The supporting cast is filled with fine performances. The standouts are Hans Christian Blech (Battle of the Bulge) as Captain Schmidt, a weary Wehrmacht Officer who feels his duty is to protect the civilians whom Kreuger puts in harm's way by continuing a hopeless fight. Blech's acting ability ranges from quiet humility to occasional fits of rage, bringing a dimensionality to a role not commonly found in war epics. Joachim Hansen (Breakthrough) disagrees with Schmidt; he is devoted to the High Command and wants a battle with the Americans more than anything. Both actors bring passion to their roles and make these very believable wartime officers, not simply normal caricatures and stereotypes.Guillermin takes these characters and puts them in intense combat situations, making their humanity all the more believable. The best battle scene in the film has a platoon of American soldiers advancing onto the bridge under a smokescreen, but while they are in the open, the smoke begins to clear giving the Germans a clear field of fire. As some men are shot in the open, others move underneath the bridge to try and rip off as many explosives as they can before the Germans can ignite a secondary fuse to blow up the bridge.In the aftermath of battle scenes like this, the human drama unfolds. Sgt. Angelo (Ben Gazzara, Fireball Forward) is a tough GI who loots the bodies of the dead and sees the war around him as a chance to get rich and take the wealth home when it's all over. But when he must shoot a Hitler Youth member who is sniping at his men, then weeps when he realizes he has shot a mere pre-teenage boy. During a lull in the siege on the bridge, Hartman faces off with Maj. Barnes (Bradford Dillman), who wants him to take his men onto the bridge and capture it despite enemy fire and the threat of the bridge's imminent destruction. Hartman argues that he cannot risk the lives of his men; Barnes states that it will help to end the war faster is the bridge is captured, thus saving more lives in the end. It's a tough choice to make, and both decisions have their drawbacks.The performances are complimented by three crucial technical elements scoring, scenery and cinematography. Elmer Bernstein provides a sweeping score which resounds with the troops when they are victorious, yet mourns and seems to cry during some heart-wrenching scenes, such as an important scene between Angelo, Hartman and Schmidt at the film's conclusion. The Czech locations look magnificent &#150; the film looks and feels real because it was lensed in Europe, in a location which passes for Germany perfectly. The cobblestones streets, rustic villages, rolling hills and clear rivers look amazing. Finally, Stanley Cortez's cinematography is fantastic; the composition of every shot looks well-planned and detailed. There is action going on in the background and foreground most of the time. The focus is not just on the main characters, but as in real life, there is stuff going on around them. Scenes of the battle on the bridge are standouts, as the action is captured from every possible angle, it's very clear what's going on and who is where at all times.The Bridge at Remagen is a fine World War II film which succeeds in showing history, American patriotism and the horrors of war at the same time. It will leave you feeling glad that the Allies won the war and agonized over the great cost of such small gains. But when you realize how much a small gain really matters in the big picture, it won't seem as small anymore. "},{"Title":"A forgotten, gritty little gem.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" 'The Bridge at Remagen' has, for what ever reason, largely been lost or forgotten by today's movie-going public. I think this is a real shame because the sensibilities and attitudes that the film has toward it's own themes fit very much into the modern movie-goer's. Films like 'The Big Red One,' 'Saving Private Ryan,' 'The Thin Red Line,' and a host of other modern war films owe their dark edge to earlier films like 'The Bridge at Remagen.' 'The Bridge at Remagen' is about worn out soldiers. It is a film that doesn't like war, and stews in bitterness. George Segal's world weary eyes are matched only by Robert Vaughn's. Two men, one an American and the other a German who are trying less to kill the others forces than they are trying to just keep the men that they command. Segal has been ordered to capture the town around the bridge. He's told not to worry about the bridge because it is assumed that the Germans will have blown it up themselves by the time he gets there with his troops, or that the Allied air force will bomb it in order to trap and destroy the German 15th Army ... an army on the wrong side of the bridge. Vaughn, excellently playing the conflicted Major Kruger, is ordered to blow up the bridge. The 70,000 troops of the 15th Army and countless civilians are to be sacrificed at the greater expense of protecting Berlin. The General who gives Major Kruger the order to blow up the bridge suggests that holding the bridge for as long as possible so that fleeing troops and civilians can escape might not be a bad idea. This ultimately leads to tragedy for both sides.The film is highlighted by worn out lower level officers who must command on the front lines, and the incompetent or uncaring officers who outrank them. These lower ranking officers and their men are merely pawns to be pushed beyond the breaking point and destroyed. The lower level officers see letters of condolence that they need to write for the families of the fallen men serving under them. The higher ranking officers see flags on maps. 'The Bridge at Remagen' is deeply cynical and highly embittered. Although it is in my mind superior in every way to similarly themed films like 'Anzio,' It was overshadowed and consumed by films with bigger budgets and star power. Need one look much further than 'A Bridge Too Far'? The two leads, Segal and Vaughn are both tremendous and are playing their parts in top form. Vaughn especially turns in some of the best work of his career.The only real flaws in 'The Bridge at Remagen' aren't too serious, but they are strong enough to detract overall. The direction does lean toward heavy-handed pedantics and this can become aggravating. Only having a soldier standing in front of the camera and yelling WAR IS BAD! WAR IS BAD! over and over again would it have been more 'in your face.' The movie also suffers from some pacing issues, especially early on, although I think it is redeemed by the hard and gritty ending.'The Bridge at Remagen' -- very much worth taking a look at if you can find it, and almost certainly belongs (with pride) on the DVD shelf of any serious WW2 film fan. "},{"Title":"One of the most  intelligent  and best of the sixties war movies ,  well performed  and finely directed","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Spectacular and exciting warlike movie based on famous event about the Bridge at Remagen . This Blockbuster is one of the biggest war films ever made. It's a magnificent film, recreating the known offensive by Allied army on the German front during 1945 .What happened during those desperate days that could have changed the course of war is now history . It's well recreated by John Guillermin for United Artists, with Technicolor cinematography by Stanley Cortez. The producer, David L Wolper was well-qualified for his job as he made documentary as ¨D-Day ,6 June, 1944¨ and produced ¨The Devil's brigade¨ , among others. Stirring images accompanied with roaring battle noises it quite possible for the sound effects you heard today to be as realistic as those he heard when was listening to them whining overhead.Furthermore , it packs a moving musical score in military parade style composed by the master Elmer Berstein. The making was a logistical problem as almost that of setting up a campaign and putting a film together under any circumstances was very difficult because working under pretty bad conditions. So this whole film was put together, photographed and edited, scored and prepared for release in a matter of about various months. After a daring escape from Czechoslovakia where was shot at Davle and Most , filming was resumed near Hamburg, Germany and closely the Pope's summer house, Castelgondolfo, Italy.The film is based on real events, though the characters are fictitious, those are the following  The Ludendorff Bridge at Remagen&#x97;the last standing on the Rhine was captured by soldiers of the U.S. 9th Armored Division on 7 March 1945, during Operation Lumberjack. Although German engineers had mined the bridge before the American approach, the fuses had been cut by two Polish engineers forcibly conscripted to the Wehrmacht. On 7 March 1945, soldiers of the 27th Armored Infantry Battalion, led by Lieutenant Karl H. Timmermann,(at the movie Phil Hartman well played by George Segal) approached the bridge, and found it standing. The first American soldier across the bridge was Sergeant Alex Drabik (at the film bears similar role played by Ben Gazzara as corrupt sergeant Angelo) ; Lt. Timmermann was the first officer across. Although the bridge's capture is sometimes regarded as the Miracle of Remagen in U.S. histories, historians debate the strategic importance of the capture of the bridge at Remagen. General Eisenhower ( in the movie a similar character is played by E.G. Marshall as General Shinner) said that the bridge is worth its weight in gold. However, few U.S. units were able to operate east of the Rhine ahead of the main crossings in the south, under Gens. Patton and Bradley, and in the north, under Gen. Montgomery . Ultimately, only a limited number of troops were able to cross the Rhine before the bridge's collapse. However, the psychological advantage of having crossed the Rhine in force and in pursuit of the retreating Wehrmacht, improved Allied morale while communicating disaster to the retreating Germans. Hitler ordered a flying courts-martial that condemned five officers to death. Captain Bratge, who was in American hands, was sentenced in absentia while the other four (Majors Scheller, Kraft, and Strobel, and Captain Peters , respectively played by Robert Vaughan as Major Kruger and Hans Chritian Blech as Captain Carl Schmidt ) were subsequently executed . Soldiers from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers worked long hours to stabilize and repair the bridge . However, despite the best U.S. efforts, on 17 March 1945, ten days after its capture, the Bridge at Remagen succumbed to the cumulative damage from German bombing and collapsed, killing twenty-eight soldiers of the Army Corps of Engineers. However, because the pontoon bridges and other secured crossing points had supplanted the bridge, its loss was neither tactically nor strategically significant. Still, the Ludendorff Bridge remained important as the first point at which Allies crossed the Rhine. "},{"Title":"Well done WWII depiction.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  Only someone who was there, e.g. the U.S. 9th Armored Division, can really say whether this movie about the Remagen bridgehead comes close to what they went through in securing the Ludendorf, the last remaining intact bridge over the Rhine, on March 7, 1945. Only they know of the finality of the gunfire, and the smell it left in the air along with the smell of the dead bodies. But as a combat veteran I was impressed by this movie as it retained the tension and fear involved in war. I do not like most movies because they gloss over reality, but this movie closely shows the different types of individuals that usually make up an army. There are the commanders at the top who see the overall picture, the self-centered career minded officer types who reap only contempt, and the officers and their N.C.O.s-on the American side armored infantry-that just do what they have to do and are just trying to survive. It also shows the close, emotional bonds that war can create between soliders involved in battle. This movie keeps it dirty, with nothing very unbelievable. It gives a good idea of an armored division on the move-and that ain't much fun. "},{"Title":"Classic War Movie!","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Very under rated war epic. Why this movie isn't just as big as the other big war movies of the 60's(the guns of Navarro /bridge to far) is probably because it was to realistic for the times! acting is good only problem is that the Germans speak a little bit to good English but the action is topnotch especially the big tank battle scene in the middle of the movie, is one of the best war scenes i've ever seen till this day!!!The Bridge scene is also very impressive with tanks that destroy huge apartment blocks! this was a big budget movie at the time you can tell you can't count the extra's walking around and the destruction is as realistic as I've ever seen !!TRULY A MUST SEE FOR WAR MOVIE LOVERS!!! "},{"Title":"Landmark war film with career best performances","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Famous for its Apocalypse Now-style production problems. Filmed in then-Czechoslovakia where the then Communist government offered up a whole town (due to be cleared to make way for a strip mine) for cinematic destruction. But halfway through shooting the Russian army invaded to remove reformist president Alexander Dubcek. George Segal and Robert Vaughn give career best performances, but it also marks the moment when US war films moved beyond action-adventure and into a darker realm. The capture of the Remagen Bridge in 1945 was a magnificent feat of arms by the US Army. But in the film account the troops are slovenly, often fearful thugs, slanging and striking their officers, robbing corpses and killing children. It's not really about World War II at all, but about how many Americans saw the Vietnam War. The Bridge at Remagen is out of time, set in 1945 but made in 1968, the year of the Tet Offensive, when the US realised that Vietnam was a lost war. It shows. "}{"Title":"Best assortment of vehicles ever used in a war movie","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  While it doesn't follow the exact historical events and has its fair share of realistic technical and tactical flaws, I think The Bridge at Remagen is a great movie. The WW II U.S. M24 Chaffee tanks, the M8 Armored Cars, half tracks, jeeps, troop carriers, and 2 1/2ton trucks are all just great. Unlike other WW II films of the period (60's-70's)the use of these vehicles sometimes make it seem as if one is watching George Stevens footage from WW II and not a Hollywood production. The moving, combat vehicles scenes were never better. Filming on location in eastern Europe where they had whole villages and towns that could really be blown up and destroyed adds a great deal also. I think most of the technical flaws (uniforms/weapons, both American and German)can be overlooked by the quality of what they did get right and the only real tactical flaw that I can't forgive is the out-in-the-open American tank vs German Flak battery duel. I just love those American M24's so I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well-done war flick (spoilers)","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I have no idea how well this account of the battle for Remagen adheres to the historical details, but it is a fine war film in its own right.  Yes, the Germans speak English, yes Robert Vaughn's accent really sounds more British than German, but i still liked this movie; it's pros outweigh its cons.  the very beginning is thrilling and grabs your interest.  the film earns points for portraying the rarely seen suffering of German civilians both at the hands of their own government and the Allies.  the Germans defending the bridge are portrayed with just as much sympathy and respect as the Americans attempting to seize it, a pleasant surprise in the war genre.  you are allowed to feel pity and sympathy when Major Kreuger is executed by the SS, while at the same time the film never takes away from the extraordinary sacrifice American soldiers made to defend their liberty and the safety of those back home.     "},{"Title":"One of the best war movies from the '60s","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This has to be one of the best war movies made in the 1960s, an era when all too often filmmakers went overboard in glorifying war while glossing over its horrors and populating their movies with larger-than-life hero characters who could have come straight out of a boys' comic. This movie doesn't fall into that trap. The characters - both German and American - are believable, and the movie sets and the equipment used (with the glaring exception of Korean War era American tanks) are authentic for the period. With so many WWII Sherman tanks and other vehicles still in museums, private collections and (at least back in the 60s) still in use in large numbers in the armies of several smaller countries, it has always been a puzzle to me as to why so many moviemakers took the simple option and used anachronistic military hardware in WWII movies, presumably assuming that the average moviegoer wouldn't even notice or wouldn't care. The most horrible example of this is the 1965 movie Battle Of The Bulge. But I digress. Ignoring the tank factor, The Bridge At Remagen is a great movie. The best performance among many strong ones in this film has to be that of Ben Gazzara as Sergeant Angel Angelo, and the scene in which he kills the German sniper is extremely strong, moving stuff. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":" When a nation starts killing its own soldiers, it  has  lost  the  war ","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Perhaps it's the ability to win over the audience, when a director films a story from both sides of a conflict. The audience is then won as this picture is seen from the view point of both the American and then from the German point of view. The battle for control of Europe began on D-Day when the Allies landed at Normandy. Even since then, the German war machine has been put on the defensive. This movie concerns itself with the dramatic defense of the last bridge over the Rhine River. The Movie is called  The Bridge at Remagen  and the German commander Maj.Paul Kruger,( Robert Vaughn) and his aid Capt. Carl Schmidt have been given explicit orders by the commanding General Von Brock (Peter van Eyck), that the bridge is not to be taken intact. On the opposite bank of the river, Lt. Phil Hartman of the American forces has been given conflicting orders. First the Allies want to the bridge utterly destroyed. Later, the men are told to take the bridge in one piece. Amid the confused American soldiers is opportunistic Ben Gazzara as Sgt. Angelo. Bradford Dillman plays Maj. Barnes, an officer who's display of courage is constantly being exhibited, unfortunately not by him. The film is packed with high action, drama and incredible scenes of conflict. The story dealing with the taking of this last bridge is also loaded with the philosophy of war at it's very worse. Still by virtue of its exciting and powerful content, it has become a war time Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Decent war film with a few flaws","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I first watched the Bridge at Remagen on TV about 30 years ago, and quite happily watched it again this evening for about the fourth time. It is a well written film that does a commendable job of getting the setting right, starting with the sweeping opening shot of the bridge at the center of the action. There are nice touches throughout the film. In one early series, the German commander receives orders to blow up the bridge which he knows will trap his troops on the wrong side of the river; meanwhile the American commander tells his staff not to even worry about the bridge because he assumes that either the Germans or Allied bombers will destroy it anyway. This provides a subtle statement about the futility of war where two armies will fight a battle over control of a bridge which apparently nobody wants.The battle sequences are well staged, and the main characters are given sufficient depth to make the film work as a human drama. One quibble I have about the film is the age of the actors. On average, American GI's in the second world war would have been in their mid-twenties, yet almost every actor playing an American soldier in this film appears to be in his mid to late thirties (Bo Hopkns being a notable exception). Ben Gazzara and George Segal were both closing in on forty when this film was made and they look it - Gazzara in particular. It detracts from an otherwise strong film when the impression is given that the US soldiers were fighting off middle age as well as the Germans. "},{"Title":"A movie to enjoy on any evening.","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  From the start to the finish of this film, one is held captive in the suspense and the drama that is this fine war movie. The scenery is totally fantastic and DOES give one the feeling as if they are actually going into Germany. The sights and sounds are fantastic--as well as all the people who acted in this film.I had not seen this movie since I was much younger until I bought the DVD--which it is definately worth owning. "},{"Title":"great final line","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I especially like the performance of Robert Vaughn in this film, as the German officer in charge of the blowing up of the Remagen bridge. His last line, in front of the firing squad, is one of the most memorable I know in the history of war films and it is all the more poignant for its juxtaposition immediately after the scene showing the emotional reunion of the characters played by George Segal and Ben Gazzara. Elmer Bernstein's memorable theme music also adds to ones enjoyment of this film although, much to my surprise, I gather that the film soundtrack has never been released in this country. "},{"Title":"Another bridge in the war","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Competent war movie benefits from its distinguished cast led by George Segal as the tired unit leader given instructions to prevent the Germans from destroying the Remagen bridge, which is vital to the allies advancement. His nemesis Major Paul Kruger (Vaughn) is similarly under pressure from his superiors to repel the allies, but questions the tactics and futility, his unpopular opinions quietly shared by another battle-weary German officer leading them both into harm's way within their own establishment.Robert Vaughn, while miscast as Kruger, doesn't hamper the overall impact. He adopts all the mannerisms and props, but it's his character's conscience and complexities that go beyond the stereotypical Nazi veneer. Key supporting cast includes Gazzara as the rebellious sergeant Angelo (profiting from the war whenever and however he can), Bradford Dillman as the by-the-book major with whom Segal frequently clashes, and Peter Van Eyck as the sympathetic German officer, a clichéd role (the reluctant soldier) but well undertaken.Bridge at Remagen boasts some top notch action sequences and stunt-work, along with the occasional human touch that elevates it beyond casual war fodder. Gazzara in particular is given reasonable depth with his characterisation, and given Segal's ambivalence, could even be considered the central character. Bystanders Anna Gael and Sonia Zeimann are the token females with little to offer but some much-needed testosterone balance (although their roles are sexualised to varying degrees), while a number of familiar faces comprise bit parts (Bo Hopkins, Robert Logan, Matt Clark and Fritz Ford). The film tapers off in the final thirty minutes, but is somewhat resurrected by the finale to which the victors go the spoils, and the defeated treated as pariahs while the firing squad awaits. Gritty, worth a look. "},{"Title":" Objective Bridge At Remagen ","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Although The Bridge at Remagen is a highly-fictionalized account of the actual events leading up to the U.S. 9th Armored Division's approach to secure and capture the bridge during the last months of World War II , this film is extremely well done. With outstanding, solid lead performances delivered by George Segal, Robert Vaughn, Ben Gazzara and fine supporting acting by E.G Marshall, Bradford Dillman, Peter Van Eyck, and those familiar with actress Anna Gael, will find her brief performance titillating.The film is full of griping action, with a balance of the emotionally, frustrating tension suffered by the Americans and Germans, as they struggle to follow a series of exasperating orders from their commanders while enduring the grisly conditions of war. Directed by John Guillermin and filmed on location in Czechoslovakia with an excellent music score by Elmer Bernstein, this 1969 film has held up well and is still very entertaining to watch. "},{"Title":"An Anti-Heroic War Film","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" In March 1945, during the Allies' final advance into Germany, the U.S. 9th Armored Division succeeded in capturing the Ludendorff Bridge in the Rhineland town of Remagen. This was an important event because it was the only significant bridge still standing over the Rhine, and its capture meant that the U.S. Army could cross it immediately with heavy tanks, artillery pieces and supply trucks, thus establishing a bridgehead on the eastern bank of the river without the need for an amphibious crossing. The Bridge at Remagen tells a fictionalised version of these events. Virtually all war films made during World War II itself, and most of those made during the following decades, took a strongly patriotic approach, with the heroic Americans or British putting the villainous Axis forces to flight. There were, however, a few which took a more objective, nuanced look at the war. Bridge on the River Kwai and Ice Cold in Alex are two fine examples which come to mind, and this film is another. The three main characters on the American side are Major Barnes, Lieutenant Hartman and Sergeant Angelo, generally known as Angel. Barnes is an aggressive, gung-ho officer, determined to capture the bridge at all costs, although he is motivated less by belief in the Allied cause than by a desire to further his own military career by impressing his superiors. Hartman, by contrast, is becoming disillusioned and weary of the war; his main motivation is to get home alive along with as many of his men as possible. He has reluctantly been promoted to company commander following the death of his more reckless predecessor. He despises Barnes whom he sees as putting his own interests before the lives of the men under his command. Angel also, at first, seems like a man who puts his own interests before all else, in his case by trying to make a profit out of anything he can steal. Early in the film we see him picking the pockets of a corpse, much to Hartman's disgust. Later on, however, Angel is humanised by his exposure to the darker side of war, especially after he is forced to shoot a German civilian who has opened fire on his unit, only to find that he has killed a teenage boy. The main character on the German side is Major Paul Krüger, the officer charged with defending the bridge. Krüger is not portrayed as a stereotypical Nazi but as an honourable Wehrmacht officer with a strong sense of duty. He is, however, confronted with two difficulties. The first is that he has been given two sets of mutually contradictory orders. The German High Command, on Hitler's instructions, has commanded that all bridges across the Rhine should be destroyed, but Krüger's immediate superior, General von Brock, has ordered him to hold the Remagen Bridge for as long as possible to enable the German 15th Army, trapped on the west bank of the river, to escape. His second difficulty is that he has been allocated insufficient troops to do the job. Unlike many war films, this is not a simple tale of the triumph of American heroism over Nazi villainy, but rather a psychological study of men at war. It features a number of very convincing performances, especially from George Segal as Hartman, Ben Gazzara as Angel and Robert Vaughn as Krüger. Hartman and Krüger may be on different sides, but both are shown as fundamentally decent, if flawed, characters. We do see evidence of German brutality and treachery, but against this must be set Barnes's callous disregard of the human cost of his actions and a scene where American planes strafe unarmed German civilians trying to flee across the bridge. It is not an anti-war film in the way in which, say, Catch-22 or Oh! What a Lovely War are anti-war, but it can be seen as an anti-heroic war film, with no attempt to paint one side as wholly good or the other as wholly evil. In place of glory or heroics it shows us ordinary people, both soldiers and civilians, trying to survive the war with their lives, or their honour, intact. Director John Guillermin made some other good war films, including I Was Monty's Double and The Blue Max, which also showed some of its German characters in a sympathetic light, but The Bridge at Remagen is the best of his which I have seen. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" 'The Bridge At Remagen's problem is that it came towards the end of a long slew of epic WWII movies (Where Eagles Dare, Heroes Of Telemark, Guns of Navarone, etc), and suffered as a result. I well remember the 'Daily Telegraph' film critic tearing it to bits. In actual fact it ain't half bad. It's reasonably realistic, sticks to the story, and is competently acted. It's a film worth watching more-but not much more-than once. As I have said on this site more than once, a ten line minimum review limit is nonsense. As a practising Yorkshireman, I expect and deliver succinctness. Let's leave shrill expansiveness to effete southerners!. "},{"Title":"The physical bridge in Davle","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The interesting part of the background of the movie is that it was shot before and during the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968. The bridge in the movie is on the Vltava river in Davle, south of Prague. I visited it a month ago. When you stand on it it seems much narrower than in the movie. It was a road bridge in reality, the railroad was built as a set for the movie. The remains of the railroad tunnel, the entry of which was also built for the movie, is visible behind a real railroad that runs perpendicular to the bridge and parallel to the river along its eastern bank. Today it serves as a pedestrian bridge. I cannot upload a picture here but here is one on the web taken during the floods in 2002 http//img.radio.cz/galerie/povodne_prehrady/davle_most1.jpg "},{"Title":"Gritty drama","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  A gritty war movie, based loosely on real events, and one of the best of the sixties. George Segal and Ben Gazzara give brilliant performances and the film is almost faultless. The film opens with an exciting action sequence and most of the set pieces are well crafted. I especially liked the attack on the farmhouse which was preceeded by the death of the company commander and especially Segal's reaction to it. 7 out of 10 and one of the better war movies around.  "},{"Title":"One of Robert Vaughn's finest moments","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  At times I have to force myself to ask Is a movie good just because it involves some memorable event from World War II, is loaded with impressive battle scenes and shot in Europe in beautiful 1960's DeLuxe color? Of course not. But still I enjoy movies like Battle of the Bulge and The Bridge at Remagen, and 70's epics like A Bridge Too Far and Midway (all though the last one is streaching it) not because the story-line is very coherent or even remotely interesting, but because it manages to capture the feeling of grandeur, that you are witnessing a re-creation of something massive, the type of movies where you see every buck spent up there on the big screen (either put into gasoline for a dozen Sherman tanks, or blocks of buildings being blown to bits).In many of these movies there is also quite often a rare chance to see more movie-stars in one movie then you normally see in ten movies! This last bit is not the case when it comes to The Bridge at Remagen. Sure, Robert Vaughn was a star, so was George Segal and Ben Gazzara, but they were far from international superstars. Still, the casting is very entertaining, giving the WW2-genre a bit of fresh air, all though Bradford Dillman seems almost wasted as an ***hole of a major who cares more about his own career than his men. And you know you won't be riddled with superstars in a movie that announces E. G. Marshall as the big guest star. Sure, he was a great actor, but he wasn't exactly the Henry Fonda of guest stars.In many ways Ben Gazzara steals the show with his complex character, but I still personally enjoyed Robert Vaughn even more. From his opening scene - when he enters in his cool major-outfit and the type of sunglasses that never go out of style - to the final poignant scene, Vaughn delivers one of the most memorable German officers ever portrayed on-screen by an American actor. Apart from Vaughn, what sticks in my mind is Hans Christian Blech's portrayal of Capt. Schmidt who in one scene towards the end (that includes a brief conversation with a uniformed child) reveals his true background and very effectively sums up the sickness of war. Damn, come to think about it The Bridge at Remagen left me with more sympathy for the Germans than for the allies which is something you don't see every day (at least not in the 1960's)!The plot of The Bridge at Remagen feels somewhat aloof and it takes time to really get involved, maybe because of it's weird (true) story Germans need to blow up bridge, Germans trying to hold bridge for as long as possible, Americans wanting to blow up bridge too, Germans trying to blow bridge, Americans then wanting to save the bridge and... oh... well, as history has proven time and time again real life is weirder than any fiction. "},{"Title":"pretty realistic","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I think the film pretty well depicts the desperation of the Germans at the end of the war, as the German commander discovers he has far fewer men than he thought, due to desertion etc, and the panzer reinforcements he expected didn't come. One scene that looked a bit phoney was the one showing US tanks neatly lined up shooting at German guns, also neatly lined up and not concealed or camoflaged. Of course, the US tanks win the engagement while losing only one tank set ablaze. In my opinion the film is not too violent for kids, but there is one scene of a barracks whore, played by Anna Gael, stripping to the waist after taking cigarettes as payment. But they show only her upper chest and back. "},{"Title":"The Last Bridge to Hell!!!","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Blue Max director John Guillermin's military action thriller The Bridge at Remagen, with George Segal, Robert Vaughn, and Ben Gazzara, ranks at a good World War II movie. Clearly from the attitude of the U.S. Army soldiers&#x97;not their pompous superiors&#x97;these G.I. Joes see combat as a dirty business that you can get you killed. No doubt, the disillusion that most Americans had with Vietnam had tainted the storytelling. The Richard Yates & William Roberts screenplay has U.S. Brig. Gen. Shinner (E.G. Marshall) sending soldiers from Major Barnes' command (Bradford Dillman) into Indian country to capture 50-thousand German soldiers. Guillermin's movie shifts back and forth between the U.S. Army&#x97;the Brits and French have nothing to do with what being blown up or shot at here&#x97;the German Army. The German General Staff wants General Von Brock (Peter van Eyck of Shakalo) to destroy the bridge so the Americans will not have a highway into the Third Reich. Naturally, Von Brock is horrified at the cost; 75-thousand German soldiers will be trapped behind the lines. Von Brock balks at the order and now must sign it to assure that he will carry it out. Von Brock assigns the inevitable task to destroying the bridge to German Major Paul Kreuger (Robert Vaughn of The Magnificent Seven). Like most 1960's World War II film post-The Young Lions, Kreuger is treated as a sympathetic character with a daunting task. Of course, history dictates that Kreuger will not be able to hold the bridge, so suspense is limited in most respects. Nevertheless, the logistics of the action scenes, a robust cast, Elmer Bernstein's atmospheric orchestral score, Stanley Cortez's crisp, wide-screen cinematography, and an anti-heroic tone make The Bridge at Remagen a movie worth watching. Segal's Lieutenant Phil Hartman is the kind of character that Tom Hanks might have played. Ben Gazzara's skulduggery as a souvenir collector strikes the right tone for the anti-war era during which the film was made. World War II fanatics may complain about the post-World War tanks that turn up here, too. The armored vehicles look like they are hauling butt a little too fast in the opening credits, but it creates momentum. The irony is what happens to the German Major. Although it has nowhere near the scale of The Longest Day, The Bridge at Remagen is a must-see for World War II moviegoers. "},{"Title":"Following Orders","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" What I liked about this film was the exploration about following orders. Both the German and American commanding officers had to do the same. Both subordinate troops rankled at the orders. Both commanding officers were threatened with treason. But both remained true in the end to the real forces that led them. I think that exploration elevates the film. So too does what now we call special effects but in 1968 we see real buildings disappearing. One with a mother and child just barely making it. Too close for me. And some geese who were as brave as any of the combatants in one scene.An ancient film with great real special effects, that overshadow a difficult them. "},{"Title":"Best of its genre","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" As I remember this movie it was one of its kind, many of these 60's, 70's war movies a'la Peckinpah (and others). This was as I think lot less violent, but more interesting in plot than most of them. Certainly more watchable than nowadays war films. Not so much humorist as these spaghetti-western-eastern-front-films often used to be (aka dozens of soldiers out there somewhere joking and fighting).Somehow this makes the most of it, although I think there isn't any really famous actors, not really large-scale battles, and the Germans are actually shown more heroistic than often (or perhaps it's just that there aren't too many of all those all too necessary parts). Actually the plot , Germans defending the last bridge is quite realistic scenario (but not too believable, though). "},{"Title":"A very good war movie","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  A very well made war movie. It doesn't attempt to glorify war, nor does it, like so many other movies, take sides. It has a major star on both sides, George Segal for the Americans and a very impressive performance by Robert Vaughn for the Germans. The other members of the cast, less well known to me, give excellent performances, ranging from the tired soldiers represented by Sgt Angelo, the untested german Capt. Baumann and the selfish Major Barnes.How well it deals with historical accuracy I am uncertain, but I believe it comes pretty close. Yes, there are a few errors, but once the action begins and you're never quite sure what will happen next, you can forgive these.All in all a very good movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Gritty Depiction Of War","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This movie is a little off-beat. Although a fictitious depiction relating the capture of a German bridge, there is a surprising amount of digression in the story.We encounter a battle-hardened and war-weary platoon on the edge of exhaustion and mutiny. They are led by a couple glory chasers, one of whom is quickly and deservedly blown to smithereens in an excess of rash bravado. They eat where they can and sleep where they can. They steal, and loot, and - given the chance - gang rape (they are not given that chance). George Segal is Lt Harman, caught between ambitious superiors and weary troopers. Ben Gazarra plays his supremely sleazeball Sgt Angelo. It's a love-hate relationship. Their contrasting attitudes define the underlying moods of their men duty or dereliction. They're all dishevelled and dirty, brave and pretty ruthless. It's a very gritty and believable depiction of men who have had a bellyful.These men are desperate for a break. But their CO sees only the prospect of more glory. Relentlessly they are driven towards Remagen.The movie cuts to the German perspective. They're losing. There's a conflict of interests about the saving or destruction of the bridge. Robert Vaughan is an unfortunate and implausible choice as the German commanding officer with divided loyalties. It should have been someone else. Hardy Kruger, I think. A number of other excellent German actors feature in this movie, and if anything they highlight Vaughan's shortcomings in a Teutonic persona. There's a long, furious battle of attrition. The platoon is almost annihilated. There are some spectacularly realistic battle scenes that are way ahead of their time. An awful lot of military kit is assembled and destroyed for this movie. Buildings are demolished with gusto. The actual taking of the bridge probably accounts for only half of the viewing time. The rest is entailed in running battles, military politics and personal squabbles. Excellent E G Marshall turns in a cameo as the overbearing US general.It's a victory. But it doesn't feel victorious. There's too much violence and slaughter. Neither side seems to have a clear motive either for the bridge's loss or gain. They are, for the most part, lost in the rivalries, confusion and deathly fatigue. Which, I suppose, is what war is mostly like to those who actually fight it.Well worth a watch if you haven't seen it. Unfortunately, it has been 're-discovered' by TV schedulers and has been shown a little too often on British terrestrial television of late. "}{"Title":"Overlooked and under-appreciated","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I guess the only thing that keeps this film from being a ten for me, is the finale. I kind of think it diminishes from the viewers investment in the characters with this cheat ending. Other than that, this is an excellent war movie. There's a typical theme, Germans are desperate to destroy a bridge, the allies want to keep it intact. The Germans are on the run in the waining months of WW2, and are trying to cut off all allied advancement (with the consequence of their own retreat) into Germany. A lone German major, feeling a duty to secure as much time as possible for his fellow German soldiers in their retreat, is given the task of overseeing the destruction of the Bridge at Remagen. The allies are desperate to secure the bridge intact, so as to ensure a reliable entry into the fatherland. A small band of American soldiers, run ragged by their own major, a brash reckless, power hungry man, who doesn't care about the safety of his men, but the accomplishing of the mission, and the subsequent accolades of his commander. Robert Vaughn does an amazing job of presenting the German soldier as honorable, and endearing. His portrayal here is in dramatic contrast to the generalization of German soldiers as blood thirsty killers. Major Kruger is a vastly different characterization from say, Otto Preminger in Stalag 17, Hannes Messemer in The Great Escape, or Joerg Stadler in the infamous role of the double crosser in Saving Private Ryan. Ben Gazzara and George Segal do a wonderful job of playing off each other as two hardened vets, pushed to the brink, and striving mightily to hold onto their humanity. Using the mission as their totem, a hope of an end to the war, and a going home to their civilian lives. "},{"Title":"not great, but still well worth seeing","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I was actually pleasantly surprised by this WWII film. Why I decided to watch it I am uncertain, but I am positive it is NOT because of my Leonard Maltin guide--whose review was, at best, mediocre. Well, because the review prepped me to dislike it so much that my sights were pretty low, I was amazed to find it kept my interest throughout. The film was pretty good--even when the action became bogged down at the bridge. And, the cast did a good job as well (Maltin also agreed with this assessment). While it certainly won't rank among the best war films, it is very very good and not as overly familiar a plot as I had expected. "},{"Title":"Pretty dang good","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This film stars Robert Vaughn, Ben Gazzara, George Segal and Brad Dillman. The story is that of the US push to destroy the last bridge from France over the Rhine and entrap 50,000 German troops during WW2. Vaughn plays the German Major who is charged with blowing up the bridge to avoid it's capture. He is reticent to do so, because he knows that the bridge is the only escape route for the aforementioned German troops. So he delays. Once the Americans reach the bridge and they're actually fighting the Germans, an attempt is made to blow the bridge up, but it fails to destroy it. The American plan initially was to destroy the bridge in order to prevent the German's escape. The Americans then decide not to destroy the bridge, but to take it, to enable US troops to cross the Rhine more easily. The cast all give fine performances and the story, while embellished, is pretty much true. Overall, pretty decent! "},{"Title":"solid war story, excellent music","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a solid 60s era WWII movie, heightened by Elmer Bernstein's powerful music. I thought the antagonistic relationships between fellow soldiers on both German and American sides were excellent, as they probably depicted things realistically (eg. the scene where Lieutenant Hartman tells Sergeant Angelo You're a pig repeatedly, with clear hatred and disdain, as Angelo strips German bodies of valuables). You may fight alongside someone, but that doesn't mean you like them. "},{"Title":"Better than average 60's WW II movie","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  They often show this movie on the Canadian History channel.  I do not mind it, I remember, when I was 6, my dad made me go to bed after watching the beginning of this film.  For years I remember that, I guess it just stuck out in my memory.  A few months ago I watch the whole film.  Not a bad film, but far from great.  B actor Rober Vaughn is a bright spot.  Worth watching, and for a older film it ages well. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A very misleading ending","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" CAUTION SPOILER At the end of the movie it is announced that the bridge collapsed just a few days after it was captured. The impression is that the attack was all for nothing. In reality, taking the bridge at Remagen was the last important victory for the Western Allies. It was the crossing of the Rhine that the Allies had been trying to achieve for six months. Because the Remagen Bridge was taken, the war ended in just a few weeks.The bridge only need to last for a day after it was captured. This was enough time for the Americans to send combat engineers and a large protective force to the other side, and they could then start building a series of pontoon bridges. The taking of the bridge was a complete success, and meant the that the end of the war was near, and would not last through the summer. Contrary to the cynical nature of the film, the victory was heralded with elation by the troops who did it. They knew how vital the battle was.This film has little to do with real history. It was more a reflection of the cynical nature of the time in which it was produced. "},{"Title":"Too bad they didn't follow the book","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"   I know Ken Hechler was a consultant on this film, but it's just a shame the film departed so far from his text (The Bridge at Remagen, 1955). His research was so exquisite that was, in my opinion, almost no need for a scriptwriter. Lt Hartman (who is supposed to be Lt. Timmerman) was the tired G.I. as portrayed by Segal. Timmermann wasn't that way at all. In fact, he went back in the army and fought in Korea.I spoke with Dr. Hechler last week and he said he is in the draft stage for a book on Timmermann. And Ben Gazzara made an awfully old Sgt Angelo, the guy who lead the charge across the bridge (he wasn't first across because he stopped at the tower and captured the German machine gunner inside). Where the massacre of the American troops crossing the bridge came from is unknown. It didn't actually happen. Casualties crossing the bridge were few. In fact I'm not certain Timmermann's company took any casualties getting across. Sorry to see Hollywood distort history again. It never fails. They will never produce an accurate war film, in my opinion. No one would watch it. It would be too boring or dry. George Segal, however, accurate or not, is always good, and so are many of the others. Just don't believe that things happened as they did. After all, they changed the names of all of the participants, as in Pvt Ryan. That should tell you something. The only film that didn't, to my knowledge, was The Longest Day. In that film, if an actor said something, it can be found in the history books.  "},{"Title":"Bridge at Remagen( compared w/ 'FURY'(brad Pitt), this movie is a Tesla compared w/ a Chevy Volt)","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I especially liked the deeper plot,character development & constant clashes w/ Upper ranks & NCO's in this movie,but FURY had higher production values as far as authenticism,but less plot developments(also very young looking actors,Pitt,Cera,Logan & that Walking dead actor). Also. both movies accurately depict the Germans conscripting young children to fight the allies,& even shows a young sniper, killing several GI's.I was very curious in seeing the modern looking tanks in the movie,they reminded me of modern day Patton tanks used in ?(late WWII?,Korean War?).I found out from these reviews that they were not Sherman,but M24 Chaffee tanks w/ a elongated 'tail' turret section, not seen on SHermans.I always thought Robert Vaughn would have made a very good 'James BOnd', especially his menacing sounding voice & cold expression, very sinister sounding German officer. All in all,if I had a choice,I would much rather see Bridge than Fury, if only for the involved story telling which really drew me in....(saw this movie on retro TV,THE WORKS,channel 38.6) "},{"Title":"Steel Gargoyles","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" When the rich wage war, it's the poor who die. - Sartre One of the best war films you've never heard of, The Bridge at Remagen (1969) was directed by John Guillermin. Guillermin was responsible for two other excellent war films 1964's Guns at Batasi, a fairly complex look at the end of British colonialism, and 1958's I Was Monty's Double, a clever comedy, albeit one which never rises above the level of war-time propaganda.Remagen opens with an amazing sequence a convoy of American tanks are hurtling across Europe at breakneck speed. Crashing through villages, skidding along hilltops, they're also tracing the bank of the River Rhine. Up ahead is the still-intact Dusseldorf-Oberkassel bridge. Lieutenant Hartman (George Segel), leader of the American convoy, wants to take the bridge. The German Army is in full retreat on the other side. If he crosses, he can hit their flanks, penetrate German lines and press toward Berlin.Hartman's plan fails. His convoy is ambushed by German forces on the opposite side of the river. Shots are exchanged and the Dusseldorf-Oberkassel bridge is destroyed. This is where The Bridge at Remagen gets interesting. On Hartman's side of the river are several large groups of stranded German forces. They're racing down the river in an attempt to reach the last surviving bridge on the Rhine the Bridge at Remagen. Hartman's racing them to that bridge. On the opposite side of the Rhine, meanwhile, German Major Paul Kruger (Robert Vaughn) is doing the same.Time is thus crucial in The Bridge at Remagen. German and American forces are granted no sleep, no rest, no time for reloading or resupply. Everyone's fighting a running battle, everyone racing desperately toward Remagen. Once there, the film essentially becomes a siege movie, German and American forces slugging it out over the Rhine. Eyeing each other through binoculars like arch enemies, Major Kruger and Lieutenant Hartman quickly become locked in a battle of wits.Remagen is remarkably brisk for a film released in 1969. Shot like a Sam Peckinpah movie, but without the facile nihilism, Guillermin's film is all rapid editing, snap-zooms, audacious crane-shots, amazing helicopter-shots and stylish hand-held. The film's pyrotechnics, hardware and the blunt immediacy of its gun-battles, are likewise head and shoulders above most blood-and-guts war flicks of the 1960s. With a premise that demands urgency, there's no other war movie from the decade which looks and moves like this.Thematically, Remagen offers a strange mix of World War 2 pulp fiction, Vietnam era revisionism and counterculture sentiments. Like the works of Sam Fuller, it adopts the tone of the combat comic-books of the 1940s and 1950s - which were aimed at adolescents - but then attempts to inject some sophistication. Like the zany war films of the sixties (Dirty Dozen, Kelly's Heroes, Castle Keep, MASH, Catch 22 etc), the film's spirit also wholly belongs to the Beat and Hippie generations. Should I care? an American soldier asks, when matters of victory are discussed. Who's the real enemy? a German mumbles on his deathbed. Axis and Allies, then, are not mortal enemies but brothers in arms. Explicitly referring to one another as friends, both are but pawns cynically offered as fodder by cruel commanders and waging Imperialists. Elsewhere the film subverts the usual dehumanising portrayals of German soldiers by lingering on dead German kids, mournful fathers, crowds of refugees, the bravery of the Wehrmacht and the many German sons and daughters tragically wasted on war.The Longest Day (1960) was perhaps the most famous WW2 war film released in the 1960s. Aesthetically spectacular, but thematically dumb, the film kowtowed to America's rather mythological understanding of World War 2. Remagen's too generic to engage in any meaningful historical or political revisionism, but it does draw constant parallels between Major Kurger and Lieutenant Hartman, between German grunt and American grunt. And where most Western war films engage in games of victimhood &#x96; our brave heroes always a small band outnumbered by hordes of savages (Black Hawk Down, Saving Private Ryan, 300 etc) - Remagen does the opposite. It is Major Kruger who is outnumbered, out-gunned, and under siege. It is Major Kruger who must bravely hold back a seemingly unending flow of enemy tanks and troops. In The Bridge at Remagen, both German and American grunts are simultaneously glorified and pitied. The Bridge at Remagen was filmed in Czechoslovakia. It boasts a fine score by Elmer Bernstein and some picturesque location photography. George Segel, excellent as an American officer in King Rat, is called upon to play a simpler character here your archetypal American hero, only more jaded. Remagen also conveys well large scale tactics, geography and the spatial relationship between vying armies. Of all the WW2 movie of the 1960s (Anzio, Patton, The Longest Day, Battle of the Bulge etc), it's arguably the best.8.5/10 - See Decision Before Dawn, The Victors (1963) and The Spy Who Came in From the Cold. "},{"Title":"Thus ended the last great German stand in the West...","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" In March 1945, it is strongly evident that Germany is loosing the war. Hitler's forces are in full retreat as the allies are pushing ever closer towards Berlin. To halt the allied advance, German military brass order the destruction of the last remaining Rhine river bridge at Remagen. Major Krueger(ROBERT VAUGHN)disobeys orders and keeps the bridge open long enough to allow battle weary soldiers to cross back into German territory. A platoon of American GIs headed by Lt. Phil Hartman(GEORGE SEGAL)have been instructed to take the bridge, before Krueger finally decides to destroy it!.THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN is THE quintessential Second World War combat movie. It depicts the ordinary combat soldier carrying out his objective without the hindrance of a love interest or mushy backstory. Produced by David L. Wolper and distributed by United Artists, Remagen is the younger brother of the slightly inferior The Devil's Brigade(1968). This 1969 effort will forever hold a tight position in my personal top 20 war films. The storyline is fact based and totally engaging, without becoming convoluted or tiresome. The script makes the film all the more engrossing. It touches on the issues of low morale in a platoon, how and why it becomes so rife and the crippling effects it has on the soldiers. Battle fatigue is also tactfully depicted. The film shows how it can manifest itself into lasting psychological conditions such as depersonalisation and disassociation. I wouldn't go as far to call Remagen an anti war film, although it does contain some poignant anti war elements, some of which I've just mentioned. Neither is it an all-guts-no-glory flag waver, it simply tells the story of the Allied struggle against Nazi forces for control of the Remagen bridge. John Guillemin's direction moves the film along at a decent pace and the visuals benefit from a rousing Elmer Bernstein score. The script is strong and is crammed with equally sturdy dialogue. Thanks to this, the film contains quite a few memorable lines, with George Segal and Ben Gazzara taking most of them for themselves. I also thought the cinematography was inspired. From time to time the camera lingers over the action, this being particularly effective when the GIs make their initial advance on the bridge.The 3 leads, George Segal, Ben Gazzara and Robert Vaughn all gave staunch performances. These 3 main characters were the driving thrust behind this magnificent film. It is George Segal who gives the best performance in the film. I say this because his cynical interpretation of Lt. Hartman is probably one of the most accurate representations of a soldier I've ever seen in a film. That being said, Gazzara and Vaughn also brilliantly portrayed their characters. The on screen chemistry between Segal and Gazzara was cleverly constructed and rather unique. Bradford Dillman's portrayal of the glory hungry Major really stood out, as did E.G Marshall's. The relatively unknown actors in smaller roles as the GIs were great. Fritz Ford turned in a rigid, but abrupt portrayal of Colonel Dent. The action sequences boast mind blowing special effects. I have always been awestruck by the genuine life size buildings exploding and crashing to the ground during the streetfighting scenes. Yes, these are actual buildings being destroyed, not scale models!. The sights and sounds of ricocheting bullets during the battle on the bridge were impressively realistic. The film's combat scenes are sharp, riotous and taut!. The tank attack on the town itself was both tight and exhilarating. The attack on the bridge was rollicking too, with the director multiplying the suspense tenfold as the Germans frantically struggle to blow the bridge up in the midst of the fighting!. The air attack on the bridge was also spectacular and the opening battle between an American tank column and the German bridge fortifications was awesome. The action scenes succeed fully in driving home the true destructiveness of war.The batch of war movies made by United Artists in the 60s and 70s are grossly underrated and immensely enjoyable. THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN is no exception. A real Boys Own adventure packed with superior performances, masterful action and rugged tension. 10/10. "}{"Title":"The Amazing Story of March 7, 1945.","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The Bridge at Remagen is directed by John Guillermin and collectively adapted to screenplay by William Roberts, Richard Yates and Roger O. Hirson from the book The Bridge at Remagen The Amazing Story of March 7, 1945. It stars George Segal, Robert Vaughn, Ben Gazzara, Bradford Dillman and E.G. Marshall. A Panavision/ De Luxe Color production, music is by Elmer Bernstein and cinematography by Stanley Cortez.Film is a fictionalised account of the battle for control of The Ludendorff Bridge over the Rhine during the tail end of World War II.A war film that's rich with action and no little intelligence as it views the battle equally from both sides of the warring factions. The bridge is crucial to the war effort to both sides, but for different reasons, here the narrative is a little complex so total investment in the dialogue is strongly recommended. The characterisations are high quality, even if the war is hell weariness of the American soldiers had been done many times before in other notable war movies. Guillermin thrusts the psychologically hurt soldiers into desperate combat situations, from which we the viewers indulge in seeing the survival of the fittest. A sweeping score from Bernstein, gritty looking photography by Cortez, and a cast giving good turns, rounds this out as a thoroughly enjoyable World War II picture. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Unique Perspectives for the Era...","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Captivating cinematography with good digital transfer, strong cast, excellent acting, & tight script under able direction, all highlight 'The Bridge at Remagen' ('TBaR', 1969). Filmed in Czechoslovakia & Hamburg, Germany (the Ludendorf bridge over the Rhine at Remagen was under too much river traffic to be safely used), 'TBaR' is a gripping fictionalized account (dramatized & inaccurate) of the historical capturing of the Ludendorf bridge & full of intrigue & action. It has been documented that an American officer ('Lt Hartman' in the film) had grown up near Remagen and pushed for securing this particular bridge, while upper brass incorrectly believed no major roads existed in Remagen that would help the Allied march into Germany. In reality, the Ludendorf was taken without casualties (severe casualties were suffered in its defense). 'TBaR' is bested for grit & realism by later productions of 'Big Red One' (1980) & 'Saving Private Ryan' (1998), but 'TBaR' provides Allied & Axis perspectives, while touching on psychological & emotional toil that battle had on both combatants & civilians. Consistently suspenseful & dramatic throughout, 'TBaR' doesn't attempt to skirt fear & tension associated with war, & furthermore provides interesting views on WWII era military organizational structure without glorifying war. 'TBaR' isn't without editing & continuity flaws (overuse of same extras, boom mic appearance, Korean War-era armor, etc.); however, this film does successfully provide a strong narrative that addresses the various reasons that bridges became vital to both sides as Allies approached German soil. For similar themes consider 'Bridge Too Far' (1977); 'The Longest Day' (1962); 'Kelly's Heroes' (1970); & 'Devil's Brigade' (1968). Also consider 'Iron Cross' (1977); 'Battle of the Bulge' (1965); 'I Was Nineteen' (1968); 'Guns of Navarone' (1961); 'Ballad of a Soldier' (1959); 'Walk in the Sun' (1945); 'The Dawns Here Are Quiet' (1972); & 'Anzio' (1968). "},{"Title":"The Bridge at Remagen is under-rated classic WWII film","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Based on a famous and true incident near the end of World War II, The Bridge at Remagen is an under-rated film and was certainly under-appreciated upon its release in 1969. Maybe that's because back then the US public was a bit tired of war films, in general, and Vietnam was getting on everyone's nerves. That said, The Bridge at Remagen, directed by competent veteran John Guillermin, is one of the more riveting and realistic films of its genre and deserves a reappraisal.The plot hinges on events leading up to the Allies' first excursion onto German soil. The bridge of the title is the only one still intact crossing the Rhine into Germany and Hitler has decided to destroy it as soon as possible. In command of the operation is Major Kruger (an excellent Robert Vaughn) who does his best to obey Der Fuhrer's orders with limited resources and a hostile local German population. It seems everyone wants to get across the bridge before the Americans hit town, and Kruger and his second-in-command (Hans Christian Blech) try to accommodate them before it's too late. On the American side is Lt. Hartmann (George Segal at his cynical best), a junior officer who's just trying to get back to the States alive and take some of his battered troops with him. Getting in his way is his immediate commander (Brad Dillman) who's hell bent on winning some needless battles to fill out his post-war resume. Ben Gazzara is also along as a first-class looter and souvenir hunter whose main job seems to be to irritate his boss (Segal) to the Nth degree. Their simmering feud keeps the movie going at a fast pace. Vaughn's Major Kruger has similar problems with the German High Command, but with far greater consequences.The Bridge at Remagen was considered run-of-the-mill standard WWII fare upon its initial release but has grown in stature with most critics and audiences. The all-star cast shines, particularly Vaughn and Segal, and their performances here rank with their best work. Vaughn's disillusioned officer has the best line when he has to face a firing squad for merely doing his job. When some fighter planes buzz overhead, he asks the officer in charge of his execution, Ours or theirs? The officer quickly responds by telling him they are enemy planes.But who is the enemy? counters Vaughn. "},{"Title":"Henry and Kristl took the Bridge at Remagen","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Once more over the bridge, my dear friends. Henry waved a stick around and was wearing a bucket for a helmet. Kristl had noted that this bucket was quite versatile as it functioned as helmet from any time period and place and universe, including ancient roman times, fantasy worlds like Lord of the Rings and Star Wars. Sometimes Henry would add something to make it fit the mood. Like adding a plume to it to signify it being a knights helmet. However today the bucket was sprayed over for the occasion with army green and was a Second World War helmet. It would function like that for some days to come.I thought that it was Shakespeare who had some king say that. Kristl mused.I made it up, although it was inspired by Shakespeare. King Henry the Fifth said something like, once more unto the breach, my dear friends..Shakespeare.. I never took you much for a lover of the arts.I saw the movie.Ah..So over the bridge, my dear friends. Henry waved his hand.Yes?And they took it. Right up the fritzes asses.Uhm..Lucky for them. I think they tried to blow it up. It must have been painful to push a plunger and nothing happens. Or it went boom but not boom enough. Like in the movie. Here is an interesting notion. Should a movie about the historical taking of a bridge be historically accurate or not?What do you mean. Was the movie not historically correct?Not everything. I read that the movie actions displayed in the movie were not although the background was http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remagen#The_capture_of_the_bridgeWadda you know. The whole fighting was made up.More or less.But it was an exciting movie. A bit cynical. Very sixties and seventies. It reminded me a bit of Kelly's Heroes, but more serious.I think Vietnam was already having an effect. Like it shows the enemy, Germans, as normal people. In fact this is something I haven't seen for a while. I recall the Longest Day and Bridge too Far being the same way. And of course Gettysburg, but that is probably because the opponents were American. So here Germans are not crazy creeps that shave their heads bald and seem to take pleasure from killing other people by stabbing them to death slowly.. These are normal people; just opponents. Of course such movies are very disturbing, for what is a movie without a proper loathsome enemy?Well, it makes it less justified to kill them. It is less troubling to kill someone when he deserves it.There is even this scene where Gazarra kills that German boy who is shooting at them. When Gazarra finds out it is a boy he killed, Segal tells him to plunder the corpse another day. assuming Gazarra is again robbing the dead for souvenirs. Sort of war is not fun idea.Hmm.. I rather have them as heroes, then as these disgruntled figures. Henry frowned.You know. I always find that typical Hollywood or even American. The idea that the enemy has to be loathsome so we don't feel bad when we kill them. I realize now that it's not typical for Hollywood or America to do so. Many nations cast their enemies into the role of despicable repulsive beings. I recall an Indonesian movie where the Dutch are cast in the roles of dumb greedy foreign oppressors. An interesting aspect is how these roles change over time.. In the old days for instance Arabians were cast in the role of noble warriors, remember Lawrence of Arabia? The Turks were the enemy, so they were revolting individuals. I think there is even one scene where Turks rape Lawrence.. or at least it is suggested. Now the roles are probably reversed.Well.. in the end it has to be an exciting movie. Where people fight each other and the good side wins.Even if it is all silly and unhistorical. Kristl said.The problem with most people is that they take movies far too serious. They start to think that the nonsense that is seen is the truth. Henry said, My rule is simple. Whatever is on a screen, big or small, is entertainment or opinion and therefore not true. Let is just be good at entertaining for it will never be good at telling the truth.The power of imagery. One false image says more than thousand lines of historically documented, investigated and checked information. Historians must be pulling their hairs when they see nonsense become fact, because history has become democratic. When the majority believes something to be the truth.. it becomes the truth because wikipedia makes it the truth. Kristl said.Whatever.. I like this movie. It had some guys bickering with each other, but finally working together to capture the bridge.Well, I find the matter of fact almost cynical attitude better than the hopelessly over romanticized mood displayed in..... Kristl mumbled. Henry put a hand on her mouth thus stopping the last words and then he put an outstretched finger on his lips, We will not compare this one to another one. Henry said. Kapish?Kristl shook her head in acknowledgment "},{"Title":"What's Left","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" Just watched the DVD that my wife bought for my birthday (back in March!), first time since I saw it in the cinema, I think I was even more impressed this time. Robert Vaughan made a good German, I thought. If you have Google Earth, in the 2003 shot you can see two dark lines in the water to the right of the line of the original bridge - presumably remains of the anchorage of the pontoon bridge. Do my eyes deceive me or was the Czech location almost an exact substitute for Remagen! There were a few bloopers on the railway side, the steam engine on the hospital train had a post-war modification to the chimney and by the time it crossed the bridge it had morphed into a comletely different type!Cheers, Pip. "},{"Title":"A bad idea by Major Kruger","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" An enjoyable war film in which we see good and bad soldiers on both sides. The scene at the end when Major Kruger is shot is particularly poignant. I can't understand Kruger's motives in not blowing the bridge at the earliest possible opportunity. He was not saving any German lives by keeping it intact. If the bridge had have been blown, it would have trapped tens of thousands of German soldiers on the wrong side of the Rhine. However I expect that they would have welcomed the opportunity to surrender to the Allies and save their lives. If they had managed to cross the bridge it would have made no difference to the outcome of the war and more soldiers would have been killed on both sides. In real life, the Allies bridged the Rhine in other areas anyway. "},{"Title":"The Best WW2 Movie","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I saw this movie years ago on TV and loved every minute of it. Most war movies today have loads of well known actors that seem to focus on themselves rather than the actual storyline. But This movie is different it focuses completely on the actual history. Came across it on DVD just today and snatched it up immediately. It has everything - great acting, top visual effects, storyline and above all, in my opinion what sets every movie off is the music, it has a great track that when watching the action and listening to the music, just places you right there in the middle of the action. When the action starts it does not end till the story is finished. I would liked to have to seen the movie made longer but thats just because it grabs hold of you. "},{"Title":"Well done movie, factual errors are not disturbing","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  I watched this movie tonight, it finally got aired. I waited a long time to see it, for the actual historical fighting for this bridge intrigued me. The general idea of the historical action is well captured, very well indeed! Also the kind of war one had to fight during that time is captured well. No big time assaults on heavily defended beaches. Instead a disorganized German defence, unclear lines of command, missing explosives, units at 10% of their nominal strength, etc.There *are* factual errors. The river isn't the Rhine, though it gives a decent impression. The bridge was larger and it was a two-track railway that ran over it. But because of the alltogether decent picture of the situation, these errors do not disturb at all. They could have used M4 Shermans instead of Persing tanks though... "},{"Title":"Little Known Tale Impressive on Large Screen","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" I saw this film when it was released. It is based upon a little known incident where the Allies needed to capture this bridge to cross the Rhine river. It was important as it shortened the war and made sure there was a West Germany after it. Without this victory, the Russians might have met us at the Rhine instead of the river Elbe.The film has a mature rating because of a little female nudity in one sequence early on in the film. The sequence could be removed to make this a PG sequence & no one would notice.Robert Vaughn does a good portrayal of a Nazi Commander in charge of blowing up the bridge. Because he fails, at the end of the movie he is executed by a firing squad. Hitler really did do this late in the war. Not sure how much actual history is true of Vaughns character though. This film was based upon the book, which I read. The combat is accurately portrayed. Bravo to the movie makers, if you like WW2 combat films, this one is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Based on a true story on the taking of the only bridge left intact by the Germans as Allies rushed into the German heartland.","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This is a great movie to watch at full volume on New Year's Eve or if you want to irritate a cranky neighbor. The amount of ordnance expended to make this film must have been prodigious. I liked the acting of Ben Gazarra best.One wonders, however, why a Wermacht major (Robert Vaughn) would be wearing Ray Ban aviator sunglasses. Assuming that he got the cool shades as a trophy from a downed American pilot, were Ray Bans already in production then? Why was he always wearing a leatherette-looking greatcoat while other officers were not? Were the aviator sunglasses and the imitation leather greatcoat supposed to help his persona as a German officer? The tanks were anachronistic in the sense that they were not WWII Shermans but circa Korean War (1950-53). But what the hey, the battle scenes were great and suitably noisy. By the way, Hitler did order the shooting of three Wermacht officers for failing to blow up the Ludendorf bridge at Remagen. Although not mentioned in the movie, a documentary with Gen. Eisenhower himself as a resource person, reveals that the bridge finally collapsed after bombings by the Luftwaffe and interdiction by V-2 rockets but not after thousands of Allied troops and their equipment had rushed through it on their way to Berlin. "}{"Title":"Want a soldier's view?","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" For whatever it's worth... I picked this movie up at the Sunday movie bazaar (run by local nationals here at Camp Liberty). I love older war movies, campy and jingoistic as they sometimes are. I love newer war movies, cynical and self-abusive as they sometimes are. But I just can't like a movie in which the unit portrayed is as patently self-destructive and dysfunctional as the one in this movie! A losing army might behave this way.Trust me, I've seen all the clichés enacted in real life. Incompetent commanders, cynical and self-serving subordinates, criminals in the ranks, soldiers crippled by internal conflict, the whole lot. But never have I seen a unit which could tear itself apart internally while still accomplishing its mission. If you're looking for a revealing film about how men behave in warfare, don't get this one.I was extremely disappointed. I had hoped for a slightly-dramatized version of the real thing (I found and read a 1946 'carboard cover' edition of 'The Bridge at Remagen' in 1980 or so, who knows where it had camped out all those years), but what I got was incredible (literally 'not-credible') garbage. "},{"Title":"Are Robbing Corpses One Of The Harsh Realities Of War?","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" If you really enjoy a brutally violent and highly-explosive WW2 drama where, once again, the Americans get the sweet, privileged opportunity to kick some serious Nazi-ass, then 1969's The Bridge At Remagen is sure to deliver the goods, even if it is done across enemy lines.Set in Germany, along the Rhine River, this action-packed war picture certainly contained plenty of first-rate special effects, as well as some dynamite-charged battle sequences.With its all-star cast, headlined by George Segal, Ben Gazzara and Robert Vaughn, The Bridge At Remagen was a very liberal re-telling of actual events that took place in 1945 when the Allies made a final advance into Germany territory in order to gain control of the one, last bridge still standing on the Rhine which remained in Nazi hands.Filmed in glorious living-colour, this picture had a running time of 117 minutes.Note There's one very unpleasant scene in this film where an American officer is found to be robbing the corpses of the German soldiers. And, when finally caught, it was his self-righteous answer to his questionable actions that I found to be very callous and disturbing. "},{"Title":"All About The Bridge.","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" John Guillermin directed this World War II tale set in its last days, as Allied forces are trying desperately to gather its forces in order to cross a bridgehead into Germany, where they can finish off Nazi forces entrenched there. Robert Vaughn plays a Nazi general in charge of preventing this from happening, so he is ordered to blow up the last bridge leading from the Rhine, which would trap their own forces on the wrong side, but will have to be done if they have any chance to save the Third Reich. Ben Gazzara and George Segal play American soldiers trying to keep the bridge open.Mediocre film has a good premise but is utterly undistinguished; there is just little about it that is memorable, despite some good action scenes. "},{"Title":"The Very Definition of Ordinary.","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This could have been interesting -- and the film has its moments -- but as it stands it's pretty dull in most respects and positively poor in others. I must say this despite the fact that John Guillerman was my director in the fabulous and much underrated art house classic, King Kong Lives. (The public loathed it but the critics went ape.) I don't know where to begin. All the expectable stuff is here -- the sound effects are those you've heard a thousand times in other war movies. The M-1 rifles don't make sounds like CRACK or POP as they do in the real world. They sound like sneezes or like some grotesquely distorted version of the word cashew. The acting is below par, and based on familiar types the battle-weary lieutenant, the greedy impudent sergeant, the ambitious green officer who keeps talking about decorations. You want to know what the director thinks of your intelligence? When we first see Segal he's shaving -- and he's not looking at himself in the mirror but at an angle, at the camera, so we see his full face. Even some five-year-olds must be jarred by that.George Segal slouches around and makes expressions once in a while. But he slouches, not as if he's exhausted, but as if he's being casual and informal, as if he were in a Las Vegas lounge. Ben Gazzara is miscast. He's good at roles in which he's quiet, thoughtful, and guarded. But here his character hides absolutely nothing, because there's nothing there. Bradford Dillman has been okay elsewhere, as in Compulsion, but his self-aggrandizing major is so overdrawn that nobody could fill the demands of the role.Worst of all is Robert Vaughan. He was just right as the slime ball politician in Bullitt. The reason he was right in that film and wrong in this one is his voice. The guy has the sharpest sibilants known to man or beast. He doesn't lisp but the poor guy's s ends in a high-pitched whistle and the terminal contour is still going up as it exceeds human hearing. For all we know, bats may love it. I don't mean to make fun of him, because that voice can be nicely joined to certain roles, only not this one -- a determined, principled, brave, humane, guilt-ridden German officer. In fact, he and Guillerman have given us the movie's best scene Vaughan's execution, which he accepts with dignified aplomb while staring distractedly at some airplanes passing overhead. Nothing is made of the scene but it's quietly effective.The story leaves out the context. The British Field Marshall Montgomery was trying to force a crossing of the Rhine about fifty miles to the north and the Americans were determined to beat him. Both attempts succeeded. The wider story, with its political and national implications, is missing. It wasn't missing in The Longest Day or Patton. At any rate, this is strictly a formulaic and routine effort. Not as abyssal as, say, Anzio or The Battle of the Bulge, but still only barely clearing the bar as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Good antiwar movie toward the beginning of the peace movement","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" we have ordinary men (and a few central officers who retain some deeper moral sensibilities) realizing they're basically being screwed by their higher-echelon military commanders. The grunts actually respect the captains and lieutenants who join them in the field, but these field leaders are in a quandary. In the 1969 film Remagen, on the American side, Lt. Phil Hartman (George Segal) knows his immediate superior Major Barnes (Bradford Dillman) is a gutless wonder who won't tell his superior Brigadier General Shiner (E.G. Marshall) the reality of things&#151;i.e. how tired the men are, how silly or dangerous the plan is. So Harman's job is to thread the line between following orders and caring for his men....For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2009 "},{"Title":"Preposterous screenplay","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" The Bridge At Remagen contains some of the most preposterous war time screenplay I've ever seen. Aside from the acting, which is wooden, no tank commander attacks with his tanks parked in nice neat rows, up the middle of roads, and with troops bunched all together with their arms not at the ready. The constant suicidal behavior set off my tilt switch so often I found it impossible to enjoy the movie. Apparently the screen writers and director have never been through actual warfare and never bothered to bring in an expert who had. This movie is the very antithesis of the excellent detail in Saving Private Ryan. Unless you are under 7 years old, I recommend watching something else.GB "},{"Title":"will satisfy boys who go kak-kak-kakwhilst pretending to fire machine guns","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" With the news still ringing in my ears that Mr R.Vaughn has accepted a role in Coronation Street I have been thinking about what is my favourite of his movie performances,and,in a tie with The Magnificent Seven,I have come up with The bridge at Remagen. The Victors years earlier showed that allied troops weren't all angels and although Bridge is not in that class,it does give a portrait more realistic than some of the soldiers' less endearing traits. Mr Vaughan plays a German officer whose orders are to destroy the eponymous bridge to prevent the Americans capturing it.But in a rare bout of Teutonic humanitarianism he declines to do so on the grounds that it is the escape route for the town's civilians,thus allowing the Yanks a foothold.Much in the way they vilified the German General who surrendered Paris rather than see it destroyed the Nazi leadership executes Mr Vaughan for his trouble.Ach so.... With a body count not far behind Where eagles dare,the movie will satisfy bloodthirsty boys who go kak-kak-kak-kak-kakwhilst pretending to fire machine guns. "},{"Title":"Explosive encounter near the end of WW2.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a well-acted, fictionalized and familiar story line war drama. A group of Allies defend the last remaining bridge on the Rhine. For some reason the Nazis command wants to blow up the bridge trapping their own forces. Plenty of explosions highlight this decent depiction of WW2.All-star cast includes George Segal, Ben Gazzara, E.G. Marshall, Bradford Dillman, Bo Hopkins, Sonja Ziemann and Robert Vaughn. "},{"Title":"The man from UNCLE fails to convince!","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, War","Review":" This is an annoying film as the war scenes are badly let down by everything else including poor acting. None of the players look like they have been within a thousand miles of warfare and in fact most would likely run the other way.Having the Germans speaking English is another major fault and Robert Vaughn is the worst offender who tries to convince us he is a German and that is a total joke as he looks 100% American. I lasted about an hour before turning off this nonsense. Some spectacular action and scenery gets this an extra mark from me but still a lowly2/10 "}]