[{"Title":"Visually Splendid--But Extremely Problematic","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"75 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" If one rates a film on visuals alone, Fellini's SATYRICON would surely be completely off the scale a phantasmagorical mixture of sensual beauty and the distasteful but evocative grotesque set in an ancient Rome that never was, never could have been, and yet which plays up to every extreme concept we secretly harbor about Roman decadence. The leading men are incredibly beautiful; the women are generally seductively depraved; and the broad vision that Fellini offers is easily one of the visually stunning creations ever put to film.And yet, oddly, the film is sterile. The story is impossible to describe, a series of largely unrelated events in the lives of two impossibly handsome youths (Martin Potter and Hiram Keller) who begin the film by battling over the sexual favors of a slave boy (Max Born) who alternately unites and divides them until all three find themselves sold into slavery and flung from adventure to adventure, most often with sexual (and frequently homosexual) connotations. Clearly, Fellini is making a statement about the triviality and emptiness of a life lived for physical pleasures alone.But the film is jumpy, disjointed, disconnected; the sequences do not always arise from each other in any consistent way, leaving viewers with a sort of what the ... reaction when the film unexpectedly shifts without explanation. (This is actually in keeping with the original ancient text, of which only portions remain.) In consequence, SATYRICON is ultimately less about any philosophical statement Fellini may have had in mind than it is about sheer pictorial splendor and deliberate weirdness.Whatever its failings, it is an astonishing film, and one that would have tremendous influence on a host of directors who followed in Fellini's wake--although all to often without his style and vision. Clearly Pasolini, director of such works as SALO, ARABIAN NIGHTS, and CANTERBURY TALES spent the better part of his largely unlamented life trying to out-Fellini Fellini; likewise, it is impossible to imagine how Tinto Brass and Bob Guccione arrived at the notorious CALIGULA without reference to Fellini's SATYRICON.Such efforts to expand on SATYRICON were merely more explicit and less interesting than the original, and I do not really recommend them--nor do I really recommend SATYRICON for any one other than Fellini fans, for with its oddly disjointed feel it is unlikely to please those raised on mainstream. Still, it is a powerful, remarkably beautiful, and completely unexpected film that must be seen at least once by any one with a serious interest in world cinema, and to those I recommend it without hesitation.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"In some ways very close to the book.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"74 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" ...and because I had read Satyricon before I saw it I probably was less baffled by the movie than most people.  Very little survives of the content of original story, a few longish bits and lots tiny fragments, sometimes as short as a sentence or a word.  All disconnected from each... ...ning and end of Petronius' novel are missing, what we have left suddenly starts in the middle without any background or prelude.  And each of the surviving bits is the same way, giving few, if any hints, of how our heroes got there from their last adventure, or how their current one will be resolved.  Or even what their current crisis is.  We can onl... ...bother making a film of from such a fragmentary source?  Because Petronius is wickedly funny and has a gifted insight into human... ...participant in the decadence and depravity, yet judging and commenting on it at the... ...2000 years been read and translated... ...amorallity, but social standards always... ...Fellini captures the spirit not only of Imperial Rome but of... ...doesn't make sense, so like you do in the original, you have to extrapolate based on... ...satiric, sardonic, and visually stunning... ...enjoy... "},{"Title":"Fellini at his strangest and I like strange!!!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"42 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" It was well known that in the late 60's, famed Italian director Federico Fellini experiment with LSD. That's why Juliet of the Spirits was so bizarre and colorful. But the 1969 head trip Fellini Satyricon was even stranger than previous Fellini films. Loosely based on the novel by Petronius, the beginning of the story concerns two men in the B.C. Roman era fighting over the love of one boy. Later they have many strange and colorful misadventures. This film may be to bizarre for some; with its grotesque images, a mild orgy, dwarfs and even a hermaphrodite goddess. The set pieces are out of this world. It's like being caught in a two hour dream. Many times I had no idea what was going on, but that didn't bother me. Satyricon is a visual decadent head trip of color. Fellini considered this film a sci-fi of the past. I consider Fellini a genius; he's designed a film that makes a great substitute for drugs. If you enjoy Fellini Satyricon you should also watch Vera Chytilova's Daisies (1966), Alejandro Jodorowsky's The Holy Mountain (1973), Guy Maddin's Careful (1992) and Tsui Hark's Green Snake. All of these film contain bright colors and surreal images. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"This is probably Fellini's most visually engaging film, and is without a doubt one of the masterpieces of film art&#133;","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Fellini engages us through a tapestry of decadence during the Roman Empire with such stunning juxtapositions of exceptional images from a collapsing society that one cannot help but be reminded of our own times and its disconcert morality&#133; The film is freely adapted from Petronius' book, which is the exploits of two young Romans, Ascilto and Encolpio, as they venture throughout the empire, indulging in both heterosexual and homosexual relationships&#133; In the course of this proliferation of sensuality, Ascilto becomes impotent and madly goes for a cure which ends in tragedy for Encolpio&#133; The movie's treatment of the sexual decadence is remarkably powerful without being explicit&#133; In fact, in light of the mental images it presents, it actually puts on view very little on screen&#133; But there is a great quantity of mysterious whores, hedonists, gluttons, and gross indulgence in carnal pleasure&#133; In the midst of this chaos, however, there is a beautifully light reprieve as the young Romans come across a forsaken villa... A very charming slave girl has remained behind, and she playfully troubles the two men into an erotic game&#133; Apart from that, the sex is portrayed as bizarre, tempting, suggestive of hidden secrets, violating the rules of morality, and going beyond the limit&#133; "},{"Title":"Ahem...","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"52 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Satyricon is among the weirdest and most colorful, larger-than-life movies I've ever seen, along with Erasurehead, Erendira, Santa sangre, Naked lunch... If you don't like these, don't even try Satyricon.On one hand, its many flaws are rather upsetting. The out-of-sync lipping (bad post-sync), the fact that the movie neither really tells a story nor evocates sensible moral or philosophical concepts... so one may say it's actually a dull movie. The violence in this movie doesn't seem to make real sense, neither does the homosexuality, neither does the romanian decadence portrait.On the other hand, the scenography, the sets, the costumes and makup are among the most dazzling ones you'll ever see in cinema, and the cinematography... well... maybe the BEST one you'll ever see. I can't think of any another movie able to compete with Satyricon's mindblowing cinematography. Each scene is a terrific picture, with several visual layers, extraordinary lights and focuses, a lot of invention, of visual flair, and the overall technical mastery is stunning.The result is something mesmerizing for some, totally disgusting for others. I have to say I'm more on the mesmerized side, because I was mainly focused on the visual/meditative aspects of the movie, not on the narrative ones.If you're really into cinema, I mean as an artistic media more than as entertainment, you MUST see Satyricon, as it's to my sense the most *visually* outstanding movie ever made. Be prepared for some disappointment about the movie as a whole, though... "},{"Title":"A pagan offering from a master craftsman","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Fellini called his Satyricon a science fiction film projected into the past. His expressive portrait of ancient Rome is a richly ornamented fresco of contrasts; variations within a select kaleidoscope of opposites related to the sacred, the pure, the just, and the beautiful.Reportedly a free adaptation of the now fragmentary writings of Petronius, the film also makes fleeting references to various scattered works and myths of antiquity. Even the language is a blend of various dialects and accents, effectively brewed together into a type of primordial soup.The film features a young man named Encolpio and his sometime friend Ascilto; both of whom seem to prefer participatory experience as a means to finding meaning in life while primarily disregarding status, power and possessions. Contrasting some of the film's more serene scenes with those of unrest and discord, patterns supportive of a life lived from a similar experiential perspective begin to emerge. Some examples are as follows During the Death to the Classics scene, the poet Eumolpo says that the arts have declined because the desire for virtue has been lost. Dialectical discussion and philosophy have been replaced with drinking, vice and monetary greed, thus preventing further creation of works of art at the same pinnacle of excellence as the classics.Later when Eumolpo and Encolpio recline in the open field encased in an early morning mist, the elderly poet bequeaths to Encolpio a series of natural phenomena; among them mountains, rivers, clouds, love, tears, joy, sound, song and the voices of man...During the Matron of Ephesus scene, a young woman mourning her deceased husband by starving to death in a cave has her chalk white face returned to its natural radiance after accepting the embrace of a handsome soldier. The moral being ...better to hang a 'dead' husband than to lose a 'living' lover...A politically doomed and suicidal married couple free their slaves whereupon a reference is made to the sacred earth. Their children are sent away to a place free from tyranny which will be beautiful. Later, Encolpio and Ascilto arrive at the couple's elegant home and enjoy a night of revelry during which Encolpio quotes the poet as having said ...as for me I have always lived to enjoy the present moment as if it were the last sunrise...The tale of the beautiful Enotea and her subsequent punishment after she tricked the wizard who had professed his love for her seems to be a warning to remain true to expressions of affection.Following what appears to be his final corruption after having abandoned his idealistic philosophy, Eumolpo proposes an interesting last will and testament. Those wishing to inherit a part of his worldly fortune are asked to devour his remains. Reflecting the hippie generation's symbolic scorn of rampant materialism during the shooting of this film, Encolpio and his friends smile and turn away, heading onward toward a new adventure.The scenes of discord in the film appear to reflect issues related to social and political methods of enforced control over others. For example, during the banquet of Trimalcione, his sycophants eat, laugh, chant, dance, perform and throw objects on cue. While a captive at sea, Encolpio is made an object of entertainment for the pirate Lica. Later he is forced to battle a huge minotaur' for the entertainment of a proconsul and his puppet court during the gladiator prank sequence.Fellini makes strong use of colour symbolism in Satyricon. The film opens in what appears to be a large Roman steam bath. There is the occasional sound of water dripping, and in Encolpio's tenement a seemingly wealthy group of party goers arrive on a small boat in the water, perhaps ready to go slumming with the poor. There is also a bluish tint to many of these early scenes as if they were being viewed through water. Later, during Trimalcione's feast, a flame red lens filter appears to overshadow the initial candle lit display giving the impression of an envelopment of fire. During the outdoor scenes on Lica's boat, the sound of the wind is recurrent and a blitz of snow appears providing a possible reference to the air element. Near the end of the film, Encolpio enters a maze by sliding in the dirt down a hillside. Following his battle with the minotaur, a dust storm blows as he attempts to make love with Arianna. Later, when he visits the elderly Enotea, she lets dirt fall from her clenched fists as if giving a silent reference to the earth element.There are also many references to the supernatural and paranormal. Eyes stare into the camera as if to give reference to phantoms from antiquity looking at those presently alive as if to question. While Encolpio and Eumolpo have their discussion in the art gallery, a two tiered galley of soundless faces inexplicably passes by like unknown entities observing the men's conversation through a hole in the wall. There is a curious space-like object on the deck of Lica's ship. In addition, a momentary glimpse of supernatural visionary lights appear during the abduction of the mystical hermaphrodite who subsequently dies after having been exposed to the light of day. The film also presents a recurring symbolism of carved and imprinted heads eventually given great emphasis with Lica's startling decapitation. Perhaps the question is, has society become too obsessed with the intellect at the expense of the heart and the inherent value of the individual person? Perhaps not so for Fellini, as the entire film is intensely alive with a glorious blend of color; each face, each person, in Fellini's words, serving as an integral part of his artwork on film.Finally, like the eternal wheel and his initial greeting, Encolpio's farewell is presented in front of a stone background and he is interrupted in mid sentence giving .... "},{"Title":"stunning images, but not everybody's cup of tea","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  This is by far not the best film I've ever seen, but it is probably the most important film I've ever seen.  I saw it for the first time when it came out in 69, when I was 16.  Before then, I was only marginally interested in films.  Something to while away the time.  And then I saw Satyricon.  And life has never been the same ever since.  All of a sudden I realised that film was more than simply recording images, all of a sudden it dawned on me that cinema could be art.  Now, maybe Satyricon isn't great art, but to me at that time it was overwhelming.  I'm sure other films have had this same catalytic effect on other people. Satyricon got me hooked on film, and I never looked back.  I saw the film again about 10 years ago.  I was amazed how it was still capable of exiting me.  In spite of its wooden acting, its cardboard backgrounds, the unsynchronized lip movements this is amazing movie magic. "},{"Title":"A sci-fi of the past, but also a brilliant, scathing social satire of contemporary society","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" The cinema of the silent and Fascist eras in Italy was characterised by epic movies with mostly mythology-inspired themes. Mussolini, who came into power in 1922, the founder of Cinecittà, did not underestimate the importance of cinema as a means of communicating with the masses. Fellini notoriously called Giulietta Masina's titular character in Notti di Cabiria after the 1913 movie Cabiria by Giovanni Pastrone, a grand production with a visual flair not so dissimilar to Satyricon. Literally hundreds of characters parade in front of the camera in this visual orgy of a movie, evoking the memory of lost Kolossals, or gargantuan budget productions.Fellini's movie was only loosely inspired by its literary source, Petronius's Satyricon. The nominal plot follows two young Roman men, the blonde Encolpio and the brunette Ascilto, introduced as rivals in love for the coquettish, androgynous slave-boy Gitone. When the latter chooses to be with Ascilto, the spurned lover Encolpio becomes involved in a series of adventures, all narrated with a familiar (to Fellini lovers), non-linear narrative structure with temporal inconsistencies and dreamlike, sudden changes of setting and mood. Encolpio attends the decadent banquet of a former slave, Trimalcione, now filthy rich. Eumolpo, an impoverished poet whom Encolpio meets on the way there, despises the wealthy man, all the more so for being rich and for having the nerve to also call himself a poet. The faint-hearted may at this point find much to object to &#150; the lasciviousness with which the banquet guests eat, drink and act lustful with one another is anything but subtle. The Trimalcione sequences felt to me like a satirical commentary on the rise of the nouveau riche in 1960s Italy. A highlight of the banquet scene is the story that the host narrates. It tells of a young widow, an oasis of cinematic calm in among the strident cacophony of the rest of the movie.In a narrative passage which is reminiscent of the rhythm of dreams (typical of late Fellini, betraying his Jungian tendencies), Encolpio ends up captured by the pirate Lica, who takes him on board his ship. This is where the young buck meets Ascilto and Gitone again, also captives of the tyrant. At this point I was especially impressed with the extraordinary talent of Donati as a set designer. The ship wasn't built to look like a recognisable ship at all, but was rather like a symbol of one. Needless to say that no matter how abstract it was, you knew it was a ship, as its ship-like essence was all there! When Encolpio is beaten in a duel with Lica, he is forced to marry the pirate in a ceremony celebrated on the deck. But Lica is decapitated by some political rivals when a new Emperor takes over. Everything changes so that it can all stay the same is a cynical saying you still often hear in Italy. It refers to the fact that one greedy ruler will succeed another in a ruthless battle for power and privilege. That's when you realise Satyricon is a brilliant satire of modern society as well.Encolpio and Ascilto then wander into the aristocratic home of a husband and wife who've just freed their slaves and committed suicide through bleeding themselves to death (a symbol of the death of aristocracy while the nouveau riche are getting fat?). After a threesome with a slave-girl who was left behind in the dead couple's empty home, the two young men attend a sort of sanctuary where an old man exploits the alleged healing powers of a very sick-looking, ethereal hermaphrodite child. Worshippers, lepers, cripples and sick people of all descriptions flock to ask for favours off the allegedly divine hermaphrodite. If this isn't a dark, ruthless parody of the Catholic practice of worshipping saints' relics, I don't know what is!Subsequently captured by some soldiers, Encolpio is defeated by the Minotaur in his mythological labyrinth. The young man's life is spared when he literally talks the Minotaur out of slaying him, in a scene which is both post-modern and subtly comical. But a new humiliation is in store for Encolpio, which has him set off looking for the sorceress Enotea. Her story is told in flashback. Yet again, the prudish and faint of heart will not find the scenes of a cursed woman literally giving birth to fire through her vagina as their cup of tea! Though admittedly unsavoury, I also find such elements to be archetypically symbolic, and ultimately fascinating. After visiting Enotea, Encolpio witnesses the killing of his friend Ascilto. Desperately upset, Encolpio decides to set sail for Africa on a merchant ship owned by the once-poor and bitter old poet Eumolpo, now as filthy rich and decadent as Trimalcione, whom he had once criticised for his parvenu vulgarity. When the old poet dies, he leaves a testament stating that whoever will eat his corpse will have a share of his wealth - basically, inheritance by cannibalism! Encolpio refuses the deal, while a group of greedy Roman dignitaries are shown chewing on what must obviously be the dead poet's tough old flesh, looking like so many fat cows chewing on their cuds. If a satire of a stagnant and greedy society was ever more potent and cutting than this, I would really like to hear about it! Fellini himself defined this movie as being Science fiction of the past. The movie's complete and intentional artifice, its occasionally obscure symbolism and gallery of grotesque portraits and strident soundtrack may not be everyone's thing. What is especially unsettling about Satyricon is that the viewer is led into a realm in which you have no idea what boundaries might be crossed. That's exactly why this is a perfect portrayal of an epoch of complete moral decadence - it drags the viewer into the exact same realm of uncertainty that the characters experience. "},{"Title":"Phantasmagorical brilliance","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" There's not much of a story in SATYRICON we follow the disjointed adventures of two young men during decadent ancient Rome. What follows though is pure visual brilliance. The film reminded me a lot of psychedelic European comic books of the late 1960s and 1970s. I saw this Fellini film on TV, in pan and scan, and even though SATYRICON has to be seen on widescreen format, the cropped version was still mighty impressive to look at. But to experience the complete visual splendor of the film, widescreen is simply a must! The film did drag here and there (certainly with Fellini letting some vignettes last longer than they should) but overall, the cumulative effect of all the stories creates a unique visceral experience that's seldom seen, back then or since. My only critique with SATYRICON is that in the end, it feels more like some avant-guard experimental theater experience than an actual film. The set-pieces are so stagy that SATYRICON often looks like a filmed stage play. This doesn't make the film bad but its staginess detracts a bit from achieving the perfect surreal effect that only a true cinematic experience can recreate. I could not immerse myself 100% in it because the staginess kept reminding me that I was watching a film. Even Pauline Kael said SATYRICON felt like 2 hours of people walking along walls. That's a bit of an exaggeration but I agree with her point. The staginess (which I'm aware is part of the surreal effect Fellini wanted to create) keeps SATYRICON from being a definitive masterpiece.Even so, Fellini's SATYRICON is worth seeing for anyone who's into bawdy, surreal visual feasts. It's a one-of-a-kind experience. "},{"Title":"Fellinis take on classical myths and culture","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Permeated with hedonism and sexuality, highly theatrical, very bizarre and surrealist while still keeping it on the ground and making it more potent and little coherence storywise; its fragments of Petronius classic (which I haven't read) wrapped in Fellinis incredible imagination.Scenography, casting and settings are here of the absolutely highest order. Each frame is composed with the utmost care it seems, perhaps inspired by the same artworks found in the movie. Like the old Greeks this movie is made as true art in a non decadent manner contrasted with the decadent Rome we meet in the movie.There are so much depth to this movie its no use trying to cover them here, but one key theme is, I think, what was described as the flower of youth and the withering of it, that is Encolpio's youth.Highly recommended if you like a movie out of the ordinary, the images you see here will never be forgotten. "}{"Title":"8/10","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I think this is one of those key films for a director, that may not necessarily be his best, but is filled to the brim with his passions and obsessions -- or, the passions and obsessions he doesn't bring up in his other films. The fact that a major artist could direct something so homoerotic and so in-your-face makes me respect Fellini all the more. It's hard to tell what, exactly, the film is or is meant to be it's a satire and an honest costume drama, a sword-and-sandal epic, a fantasy, an attack on the senses and an art mockery, and a love story. It's also very sexy. Some of the scenes between Encolpio and Ascilto, both astonishingly beautiful men, are so erotic you can't believe this movie was accepted at the time. Obviously the movie is at first a gross-out masterpiece, a flaunting of Fellini grotesqueries, where there is boy-loving and boy-selling, decapitations, and farting. As a comedy, there's a great scene where Encolpio and Ascilto divide up their things, including the boy they use (who is much more feminine than boyish); as an epic there's a battle with a minotaur; as a romance there's a startling scene between the two men in bed with another women where one leans over to run his fingers through the other's hair; as an art satire there's the attack on poets who steal from others and claim it as their own; as a marriage comedy there's a scene where Encolpio marries an old man and is told he must give up his taste for young boys. (Encolpio resembles both Malcolm McDowell -- surely something thought of during the making of Caligula -- and a more mature Christopher Atkins in The Blue Lagoon.) It's also interesting to compare this depiction of Roman society with our current one, and see if Fellini's view of same-sexuality and decadence has any resonance today. I think the comedy of the film is overlooked, as well; the competition between Encolpio and Ascilto, their vanity, sexual appetites, and Encolpio's eventual impotence, is very mocking, but never mean-spirited. Whatever this is, it's a very strong vision, and on that score alone it's worth watching. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A free adaptation of Petronius","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Free is the word here in Fellini - Satyricon, adapted from the ancient book by Petronius that is considered to be the first novel ever written. However, only fragments remain, and Fellini made a wise choice in creating the film to move forward as the book does. The plot is told in episodes, where characters move from one scene to another without explanation, where things change and there really is no reason for anyone to do anything.Yet, in that sense, Fellini captured what Ancient Rome was all about. These people are morally and spiritually hopeless; they feel life is so short that there is no reason to attempt to have what would be considered a normal life, so essentially anything goes. This mostly explains the ideas of rampant sexuality, human sacrifices and bloody violence as entertainment. These are the underworld elements of a civilization on the brink of destruction from the inside out, where life is cheap.Despite this morbid subject, Fellini is able to create such a vivid and wild visual style, that it is arresting no matter what the actors are doing in the shot. His use of bright colors on sets and costumes creates a feeling of excitement and joy even if it is a disturbing sequence. I really cannot recommend anyone to watch it despite its cinematic beauty, but if you appreciate cinema as more than just entertainment perhaps it would be worth your time. I have heard this film called a masterpiece while others think its deplorable and depraved. It's actually both, but it is total Fellini. "},{"Title":"great film, but misunderstood","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" It seems like everyone on this message board missed a very important point about Satyricon It is based on a Book! So much of the weirdness is not Fellini's doing, but the author's! The book was written by Petronius, one of the Emperor Nero's courtiers in the 1st Century. The book is widely recognized by historians as a peek into the lives of lower class Romans, and the general social mores of the time. In addition, parts of the book were lost during the Middle Ages, so the sketchy, non linear storyline comes from the book, not Fellini! Besides being visually gorgeous, the film does a very good job of portraying how very different ancient Graeco-Roman society was from our own, and how sex in particular was not seen as shameful or in any way limited to a narrow idea of what's normal as it is in America today. Unlike recent Roman Period movies or shows - such as HBO's Rome - which are constantly trying to make the ancient world seem familiar and just like us. Fellini goes the other direction, and gives the other side of the coin - YES, the Romans were like us in many ways, but in other ways, they were also quite Alien, and UN-like modern Americans - VERY unlike. "},{"Title":"Something a wee bit different","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I've voted 8 out of 10 for Fellini Satyricon, but I can imagine that a few people may find that to be an overly indulgent grade. Actually, I know that a few people will feel that way -- I've shown it to several friends, and they all agree it looks beautiful and manages to amuse on numerous occasions. But they don't get much more out of it. That's too bad for them. Aaaw yeah.As Vincent Canby said in his review, from 1970 in the New York Times, 'Fellini Satyricon is its own justification'. This movie exists purely to engage on an aesthetic level. The surrealism, the carnival-of-life atmosphere, the monumental pageantry, the visual juxtaposition of beauty and ugliness, and the black humour are all the film possesses and are all it requires. I believe that Fellini's intention with this film was simply to entertain. And he was a master entertainer, no doubt.Don't expect much in the way of characterisation, of complex plot developments, or of nifty moral expression. This is a film that looks and sounds beautiful, and it manages to hold your interest (or mine anyway, I can't speak for everyone) for two brief hours by doing just that. Fellini = Godlike genius. "},{"Title":"A Dream like sequence that satisfies the subconscious","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  The opening sequence of this film mesmerizes as only a Fellini film can. In fact you are so intent on the back drop, it only hits you after the film is over that it was about (mostly) homosexuality.  This film is a visual poem that makes total sense only on that level.  When the final freeze (frieze) occurs, you feel as though you have awakened from a pleasant dream that made sense only in the fact that it was pleasant.Was this ancient Rome?  It may or may not have been, but Satyricon is certainly everything lacking from all other films about this ancient city which holds the modern fascination. "},{"Title":" Of all the loves in the world, why does it hurt to have  yours ","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" In the 1st century AD. a brilliant and witty writer named Patronius wrote a book called  Satyricon  and from it's inception, became widely popular. Unfortunately for us, the revealing book was said to have displeased the emperor Nero who was so envious of the author, he banned and ordered it destroyed. What was saved are only fragments of the original manuscript and thus director Federiico Fellini was hamstrung to complete the entire work. Consequently, the movie is seen in disjointed form. Nevertheless, what was crafted became a superb masterpiece of film. Despite the fragmentary approach, one needs only remember the decadence of ancient Rome, the times and it's many religious practices together with it's ruler and sloven people to understand the movie. The fragmented story is of two Roman youths Encolpio (Martin Potter) the romantic adventurer and his close friend Ascilto (Hiram Keller) the equally adventurous, opportunistic but morally corrupt companion. Together they share their travels, fortunes, possessions and a special love for their slave boy Gitone (Max Born) whom they have to extricate from a popular stage actor and his troupe. Fellini's illusionary film takes extreme literary license with their travels as they are invited to visit the very gluttonous rich, the inclement poor and the visually grotesque. Suffering earthquakes and enslavement they visit a pagan temple where they discover a rarity, the worship of a Hemaphrodite as a God-like deity whom they kidnap. Unfortunately the creature dies and they escape. Fearing the wrath of the worshipers they again travel abroad but soon find themselves in chains on a Roman slave ship which is then seized and boarded and finally they end up on an island where they are once again planning to embark on another adventure to search and rescue their lost slave-boy. Although incomplete like a puzzle, one must remember the director is working with only the remnants of the original work. This film or what there is of it, still remains an Italian Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Weird but authentic","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  This movie is truly mesmerizing and, like Petronius' original novel, on which it was based, it one of a kind. This film is has bizarre dialog, repulsive images, many freaks of nature, strange music, scenes that don't make sense, and yet at the same time, repeated viewings will show that it does make sense... simply because the moral of this story is that it doesn't make sense, and life can go in a thousand crazy directions, we're all like dice in the hands of fate. Other comments Having read the original work, I can say that this is a very interesting interpretation. While not strictly faithful to the book and while sort of splicing certain events together and introducing some new scenes, this movie is actually pretty close in spirit to the book and as such, as I said, unique and really able to constitute its own genre. Comedy? Tragedy? Farce? Epic? Acid trip? Who knows! "},{"Title":"Petronius and Fellini collaborate on a picaresque romp.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Fellini Satyricon is based on the first century novel by the Roman writer Petronius Arbiter, who was a sometime crony of the degenerate emperor Nero, and who was ultimately one of his numerous victims.  If any writer from this period is a perfect match-up for movie adaptation by Fellini, it is certainly Petronius.  The structure of the book is similar to the organization of many Fellini movies -- a series of somewhat loosely related stories woven around the adventures of a central character, who in this case is an attractive scoundrel, or, rather, two scoundrels. The movie itself features comedy of several varieties -- the simultaneous send-up of the hedonistic ex-slave Trimalchio's pretensions and of the hypocrisy of the philosopher who is one of his meal-grubbing guests; the loss of sexual prowess in front of a jeering crowd of onlookers; the attempt to steal a hermaphroditic god from his/her shrine; the escapes from death by the hand of Nero's grim sea-captain (who marries Encolpius in a homosexual sailor parody of a wedding ceremony) and from the Minotaur (who says, Today I have lost the contest but I have made a new friend).  And there is much more, often bizarre and always entertaining. The ambience of Rome and of various corners of the empire is depicted beautifully.  There are brief visual flashes  only marginally related to the story which are penetrating and lasting in their imagery (for instance, the Roman general leading a column of soldiers on a destructive march).  And the movie ends on a beautiful note -- the fading of Encolpius at a banquet into a wall mosaic that has lasted to the present day -- a symbol of the timelessness of humanity?  Perhaps, but by the way, Fellini has led us here by means of a very  special banquet, a cannibalistic feast on the corpse of a wealthy man who makes this ceremony a condition of sharing in the proceeds of his last will and testament.  After two thousand years the grimness is gone, but the beauty and humor remain.   "},{"Title":"This film is a work of genius and is well worth seeing again and again.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" The Satyricon was one of the most moving films I have ever seen. There was so much symbolism and so many undercurrents. I present a composite critique.Fellini's omissions and additions neither contradict nor violate, but further define the surviving fragments of the original Satyricon. He had the task of making a continuous work of art of a scarred, fragmented torso with its head and limbs chopped off. Some of Fellini's sources of what is not in Petronius are from Suetonius, Ovid, Tacitus, Juvenal and Propertius. One might liken his reconstructing to that of a paleontologist giving form to a few dozen fossil bones. He stated that his intention was not to show vice or corruption, but to give an unbiased look at a morally decaying world. The film prefigures both the world of Rome prior to Christianity and the post-Christian world presently lurching toward birth. The moral violence that punctuates the film prefigures the irrational savagery of our own age.Fillini rejects what has been written about the ancient world and sticks to what has been painted. The scenario synthesizes art, moving like music and spreading out like a suite of paintings, a catalog of images without character development, story, or drama. Dream-like images of anguish and obsessions demand great intellectual effort on the part of the viewer. His images are mesmerizing, like the waters of the Styx, and hallucinating like the canvases of Hieronymous Bosch. Painted flesh is brought to life and retains the sense of life on fragments amid the ruins.We are presented a vast living fresco of Roman decadence as a metaphor for present society and as an allegorical satire of where we may be trending. The film is a window and a mirror where we may see both past and present at the same time, a world without moral anchoring, a nightmare world, a decomposing body infested with vermin. It is a fable for our times, equating moral decadence with apocalypse. Fellini constructs it with fresco-like mastery.We are both fascinated and repelled. The young and the beautiful are as monstrous and impure as the old and the ugly. Fellini uses the grotesque to try to reclaim the viewers' lost sense of the mysterious, the transcendent and the holy. This grotesqueness zaps us into an encounter with another reality. Surrealistic elements dominate, pushing aside the human elements. Dissociations, or an alienated and incoherent simultaneity, are used to create the atmosphere of a dream. Fellini said that his film was the documentary of a dream. The dream is frightening, because it is endurable only through intense and irresponsible indulgence followed by interminable escape. The characters are exiles in a world that is both of their own creation and beyond their control.The film is heavy with Freudian symbolism. The over-painted fresco-like faces represent both the external masks of surface relationships and the masks that hide the darker impulses and compulsions that threaten to overwhelm and assume the identity of the ego. Fellini's film is a surrealistic vision of a hedonistic world where there is only the mask of the ego; there is no real ego to impose logic or reason, and no superego to impose ethics or morality. It is an id world that must inevitably consume its pawns, because it moves only on primitive drives, a world without innocence, purity, mutual commitments, restraints, or real love.As a theme, one might say that the story is about the sexual education of Encolpio set in the context of a morally declining world. He triumphs over his opponents via his physical beauty; a wish-fulfilling dream of the adolescent who, confronting a terrible and corrupt world, finds that he can wander through it relatively unscathed, thanks to his youth and beauty. He disarms his opponents with his surface aura of innocence and sexual attraction, which saves his life more than once, but it emasculates him in his own conscience, eventually rendering him impotent with women. Fellini's oversexed, devouring women are not mother figures or love figures but symbolically wish to castrate. Rather than objects of idealization for completing the inner merger of male and female elements of the psyche they are nightmarishly intent on emasculation. They can function only as copulatory devourers. However, the death of Ascilto, Encolpio's alter ego, symbolically represents the death of Encolpio's homosexual desires and self doubts, restoring him to manhood and erasing his impotence.Like the fragmented remains of Petronoius Arbiter's Satyricon, Fellini's film ends as an unfinished sentence. The characters are as if in a transfer pattern, frozen, plastered into separate decaying walls of broken masonry; it is our window to the world of Rome, but a world that mirrors a portent for the present and the future of our own world.This is a film well worth viewing again and again to uncover its symbolism and deeper facets. "},{"Title":"If ye be lost, ye not be the only one.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"   As far as plots go, movies differ. Some have obvious plots that have been done repeatedly in the history of film/literature culture. You know how the thing is going to end in the first five min. Others have plots that are there, but one has to watch the movie five times before understanding it all. Some do not have plots and everyone knows it, in which case it better have something else that is damn well done! Then comes along a movie, teetering on the thin line of questionable success where one can not tell whether there is a plot or not. If, while watching Satyricon you find yourself wandering whether it is going to wrap up finally into an understandable conclusion after which you can satisfactorily murmur `ahh yes, now I got it'. Well, in the end there is no such luck, sorry lads and lasses. Of the plot the one thing I could gather is that it is the journey of the main character who is searching for something, or some one? Very hard to figure out. It  starts out as a conflict between one Greek lad and another who both have unbegotton lust of a younger lad then themselves. The lad ends up choosing one over the other, or something of that strange sort. The other goes off, into something like a whorehouse, or something. The whole thing is bathed in color of unnatural hue. But, I degrees., To get back to the supposed half invisible story line, the supposed main character goes off on a journey of many naked breasted strange looking ladies. The secondary characters all come in and disappear throughout the story. One really has to view this more as a surreal world with little scenes and parts that are not really connected by any great spine, because otherwise one is to be lost for sure. Over all it has the flow of an acid trip with some really pretty boys strange kings (or was there just one) and strange looking women! There is no doubt that there are many subtle points to be made, but it may not at first be clear what they are. Ultimately, if there is any sort of plot it probably revolves around a young man trying to find himself (or his sexuality) though different occurrences.  "}{"Title":"The best film ever made","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Satyricon, the most visually glorious film I've ever seen, is an art history textbook liberated from its pages and transferred to film.  The images metamorphose from monochrome to color, from abstraction to realism, from seeming to be in a studio to being outdoors before your amazed eyes.  The exteriors are breathtaking, the sets are superlative, the colors, the composition, the lighting are stunning.  I've seen this in paintings and mosaics, but never in film.  Not even Tarkovsky can compare.Satyricon does not tell a story in the usual sense of the word.  There are two protagonists, but their adversary isn't on the screen, he's in the director's chair.  Fate pushes Encolpius and Ascyltos from one adventure to the next.  Like reading Don Quixote, there are stories within the story and we lose our protagonists sometimes, but then they reappear to guide us to the next chapter within the art history book Fellini has created.History, architecture, mythology, painting, poetry these are the subjects of the movie.  But even bigger than that is the true sense of mystery that this film evokes regarding art.  Art was born out of mankind's need to create order in the face of chaos and mystery.  The mystery still has not been solved, so art (this film, for example) continues to live.  Art is humanity, and Satyricon is a waking dream on this topic.  Although times change and mores shift, mankind hasn't changed much in the 2000 years since Petronius wrote The Satyricon.  Within the chaos of this film you will find much that is familiar, even if you can't really tell your friends what it's about.   "},{"Title":"A Self-Indulgent, Amateurish Absurdity","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" In Satyricon, Fellini fills the screen with bodies and colors. Some describe this as visual splendor, but the visual elements of this film are less than satisfying.This unconventional film seems to be dedicated to subversion or shock, perhaps for its own sake. But it lacks emotion, so as art, it is a shallow exercise. Art without emotional content is merely a collection of images.The scenes in Satyricon feel like fragments of dreams. Perhaps it was therapeutic for Fellini, but for the rest of us, it is merely a curiosity. Its concentration on images of religion, mysticism, and superstition makes it more irrelevant. The film's portrayal of the grotesque and absurd feels self-important and self-indulgent. In many ways, Satyricon is amateurish. The acting is bad. Actors laugh throughout the film for no apparent reason. The makeup is theatrical. The action and dialogue is disjointed. Even the English translation is horrible and unreliable, as if written by a first year student of English who is distracted.At one point in the film, a character says playing a joke on a foreigner is great fun. What fun Fellini may have had, laughing at the viewers who visited the strange world of Satyricon. "},{"Title":"Fellini - Satyricon","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" From Oscar nominated director Federico Fellini (Nights of Cabiria, Juliet of the Spirits, Amarcord), this Italian film was another to be featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, so naturally I watched it. Basically, set in Rome in the 1st Century, Encolpio (Martin Potter) and Ascilto (Hiram Keller) are student friends arguing about ownership of the boy Gitone (Max Born), so they have to split up their belongings and split up. Gitone has to decide who to be with, and he chooses Ascilto, and when he threatens suicide Escolpio is stopped by an earthquake. We follow Escolpio going through a series of adventures, until Ascilto and he are eventually reunited, and they help a man enter a temple and kidnap a hermaphrodite demi-god. The death of the god causes Escolpio to be punished and he also becomes impotent, and we are following them trying to find a cure for it. Okay, I will be absolutely honest in saying that I didn't remember everything that happened in this film, and even though I did watch it all and can recall bits and pieces I didn't understand much of it. Also starring Salvo Randone as Eumolpo, Fanfulla as Vernacchio, Mario Romagnoli as Trimalcione, Capucine as Trifena and Alain Cuny as Lica. I can recall the guy with the blonde being mostly confused by things, and the sets and costumes are marvellously colourful, but that is really all I can say about it, other than I know it was an interesting historical fantasy drama. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign-Language Foreign Film. Good! "},{"Title":"Imagine a western directed by David Lynch. Do yourself a favor and track this one down.","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" There's something curiously compelling about this unbelievably strange mix of western and monster movie. It's a small town village in one corner and an obviously phony, mechanical whale shark (!) in the other, (Complete with dinosaur roars and steam spewing from its' nostrils). Good supporting cast, Hardly a classic, but so much better than the cinematic efforts of 00s Hollywood. Solid soundtrack.Piled on top of the film's other many flaws, the final indignity is the plot itself. A sea creature, resembling somewhat a bedraggled, malnourished Muppet, its first on-screen appearance is a close-up of the face, which looks very much like the current logo of the Buffalo Sabres. When the beast hoisted out of the drink, the over-the-top vocal effects are not dissimilar to the foghorn that sounds when the Sabres &#x96; or any other NHL team &#x96; score. There is much in the beast's appearance or manner that inspires fear in the audience, even though its motion resembles a harmless carousel horse rather than a marauding wild oceanic bestiary.I have no clear reason why. If you can get some suspension of disbelief generated and enjoy the character movement, character tension, and the odd placement of surrealism and Gothic ambiance in a seemingly straight western, then you ll love the long boring build up to some villagers finding this blanched shemale and when it finally appears we are treated to the sight of a king size wooly rocking horse on tracks wobbling to and fro in a swirl of foam chips! Then there's the Gogo, that bizarre Furby-like creature that creates miracles by peeing on things... even when you can't see the wire attached to his head, you just KNOW it's there.The tape I saw was dubbed in Japanese and had no subtitles, so I can't say I followed everything, but I still found it immensely enjoyable. It helps to read the story first, so I dug out my copy of The Italian Fairy Book, compiled by Yei Theodora Sujen (Charles E. Tuttle Company, 1970) and read the original folk tale. Still, even with the story in hand, I didn't quite get who the chicken boy was. "},{"Title":"Fellini plays the shaman of hedonism.","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Fellini's SATYRICON is one of the true art-movies of the late 60ties European cinema, it's extravagance of color, religious undertones, philosophical questioning and eroticism is captivating. Fellini takes us on a bawdy odyssey of episodic nature where Encolpio (Martin Potter) in center, together with Ascilto (Hiram Keller), faces the incredible but impossible, world of ancient Rome; the sultry society of Romans who lives luxurious lives in self-indulgence where the nature of moral traditions is constantly pushed to the limit. Both handsome youths Encolpio and Ascilto battles for the sexual pleasures of a mysterious slave boy (Max Born) who unites and divides them as both enters bewildering adventures of often homosexual significance. The film jumps back and forth in time, and jags its narration with no sorts of explanation, the viewer just has to go along for the ride without never really understanding the plot - Fellini throws a fascinating travelogue who structurally follows the actual work of Petronius.Grotesquely painted, the film doesn't punctuated the everyday life of citizens of the Roman empire as Petronius' actual script, Fellini mainly makes it come to life by its visual opulence and outrageous connotations. I personally love Fellini's absurdity and artful touch, and though this is often viewed as a mostly problematic film, I always find it quite unique and influential for the many following film directors of world cinema. "},{"Title":"maybe the most mixed-bag kind of film I've seen from Fellini yet (and I'm a big fan)","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I have to think that with a production like Satyricon, co-written and directed (and practically ring-mastered) by Federico Fellini, he had a couple of things he had to adhere to in what he could or couldn't show (not sure what Italy's policies were on nudity or violence and such). But overall, this seems to me to be the kind of film where the director had such carte Blanche and freedom to do with whatever he wanted with the material, no one ever even tried to reel him in or ask 'does this make sense?' Maybe that's what makes Satyricon the flawed plum that it is, but it's sometimes a slog getting through it. It's a shame to say things as pat about Fellini Satyricon like 'it's meandering' or 'it loses cohesion' or 'I asked 'who is that character again' too much', but they pretty much do apply, even if you are a really big fan of the movie. In a sense I am too, but not exactly at the same time.In the purely visual sense, it's what the word spectacular really comes closest to in terms of personal Roman epics. Surreal or bizarre or debauchery comes to mind as well, but really if this was a silent film (and it comes to mind a couple of times that Fellini would have risen to the likes of Lang or even Eisenstein if he had been making films in the silent era), it would be in my top ten of all time. Through one of the great Italian master cinematographers, Giuseppe Rutono, Fellini glides and pirouettes and makes his Roman epic with the mad ideas and persistence to not back away from keeping the vision consistent. At the least, Fellini never makes it a drag to look at, and his production values- the designs and mix of real locations with expansive Cinecitta sets, usage of colors, costumes, props (including severed limbs and heads), and adding to this Nino Rota & company's strange musical accompaniments- are just as superb, if not even more extravagant, than those for his previous color film Juliet of the Spirits.If the visuals and the look and style of the film help make this world of Rome where there's no real authority and sex and power is up for grabs, the actual substance then has to be taken into account. I understand too what Fellini was after, in terms of not just the period of Rome at the time (I'm not sure totally when, but in the apparent absence of senators and the republic), but also in the 1969/1970 sexual and political revolutions going on across the world. There's madness in every direction, just as, at least seemingly, in real life. But what Fellini is lacking is a portal for the viewer to really latch onto with this travelogue of Encolpio (Martin Potter), who starts off with a slave, loses him, tries to find him, but ends up with a friend Ascylito. There's big fights while slaves themselves on a boat, decadent romps with ladies, more fights- to the point of them being gladiatorial- and only brief moments where Fellini lets the viewer take a rest from all the large pomp and circumstance. There's a lot of energy to many scenes, sexually charged in fact, and the first half of the film flows really well. Yet after a while, the narrative thread- or what may be left of it can't be made this loose for too long before not feeling as satisfactory as the images surrounding it. In a sense, I realize, this film could even make a comparison with Antonioni's Zabriskie Point as two films from Italian directors who take on the complete abandonment of morals and social order and relish (and sometimes recoil) in the thought of it actually taking place. If neither director is totally successful, it's no wonder why the term Carte-Blanche and wild auteur filmmaker only once in a while mix excellently. "},{"Title":"Frustratingly Fascinating","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Satyricon is less a movie and more a series of complex images and actions. It is too long and tedious at times but ultimately fascinating. The costumes and the sets are spectacular, and some of the sequences are immensely entertaining. But, then again, the sequences are the problem. I first learned of the film while studying Latin and therefore was aware of the fractured nature of the original work and was prepared for the same in the movie, and while some of the action is provocative a fair amount of screen time is just, well, rather dull--its hard to follow and has no translation to modern times or sentiments, still through all the meandering there are moments--moments that are visually stunning, inspire awe, and feel like nothing from this world. "},{"Title":"The high point of Fellini's career","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" This was the first Fellini film that I saw back in 1974 or so. It was a midnight screening in Westwood in Cinemascope on a giant screen. I had seldom been so effected by a film. It was so overwhelming, I went back the very next midnight for another look. The sheer amount of detail and striking bizarre symbolic compositions continued to overwhelm me. It became my favorite film for a number of years and I must have seen it with various friends about 30 times in theaters. How can I summarize such a work of art? It's a subconscious spectacle, a view of humanity through a fun house mirror in an alternate universe. Though later I became a fan of Fellini's previous and subsequent films, Satyricon remained my favorite and I regard it as THE high-point in Fellini's career. Never has his fertile imagination delved as deeply as here. Unlike so much of Fellini's output, this is not a personal autobiographical film but instead an archetypal film. Fellini even had a Jungian analyst on the set while shooting.For those who haven't experienced it, Satyricon is a loose adaptation of the oldest surviving novel of the same name by Petronius Arbiter, a Roman from the time of Nero, who wrote a sprawling series of satirical and bawdy stories . The novel only survived in fragments and Fellini decided when adapting the tales to not try and patch up the narrative but instead present a series of highly detailed episodes. This fit into his view of history. We only know history (particularly ancient history) from bits and pieces passed down through the ages. Though the three lead characters reappear throughout the film, the other characters, situations and locales around them change unexpectedly. Now, while these picaresque episodes are indeed exotic, weird and funny, it is Fellini's vision that makes this film unique viewing. In particular is his roaming camera that is intricately choreographed and put to great use in large group scenes. Though we take moving camera as standard practice today, it really wasn't used nearly as much in the 1960s and Fellini had a distinctive way of shooting action and character gesture that still stands out as his own. Certain sequences (particularly the red light district near the beginning) feel as though we are on some kind of dark ride, gliding past a series of rooms containing all manner of curiosities. Another very striking technique is to have a few of the characters stare into the camera, generally a no no in all but documentaries. The effect creates a curious confrontation as the characters stare impassively &#x97; watching us as we watch themThe music for Satyricon is another fascinating element. Though Nino Rota composed a substantial amount of the score (particularly the oddly phrased melody heard at the end and the new emperors parade), a great deal of the music is either world folk music (such as the Balinese Monkey Chant) or avant garde electronic compositions (Ilhan Mimaroglu, Andrew Rudin, and Todd Dockstader among others). This gives the film a dual feeling of being very primal and yet otherworldly.On one level Satryicon comments on the youth of the late 1960s, the unanchored hippies wondering from place to place without a moral compass -- one hedonistic adventure after another in a satiated and decadent world. On another level the world depicted is a collective dream of which our civilization is puppet-ed by primal forces beneath the surface. In this way Satyricon feels both foreign and recognizable, its images both seductive and repellent. One can admire Fellini for tackling such an ambitious concept and it is due to he and his collaborators (particularly Danilo Donati) that this film achieves so much. "},{"Title":"Definitely weird but fun","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I'd been meaning to see this movie for about a year, before I was finally able to order it off the internet. I was not disappointed. I've never seen a Fellini film, but I'm definitely going to have to try sometime soon. I was utterly confused as to the story almost the entire way through, but I still grasped the concepts, and it really didn't matter. To appreciate this movie, you just have to suspend your beliefs for a while and watching this gorgeous movie unfold. I understand that the actually story is somewhat incomplete, as it hasn't totally been discovered intact. But, it's basic journey of these men is a sight to see. I was wondering if anyone else was struck by the resemblance of Gitone to Barbra Streisand? I noticed it almost immediately and thought it an interesting side note. Watch this movie. Don't try to understand all of it, just enjoy it, and be enthralled by Fellini's genius "},{"Title":"visual masterpiece","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Wonderful visual experience albeit light on plot. Surreal and sometimes disturbing. Somewhere in the bizarre world that Fellini created lies a kernal of truth.  I imagine this film contains elements closer to real Roman life then Spartacus ever did(I know it's greek but whatever). "}{"Title":"Original Latin Novel Only Survives In Fragments","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Petronius' Satyricon, the inspiration for Fellini's masterful, albeit non-linear, eponymous film, has a good claim on being the first novel ever written. Unfortunately, Petronius' work was not transmitted to our day in anything even vaguely resembling a complete text. The chapters, or rather what are left of them, break off at inconvenient moments, sections are severely disjointed, transitions are non-existent, and so on. Fellini's adaptation is actually quite good.Sextus Petronius, by all accounts the Emperor's minister of good taste, or arbiter elegantium, not only wrote a number of short poems and epigrams, but also committed suicide after being implicated in a plot against Nero. Petronius took his own life in much the same way that John Gielgud's Nerva did in Tinto Brass' 1979 film Caligula.The linearity expected from contemporary film is absent in Satyricon, and rightly so.  Instead of lamenting Fellini's seemingly poor control of the narrative, audiences should be applauding his triumph in bringing the full experience of this chaotic yet important film to the screen.Fellini never made an 'easy' film; but to approach Satyricon without a modicum of serious preparation is setting oneself up for a severe disappointment. Read Petronius' surviving fragments before watching the film, and do not focus on the well known passages everyone has studied in Latin 101, instead consider the disjointed rhythms of the randomly fragmented narrative. "},{"Title":"Not the movie to see if you seek entertainment","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  This is definitely not the movie to see if you seek a good 80-90 minute soft action or love film for entertainment. On the other hand, it will take only two and a half hours of your time to see some of the most striking and colorful imagery of the roman world of all times - of which, every director has difficulty in escaping.The final minotaur scene, I understand, is not on the original Petronius novel (it couldn't be). It is the Fellinian moment of the film. All of Fellini's films end up in some sort of non-sense apotheosis which take your feeling of being lost to the highest point -- and signals you, at the moment you were thinking you were starting to grasp it, that there's a whole lot more than what you can comprehend.Fellini once said that he loved decadence much more than sound-mindedness, since the former was so much more rich in its imagery and colors.  "},{"Title":"Aging Well","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I pity those who are frustrated with this one!  This is a great, fun, amazing, one of a kind flick.  Peter Greenaway (Prospero's Books) and Jodorowsky (Holy Mountain) are the closest anyone's come to emulating Fellini's landmark grand-scale surreal film, but they emphasized pretentiousness.  This isn't stuffy art!  This is a loud, garish, bawdy, orgiastic, and even child-like film to be enjoyed/repulsed by/offended by/thought of.  You can read deeper if you want to, there is a story, there are political references (flower children, 60's sexual revolution, class values) and now-textbook filmmaking techniques galore.  Just don't try to fight it--you won't win!  It's like Alice In Wonderland for adults, sit back and let the surreality wash over you and be glad that this film exists!One note  I always advise people to forget the subtitles--they don't give a first time viewer much help anyway.  This is a visual film; turn on the dubbed track.  Not only was it excellently produced (voice contributers were Michael Horden,  he played the excellent Gandalf in the BBC radio version of Lord Of The Rings and Peter Woodthorpe, who played Gollum in the BBC AND Bakshi animated versions), but Fellini's script notes plainly instruct that the film should look like a badly dubbed foreign movie in any language it's in, and certainly the international cast were all speaking in their native languages throughout--you can read their lips. But give it up--the film world (espec. makers of music videos) owes a great debt of gratitude to Fellini and his unmatched imagination, whether you found this film entertaining or not...  "},{"Title":"The dream poetry of ancient rome.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  This is one of the most original visions and personal ever made in cinema about ancient Rome. It has all the mood and spirit of the classic Rome mentality and artistic way of life. Only an Italian could have describe this distant world so well and accurate. Everything in the production is carefully chosen and every detail has this very Fellinian touch of dreams and reality touching the very essence of the human life, and our psychology. This is an art master piece that shows what a movie should look like and makes us remember that films can be the most powerful artistic expression. the best scenes are the roman undergrounds full of whores and weirdos, also the big orgy scene is a classic with a very perfect direction, really good photo and artistic direction. "},{"Title":"Just what is the plot of this movie? If you are at a loss to understand you are not the only one.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  (1972) As far as plots go, movies differ. Some have obvious plots that have been done repeatedly in the history of film/literature culture. You know how the thing is going to end in the first five min. Others have plots that are there, but one has to watch the movie five times before understanding it all. Some do not have plots and everyone knows it, in which case it better have something else that is damn well done! Then comes along a movie, teetering on the thin line of questionable success where one can not tell whether there is a plot or not. If, while watching Satyricon you find yourself wandering whether it is going to wrap up finally into an understandable conclusion after which you can satisfactorily murmur `ahh yes, now I got it'. Well, in the end there is no such luck, sorry lads and lasses. Of the plot the one thing I could gather is that it is the journey of the main character who is searching for something, or some one? Very hard to figure out. It  starts out as a conflict between one Greek lad and another who both have unbegotton lust of a younger lad then themselves. The lad ends up choosing one over the other, or something of that strange sort. The other goes off, into something like a whorehouse, or something. The whole thing is bathed in color of unnatural hue. But, I degrees., To get back to the supposed half invisible story line, the supposed main character goes off on a journey of many naked breasted strange looking ladies. The secondary characters all come in and disappear throughout the story. One really has to view this more as a surreal world with little scenes and parts that are not really connected by any great spine, because otherwise one is to be lost for sure. Over all it has the flow of an acid trip with some really pretty boys strange kings (or was there just one) and strange looking women! There is no doubt that there are many subtle points to be made, but it may not at first be clear what they are. Ultimately, if there is any sort of plot it probably revolves around a young man trying to find himself (or his sexuality) though different occurrences.  "},{"Title":"Two long hours of huh?","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  This is without question the HARDEST TO WATCH movie that I've ever seen. Not only is the movie bad in itself, but every element in it is either pretentious, dull, or overly silly.  The music for one - nothing special. The cinematography consists of either weird stylized shots or extremely sloppy ones - with bad focus and more headroom than non-headroom.The actual plot of the movie is nothing more than a series of unconnected scenes of gay men either A) eating, B) performing various homosexual acts, C) just sitting around, or D) occasionally actually doing interesting stuff like fighting or moving around.  However, even the stuff that should be interesting, such as the violence, is so oddly distant-seeming that even it is boring.  You know a movie is bad when even a scene involving George Eastman as a giant minotaur in a maze, swinging a giant club left and right is boring.  I've sat through many-a-Herzog/Tarvkovsky movie and didn't have any problems, but this movie had me squirming in my seat, constantly checking the DVD player to see how much time was left.While Danilo Donati's costume and production design are top-notch, this movie has nothing else going for it.  Poor pacing, poor planning, atrocious dubbing (even in the native Italian version), and dialog that's semi-poetic but doesn't make any sense.  This movie is 2 very,very long hours of huh?.Gordon Mitchell, Capucine, and George Eastman all in medium-sized roles help elevate this movie a little bit, but they've all been in much more watchable films.I thought I'd never say this, but if you really want to see a movie about the decadence of ancient Rome, watch Caligula instead. "},{"Title":"Empty, loud, and shallow illustration to an ancient book","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Satyricon studies ancient Rome of the first century, and is virtually plot less. The images drive the movie, not the story and characters, and the movie is essentially a montage of unrelated scenes. Cinematography and art direction are wonderful and the film is truly the feast for eyes. Its beauty comes from El Fayum portraits, wall paintings (frescos) and mosaics from Rome and Pompeii. The problem with Satyricon is that IMO Fellini himself did not like it very much. He seems to be a remote observer in that gorgeous but empty, soulless, decadence world of Nero's Rome. Two main characters that connect unrelated events are so insignificant, dull, and futile that they only take a screen time from the magnificent images which are the main attractions of Satyricon. Even those images cannot safe Satyricon from being just a glorious illustration to an ancient book.Satyricon feels empty, loud, and shallow. I rather read Petronius's book or watch the immortal, impressive, and full of character El Fayum portraits.I prefer more  Fellini's Roma &#150; as beautiful as Satyricon, it is much more enjoyable, has a subtle message and a lot of heart and magnificent Eternal City is deservingly the only main character of Maestro Fellini's very personal film. "},{"Title":"It All Depends on the Kind of Person You Are","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" There are certain works of fiction, be they in the form of novels or movies, that are much acclaimed by critics and connoisseurs of the avant garde, but which leave most of us completely bewildered as to what those people see in them. We don't enjoy consuming them, and we don't learn anything from them. We force ourselves to get through them just to see what the big deal is all about, and we end up feeling we have endured an unpleasant experience that has wasted our time. Whenever you come across a novel or a movie like that, ask yourself this question, Does the work of fiction involve a lot of sex, especially the kind that is vulgar and obscene? If the answer is Yes, then the mystery is solved, especially if the work of fiction was censored or banned somewhere. In this lies the reason for all the undeserved praise for novels such as James Joyce's Ulysses, Marcel Proust's In Search Lost Time, and Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer, and for movies such as Man of Flowers (1983), Belle de Jour (1967), Last Tango in Paris (1972), and, of course, Fellini Satyricon.Why do some people praise novels or movies like this? One reason may be that they actually enjoyed them or learned something from them. That's a horrible thought! The other may be that expressing their appreciation for these novels or movies gives them a feeling of superiority over those of us who dislike them they come across as enlightened, cosmopolitan aesthetes, while we look like prudish, parochial philistines.Fellini Satyricon is mostly about a couple of pederasts fighting over a catamite, who silently sits there with a big, silly grin like Harpo Marx. The catamite is Gitone (Max Born), who prefers Ascilto (Hiram Keller) over Encolpio (Martin Potter) for his lover. And this is only the beginning of Encolpio's woes in this picaresque tale in which Encolpio always ends up as the butt of whatever deviance is at hand, while Ascilto is there to gloat and have a laugh at Encolpio's expense. Interspersed with that story is a lot of other stuff that will make you want to take a bath when the movie is over. Even the way these people eat is perverted and will leave you feeling queasy.So, you know who you are. If you are the type who loved reading Ulysses or watching The Last Tango in Paris, then Fellini Satyricon is the movie for you. If not, then you have been duly warned. "},{"Title":"disjointed but entertaining chapters...Roman history ?","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" My favorite chapter was the fire from her loins , right near the end. The giant fish walking along the river banks was pretty cool too. The Satyricon by Fellini is a mix of history ( based on Petronius' fragmented, partial work) and an artistic, impressionist work. Lots of topless women running, jumping, standing, walking. Our hero Encolpio, (Martin Potter, a Brit) tells his young lover to choose between him and Ascilto, and when he does, Encolpio sets off on a series of adventures. Very artsy, wacky, silly make-up. Through-out the story, Encoplio runs into both the young lover and Ascilto (Hiram Keller, American, died quite young.), as well as casts of thousands in his adventures. This seems to be a whole lot of Roman history, mixed in with free interpretation by Fellini. Will definitely have to watch this one with the commentary turned on next time; may give some insight as to what's really going on. Make up a big bowl of popcorn, because this is over two hours, and covers a lot of ground. Capucine, the French actress is in here... she was big in Hollywood in the 1960s. Fellini was nominated for an Oscar twelve times, and finally won an achievement award in 1993, which also happens to be the year he died. Quite entertaining, if you have the patience. The fact that things are not always spelled out, and it IS artsy-fartsy, will turn off a lot of people. "},{"Title":"Ancient Rome as it may have been","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Although this is clearly not one of Fellini's best rated movies, Satyricon is a fantastic modern science-fiction drama that is certainly worth seeing. It is true that the story lacks a red line, a plot that clearly interconnects each scene or scenario. However, if one watches it carefully enough and with an open mind, there is a story-line and character development in it. It is the life passage of a young man (Encolpius) and his friend and antagonist (Ascyltus), former gladiators who were taken to a foreign island and undergo diverse colorful, partly erotic adventures in dream-like sequences and images. You will find action in each scene but, more than that, Fellini is probably the only director who has managed, with this film, to create an understanding of what life in ancient Rome MAY have been like for the lower and middle-class ordinary civilians. Far from the bombastic installations as we know them from DeMille's monumental films, this is an abstract piece of art that deserves to be called a masterpiece that leaves room for interpretation and speculation about Petronius' ancient novel. "}{"Title":"Before Christ After La Dolce Vita","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Satyricon based by the book of Titus Petronius from the neronian era in the middle of the first century. This was Fellini tenth film in that time when he was the most acknowledged director in the European cinema. And it was his first when he little showed interest for the legatee storytelling but his visual genius glittered in his full splendor. The brilliant cinematographer, Giuseppe Rotunno (The Leopard) and Fellini made one of the most beautiful color film ever. The settings, lights and color with the sets and costumes creates an astonishing atmosphere. But the most important part of Satyricon are the strange, grotesque, frightening but sometimes beautiful faces and bodies. Just a few films (The Passion of Joan of Arc, The Gospel According to Matthew, The Name of the Rose) can be resembled in the human face representation. The most beautiful scene is the suicide of the roman patrician. The worst thing is the horrible post-synchronization. Strange, that Nino Rota wrote a beautiful main theme for Satyricon, but it never heard in the movie. 3,5/4 "},{"Title":"A disjointed film that reflect the nature of modern society","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I really don't know what to make of this film because in one way it seems to be incredibly disjointed, pointless, and apparently going nowhere, but in another way the scenes are beautiful, intense, and clearly the work of a master film maker. It has been suggested that some people rate this film highly simply because it was made by Fellini, and as such is carried through simply by the name of the director. I would have to disagree with that suggestion because people who make this suggestion clearly do not understand what it being done in this film. In fact, I have to admit that I really do not understand this film either, but a part of my wants to watch it again in an attempt to do so, however I feel that I will need to read the book that it is based upon first.The interesting thing about this film (with the exception that my DVD had the film in Italian, French, German, and Spanish, but for some incredibly bizarre reason, not in English) is that the book that it is based upon is not extant. What I mean is that the Satyricon is an Ancient Roman novel in which half of the book simply did not survive, which results in a story that is basically disjointed and incomplete. It is not that the book ends half way through either, it is that we simply only have sections of the book so if you were to read it you would find yourself jumping constantly and pretty quickly getting lost.Fellini, in making this film, decided that he would pretty much follow the book in that way, and not actually try to fill in the missing pieces. When I watched the film initially I didn't actually realise that he had done that, and found myself quite baffled at what was going on, and when I discovered that he had decided that he would actually not attempt to fill in the gaps, the theory behind the film actually made a lot more sense.I have noticed that some Christian commentators have pointed at this film as an example of how we as a race (that is Western Europeans) have lost touch with the spiritual realm and have found ourselves in a society that is based purely on the physical and as such have discovered that society is in fact disjointed, pointless, and meaningless. If that is the case, then Fellini has made a brilliant piece of filmography that pretty much captures the sense of our society and our modern mindset.The two parts of the film that stand out is the feast and the slave ship, and I liked those parts simply for the way those scenes were put together. However what is interesting is that on the slave ship there is a wedding between the captain of the ship, and the protagonist of the piece (both of them being male). What we have in that scene is a sense that society has simply become completely inverted. Okay, with the debate regarding gay marriage running around society it is not something that stands out to us now, but back when the film was made it would have &#x96; in a sense what we are seeing is a society that has not so much collapsed, but rather lost its identity as it travels through history grasping at straws and finding that it is forever failing in the task of seeking out its new identity. "},{"Title":"Mellow in spirit and physical energy","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I remember seeing this for the first time in a crowded, darkened theater known for showing avant-garde films. The reaction was positive but bewildering, as it was for me. Surely, in the early '70's, when I saw it, it was startling and hard to place for its genre. X rated? Unrated? Avant-garde? Definitely not a film for middle America, it would appeal to those with sophisticated adult tastes.The continuity of the film is I think what makes it great. The ease at which Fellini breaks in with innuendo is remarkable. The opening scene is unique for its effect, which at the time didn't have all the high-tech computer generated effects available, a sign of a great director. The beauty of those boys is not so much physical, as it is in their spirit and energy. And this pervades the film, although overt in its physicality, yet the background takes the fore. A must-see for anyone interested in the adult arts, in staging, in ancient Rome, in story-telling. Memorable. "},{"Title":"Stunning visuals","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" My friends and I were high school juniors in 1970 on a school trip to Paris. We were abandoned (emancipated?) by our chaperon on the second day on the Left Bank, and left to our own devices. We went to see Fellini's Satyricon in the original Italian with French subtitles. The theater was sloped the opposite of American ones, and we could smoke. I remember that we had only a dim understanding of the plot, but the visuals were stunning. Even today, more than forty years later, I can still see the image of the hermaphroditic Demi-god, his chalk-white skin and feeble eyes. So, though my high school chaperon probably broke several laws by leaving his French honors students to fend for themselves in Paris, his decision altered my life and my appreciation for Fellini. "},{"Title":"Probably Fellini's weirdest film, but as ever visually stunning and beautifully directed","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I admire Federico Fellini and what films so far I've seen of his. While not a bad film at all, of the 8 films I've seen(La Dolce Vita, 8 1/2, Amarcord, La Strada, Nights of Cabiria, Roma, Casanova and Satyricon), Satyricon is my least favourite. I did find the story disjointed, some scenes are fine but others are not sure what tone it wants to be or I wasn't sure what they were trying to do. While the characters are not as detached to the audience in the way the titular character from Casanova is, whereas I identified with the leads of La Strada and especially Nights of Cabiria the characters were never really developed enough to make me care properly. Pacing has rarely, if ever, been an issue in Fellini films, I am well aware that his pacing is largely deliberate, but with a story and characters that I was indifferent to on the most part I will admit that my interest did waver. Also, the parts dealing with sexual immaturity were really quite bizarre to put it politely. However, Satyricon is stunning visually with striking roman garb and costumes beautifully photographed, and Fellini's direction while not as nostalgic as personal as some of his other films is accomplished. The score positively sweeps and accompanies the film very well, while the acting from especially the two leads is very good. Overall, there will be people who admire this film and others who'll find it self-indulgent and perhaps cold. Coming from someone who still isn't sure what she makes of Satyricon, I can understand both sides. I am glad I watched it, however I can't see myself watching it again. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Someone Else's Dream World.","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I saw this when it was released and was overwhelmed by the fantastic, bizarre, and sometimes shockingly repellent imagery -- the production, make up, musical score, and wardrobe are out of somebody's oneiristic alternate universe.Now I've just seen it again and, whether because my brain cells are aging or because even Fellini has been outdone by some of the grotesque crap that's appeared on the screen since 1969, it seems less of an accomplished work.I think I paid too much attention to the plot this time. Or, rather, I tried to because there isn't much of a plot. It's a series of episodes in what passes for Ancient Rome, without much connection between them.The only linking thread is Martin Potter as the blond, blue-eyed Encolpio, whose peregrinations we more or less follow. He's a handsome young man (I guess) but I never cared what happened to him. He's not particularly sympathetic. Now and then his friend Ascilto shows up, sometimes to accompany him on a trip, sometimes to taunt him, but when Ascilto is found dead towards the end, Encolpio's response is as shallow as that of any psychopath.The opening episode has Encolpio telling us how much he loves and misses Gitone, the boy/girl who has been taken from him. He spends a good deal of time in pursuit of Gitone and when he finally finds him, Gitone chooses to be the sex slave and idolater of Ascilto. O men, O women, O homosexuals! That's the sort of thing that may have kept the viewer's eyes open in 1969 but it has been since overtaken in the outrage race. Mala Noche, anyone? How about The Boys In The Band or Staircase? At any rate, Gitone disappears entirely from the narrative with no explanation, kind of like King Lear's fool. Maybe that was meant to be Fellini's point. Love doesn't conquer all. It just disappears from the story.I won't bother describing the other episodes. They involve Encolpio's impotence, a hermaphrodite living god who dies, a poet who learns that getting laid is more important than art, and who knows what all? Something about the Minotaur is in there too.Since I never read Petronius's story I don't know how closely the film follows it. A friend -- who is not known for showing off -- tells me it's not a close adaptation, but Fellini himself describes the movie as only loosely based on Petronius. Not that it matters much. Literary works are always somewhat mangled in adaptations to the screen. That's inevitable. We can only judge what we see, and what we see is like a kaleidoscopic view of some barbaric world as seen by somebody on mescaline or psylocybin. And once you get past the phantasmagoric images, it's a little dull. "},{"Title":"Somewhere in this mess there lies a haunting masterpiece.","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I'm a fan of Fellini and usually can accept his indulgence and laziness, but this is a step too far. There are some positives to what is essentially an episodic, fantastical and depraved journey across imperial Rome. For example, it looks fantastic and there are genuine moments of beauty, particularly during the opening scenes within Fellini's hellish, claustrophobic, labyrinthine Rome. However, it is ultimately incredibly boring. Appalling characterisation, acting woeful (and embarrassing dubbing throughout) and the storyline nonsensical. With La Dolce Vita, or La Strada, there is enough brilliance to gloss over Fellini's self indulgence. Here, however, it is in the open. The traditional manic laughing characters and overall melodrama become annoying beyond belief, whereas usually I find them charming. Technically, it also has flaws. The editing only adds more confusion to the film's hectic narrative. It's a vision of a nightmare and somewhere in this mess there lies a haunting masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A classic of the art of cinema","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I saw Satyricon again after perhaps twenty years or more. It was an exhilarating experience watching this film again with the experience of these two decades behind me. The film stood every bit (and even more) as interesting as when viewed at the first viewing, perhaps even more. The test of time makes it a classic. This time I was noticing new things. The boldness of the scenes is spectacular. Everyscene is a tableau vivant. The camera together with the time sequence, the flowing in and out of characters, the different planes of action make for an extraordinarily complex experience that cannot be savored unless you view the film again and again. Influences I noticed this time looking back at the Masters of the Art History the arrangement of the characters and the organization in the frame (often with a character staring enigmatically at the viewer just as it happens in paintings from the Renaissance onwards) are extraordinary. This time I realized that Rota was aware of the Gamelon music and the Ketchak dance (used at the Minotaur scene) to be found in Bali, together with the Minimalists, his contemporaries. I imagine, if I see again in ten years time, there will be more to tell... "},{"Title":"Missing the point","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Only ONE comment out of the many here alluded to the fact that we can't look at this movie thru modern eyes. To enjoy this movie one must become Roman and think like one. Cast off your obsolete mono-theism and revel in the cult of mythology and living gods Many scenes from this excellent film capture the essence of what the morality was of that time. One spoiler I want to bring up is under Roman law if the Pater Familier or Father of the household whacked himself his will would stand. If he was killed by the new Ceaser, his property would be taken.So maybe that scene was a metaphor but historical precedent said it was common from time to time. The two main characters are not Romans, they are GREEKS, scholars men of letters and to them loving a boy was a rite of manhood. They loved it and it was very accepted. Older Greek men would even scribble public graffiti to their young male lovers. Not to say they were gay but a young boy's body was thought to be the ideal of beauty to those wacky Hellenes (Greeks). We use a word that literally means place to stand naked or the Gymnos (Gymnasiuem) everyday. The more things change, the more they stay the same. "},{"Title":"A stunning Rabelaisian romp through ancient Rome....","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" It is astonishing that the few surviving fragments of Petronius' work evoked such a stunning and Rabelaisian cinematic romp through ancient Rome. The author was extremely daring to flout the dangerous emperor Nero by satirizing the egregious excesses of the time. Keep in mind that he was executed for it and most of his work destroyed. The party 'til you puke attitude actually originated with the Romans, who provided feathers for the throat and basins for their guests to vomit into so that in voiding they could eat and drink even more. Trimalchio's banquet is typical, it's description is much of what is left of Petronius' work. The somber sequence depicting the dignified suicide of proscribed patricians reminds us that many prominent persons who fell out of favor by their political affiliations were forced to abandon their families in this way which also included confiscation of their property. Petronious himself ended in this way.Fellini has given us a fascinating tryptych into a bygone era. In doing so, he also provides a remarkable journey into the myriad aspects of human life in all its richness. "}{"Title":"A bit more coherent that the average Fellini movie...","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" A bit more coherent that the average Fellini movie. Not that it says much.Starts interestingly enough. For a while I thought the movie might actually have a decent plot. For a brief moment it almost seemed Shakespearean. Then it fell apart.It degenerated into a series of random events, and parallel stories (for lack of a better word).So, while having more of a plot than most Fellini movies, this is all very relative. "},{"Title":"When talent can allow such magnificent deviations, it can afford pretentiousness &#x85;","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" If a filmmaker's appeal were solely based on seduction, then Federico Fellini would epitomize the expression hard to get. Still, what a relief when we finally 'get' him! I remember a few years ago, my first intended immersion into Fellini's universe was through his groundbreaking 8½. As a result, I waited one year and half before giving a second chance to Fellini. This is how disappointed I was, maybe less by the film than by my inability to claim that Fellini was an avant-garde genius. I guess I dived too brutally in cold water, while I should have approached it step by step. I started then with his neo-realist period, and after Nights of Cabiria and La Strada, my heart was conquered and the rest of his oeuvre, including 8½, confirmed my feelings that Fellini was on the field of emotions what Ingmar Bergman was on human psychology, essential to Cinema and complementary like libido and psyche for humans. And through the most libidinous Satyricon, Fellini signs the most defining of all his films. And defining is the right word, because from our perspective, it means that Fellini's detractors would certainly pick Satyricon as a proof of Fellini's self-importance, while his adulators will consecrate it as the quintessential artistic expression of a genius, who was the mirror of human's most pervert yet fascinating sides. But let me be the devil's advocate, when talent can allow such magnificent deviations, it can afford pretentiousness, which in Fellini's case, is never a posture, but a risk-taking dynamic tunneling us into our most repressed sensations. Still, all through Satyricon, I kept wondering how much time I would have waited before giving the 'second chance' had I seen it first. The film is a hyperbolic depiction of whatever Fellini stood for, a universe made of freaks, weird, funny-looking characters, debauchery, boredom, sexuality, amorality, poetry, blood, gluttony, feast and fantasy, as nonsensical and unsettling as they could get in the mind of the most twisted of us all. But it takes Fellini's genius to transcend the inner ugliness of humans and make such a cinematically significant movie. As I said for La Dolce Vita, the morally worst can bring the aesthetically best.Satirycon was loosely based on a poem from Petronius, a writer who lived under the reign of the lunatic Emperor Nero. The poem, discovered a few centuries ago, was made of disjointed fragments, the perfect format for the director who, since La Dolce Vita and before Amarcord cherished movies' structure made of independent little vignettes. The Fellinian experience is like a trip in a dream-like universe, when episodes don't need a connection to have relevance, where characters are defined by their mythological, mystical and sometimes physical attributes rather than any psychological notions or plot devices. And like a perfect dream-like escapism, the dazzling cinematography made of purple skies and splendid combinations of lights and shadows, reinvents the settings of Antic Roma in its most decadent days, before Christianity would set a new tone, when lifestyle was made of weird and bizarre distractions meant to conceal life's suffocating boredom. The film is made of one stunning sequence after another, and will probably be most remembered for the unforgettable orgy in Trimalchione's house, a sort of trip in an Antic world that never seemed as modern. And we hypnotically follow him as if we sensed a cathartic effect in this orgy of excesses, succumbing to devilish voyeurism to better expiate from our lowest impulses, just as Peckinpah's use of excessive violence in The Wild Bunch. Satyricon is a journey in a world where normality is meaningless, where beauty is asexual, and sex is ugly, but both so appealing. A world where everything is corrupted and even poetry is traded for honors, food and fun. Satyricon is moral corruption is like a form of salvation as if it extrapolated Fellini's own impulses, own desire to dare such shots for the sake of digression. And it works because Fellini is pretentious but not self-important, his excesses create a coherence that makes the calmer and ordinary moments more awkward. Two men marry together, a beautiful black woman ignites fire from her vagina, a slave has his hand cut-off to entertain a hysterical audience in a theater, and we have no choice but to plunge in the lowest parts of humanity, like the abysmal depths of Pompeii before its imminent explosion.Satirycon is beyond any explanations, and a real challenge for criticism. It is an Odyssey in a Roma that probably never existed, but had all the predispositions to allow Fellini to project his inner demons and most pervert fantasies into it, the universe created is unsettling but had it tried to be normal, it would have been a disaster just like Visconti 's The Damned, released the same year. The film was as bizarre, as unsettling, but its realistic setting made the experience confusing by trying to battle in too many fronts of our perceptions. What a year for filmmaking anyway, released in the summer of love, Satyricon is the exaltation of freedom, it embraces the total zaniness of its project and therefore belongs to the category of 'films victims of their own greatness'. I used the same terms for Stanley Kubrick's A Space Odyssey and John Cassavetes' Husbands, the movies convey the very feelings that inhabit the director's heart, illustrating in the form the point made by the content and transmitting it to the audience, at a time where cinematic creativity was at its peak. Watching Satyricon made me regret the crowd-pleasing aspect of today's cinema. And Fellini didn't give a damn about pleasing crowds as a true author, he created immortal classics. Not that I'm planning to watch the film again, not that I believe it's a masterpiece, but it's a film of guts, of images and entertainment, sitting majestically on the throne of its ugliness, above our boring prudishness. "},{"Title":"A glimpse through an unexpected window at a beautiful, alien world","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Fellini's films are some of the most visually exciting ever made, and among them SATYRICON stands out as a masterpiece of hallucinatory cinema. Crisp, deep-focus camera work, sun-drenched colors, dramatic lighting, careful editing, and the most striking faces ever assembled in a film all these combine to make SATYRICON a dream come to life. The film is based on a 2,000-year-old Roman novel by Petronius. Fellini, a Roman himself, is extremely faithful to his source, reproducing it episode by episode. But because the novel survives only in disconnected fragments, with neither a beginning nor an end, the film is designed in the same way. It opens with a passionate lament by its anti-hero, Encolpius, who alludes to painful events that have just occurred, without ever explaining what they were. It closes literally in mid-sentence, at a point when Encolpius has recovered from his sorrow and is on the brink of new adventures that we will never see. Viewers of Fellini's film, just like readers of Petronius's surviving fragments, must connect the dots by themselves. We are given a mass of colorful detail that we ourselves must make sense of. The more we know about Rome, Fellini, and Italian cinema, the more sense we can make.SATYRICON isn't light entertainment. Nor is it a film with deep characters or a coherent social message. Nor is it even a historically and archeologically accurate depiction of ancient Rome. It's just a glimpse through an unexpected window at a bright, beautiful, totally alien world. GLADIATOR might show you how ancient Rome looked, but SATYRICON shows you how it felt. Its sets are abstract, high-modern sculptures. Its soundtrack consists mostly of traditional African and Asian music.  These design features only heighten the power and weirdness of the film.The images in SATYRICON are undeniably sensual, and many are homoerotic. (But note that the most explicit eroticism is always heterosexual.) Some viewers are apparently disturbed by this imagery -- quite a tribute, I'd say, for a film made over thirty years ago! But if you're neither sex-phobic nor homophobic, you shouldn't have a problem.I saw SATYRICON for the first time as a teenager in 1970. I was so enthralled that I sat through the movie twice in one night. I've seen it at revivals more than a dozen times since, always on the big screen, until last night, when I watched it as a newly-purchased DVD. Make no mistake - SATYRICON has comedy, pathos, action, sex, violence, philosophy, and poetry, both verbal and visual. If you enjoy good movies, watch this one. "},{"Title":"More information about the plot of Fellini-Satyricon.","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  In the first few centuries of our age, the roman world was in decay. In one hand there was wealth and abundance, in the other people were loosing their religion, their values and purpose of living. Collosseum games were a great part of people's interest -- some data indicates that, at some point, there were 170 days of games a year; that's 170 without work for citizens. Those who had power, had more interest in their orgies of eating and vomiting and their sexual perversities than in governing the people. Such is the image presented to us by roman poets of this period such as Juvenal.Today, we'd rather see a good violent film than to watch, say a film of Ingmar Bergman -- which would perhaps give us more insight about life and about our condition as emotional beings -- and football is taking over our lives. Back then, people's interests were about romantic novels about triangular love affairs. This is the plot of Fellini-Satyricon. The screen play is based upon a roman novel, Satyricon, which mocked about those romantic novels and turned them upside down, by presenting the triangular love affair between two men and a little boy. I don't remember the name of the roman author of this novel but I know part of the text was lost.It is not an action movie, nor narrative, it is purely pictorical. Fellini-Satyricon is the most striking depiction of roman decadence. It's not about historical facts, it's an image of what decadence can be. The relevance of this image is such that we even find an explicit parody of it in Asterix in Helvetia.  "},{"Title":"great, if you truly appreciate unique pictures","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I find it fascinating to see how Fellini managed it to create such an unusual movie - a film that has nothing to do with all the other pictures of ancient Romans, made in the 60s. Although Satyricon looks so surreal, it shows us a much better way to understand how these people 2000 years ago actually lived & loved, as it's far away from the antiseptic hollywood-style, where the slightest hint to the real likings of many Romans was kept as a secret (like the cut out scenes in Spartacus). "},{"Title":"Not quite there.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Usual Fellini style carnival, this time adaptation of Petronius' novel. Too beautiful for its own good, it doesn't measure up to stylistically similar Pasolini's retelling of classic novels. Not angry enough, and too self-aware, the story of odyssey of a young man through nightmarish surrealism of ancient Rome, is so masterfully done, so unlike Pasolini's minimalistic fantasies, it doesn't quite gets where it wants to.** "},{"Title":"Fellini's Best and Most Bizarre","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" A series of disjointed mythical tales set in first century Rome.I have seen a handful of Fellini's work, certainly the better-known ones. And while I have not seen them all, I will go on record as of now (2015) and say this was his best work. The costumes, the use of color, the strange, exotic world of Rome where actors use flatulence for humor.This is unlike anything you have even seen. Not as colorful or exotics as Donkeyskin and not as depraved as Caligula, this is still a Rome where debauchery reigns. Impressively, although homosexual acts and relationships play a central part, there is practically nothing explicit (male or female) in the film, and can easily pass as PG. "},{"Title":"It probably all went down like this","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" It would be nice to think that the Ancient Romans were a lot like us. After all, America's founding fathers looked up to the stern fathers of the Republic far more than they ever did to any so called Judeo-Christian values. We have a Senate House on a Capital Hill, and our national bird is more than a little consciously modeled on the symbol of Imperial Rome. Indeed, Alexander Hamilton, when asked, declared that the greatest man who ever lived was Julius Caesar. Heady stuff, no? Of course, the real thing was nothing like what we imagine it was. If by some miracle a time machine was invented, and we somehow found ourselves in the Forum some day in , oh, 44 BCE, say, we would be completely baffled by the people around us, their behavior, their language, their modes of dress, their beliefs about the afterlife, etc, etc. They would be, essentially, alien, in far more ways than they would resemble us. So here, in his usual fascinating, over-the-top way, Fellini gives us his own mishmash, hodge-podge version of Rome in the 1st century, scary, alien, bizarre, oddly comical, dehumanizing, and very erotic without being pornographic (Bob Guccione clearly misunderstood the whole point of Satyricon when he stole the look of the film for his Caligula, which failed on so many levels that it isn't even able to pull off cult status). It feels so right about so many things, even when it veers off into fantastical territory. It brings the vibrant color and vicious thought processes of the pagan world into full focus, allowing us to see, perhaps, why the Christians were so vehement about not wanting anything to do with it, and also, just as likely, just how prudish those same people probably were (sure, poverty is awful, but if you really thought that you wouldn't spend so much more time talking about how sex is an even GREATER evil. . .don't ya think? Priorities, folks, priorities. . .)The story is not really the point. . .suffice it to say that there is a light thread throughout about the adventures of two students, both probably Greeks living in southern Italy, Encolpios and Ascyltos, and their mutual lust for a slave boy, Giton, who leaves Encolpios for Ascyltos, since he has more money. The story is fragmented, as is the surviving text of the original work by Petronius, but there is abduction, shipwreck, bizarre Gods and Godesses roaming about, wise men unable to deal with the damnable times, and several possible morals, or none at all, depending on your viewpoint. It is probably the most on the money depiction of the ancient world put to film. . .incoherent, beautiful, and very, very bizarre. "},{"Title":"Interesting and Strange","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Fellini - Satyricon (1969) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Set during the first century Rome, Encolpio (Martin Potter) and Ascilto (Hiram Keller) fight over which one will get to be with a young slave boy (Max Born). After that we travel through various parts of Rome seeing its history through the eyes of Fellini who is certainly more interested in visuals than an actual story. This is an extremely bizarre film that will probably drive a lot of people crazy but to me the movie was so crazy and so over the top that it kept me interested from start to finish. I think you could show this movie with every scene out of order and it really wouldn't make a difference because the actual story really isn't there because we just have various settings for the director to do his magic. One scene that place on a huge, pyramid like set where we get a great visual of people coming out of various doors and that's pretty much it. I can only imagine a lot of work being done for such a short scene. The eventual destruction is very well done as were various other segments thrown around here. There's a cannibal orgy, beheadings and other forms of violence, which are more corny than shocking but they're all done in a nice visual style and that includes a great scene where a decapitated head is floating in the water. The performances were decent enough for what the film required but none of them are going to really stick out. In the end this movie isn't really a movie but instead just a group of weird images thrown together to make the viewer scratch their heads. On that level the movie works but I can see plenty of people turning this one off early. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" The best way to understand director Federico Fellini's audacious 1968 film Satyricon (also known as Fellini Satyricon, because 1967 saw the release of Satyricon by fellow Italian filmmaker Gian Luigi Polidoro) is within the context of its year of release. That pivotal year saw the release of such indelible film classics as The Graduate, Planet of the Apes, Night Of The Living Dead, and 2001 A Space Odyssey, and Satyricon is very much in league with all of those films. It is even more sexually daring than The Graduate (especially homosexually), as politically subversive as Planet Of The Apes, as relentless as Night Of The Living Dead, and as far out as 2001 A Space Odyssey. I would also add that it is as symbolic as that landmark of television from the U.K., The Prisoner. But, is it a great film? I'd say no, although it is a very intriguing film, and not nearly as bad a film as its worst critics claim. That said, it is not the cinematic masterpiece its boosters claim, even if it had undoubted influence on such later films as Bob Guccione's sadomasochistic Caligula.It has an odd, but strong, pull though. Despite its lack of narrative, or very thin narrative, there is doubtless a pull that its images weaves, or a spell, and in this way it resembles a film by Michelangelo Antonioni- say Blowup or The Passenger, even if it achieves that resemblance by going to the other end of the austerity meter. It is very close to being that ideal of the cinema auteur- pure cinema. But that still does not make up for its manifest deficiencies in narrative nor character development. The films defenders pawn off this fact by claiming that Fellini and his co-writers, Bernardino Zapponi and Brunello Fellini, were merely echoing the structure of the First Century picaresque tale written by the ancient Roman, Gaius Petronius Arbiter, about life under the Caesars during Nero's reign. While it is true that The Satyricon by Petronius is picaresque- largely due to the fragmentary nature of the surviving episodes, it is a bit more than what the film is, at least in terms of traditional literary styling. But Fellini's film's sumptuous visual extravaganza- among the most memorable in the history of film, more than compensates for the narrative lapses, and more closely resembles High Modernist poetry. In fact, the closest parallel to this film would be Ezra Pound's ode to London, England, Hugh Selwyn Mauberley&#133;. Satyricon is a film that is nightmarish, but more so for its disjunctive plot than for its images, although many of them are truly disturbing and harrowing. It is not an easy work, but that fact alone makes it neither terrible nor grand. It is the depth of Fellini's occasional Surrealism (that often overused and misdefined term) and the power of his satire, which save this film from being an epic failure, or a camp disaster along the lines of Elizabeth Taylor's similar vehicle, Cleopatra, or a pretentious work of bilge along the lines of a Jean Cocteau film. In fact, Satyricon is everything that a hack like Cocteau could never do, but which a master of film like Fellini could do, even when not at the top of his game. It is not his best film, nor even a great film, but it is a singular and personal triumph, and one of the most indelible films in the history of the medium; one whose power and imagery will nag at you long after you wish it would evaporate, and one which, inexplicably, has had virtually no influence in its art form. Not a single great filmmaker of the last four decades has picked up the mantle that Fellini tossed down.In a sense, if one were to imagine the end of 2001 A Space Odyssey, after Dave Bowman enters the black monolith around Jupiter, and add a bit of satire and sexuality to it, then extend that fifteen or so minutes by two more hours, one would have Satyricon. Thus, if one was lost by the ending of the great Kubrick film, forget about trying to 'get' this film, for its pure cinema, visual poesy, and Keatsian Negative Capability are well beyond the realm of a film viewer not weaned from the Lowest Common Denominator tripe of a Steven Spielberg nor George Lucas, nor the faux Joycean logorrhea of many wannabe 'edgy' independent filmmakers of recent vintage. Federico Fellini was that great rarity in art- a great rarity, even when his rarity trumped his greatness. "}{"Title":"not a defense of child exploitation","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Fellini was deeply interested in the inter life of whores, and Gitone is his only male whore. Please watch Max Born's sences with that in mind. Gitone is 16 and has been a sex slave to males since childhood. He dosen't love his master, Encolpius or Ascyltus, or anyone. He loves music. When Encolpius shows up at the theater, Gitone looks disappointed as the possibilities of freedom in the actor's troupe will be ended by smothering obsession of Encolpius. Note that Gitone laughts when Encolpius is pushed down. And later is delighted to leave with Ascyltus who might use him for sex but doesn't love him and might sell him to someone interesting, as he had done before (most likely because Ascyltus loves Encolpius and wanted to get rid of Gitone). Please compare the miserable expression of Ascyltus and the contemp filled smirk on Gitone's face when during the shipboard wedding Encolpius is told that he must give up his boys.During their return home from the theater, Gitone allows himself to be lead off by a pimp. Then after passing a room full of little boy sex slaves, such as he was, he is quite willing to be taken into the room of an adult woman and is disappointed when his owner pulls him away. One can tell he's asking why he couldn't go in. Remimber he is a sex slave and that's all he's allowed to be. We don't really know what his sexuality is, we only know that he has become an expert at making men feel like 'love gods'. "},{"Title":"You Name It, This One's Got It! (Well, Almost)","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Oh, me!... Oh, my!... Satyricon is, without question, one of those utterly grotesque and highly subjective films that I think rightly warrants psychoanalysis. It really does.Satyricon is something of a glutton's insatiable romp down Depravity Lane. And, believe me, it's not a pleasant stroll (unless, of course, you happen to be a totally depraved glutton for punishment).Set in Imperial Rome during that mighty reign of Nero (in 60 AD), Satyricon is a literal madhouse of non-stop WTF? moments that will either deliver great pleasure or else sicken you with its outright repulsiveness.Filled to overflowing with ghastly-looking characters, homosexual overtones, torture and cruelty, Satyricon certainly didn't leave a whole lot to the imagination.Filmed in 1969, Satyricon was directed (with an obvious cynical glee) by Federico Fellini.Personally, I found this film's twisted story of ancient times to be quite an ugly movie-experience that, regardless of its truly weird and bizarre nature, wore out its welcome (and its novelty) within its first 30 minutes. "},{"Title":"still remember this film after 30 years","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I have recently been seeking a video or DVD as i still clearly remember seeing this film in 1972 in Sydney Australia. A superb movie provided by a genius of composing each frame. The series of strange characters that weaved in and out of the film. It is shortly being released on DVD in Australia and is a must see provided you are open to strange proceedings  "},{"Title":"Ascyltus, my sword is blunted!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Maybe some spoilers in here. Few movies can claim to have one of the greatest lines in the history of film; Fellini Satyricon can. Not the greatest movie by any means, but God bless it that line made me fall out of my chair. You'll know what I mean when you see the movie.Other than that, the movie is pretty much hit and miss. Well, not really miss, just more, well, hits with a dull effect. Or something. Fact is, this is by far one of the strangest films ever made, placing a camera in a time and place where a camera has no place being. Ancient Rome was decadent, as we all know, and Fellini puts us in the center of the decadence. We see Trimalchio's legendary dinner party in all its splendor, the murder of a Roman emperor, a battle with the Minotaur, and, most important of all, we see Encolpius' touching journey to get his groove back. I'd insert a Viagra joke, but I just don't have the energy.I found the film to be very watchable, simply because unless you've read Petronius' original version, you'll have no idea what's coming next, or why any of this is happening (I've read parts, so I sort of got it). Like Fellini's best films (this isn't one of them) after battling through an hour or so of pretentious weirdness you're forced to make a choice between walking out or letting go of your logic and desire to see a story. It's when you let go that Fellini grabs you. The fact is he's a masterful director, creating stunning compositions filled with designs worthy of master painters. The sets are absolutely incredible. And the music, mostly source music (or so we're lead to believe) is disturbing as all hell; Mr. Bungle fans should watch just for the Minotaur scene. You'll get a treat!Some might say the movie is pretentious, or that it lacks a clear plot. To them I say, well, yeah. Sorry. Don't go watching foreign films if you don't like pretentious and inexplicable. I agree that this isn't exactly Fellini's best work; it lacks the personal nature and beauty of La Dolce Vita and 8 1/2. It has a few moments of mesmerizing transcendence, but just a few. But overall it was just weird enough to be enjoyable, and if you like Fellini or Roman literature, it's definitely worth seeing at some point.Two notes to the uninitiated in Fellini and/or Roman culture 1. Yes, the dialogue is dubbed. That was the standard in Italian cinema at the time when Fellini was doing his best work. Yes, it is a tad annoying, but you'll have to get used to it to watch these films. It's not that big a deal. 2. Okay, in Rome, men enjoyed the sexual company of young boys. Yes, that is wrong and horrible viewed through 21st century eyes, but that's how it was in those days. Trying to apply modern morality to the sex you see in this film or in any depiction of Roman life is wasting your time; after all, the real perps have all been dead for about two millenia. Fellini's just showing it the way it was.  "},{"Title":"Strange, but good","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  As you most likely already knew, Satyricon is based on one of the first Latin fiction stories Satiricon by Petronius. I've read this before, and it's definitely strange, to say the least. But at the same time it's intriguing as well. So I decided to watch the movie. Okay, let's face it it's odd, 'creepy' and probably controversial as well, but I do think Farrinelli sketched the soul of the story extremely well. The decadence (like many previous comments said), the darkness and the irony of society... It's a film with no expiration date, because what you see could happen today as well. Plus, the filming is beautiful enough to watch this movie, even if you don't understand what the heck is going on in the film itself... Definitely worth a rent. "},{"Title":"great setting and sound. Very good acting, dialogues and relationships.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I loved it, I love the setting i thing it was amazing. The sound was very intense and good. And i loved the actors. I love the theme, how he treats sex, cannibalism and humans. "},{"Title":"Decadent masterpiece","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Try to spend as little time as you can looking at the subtitles because every image of this film is absolutely glorious!  Fellini manages to capture the decadence of ancient Rome while acknowledging the profound beauty of existence.  This film, I think, more than his others, has a spectacular gallery of faces--from the grotesque to the gorgeous.  I would advise taking the film in chunks; it can be extremely overwhelming, even for those who are used to Fellini's extravagant style! "},{"Title":"I don't think I have it in me to deface a dead man's work.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  A part of his career from what I have read entails that Fellini was a man of visual,creative,different,and expressive art.This man chose directing, and I feel he was the most creative of his time. As a whole, Fellini Satyricon for me was more than visual,it was fantastic! It didn't have to make sense,nor did it have to equate to another dead man's original fragmented work. I feel the picture itself;the different scenes,the costumes,the set, characters,all of it,I believe that was Fellini's vision,and I loved every moment of it and will revisit that love as I shall surely watch it again.Things of the past no matter who's perspective they come from always run the same cycle one way or another...and in this particular film the way this cycle ran was not at all structured or even evident. Random and unpredictable,with a few links for viewers to pine over and try to connect to historical events.Do I call that abstract or garbage?No, I call it art, and I appreciate it!Fellini succeeded in hypnotizing audiences and for some holding them in a state of confusion, even boredom. Either way, Fellini captured it and in a nutshell captured whoever watches the film,whether they want to be or not!I give Frederico Fellini and all of his efforts an outstanding job from one Artisan to another. So Do yourself a favor and watch the movie.A+ "},{"Title":"Rome Before Christ. After Mind-Altering Drugs.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  In the late 1960's Federico Fellini created one of the most beautiful and at the same time disturbing films ever made. Watching each frame is like gazing into a bizarre painting. I am honestly surprised that Salvador Dali didn't have anything to do with this film. It tells the epic tale of a Roman student's journey through a nightmarish landscape chock full of weird characters and even weirder events. With all the extras, costumes, and set designs, there is so much for the eyes here it is truly unbeleivable. The most disturbing thing I caught about the film is how characters will look into the camera in a frozen stare. It makes you feel as if you are right there. My favorite scene is when Encolpius battles the Minotaur, I don't think I will ever get that chanting out of my head. There is a constant undercurrent of humor that most viewers might not get at first, so you really need to read between the lines. The cinematography is nothing short of perfection thanks to Giuseppe Rotunno accompanied by an always eery music score by Nino Rota. The intense experience you get from this film is unlike anything in film history. Its just one of those great films that shakes you up and leaves you pondering it for hours, days, even years. Its influence can be seen in films like Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits, Brazil and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen; as well as the Shakespeare adaptation Titus and even the more recent film The Cell. I recommend Fellini Satyricon for fans of abstract or surreal art and set design who can see past the disturbing plot and appreciate a true masterpiece of cinema.  "},{"Title":"Endlessly fascinating","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  Seeing this film in the theater began my fascination with art film.  If there are a few films which, like works of literature, reward repeated study, Satyricon may be counted among them.  Endlessly fascinating. "}{"Title":"Actually made me mad","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  *******Minor spoiler or two**************I wasn't made at this movie because of the subject matter, but instead because it could have been so much better than it was.  Too often from Hollywood we get cookie cutter movies that are all the same thing.  Every once in a while we get something different, and very rarely do we get something that breaks the boundaries.Imagine a movie that takes place not in our mindset but that of someone else with the values and ideals of another time and place.  I saw bits and pieces of that throughout Satyricon; the prisoners sprawled about on the endlessly rocking boat, the Minotaur in the maze, the opening scene of graffiti scrawled on the walls, the general ambience of a traveler in a strange land.Yet every time the movie seems ready to break free, it coughs up pieces that are either hopelessly bizarre or seemingly present only for shock value. The scenes of homosexuality alluded to rather than seen throughout the movie was probably scandalous for 1969, but are boring today, and seem cheap shots for the most part.  The hundreds of semi-nude people dancing on the mountaintop, the 1960's Star Trek look to the scenery, the endless flashes showing the debauchery of Rome, I stopped the movie during the dinner sequence and almost didn't finish it.When I finally thought it would quit the silliness and get moving after the cannibalism scene, it ends.  (The ending however, was one of the high notes of the film, a wonderful fade scene that's almost unique.)Satyricon is in many ways obsolete.  Fellini squandered his talent making a movie meant to shock and titillate a sixties audience, the sort of forbidden film the original book was to it's readers.  For modern viewers, however, the ideas are the only materials that may be shocking, the movie is overall almost tame enough to be shown on daytime television.  And that's a real shame, for it could have been something much more.  "},{"Title":"Movies as psychotherapy?","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" This is one of many movies that were 'prescribed' to me by my shrink who believed in their effectiveness in therapy. At first I could not understand the connection between a film and a psychological problem. But then it became clear that both are about a 'fantasy'. Almost everyone in society is living a fantasy that can be as far removed or as close to reality as the person wishes. Of course, if the that person is a head of state dragging his country into war or running after Utopian dreams then the harm done is that much more greater.Now a film is also a fantasy, but it is the very exact and deliberate fantasy of the director. When we see a movie we are transported into that fantasy and we live it in vivid detail and color in all our visual and mental senses. We also live it in our subconscious senses as well, and herein lies its value. Seeing what has been thus far deeply embedded and intertwined inside us now on screen and out in the open helps begin the separation process (between reality and fantasy). Since the distinction between the fantasy of the movie and your current reality is very clear, and since you willingly entered the movie fantasy by your own choice until it overlapped with your inner similar fantasy; you can get to experience the willful 'exiting' of the movie fantasy that would subsequently help you to 'exit' your inner fantasy in the future. Well, it's a little more complicated than that, but this isn't the best place to discuss in deep psychotherapy techniques.Of course I'm not suggesting that, in and of its self, a movie would cure anybody of anything; that has to be the work of a professional, and it's his or her decision as to whether or not to incorporate it into the therapy process. But I am curious as to whether anyone else has ever 'used' this film (or any other movie) in this sense or at least experienced their psychological effect either consciously or subconsciously. "},{"Title":"One bizarre movie","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I checked this one out of the local library, and being my first experience with Fellini, I wasn't sure what to expect. Let's just say that the chances of me sitting through this one again are slim to none. I've seen my fair share of art films from the late 60s and early 70s, but this one takes the cake. The best way to sum up the plot is this two friends fight for the love of a 12 year-old boy. If this hasn't scared you off yet, it gets worse, all the way to one of the friends (did I mention that these were guys) getting married to some freaky old Roman soldier, and the narrative continues to get more and more bizarre until it finally stops. That's right; stops cold because the end of the story has not survived the ravages of time. If you want to watch a movie with subtitles, or a Fellini movie for that matter, skip this one and stick with his more mainstream fare, like Fred & Ginger. "},{"Title":"I only got half way through","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  For a long time I have been interested in seeing the work of Fellini, and it would seem Satyricon would be my first taste, but it was not one bit appetising. Many opinions vary on this film, some hail it as a masterpiece, others pass it off as a self-indulgent failure, well I'm afraid I'm with the latter group. Satyricon is a slow, bleak and slightly disturbing look at depraved ancient Rome, as two young men fight for the attention of a young slave boy, they are involved in a series of bizarre, erotic and non-linear escapades. I think I got to the emperor's pre-funeral party (about an hour in) before I began tiring of the film, it was just too much to take in and not hardly as interesting as I had thought, also the morals of the film where a bit troubling, now I am no prude but you only have to look at the lecherous cover art to see what I'm talking about. Don't get me wrong, the film is not that graphic, but there is an unsettling air that runs through it. I'm not going to abandon Fellini, having spoken to others who where also bored and puzzled by Satyricon but have enjoyed his other works, I think I may just have to start with one of his earlier films. "},{"Title":"A Great First Film For Those New To Fellini","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" I heard a great deal about a director named Fellini for many years. From what I heard he sounded like a master film director with very esoteric material. A few days ago I was finally lucky enough to watch Satyricon and I loved it so much that I watched it at least five times and plan to watch it again many more times and also to acquire more Fellini films.I noticed that many new films are heavily influenced by Fellini's masterful style. The Cell in particular seems to have a lot of stylistic elements that heavily borrow from this movie.I loved the story and the mood of the film. The characters were very intriguing and the variety of different character types is amazing. Some of the actors are so beautiful, they make me want to cry. It makes no difference to me whether it was inspired by a book or not, this film is a great masterpiece in and of itself. I love it. The movie has some very surreal aspects combined with very high aesthetic value. This movie is a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable Satire.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I slowly became a Fellini fan, after seeing this film I began to question Fellini's taste for the absurd. This is a true non-linear film that portrays things that don't even make sense. Considering that Fellini is a grand master of creating fantasies out of reality, you have to like Satyricon for what it has to offer. Even if it does seem rather ridiculous, remember its suppose to be a satire, that's why the movie is entitled Satyricon.  "},{"Title":"Yes it's a visual feast...but there's virtually no plot or point!","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" In ancient Rome two men--Encolpio (Martin Potter) and Ascilto (Hiram Walker)--fight over a beautiful boy named Gitone (Max Born). Then Encolpio goes on a series of totally disjointed adventures.Hopeless. Everybody thinks this is a classic because it was wisely praised back in 1970. However some critics rightfully thought it was horrible--Pauline Kael blasted this in her review in the New Yorker magazine. She basically said that it IS beautiful but also very grotesque. The plot (what little there is) doesn't flow--it moves in fits and starts. A lot of people probably saw it and couldn't make heads or tails of it so they thought it was saying something intelligent. It wasn't.The acting was as good as it could be considering the actors weren't following any cohesive plot! This gets a 4 because of some of the beautiful imagery and Fellini presents homosexuality in a very casual accepting manner. There's plenty of scenes with men casually hugging, making out or kissing. Hell there's even a gay wedding! Still the absence of plot (or sense) makes this a real chore to sit through. It's basically a long, pointless, slow, self-indulgent and ugly movie. Pretty pictures do not a movie make! A 4. "},{"Title":"Greed, Debauchery and Decadence","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Made in the late 60's this gaudy and grotesque looking film was Fellini's portrayal of the hedonistic and free-wheeling weirdness of the sixties through a mirror of ancient Roman decadence. Based on Petronius' Satyricon, the satirical film follows the exploits of Encolpio across the ancient Roman world. The film is a journey but with no quest or final goal in sight it makes for a meandering film brimming with brutality, gluttony, indulgence and sexuality.While 8 1/2 is really the only really required viewing of Fellini's films, Satyricon is one of his lesser efforts. After so much critical acclaim, the director seemed able to get away with anything and with Satyricon he did. No plot, no likable characters and improvisational acting made for a film that didn't have much beyond the visual look. The poignant and meaningful moments of his other works were all but eliminated here. Nonetheless, as a brutal examination of excess and personal pleasure above all else, Satyricon is a worthwhile film to watch. "},{"Title":"Cool, but weird","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I heard that this movie was found and fragments of it were puttogether. I thought that, that was really interesting.When I started to watch this movie, I thought that it would be a greatadventure, and it somewhat did, but a weird adventure. The whole movie,I was either really bored or somewhat frightened. Some of the conceptsin the movie freaked me out. If you like to see a movie that willconfuse you a bit and kind of entertain you, then Satyricon is themovie for you. I'll give this movie a 7 out of 10, only because itsweirdness entertained me. "},{"Title":"Fellini at his Fellini-est","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Federico Fellini's movies were deliberately bizarre, but none more so than Satyricon. The story focuses on ancient Rome during the decline, and we get to see WHY it was declining the ruling class was disgustingly decadent. Two young men (Martin Potter and Hiram Keller) are the window into this orgiastic society. An example of the decadence is when a patrician man rips his servant's hand off, just to entertain his patrician friends.Overall, Satyricon is not the sort of movie that you can try to simply describe; like I said, it's deliberately bizarre. A far cry from the glamorous sword-and-sandal movies that came out of the US, this film never idealizes ancient Rome. On the contrary, the whole place looks very grim. But don't let that give you the wrong impression. Fellini accomplished a visually stunning masterpiece with this movie. "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  It's impossible to describe this movie.  There is a plot, but it doesn't get in the way of the characters.  And the characters are both theatrical and real.  The Imperial Rome of Nero seems like a large soundstage, but you don't mind that at all. Just see it, keep an open mind, and let it wash over you.You'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"An Experimental Flop","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  While Fellini's Satyricon cannot in any way be considered a good film, there are worse.  But on the other hand, this is quite possibly the weirdest film I have ever seen, and I have seen a lot over the years.  For those who have never seen a Fellini film  Don't start with this one.  Try some of his more accessible films at first, then move up to Satyricon if you like those.The plot, if you want to call it that, is not exactly told chronologically, or in linear form, or just about any form from what I can tell.  While every nature of the film is experimental, you can't help but wonder why the film makers even tried it.  Fellini's psuedo-realism style is evident, and nothing really makes sense, from the beginning speech to the final credits.Don't bother trying to make any sense of it, I tried that.  It's one weird story to another, told in the oddest of ways.  While some may consider all of this art not many people are impressed.  The content, which revolves around a lot of mature content, won't even please fourth graders looking for a scene they shouldn't be watching.  They won't get it, and you probably won't either, so my theory is  Don't Try. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" The costumes, sets and makeup are each positive aspects in this film, however they add little to make this an overall positive experience. The plot is messy, consisting of loosely connected stories, haphazardly thrown together, and the whole product appears to head nowhere. The point of it is very unclear. Is it some statement on sexuality, especially homosexuality, in the time of the Roman Empire? The point of the film is certainly not to tell a rambling good story. It appears to be nothing more than a bunch of events that are randomly slotted around each other. Also, the film is rather stagy and more violent than is necessary&#133; although since the point of the film is totally obscure, can we really judge? The film has its followers, and for the Fellini die-hard perhaps there is a thing or two to be gained from it. But, I simply cannot recommend it at all myself. "},{"Title":"Do all great societies self-destruct?","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  No, but according to Fellini they certainly help it along a lot.According to modern science, lead poisoning may have killed off the Roman Empire, but in the ultimate historical revenge by Christians we like to believe that the mad pursuit of desires of the flesh had a lot to do with it.Fellini indulges this warped historical view to the hilt in Satyricon.  From beginning to end, in his inimitable visual style, we see the Romans, although ostensibly interested in the arts, consistently pursue fulfilling carnal desires.  The ending suggests no fate for our heroes or Rome, but leaves it up to ourselves to make a judgment.During the journey you are so enraptured, you almost don't notice that the film is mostly about homosexuality. "},{"Title":"Warning dubbing of this film may be unacceptable to you.","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  What's wrong with the dubbing of this film? Fellini used the best studios at Cine Cita near Rome, the best in Europe. Why don't the movements of the character's lips match the words they say?Fellini worked on the composition of his films while filming. Not always he knew what words to put in their mouth. Not before the film was cut and assembled. Often, he would just say to the actors to jabber (say one-two-three, blah-blah-blah, and so on). That's another reason which enabled him to just use people off the street sometimes as actors, choosing them by their face and not by their acting abilities. Perhaps it is also questionable whether this film should ever be subtitled, since the tone may be more important than meaning. Apparently, the correspondence between movement of the lips and words was not crucial to him. If this is something which is crucial to you, then please DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM.If you want to know Fellini, try to watch Amarcord or Ginger & Fred, or The Ship before this one. If you're intelligent, then move to Fellini 8 and 1/2. When you're no longer intelligent, then move to this film.  "},{"Title":"Was Fellini deaf?","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I would like to draw people's attention to a comment on La Stradaentitled Rhubarb, rhubarb, rhubarb, where the author mentionsthe diva in Truffaut's La nuit américaine saying how she did nothave to remember her lines when working with Fellini.  Since I hadwatched La Strada in English, I couldn't relate much, but now I do. And I remember the sound putting me off while watching 8 1/2.  It'sa total cacophony!  And it really ruins what would have otherwiseprobably been a great movie.   I didn't mind the grotesque, I didn't mind the lack of linearity (afterall, we only have fragments of the book anyway), I didn't mind thefantasy, I LOVED the last shot (really, the movie is worth watchingbe it just for that), the colors were a little wild (let's blame that ontechnology), but the sound!  Granted most of these were not reallanguages (the subtitles appeared randomly, so I missed a lot ofwhat was said), there was such a blur of sounds in thebackground that never corresponded to anything on the screenthat it was really annoying.  At one point I picked up Arabic, where Ithink it shouldn't have been because that was not consistent withthe other gibberish around in the rest of the movie. What I think Iwill do from now on is watch Fellini in translation because, despitethe numerous qualities this movie has, the sound absolutelyruined it.   "},{"Title":"Pretty retarded, tedious, and boring to the core","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" The movie starts out with a stupid blonde guy ranting in a desolate Roman bathhouse about his teen lover being sold off to some theater group. Then the stupid fellow fights with his black-haired thieving friend about the selling off of the teen lover. So, the stupid fellow walks off to the theater and convinces the extremely low threshold for entertainment crowd to return the teen bimbo-boy back to the main blonde character. So, the bimbo and the moron return to their home in a 5-story lunatic asylum hovel and have sex. After that, the thieving black-haired friend comes back and they fight over their meager possessions and divide them up. Bimbo-boy decides to take off with the black-haired thief, blond-haired main character considers killing himself and an earthquake destroys the lunatic house. Good riddance. This is almost the highpoint of 23 minutes of pure boring worthlessness.My review is rather cynical at this point, but to be blunt this movie really rather sucks. You can watch this all, but consider flushing 2 hours of your life away for this.The main theme seems to be that 90% of Romans back in that day were retards, morons, and lunatics. I could go on about the outdoor feast, the slave boat, the main character becoming the male bride of one of the idiot-moron Caesar's thugs, the killing of Caesar on the island, and all of the other severely retarded and horribly boring plot points, but that would be lending an air of credibility to the movie for wasting 45 more minutes of film. If you've seen any bit of the series ROME, then you'd comprehend just how much this Fellini movie limps inanely and worthlessly along. The thieving black-haired friend rejoins blonde-idiot for the rest of the movie after this. Rome could never have become an empire with the human beings shown as examples in this movie. Extreme lead poisoning barely could explain the idiot lunatics shown as examples of Roman subjects in this movie.The movie does pick up about the the time the main moron character is mostly ignored (good) and we cut to a father freeing his family's slaves. After this it becomes a briefly tolerable non-moron-heavy movie. Then the morons reappear, we waste time with them for the rest of the movie. If I could convey just how much this movie severely reeks, then I would suggest the mental exercise of sticking a wad of chewing gum in your ear canal. That exercise would be more mentally challenging and exciting than this movie. I have watched a lot of television in my lifetime (about 35 years worth). I have watched bad programs, great programs, and average programs. I have probably watched about 2500 movies in my lifetime. Some movies were popcorn fluff, some were brilliant philosophical challenges, some were horrible, some were sub-par unless you approached it with a certain mindset. This Fellini movie was simply astonishing in how much effort and budget was put forth to render something much less viewable than a golf and table tennis marathon.I cannot judge Fellini as a director given that this is the only movie I have seen by this director, but Wow! if I were a far less generous person I would never watch any other Fellini movie in my lifetime. You could not pay me to watch any other Fellini movie in my lifetime if this is a prime example of Fellini's work. "},{"Title":"Absurd, hideous and nonsensical","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Why didn't I stop watching this movie after its first 15 or 30 minutes? Maybe because it was so absurd and plain ugly. I wanted to see where it could get. Well, it kept being absurd and not making much sense, up until the last minute.Maybe that's what makes this movie (cough) worth seeing. At least the selection of ugly actresses was very well done. Add to that the hideous make-ups, the horrible music and the lack of viewer involvement. The movie looks like filmed theater; the landscape is cut out and out of place, the sky doesn't fit the shadows and so on (the theater of the absurd?) Of course this was deliberate, given the great (or so I've heard...) Fellini, but I don't see the point.Maybe that's the idea - watch this movie to contemplate its pointlessness or your lack of understanding. Or maybe I'm missing a whole lot of somethings. "},{"Title":"This movie makes my brain hurt","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" Fellini. This is a name synonymous with great film making. I've seen most of his films and don't get all the hype. However overrated at times, none of his movies were bad--except this one.This movie is much more of an experimental film--appearing like it was done by some annoying performance artist bent on shocking and confusing the viewer. In other words, it seemed to have no real point but abounded with LOTS of bizarreness.I would try to describe the plot but I really didn't discern any. So, I'll try to summarize the images I saw. The film seems to be set in ancient Rome and LOTS of $ was spent on weird clothing and makeup, while the sets were very minimalistic. Then, it appeared that the director just said roll 'em without any real script. So, the actors dance and squirm a lot and have some orgy scenes that don't really show that much flesh. That's about it.High art? I don't think so. This is THE film that proves that around Fellini there sprung a cult that devotedly adored his films and declared them to be great art and too with-it for the average viewer. Personally, this films reminds me of the cult around Picasso and Dali. After a while, they were so adored and revered that they ofter produced crap to be mass-marketed by people eager to buy the name! Picasso later did paintings on an assembly line process and Dali even signed blank canvases which were later completed by a lesser artist. "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of Godzilla","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  This is a very colourful film and I can see how it influenced Julie Taymore in her film, Titus, and I can also see how Fellini was attempting to imitate the type of theatre for which the ancients wrote.  I can live with the huge subtitles that interfere with the images.  But what I find offensive is the dubbing.  Jeez Louise!  Fellini is supposed to be a master director, but he is so caught up in his visuals, not wanting any microphone in the shots that he apparently films every scene without sound, then goes back into the studio and has everyone dub over their lines.  I was just waiting for Raymond Burr to show up and speak Japanese.  Horrible, horrible, horrible.  Even though I do not know Italian I can still see everyone's lips moving out of sync and hear the hollow studio effect of everyone's voice.  Petronius would be turning in his grave if there was any part of him left to turn.  One can only hope that the film eventually suffers the same fate.  Excuse me, while I go watch something with better production values, like Hello Larry, The Brady Bunch or My Mother the Car. "}{"Title":"Wonderful cinematography, also some moralic hints in it","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  I really liked the photography, the music and the sets of this movie. What I thought that the message of this movie is not to pervert a man to man relationship. When two men are together, it is not natural that they live together as husband and wife, as they are two men. So, the marriage ceremony with the one man costumed as a woman was unnatural etc, and because the people perform unnatural acts they get so strange as it is portrayed in the movie. Also, when the one man wanted to sleep with that woman in the end, his partner was killed and he couldn't help him because he was busy with that woman, which means he shouldn't have deserted his partner for a woman. The end, where the two men are seen as figures in an ancient drawing, somehow gives a hint of the eternity of the story and its message.  "},{"Title":"IF THE MADNESS,MASTURBATION AND PARANOIA WERE FUNNY,THEN FELLINI WOULD BE A DIRECTOR","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":"  This is a stupid-without start,middle and end-comedy which has the purpose to make us think.Fellini has a sick sense of reality during the Roman ages.It seems that the viewer requires special knowledge and skills in order to understand this atrocity.However that is not the case.This film is a combination of sequences which have no connection with each other.Apparently,Fellini wants to convince the viewer he's watching something unique,different and meaningful.The matter is that there is no meaning at all in this disgusting parody of ancient greek and roman customs.Spoilers!The heroes-I mean main characters-in the movie have no sense of,or reason for,their actions.They pointlessly wander around,doing practically nothing,while the camera simply follows them.It seems like an all-powerful,supernatural force put them there just to exist and nothing more.They lack depth,they are two-dimensional caricatures,just like a sarcastic painting on a forsaken wall.I honestly think that Fellini had a completely wrong impression about the culture,philosophy and beliefs of those times.He wasn't worthy to comment or make fun of centuries of that culture,because he obviously couldn't understand it.The difference between Petronius and Fellini is that Petronius knew whatever he had created was extreme but fun nonetheless(in spite of Fellini who seemed to believe he had created an amusing film).The only amusement in this film is that there's no amusement.If Fellini thought that he had created a successful comedy,he was just sick,on the other hand,If he thought that he had created a serious and meaningful film,then there should be no reason to write  this review. "},{"Title":"Lots of sodomy. Less substance. Flawed yet good.","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, History","Review":" There couldn't have been as much man-boy love in Rome as Fellini would   have his audience believe, because humanity would have ceased to exist   due to low birthrates. While there is plenty of shocking imagery and   some gore, there are also sumptuous, extravagant sets and scenes so   magical you'd expect they were created by the gods. The narrative   itself is a mixed bag.    I can't get if Fellini was saying that pederasty, rape and pedophilia   were OK or not. He doesn't seem to have an opinion, which is probably   true to the way the ancients thought of such matters. Today it's pretty   disturbing. Perhaps he was attacking the rich, the old and the   tyrannical in a manner remanecent of Pasolini's Salo. Like I said   it's a mixed bag. I gave it seven stars, because of way this disturbing   stuff is filmed. How Fellini manages not to make the audience puke for   over two hours is a wonder. "}]