[{"Title":"An all-time favorite of mine.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"160 out of 192 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, this is one of the greatest movies ever made in America and it deserved every single award it won and it's place on the AFI Top 100 list (though it's shamefully too low on the IMDB Top 250 list, at only #183 as of this writing). If you enjoy acting of the highest calibre (Voight and Hoffman are a superb match), well-drawn characterizations and inventive direction, editing and cinematography, you'll love this just as much as I did. Schlesinger paints a vivid, always credible picture of the late 60s New York City scene and it's many victims struggling to overcome personal demons and survive amidst the amorality, poverty and hopelessness of 42nd Street, New York City.The filmmaking techniques employed here brilliantly capture the feel of the underground New York film movement (and of the city) and are nothing less than dazzling. I've seen many ideas (including the rapid-fire editing, the handling of the voice-over flashbacks, the drug/trip sequences and the cartoonish face slipped in during a murder scene to convey angst and terror) stolen by other filmmakers.The relationship between Joe and Ratso is handled in such a way as to be viewed as an unusually strong friendship OR having it's homosexual underpinnings. I think the director handled this in a subtle way not to cop out to the censorship of the times, but rather to concentrate his energies on the importance of a strong human connection in life, whether it be sexual or not.MIDNIGHT COWBOY is a brave, moving film of magnitude, influence and importance that has lost absolutely none of it's impact over the years, so if you haven't seen it, you're really missing out on a true American classic. I recommend this film to everyone.Score 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Depressing but excellent","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"138 out of 167 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Young, handsome, muscular Joe Buck (Jon Voight) moves from Texas to New York thinking he'll make a living by being a stud.  He gets there and finds out quickly that it isn't going to be easy--he goes through one degrading experience after another.  At the end of his rope he hooks up with crippled, sleazy Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman).  Together they try to survive and get out of the city and move to Florida.  But will they make it?Very dark, disturbing yet fascinating movie.  Director John Schelsinger paints a very grimy portrait of NYC and its inhabitants.  In that way it's dated--the city may have been this bad in 1969 but it's cleaned up considerably by now.  He also uses every camera trick in the book--color turning to black & white; trippy dream sequences; flash forwards; flash backs (especially involving a rape); shock cuts; weird sound effects...you name it.  It keeps you disoriented and off center--but I couldn't stop watching.There isn't much of a story--it basically centers on the friendship between Rizzo and Buck.  There is an implication that they may have been lovers (the final shot sort of shows that).  It's just a portrait of two damaged characters trying to survive in a cold, cruel, urban jungle.This was originally rated X in 1969--the only reason being that the MPAA didn't think that parents would want their children to see this.  Nevertheless, it was a big hit with high schoolers (back then X meant no one under 17).  It also has been the only X rated film ever to win an Academy Award as Best Picture.  Hoffman and Voight were up for acting awards as was (mysteriously) Sylvia Miles who was in the picture for a total of (maybe) 5 minutes!  It was eventually lowered to an R (with no cuts) when it was reissued in 1980.Also the excellent song Everybody's Talkin' was introduced in this film--and became a big hit.A great film---but very dark.  I'm giving it a 10.  DON'T see it on commercial TV--it's cut to ribbons and incomprehensible. "},{"Title":"Big Joe Heads To The Big Apple","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"115 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Virile, but naive, big Joe Buck leaves his home in Big Spring, Texas, and hustles off to the Big Apple in search of women and big bucks. In NYC, JB meets up with frustration, and with Ratso Rizzo, a scruffy but cordial con artist. Somehow, this mismatched pair manage to survive each other which in turn helps both of them cope with a gritty, sometimes brutal, urban America, en route to a poignant ending.Both funny and depressing, our Midnight Cowboy rides head-on into the vortex of cyclonic cultural change, and thus confirms to 1969 viewers that they, themselves, have been swept away from the 1950's age of innocence, and dropped, Dorothy and Toto like, into the 1960's Age of Aquarius.The film's direction is masterful; the casting is perfect; the acting is top notch; the script is crisp and cogent; the cinematography is engaging; and the music enhances all of the above. Deservedly, it won the best picture Oscar of 1969, and I would vote it as one of the best films of that cyclonic decade. "},{"Title":"Truly brilliant","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"98 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching Midnight Cowboy is like taking a masterclass in acting/ directing/ cinematography/ editing/ writing. I was too young to watch it when it was originally released, and only saw it for the first time a couple of years ago, but it has absolutely stood the test of time, and I have watched it several times since. Everything about this film is brilliant, from the poignant performances from Voight and Hoffman (even though I know this movie well, I still find myself welling up every time Voight flashes one of his innocently pained looks, or Hoffman coughs in his sickly and ominous way) to the stunning cinematography and superbly edited dream sequences. It's a shame that more of our contemporary filmmakers aren't prepared to take a risk on making movies that are as visually and aurally interesting as this one. Midnight cowboy should be required viewing at all film schools. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"101 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only reason I knew of Midnight Cowboy was because it was in the AFI Critic's Top 100. For a top 100 it is not a very well known movie; indeed, I had to look hard to find a copy, I got the DVD version for about half-price. Surprisingly it was only rated M15+ (the uncut version).I doubt many will take notice of this review (more like comment) so I'll make it brief.This is perhaps one of the strangest movies I've seen, partly because of the use of montages, artistic filming (very art-house) and the unusual theme. There are many things in the film I still don't understand (I've seen it twice), and it makes for an emotionally confusing film.The filming and acting were very good, and it is the larger than life characters which make this film memorable. The main character is Joe Buck, a 'cowboy' from Texas who moves to New York to become a male prostitute. He meets the crippled conman Enrico 'Ratso' Rizzo and, of course they become friends going through the usual escapades. What makes the film interesting is the two characters are so different.I felt the film didn't really develop the relationship between Buck and Enrico Rizzo for the audience to have any real emotional connection, although the ending is certainly quite sad and tragic. You probably already know what happens by reading the reviews, but its pretty obvious from the start.I personally think the film beautifully and poignantly explores its main themes. The deprivation of humanity (shown by the darkness of the city streets, the breaking-down tenements). Most of the characters in the film exist beyond the law (a conman, giggolo.etc) yet you can't help liking them. Joe Buck is endearing because he is so naive and optimistic, while we begin to feel pity for Ratso later in the film.I think the film was rated so high because it was certainly very ground-breaking for its period. At the time (And even now) it was definitely not a typical movie (quite art-house). At a time when the cinema was dominated by tired westerns, musicals and dramas a film with such an unusual theme as Midnight Cowboy pops up.On a personal level, I must say I quite liked the film. The imagery conveyed a dream-like quality. I particularly liked the scene at the party, the music, images etc stay in your mind for a long time after watching. However, as a movie for entertainment's sake it was a bit lacking (not really my style of movie) in thrills. This is a film to be savoured and appreciated, rather than a cheap thrills action flick.Although I would hardly consider myself qualified to analyse this film, the characters and their motives were quite interesting. From what I understand from the flashbacks, Joe Buck was sexually abused as a child by his grandmother, although it still doesn't seem to be relevant to the story. He is a happy-go-lucky young stud, who suppresses his darker memories. The religious connotations in the film are also puzzling. Some have suggested a homosexual connection between Buck and Ratso, although I fail to see where they have got the idea from. The theme of homo-sexuality in general is more than touched upon in their conversation, and later in Joe Buck's encounter with a lonely old man, but it has little to do with the main story.Certainly from a technical point of view one of the finest films of the decade (it has more of a 70s feel to it than a 60s feel) and revolutionary for its time touching on subjects few other films dared to do. While it has a simple, sentimental story to it (disguised by a hard edge) the beauty of the film is in the strange, often psychedelic sequences. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"76 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I sat down to watch Midnight Cowboy thinking it would be another overrated '60s/'70s movie. Some of my favorite films come from the '70s, in the same vein as Midnight Cowboy (Taxi Driver, Mean Streets, Panic in Needle Park, etc.) but there are many, many overrated ones as well that have gained strong reputations amongst critics for being groundbreaking - unfortunately a vast majority of them don't hold up as well today. I sort of feel this way about Easy Rider. (Although it, too, is one of my favorites.)So, I didn't expect much from Midnight Cowboy but got a lot back. It's a touching story, well-made and well-told with some of the best performances of all time. Dustin Hoffman, as Enrico Ratso Rizzo, gives one of his best - it's a bit funny at times (he sounds like a cartoon character when he speaks - maybe because of the Lenny/Simpsons connection), but Hoffman is entirely convincing. Half of the film's budget went towards his paycheck as he was just becoming a major star in Hollywood. Opposite him is the second-billed Jon Voight as Joe Buck, the cowboy who travels North to the Big Apple in the hopes of becoming a male prostitute. Soon his naive ways land him in trouble and he pairs up with a crippled scam artist named Ratso - who offers to become Joe's manager for a certain percentage of profits.The movie is quite long at two hours but never really seems very long. Some films can tend to drag, especially some of the films that were made in the '70s because (as it's been said in Easy Riders, Raging Bulls) the directors were the stars of the movies in the 1970s and occasionally they got a bit too infatuated with their material, going on too long examining characters/scenes/etc. that aren't important. Just about the only scene I felt was a bit too long and unnecessary was the drug party - it makes the film seem extremely outdated (similar to the drug odysseys in Easy Rider) and really harms its flow because it's not needed.Other than that, Midnight Cowboy is an almost flawless motion picture. I was pleasantly surprised. It does have its flaws (flashbacks are a bit tacky and never used as well as they could have been, for instance) and some of the scenes are a bit uneasy (such as the gay movie theater sequence) but if you can handle its content Midnight Cowboy is a truly great motion picture, an uncompromising examination of life on the streets in the late '60s/early '70s. It's a depressing movie, yes, and by today's standards might seem a bit outdated and heavy on the liberal perspective of life is horrible, etc....but I still love it and particularly the extremely touching ending will stay with me for a long, long time.Highly recommended. One of the best films of the '70s. (It was technically released in late 1969 but I'd still categorize it as a 1970s film. It also won the Best Picture Oscar, being the first - and only - X-rated motion picture to do so. It was later re-rated R on appeal.)4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Two Stellar Performances and a Pervasive Honesty Make This One Still a Winner","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's not quite the timeless masterpiece you would hope it would be based on the acclaim it garnered, but 1969's Midnight Cowboy is still a powerhouse showcase for two young actors just bursting into view at the time. Directed by John Schlesinger and written by Waldo Salt, the movie seems to be a product of its time, the late 1960's when American films were especially expressionistic, but it still casts a spell because the story comes down to themes of loneliness and bonding that resonate no matter what period. The film's cinematic influence can still be felt in the unspoken emotionalism found in Ang Lee's Brokeback Mountain.The meandering plot follows Joe Buck, a naive, young Texan who decides to move to Manhattan to become a stud-for-hire for rich women. Full of energy but lacking any savvy, he fails miserably but is unwilling to concede defeat despite his dwindling finances. He meets a cynical, sickly petty thief named Ratso Rizzo, who first sees Joe as an easy pawn. The two become dependent on one another, and Rizzo begins to manage Joe. Things come to a head at a psychedelic, drug-infested party where Joe finally lands a paying client. Meanwhile, Rizzo becomes sicker, and the two set off for Florida to seek a better life. This is not a story that will appeal to everyone, in fact, some may still find it repellent that a hustler and a thief are turned into sympathetic figures, yet their predicaments feel achingly authentic.In his first major role, Jon Voight is ideally cast as he brings out Joe's paper-thin bravado and deepening sexual insecurities. As Rizzo, Dustin Hoffman successfully upends his clean, post-college image from The Graduate and immerses himself in the personal degradation and glimmering hope that act as an oddly compatible counterpoint to Joe. The honesty of their portrayals is complemented by Schlesinger's film treatment which vividly captures the squalor of the Times Square district at the time. The director also effectively inserts montages of flashbacks and fantasy sequences to fill in the character's fragile psyches. Credit also needs to go to Salt for not letting the pervasive cynicism overwhelm the pathos of the story. The other performances are merely incidental to the journeys of the main characters, including Brenda Vaccaro as the woman Joe meets at the party, Sylvia Miles as a blowsy matron, John McGiver as a religious zealot and Barnard Hughes as a lonely out-of-towner.The two-disc 2006 DVD package contains a pristine print transfer of the 1994 restoration and informative commentary from producer Jerome Hellman since unfortunately neither Schlesinger nor Salt are still living. There are three terrific featurettes on the second disc - a look-back documentary, After Midnight Reflections on a Classic 35 Years Later, which features comments from Hellman, Hoffman, Voight and others, as well as clips and related archive footage such as Voight's screen test; Controversy and Acclaim, which examines the genesis of the movie's initial 'X' rating and public response to the film; and a tribute to the director, Celebrating Schlesinger. "},{"Title":"An Unlikely Friendship Tested Among Shattered Dreams","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck (Jon Voight) decides he's going to leave his small life in Texas and make it big in the Big City. The women are there for the asking and the men are mainly tutti-fruttis. Wide-eyed, he comes to New York City, not prepared for the series of humiliating misadventures he experiences, one worse than the other. In the middle of that chaos, he meets and befriends Rico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffmann), a homeless-looking man who lives in an apparently condemned building.There isn't much of a story as MIDNIGHT COWBOY is a series of vignettes destined to bring forth not only Joe Buck's plights in the City, but also inter-cut to his past and show us in shock cuts and semi-psychedelic dream sequences snippets of his past his failed relationship with his girlfriend Annie (Jennifer Salt) who was gang-raped, his abandonment by his mother, and his apparent abuse by his grandmother, who also had a habit of hustling men for money. An air of pessimism dominates the film almost from the wistful beginning as Nilsson plays throughout the opening credits his deceptively flowery Everybody's Talking'; we feel that even while we want Joe to eventually make his mark in the City, the odds are high he won't and will end up working for pennies in a dead-end job -- shown in a masterful shot from his outside point of view later in the film as he watches a man work as a dishwasher in a soup kitchen through a window and sees himself. We know from the look in his eyes he does not want to end like this.A dark story of dashed hopes, John Schlesinger creates haunting images of lost souls at the end of the 60s, and at the center, the prevailing friendship between two men as they struggle to make some sort of meaning to their lives amidst the elusive comfort of a dignified life. There is the implied notion that they may have been lovers -- Ratso's reaching out to hug Joe in the party scene and their the final embrace at the end certainly points at this -- but this is essentially a buddy film, one that manages to survive, literally, to the death, and bring some form of hope to Joe who at the end in Florida seems much changed, older, wiser. "},{"Title":"Disturbing in a way, but great as well","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"51 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Midnight Cowboy' was rated X with the original release back in 1969. There are some scenes where you can understand that, just a little. The movie about Joe Buck (Jon Voight) coming from Texas to New York City to become a hustler is sometimes a little disturbing. Dressed up as a cowboy he tries to live as a hustler, making money by the act of love. It does not work out as he planned. After a guy named Rico 'Ratso' Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) first pulled a trick on him and stole some money they become friends. They live in an empty and very filthy apartment. Then Ratso gets sick and Joe has to try to make some money.The movie was probably rated X for the main subject but on the way we see some strange things. The editing in this movie is great. We see dream sequences from Joe and Ratso interrupted by the real world in a nice and sometimes funny way. Dustin Hoffman, Jon Voight and the supporting actors give great performances. Especially Hoffman delivers some fine famous lines. The score is done by John Barry and sounds great. All this makes this a great movie that won the Best Picture Oscar for a good reason. "},{"Title":"Everybody's Talkin' at me, I can't hear a word they're saying","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"49 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best films of the 60's and one of the kings of X rated films (among the few which include Valley of the Dolls, Clockwork Orange, and the only one to keep the title, Last Tango in Paris) is essentially a old fashioned type of movie, sorta like American Pie was (in a way).  The film stars a young Jon Voight as a guy from the pig farms of Texas who moves to New York and becomes a man-whore.  While in town, he meets the memorable Ratzo Rizzo played even more memorably by Dustin Hoffman.  They then form a good yet sad friendship.  Stylishly compelling, with two fine performances at it's core, and even thought the X rated form might scare away some people, most sex scenes go fast with quick yet excellent editing.  A very well made film experience, however never watch this film on TV, and that goes for most films that have some explicit stuff.  A+ "}{"Title":"Still works on me...","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Saw this as a young naive punk when it was first released. Had me snifflin' like a baby as I left the theatre, trying not to let anyone see. So, when I saw it again now in '07, I knew what to expect & the sobs were ready & primed as their required moment approached. Thankfully this time I was at home.What I hadn't remembered from my youthful viewing- or perhaps hadn't noticed because of it, was the technical brilliance of this movie. The use of flashbacks which tell so much story without resorting to dialogue. The camera work which seemed to place the viewer, together with the characters in the scene. Think of the opening when Joe is crossing the street to the diner, the camera pans behind the woman & child sitting on a bench in the foreground, framing the street scene. The story itself, & the characters - seedy, sad & brutally real. It is very touching to be drawn so closely into a human drama such as this with people most of us would likely spurn. Then again, Joe & Ratso could be any of us. Must have been '70 when I saw it. I recall that upon leaving the theatre I was impelled to find the company of friends. All these years later, I'm glad I'm not alone tonight. This is one hell of a great movie. "},{"Title":"If Might is Right; at Midnight, darkness might enlighten my soul.","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After Racism, Rural exodus -also known as migration from the country side- is another socio-political issue of the 1960s. WestSide Story had dealt with Racism by a love feast in an artistic view. Now, Midnight Cowboy deals with rural exodus by a friendship tragedy in a psychological view. It has a deeply grievous ending that we witness one of the two companions of fate passing away.Director John Schlesinger skillfully deliver us the deepest secret thoughts, dreams, fantasies, fears and evaluations of two New York City scums. While the handsome Joe Buck(Voight) dreams of all the beautiful women of the world begging him to share a wild love fantasy, the poor Ratso Rizzo(Hoffman) dreams of a better and healthier life in clean and sunny Florida. Accordingly, Joe becomes a hustler to turn his fantasies into reality; and Ratso becomes a snatcher to collect enough money to migrate into Florida. Besides Ratso helps Joe to find his way to do whatever he can. They begin sharing everything in life. They share food, they share medicine, they share an uninhabited home, they share their earnings and thus they share a destiny. Regrettably as the story progresses, Joe realizes that being handsome is not the only thing to make all the beautiful women begging him to have fun; and moreover Ratso cannot see Florida since his heart fails defeated to his disease whilst he was on the bus taking him there.The Might is always right, and the Feeble has no right in the daylight. Thence, Midnight gives the factual sight.Despite the tragedy, there is no melodrama in Midnight Cowboy. Every aspect of each character is the reality of the poor who bear their inevitable fate. Thanks to this, Midnight Cowboy is a provocative view of a socio-political issue, the rural exodus. "},{"Title":"Depressing squalor laced with sentiment","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"47 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fascinating downer about a would-be male hustler in New York City forced to live in a condemned building with a crippled con-man. Extremely bleak examination of modern-day moral and social decline, extremely well-directed by John Schlesinger (who never topped his work here) and superbly acted by Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. Packs quite a punch overall, yet the fantasy scenes--some of which are played for a chuckle--are mildly intrusive, as is the mod drug party. The relationship that develops between the two men is sentimental, yet the filmmakers are careful not to get mushy, and this gives the picture an edge it might not have had with a lesser director than Schlesinger. Originally X-rated in 1969, and the winner of the Best Picture Oscar; screenwriter Waldo Salt (who adapted James Leo Herilhy's book) and Schlesinger also won statues. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Brilliant counter-culture film","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy opens with a run down Drive In theater with the voice-over of the main character Joe Buck (Jon Voight) singing in the shower. He is singing a cowboy song, the very thing he strives to be. Joe picks up his humdrum life living in Texas and moves it to New York City with the dream of lots of women, and even more money. He dresses as the epitome of the cowboy, but in a cartoonish fashion, not even his friends take him seriously. He begins his journey on the bus to NYC and we can quickly see how diluted Joe is through his interactions with the other passengers. This is primarily a story of Joe's realization of the harsh realities of the real world.He starts off as a very naïve southerner thinking he can make it in NYC just on his good looks. He has no other reason to think otherwise, as they proved helpful in the past; we learn this from the many flashbacks he has. In the beginning the flashbacks are filmed in a way that portrays them as being somewhat whimsical. They are hazy and the voices sound as if they are coming from a great distance, as they are, they are coming out of his past. However, as Joe delves deeper and deeper into the reality of the harsh atmosphere of NYC we see more of his past, which is no longer whimsical but gritty, filmed in black and white with rapid editing to portray the cruel nature of the past events. This is especially seen in the flashback of him and his girlfriend being assaulted, and her being raped. In one of these flashbacks we see a building being torn down brick by brick. This mirrors the way in which Joe himself is falling apart; the naiveté that he once carried is falling off of him. He and Ratso (Dustin Hoffman) are living in squalor, and barely able to get food to eat; Joe is realizing he cannot live off of his looks, that there is a gritty underbelly of New York that he didn't envision. His subconscious mirrors the way in which his real life is panning out.Ratso is also serves as a kind of mirror to Joe, but in an opposite way; Ratso is Joe's foil. Joe is a handsome, strong man who, for the most part, has a good outward appearance. Ratso, on the other hand, from the very first time we see him sitting next to Joe in the bar we can tell he is the opposite. He is short, dark, and always coated with a sheen of sweat. He understands how the world works, that it is unforgiving, and sometimes no matter how hard you try you will fail; just as his father did. They are living in the same world, the same apartment even, but they understand things on a completely different level.The theme of alienation, one that is common of this era, is very apparent in this film. Neither Joe nor Ratso fit into the culture surrounding them. Joe feels trapped in Texas and moves to NYC where he is still very much an outsider. Ratso, living in the cold of NYC, wishes to move to sunny Florida where he thinks he will be able to find a good life. Even though this is his ideal, in the fantasy we get from Ratso's perspective, it is apparent that he knows he will never really fit into society. In said fantasy he is turned on by the people living around him, he is yet again an outsider, alienated from society.It is not until the end that the gap between Joe and Ratso begins to narrow. Joe resorts to violence; he takes on the mentality of this city in order to get money to fund a means of escape for Florida for himself and Ratso. On the journey we see Joe coming out of a store not wearing the cowboy clothes that he is never without in the rest of the film. He is dressed as someone who looks like they are headed to Florida for vacation. He dresses Ratso the same way; he tires to make them fit into the new society they are entering, but it is to no avail. Upon Ratso's death on the bus, their fellow passengers once again look them upon as outsiders. Even in this new culture they have entered, they cannot escape the alienation they have met at every turn in this film. Despite the Ratso's death, and Joe's continued alienation, the film ends with the hope that Joe can take his new knowledge of how the world works and create a better life than he would have had as a hustler in NYC. Midnight Cowboy is an excellent film portraying the harsh reality of society, and alienation, with stellar performances by both Voight and Hoffman. "},{"Title":"Depressing Tale of Friendship and Shattered Dreams","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The naive Joe Buck (Jon Voight) quits his job of dishwasher and travels from a small town in Texas to New York expecting to make money as a hustler. On the arrival, he is lured by the crippled crook Enrico Salvatore Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) that takes some money from him. Soon Joe is broken and homeless without any client or money, and he meets Ratso again on the streets that invites him to move to his apartment in a derelict building. Ratso has a strange cough and his health gets worse. He dreams on moving to Florida where he believes he will be healthy again. Joe and Ratso develop a friendship and Joe decides to go with his friend to Florida as soon as he gets the necessary money. Midnight Cowboy is a depressing tale of friendship and shattered dreams of losers. In flashbacks, the viewer sees that Joe is raised by his grandmother that neglects him and is raped with his girlfriend, who was actually a slut, by a gang when he is a teenager. Further, his grandmother's boyfriends are cowboys and he has very limited education. Therefore he has a wrong concept of women and love, and believes that he will be a sensation with mature women in New York. Ratso is the son of an Italian immigrant that works as a shoe-shiner and has had problems with his lungs for a long time. These two needy characters team-up to survive on the streets of New York and become better persons through their friendship. John Schlesinger has made a stunning classic that has not aged with an unpleasant story using magnificent screenplay and outstanding cast led by Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Perdidos na Noite (Lost in the Night) "},{"Title":"Very Depressing, But Well Done","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Death is always near in this film and nothing makes it seems more frightening/depressing than Dustin Hoffman's flawless acting. From the moment you are introduced to the seemingly scummy character, Ratso, to Hoffman's infamous im prompt tu line I'm walkin' he'e! right up until his last moments, there is an ominous cloud of despair hanging over the heads of our two main characters.The second main character is Joe Buck, played by an adorable Jon Voight. (How can you NOT think he's adorable when Ratso accuses him of being a fag? Joe's dumbfounded, hesitant response was . . . Uh. John Wayne! You think he's a faggot?) Voight plays his character almost perfectly, too, capturing from the get-go the naivety Buck has towards the real world (something that was perhaps exacerbated by his tumultuous upbringing, shown in sporadic, nightmarish flashes throughout the movie).But as an audience, we don't just love Joe Buck because of his boyish Texan charm. He also has compassion. He manifests this feeling in awkward, confusing, and often harmful ways, but nevertheless Joe is constantly thinking of his only friend. To give examples, each time Joe pays a special visit to 42nd St., he does so to gather mony for both himself and Ratso. He could take the money and run (though where to remains a matter of speculation), but instead he buys medicine, soup, etc. for his friend (and not himself).Our sympathies are manipulated more in our main characters' favor at the end of the film, on the bus ride. Joe, being the post-adolescent that he is, finally gets Rico's name right, while monologuing in the middle of a fixed camera shot. At this point the ominous cloud hanging overhead has turned black, and we all of a sudden know that Rico will be dead by the time the camera moves over to him, despite our deepest hopes that the fixed camera angle is some sort of cruel joke; the film DOES seem peppered with pitch black humor, after all, we try to rationalize.But our rationalizing is vain. Ratso's unmoving eyes, and still sweat on his brow say it all. Then we look at his tropical shirt, and we try to feel happy for him. We say to ourselves At least he made it back to Miami, but even this does no good. The blow is simply too great. There is an unnecessarily long black screen, and then the credits roll. Nothing relieves the terrible feeling that everything we're doing is pointless and despondent.Nonetheless, this film showcases superb acting/directing, and at least we can use that little boost to appease that depressing feeling. This is definitely a must for any cinephile.8/10 "},{"Title":"Stunning movie with an exceptional starring couple","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film narrates how a young hustler cowboy called Joe Buck (John Voight) is going to New York seeking himself his life . There , he'll fight for existence in the urban forty second street . He befriends Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) and both of them confront the sleaziest side N.Y.C. Voight and Hoffman make an agreeable and friendly duo.John Voight as a freelance stud makes a terrific acting . He is sympathetic , handsome , memorable but also vulnerable and naive . Dustin Hoffman as the cripple and ill Rizzo is superbly interpreted . He is crafty and seedy , besides a good and uncanny guy . They'll develop a likable friendship , helping themselves in the various misfortunes and distresses until the sensitive and exciting ending . The picture won Academy Awards to best picture , Director (John Schelesinger) , screenplay (Waldo Salt), Oscars very well deserved . Although the movie is principally interpreted by the magnificent duo , there is an excellent support cast constituted by famous and famed secondaries  Sylvia Miles , John McGiver , Brenda Vaccaro , Barnard Hughes and Jennifer Salt . Special mention to soundtrack by John Barry , the score is riveting and Willie Nelson's songs are awesome . The film is very fine directed by John Schelesinger .The flick had maxim negative classification for sex , nudism abundant , scabrous theme and profane language . Rating  very Good . Above average and well worth watching . The film achieved much success , today is considered a classic cinema . "},{"Title":"As America Goes, So Goes The Cinema!!","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let's just take a moment and evaluate the academy award winners for 1968 and 1969!! In 1968, Oliver (which was an innocuous musical) won for best picture. 1968 was a year of absolute tumultuousness.. Robert Kennedy was assassinated, Martin Luther King was assassinated, and there were riots on the streets of America from coast to coast on an ephemeral basis. Upheaval at the Democratic convention was an assertive rejection of the structured status quo by this nation's hegemony, and, our protracted involvement in Vietnam was emerging as a volatile avenue for an utterly pandemic disdain!! So!! what movie won for best picture in 1969? Midnight Cowboy.... Does this tell you anything? The 180 degree polarization of these two movies could not be anymore emphatic, it is almost as if the occurrences of 1968 had a profound impact on the choice for best picture in 1969!! Such a radical difference in Academy Award winning pictures in just one year, gave a crystal clear indication of how the social transition in America was indelibly ubiquitous!! Hence, the radicalism of the 1960's was influencing virtually everything!! Midnight Cowboy is a film which depicts the sordid sexual behavior which was pertinent to the decaying American moral value system which erupted during the 1960's!! Such depraved and detailed immorality had never been illustrated on the silver screen before!! Jon Voight is tremendous in this film, as he engages in precarious sexual theatrics, (which were the antithesis of his conservative upbringing) as a means of supporting himself. What was so demoralizing about this whole endeavor, is that supporting himself with this nefarious occupation completely backfired!! Dustin Hoffman's character goes beyond desperate and hopeless, his situation is tailor made for society to shut the door on him, and pretend that he simply does not exist... New York City is a cosmopolitan venue which has the formidable potential to effortlessly ostracize and socially obliterate their victims of sub level poverty!! The characters Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman play become metaphorically decimated by New York City's cavalier imperviousness.. This film serves as a five alarm fire wake up call for Americans to be aware of the actual United States they live in, as opposed to the United States that is masqueraded around in front of Americans on the Fourth of July!! Significantly prescient for the prevailing paradigm for movies made during this era, the film Midnight Cowboy presents a circumstantial set of tragedies which will not conquer adversity.. All parties concerned will go from bad to worse, a scenario which directors were reluctant to bring to the American moviegoer's attention back in the late sixties!! John Schlesinger directs this film (He is also known for directing films such as Darling, Marathon Man, and Falcon and the Snowman to name but a few), he does an amazing job directing Midnight Cowboy!! Schlesinger won for best director with this picture in 1969! Dustin Hoffman is definitely in a category all by himself when it comes to his acting genius!! The theme song Everbody's Talking by Harry Nilsson, made its debut in tandem with this movie!! In a nutshell, Midnight Cowboy was a cunningly relevant tenet for admonishing societal despondence. This film was incredibly poignant, as it denounces a bevy of socially callous philosophies in America!! Fabulous film!! One of my top fifty!! I recommend to everybody that they see this movie!! "},{"Title":"Moving, funny, sad, unaffected, astonishing...","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy (1969)This is such a gritty, touching story of two ordinary vulnerable young men, told with such honesty, it's impossible to criticize it taken whole. Midnight Cowboy is a terrific movie. It's terrific because of the two actors--an astonishing Dustin Hoffman, still a new name in Hollywood but already famous from The Graduate in 1967. And an equally astonishing Jon Voight, making his first large role in a movie. Each is a type of struggling man living on the fringe of New York (barely surviving in a boarded up building), extreme but never a caricature. They gel as a pair, helping each other but with a bit of reluctance because neither wants to quite admit they need help.It's terrific further because of the filming, with lots of available light magic in dingy places. The cinematographer, Adam Holender, is remarkably making his first film here, though that might explain the freshness to a lot of the filming. There is in particular a lot of long lens (telephoto) shooting between more intimate scenes, showing layers of people and isolating the star in a moving world (a difficult thing to do with good focus). It's also terrific for the writing, not just for the story but for the dialog. It strikes so subtly to some truth you don't quite expect, even though it's simple and almost obvious. The screenplay won an Oscar, as did the movie (Best Picture) and director John Schlessinger (Best Director). It's worth noting that Schlessinger is a British director with some very tightly conceived movies already under his belt (including the fabulous Darling), and here he seems to make New York as familiar as if he'd grown up here. Along those lines, Voight, playing the naive cowboy to a perfect pitch, is a native New Yorker. And Hoffman, though familiar with the city, is an L.A. kid.Where does the movie run into trouble? Why isn't it in the top ten of all time? I think it might boil down to three kinds of inserts into flawless the main narrative. The first is a series of flashbacks that in various ways try to explain or fill in the psychological background of Voight's character. As if it needs explaining. Or if it does benefit us all to know how he got to his beautiful troubled state, maybe there is something shocking and sensational about the inserts, as effective as they are on their own nightmarish terms.A second insert is a series of short sunny daydreams Hoffman's character has envisioning life in Florida in the sun. It's comic relief, and it mostly works, but there are cracks there. Finally there is a section of the actual narrative where the two men go to a party they've been invited to for spurious reasons (weird luck, mostly). It's too obviously an excuse to film a scene in a drug-addled Warhol-esque party. The hosts are effete artist types who want to film some strange New Yorkers out of context, and so we see the film film these filmmakers and so on. A great scene, but weirdly out of place.But all of his is to be taken in stride as the meat of the story kicks back in each time. And here, with a melancholy soundtrack, you will be moved and entranced. Amazing stuff. Brave and a lesson in how a film can be adventurous and heartfelt and not painfully slick, all at once. And succeed artistically and commercially. "},{"Title":"almost perfect time capsule of 1969","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw MIDNIGHT COWBOY in easter 1970 when i was 15. It was at a very quiet matinée in a very cold rural mountain holiday resort town in in Australia. I was alone as I had gone for a walk but discovered I was in time for the matinée. It was one of the great cinema experiences of my teenage life and left an impression on me that still resonates. After the screening, it was freezing and foggy outside and almost dark. I walked to a nearby park in the freezing fog, sat on a wet bench and cried and cried until the tears began to freeze too. I wiped them away and went home for dinner. Nobody the wiser except me. Recently I was the film again for the first time in 40 years. I am simply awestruck at the sense of NY 1969 that floods from the screen, the sense of the time anywhere in 1969 and the fact that the film is shattering in it's depiction of poverty and friendship in a bleak city. Recently I also went to NY and found that as fascinating for I felt NY was completely safe and totally unlike the squalor seen in their lives in the film. NY today is very pretty and epic and like a fun park. I have enduring respect and admiration for this extraordinary film. I hope you do too. The performances by Voight and Hoffman are award worthy, and Joe Buck, like Forrest Gump is the sexy flip side of the American Everyman. Directed by a Brit John Schlesinger whose International eye for NY and the tawdry but fascinating life of USA 1969 has allowed this film to be as great as it is, only made one other great American films and that is the equally tangible and shocking Hollywood pit of 1937 called DAY OF THE LOCUST. Both films have trailers which every young film maker today should study for a perfect lesson in 'preview' creation. "}{"Title":"This Film is The Real Thing","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I worked the Times Square area for several years, circa 1969, as a NYC Police Officer. I can tell you that the title characters and many others in this fabulous movie were right on the money. There were very few normal folks who were regulars to Times Square at that time. Most visitors and tourists looked right through them but they were all there. Sexual perverts aka chickenhawks, Pimps, and of course the young kids coming off the buses from the heartland by the hundreds, ready to be savaged. The music, drug culture, attitudes of too many parents, and excitement of being a young, all combined to make people think they could make it in an area like TS. So very many never made it to adulthood because of the lifestyle drugs, beatings and assaults were so common. Those who survived were damaged psychologically as well as physically. Personally, I never felt so overwhelmed in my life. While handling one case, you just knew there were dozens more happening at the same moment in time. Midnight Cowboy was just one little slice of life on 42nd Street. An excellent movie. "},{"Title":"It gets better with every passing year","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy was never a great movie to start with but it is a classic. You know it's a classic the moment its insistent theme song, 'Everybody's Talking' starts up on the soundtrack, (actually not written for the film), and the way the camera introduces us to Joe Buck, (naked and in the shower). We had seen Jon Voight before but had never really noticed him but when he tells us he's 'one helluva stud' who's to doubt him? This was a great performance that had iconic star status as well as a complete grasp of the character and if Voight had never done anything else, his performance here would still be legendary. As it is Voight has seldom disappointed on screen; even a piece of ham as well cured as his performance in that glorious rubbish Anaconda is a source of pleasure).The film became famous and infamous almost overnight. It was a crowd-pleaser, (even with its downbeat ending), funny and sexy and recognizably 'real'; (it was the tail-end of the sixties and all the characters rang true). It was also the first 'X' rated film to win the Oscar as the year's Best Picture. Adapted, (brilliantly), by Waldo Salt from a James Leo Herlihy novel it was probably the first main-stream commercial American movie to deal with 'taboo' subjects such as homosexuality and drug-taking in a matter-of-fact manner. Everyone is recognizably human, warts and all, and everyone is treated sympathetically. Voight's Joe Buck is an innocent abroad, a Candide who comes to New York to seek his fortune as a hustler, (a profession he sees as glamorous and not seedy; he's a cross between a gigolo and a social worker). But when he himself is hustled by a scraggy, wormy little con-man called 'Ratso' Rizzo, (Dustin Hoffman, fresh from The Graduate and he's a revelation), he realizes that perhaps the reality is a little different from the pipe-dream.Essentially it's a male love story, (though totally platonic), between these two not so unlikely bedfellows. Both totally alone, both totally needy each becomes the protector of the other, (Voight with his physical prowess, Hoffman with his street-wise savvy). They are misfits adrift from the mainstream, tolerant of their own peculiarities and the deviances of others. Though 'straight' Voight isn't beyond a homosexual encounter in a 42nd street cinema with a boy even lonelier than himself. (The whole film posits a strangely 'Christian' attitude).It's also magnificently acted. While Voight and Hoffman hold the screen throughout there are superb vignettes from the likes of Brenda Vaccaro and Sylvia Miles as well as John McGiver, Bob Balaban and Bernard Hughes as sundry customers and hangers-on, beautifully delineated little character studies that seem to transcend acting altogether while John Schlesinger's direction gives the film the feel of a documentary as well as an alien's totally detached eye-view of the American under-belly without rancor and without criticism. On second thoughts, maybe it is a great movie after all. "},{"Title":"Why 1969 was a revolutionary year ...","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Everybody's talking at me, I don't hear a word they're sayin', only the echoes of my mind &#x85;' well, hearing these beautiful words echoed something very deep in mine. A few movies have been gifted with a song that captures their spirit to the point we can't tell which one defines the other, elevating themselves to mirror more universal feelings. Midnight Cowboy, Best Picture winner of 1969 is one of them.Harry Nillson's poetry responds to the torment of a society in both urban and mental metamorphosis, torn between the past's heritage and the future's uncertainty, between America's deepest roots  God, Family, Community, Progress and an exhilarating fresh air of revolt and anti-establishment. In 1969, post-industrial societies were divided into a simplistic but no less significant dichotomy  the Old and the New order, everything was defined by its ability to move on, or to stay. The movie is about a man who's definitely moving, quitting a lousy job of dishwasher in a Texan diner to go to New York City, some sort of reversal conquest of the West. Joe Buck is his name. Joe has every reason to be self-confident, he's tall, strong, young, healthy, blonde, not a real cowboy, but one hell of a stud is his motto. New York resonates in his inexperienced mind like 'New World'. The opening farewell to the hometown conveys an inspirational freedom of spirit and movements, incarnated by Joe's smile and constantly positive attitude. He can have all the chicks, but he's more interested in old and rich ladies for hustling is the job he wants to do and for something unconsciously attracts him to older ladies. Maybe deep in his heart, Joe is still a little child in quest of a strong motherly figure; this sweet and innate innocence is even highlighted when he plays peek-a-boo with a little girl, in the bus leading to New York. Joe realizes the gap between the world he wants to penetrate and his true nature, and this is the source of his discomfort.Midnight Cowboy is punctuated with regular fast-paced flashbacks developing Joe's background story. Joe was raised by his grand-mother Sally in an overly loving intimacy and one obscure episode involves a disturbing event that has probably perverted his approach to sex. He's moving but something keeps him connected to a nostalgic vision of childhood. From Joe's point of view, nothing is wrong in his business, he's only taking his share of the American Dream with what is at hands. But from our perspective, he's simply lost, the repeated first line Where's that Joe Buck? taking its full meaning.Jon Voight performance's perfectly embodies the excess of an idealism so childish it flirts with naivety and can only foreshadow great deceptions. After a few days in the racket, Joe loses more than he wins money, the height of irony is reached when he even gives one client 20$ after she burst out to tears, feeling insulted after Joe asked for money. Victim of his good nature again, Joe will be disillusioned by a small-time punk, named Rico Rizzo aka 'Ratso'. For 20$, Joe is sent to a supposedly future manager, who'll reveal himself to be a pervert zealot asking Joe to get on his knees ... so they can pray the Lord. Besides the flashbacks, the editing excels in tracing some interestingly subversive parallels. In one audacious scene for example  frenetic movements in bed activate TV channels with a remote control and a succession of pointless programs and manipulative ads, shows on screen.TV appears like the Pandora box hiding the sad realities of the consumer society. Sex is part of this degeneracy where sacred values, religion and family, have been totally corrupted. And from the ambiguity of the on your knees line, resurrects Joe's traumatic experience when he was baptized. The movie depicts religion, in an incredibly revolutionary boldness, as a rape soul. Everything is abuse, consumption from the ultra-realistic, bold, and psychedelically dizzying direction of John Schelsinger, winner of the best Director Oscar. A spiritless society where money, urbanism, sex and bigotry mix in a repulsive nocturnal orgy, creating more frustration, loneliness and perversity, from a mother running a fake mouse around hers son's face to some old broads killing their loneliness by treating their dogs like human beings. For Joe who has no religion and no money, the salvation will come from the most precious thing that could have enriched his life  a friendship.And this is where Midnight Cowboy emerges from the dirt and becomes one of the most classic and poignant friendship stories, between two men whose backs are put in the wall by a cynical society. The image in the poster shows them as misfits, but look at them closely and see how they complete each other, one has the looks, the youth, the health, and the strength, but is like a child, the other is street-wise, knows the ropes, he's crippled, unhealthy, and cruelly lacks in appearance but he's got pride. The iconic I'm walkin' here speaks to many lonely people rejected by society. Dustin Hoffman, in a 180 degree turn from his previous role as The Graduate, demonstrates here his incredible versatility. The friendship between Razzo and Joe will strengthen them, in their daily struggles, to overcome the most nightmarish aspects of New York City, an alienating town whose depressing mood is incarnated by John Barry's iconic harmonica sound.Joe and Razzo ultimately appear as the only persons we can identify with, victims of a ultra-individualistic urban world they don't belong to. In reaction, all they have is to dream of running on the beach, having fun together, in other words, applying the magic of Harry Nillson's song and 'going where the sun keeps shining' Whether they'll succeed or not is not relevant, but no matter how hard they're freezing their asses in New York, sun keeps shining in their hearts ... "},{"Title":"The Immortal MIDNIGHT COWBOY","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  **Spoiler included**John Schlesinger's masterpiece has a power that is undiminished more than thirty years after it was made. MIDNIGHT COWBOY is one of the few US-produced films that is aimed exclusively at an intelligent, adult audience. In this way it is like some of the better European films, which did not worry about reaching a 'broad' audience. It's a beautifully made film in every way. The way Schlesinger mixes memory with present reality is very convincing and often very moving. Neither Voight nor Hoffman have ever surpassed their performances. The film also mixes humor and pathos in a way that is rare in mainstream films.Waldo Salt's screenplay (based on the novel by sorely underrated James Leo Herlihy) is sophisticated in the way it looks at the bonding of two seemingly incompatible personalities. A cold world of disappointment and self-recrimination has isolated both men, and the film shows how they are drawn together out of common needs. On a broader scale, this is a study of the human need to be connected. Yet it avoids any sentimentality and remains emotionally committed throughout. The two main characters can be seen as somewhat symbolic Joe (Voight) represents an American masculine ideal that does not exist. He himself knows this, as the flashbacks reveal with their images of emasculation. So he reduces himself to a stud, in an attempt to regain his sense of maleness. Ratso, on the other hand, has illusions about a possible life buried deep within his damaged, tortured psyche. Joe's unflagging optimism allows Ratso to face his own fantasies (the sadly pathetic 'orange juice on ice' sequence and Ratso's amusing, but also doomed, dream of the good life in Florida.)In the end, all these men have is each other. But when Ratso is gone, we know Joe can go on, forever changed. A great film, by any standard. "},{"Title":"Stud Joe Buck -- virile and naive, just how I like 'em.","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just kidding.Seeking greener pastures in the form of hustling in New York City, Jon Voight is young optimist Cowboy (almost Forest Gump-like) Joe Buck from Texas. It does not take long for the Big Apple to mercilessly swallow him and his ambitions whole and very soon Joe is the target of both the coldness of New Yorkers and cons from its street-thugs. Given his pure heart, he takes pity on one of these thugs, Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) and later moves in with him in his wreck of apartment and the two literally struggle to survive.While Midnight Comedy is labeled as a drama, it is best described as either a tragic comedy or a comedic tragedy in my opinion. It is above all a beautiful film that is stylish in capturing the contemporary hippie-vibe of the late 1960s with its mandatory dizzying Warhol-party cinematography and juxtaposing it with ultra-urban New York City. The film crams Cowboy Joe Buck somewhere in between, thereby emphasizing his out-of-place position. We feel for his struggle to fit in, but also to merely get enough money to feed Ratso Rizzo.Midnight Cowboy brought tears to my eyes as it is also rich in substance and projects a lot of heart. I imagine this film must have inspired both Forest Gump with its pure-hearted and out-of-place lead character and, to an extent, the Crocodile Dundee films as it deals with almost the exact same kind of humour - a contrast between country-cowboys and slick New York cosmopolitans. Very compelling and sensationally creative film that I highly recommend.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent film that finds hope in the bleakness of New York.","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a bleak and unforgiving film, yet there is always the tantalizing light of hope that guides Joe Buck (Voight) and Ratso Rizzo (Hoffman) as they hustle and scrounge their way through life in the darkest and most depressing depths of NYC.This film is essentially one of hope. The naive Joe has an unwavering sense of optimism as he arrives in New York, even as he begins to realize that there are no more opportunities than that of his home state of Texas. Ratso, a hardened and crippled native of the city, has had all hope squeezed out of him, except for a burning desire to one day head south to Florida.As the film progresses and both characters face a constant barrage of hardship and challenges; it could have easily become a depressing story. Yet there are always brief glimmers of a life that currently eludes the struggling men. This ranges from a surreal 'Warhol-like party to Ratso's vibrant posters of Florida in his dilapidated apartment in an abandoned buildingThe addition (and excellent editing by Hugh A. Robertson) of gritty flash-back and dreamy flash-forward scenes that both characters have offers a refreshing break from the bleakness of the city. These flashes also reveal a lot about the mindset of both Joe and Ratso. Joe is a man who is still tormented by a harrowing incident in his past and by his authoritative grandmother who may in an almost Freudian way explain his insatiable appetite for older women. Meanwhile, Ratso's flash-forwards show an idyllic paradise life that he lives with Joe, who may even be his lover if the viewer bought into the confused feelings Ratso may have for Joe. One criticism of the flashes is that Joe's flash-backs were at times a bit too ambiguous and hazy, although this may well have been a deliberate tactic by director John Schlesinger.The film also uses music excellently with the notable use of Harry Nilsson's recording of Everybody's Talking'.As the film nears its conclusion, with Joe abandoning his cowboy identity and Ratso nearing death, the sense of hope is maintained, even as Joe forlornly looks out the window at the sun drenched cityscape of Miami, with his arm around his best friend. In death Ratso is no longer sweaty and desperate, for the first time his face is calm, he is at peace with his troubled life. Joe may have lost his naivety and cowboy identity, but his experiences in New York have prepared him for life, wherever he decides to live it.Midnight Cowboy is the story of one man fleeing his past, and another man who yearns for the future. The performances of Voight and Hoffman are some of the most memorable in film history. Both men make the most of what they have in their difficult lives, and there is nothing more honest and brave than that. "},{"Title":"Dark, quite poignant and captivating","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a very fine film with a lot of merits. The film does look great, with beautiful scenery and crisp cinematography and the lighting is very atmospheric and always fits perfectly with every scene. The music is wonderful, with the highlight being the excellent Everybody's Talking', the story is very strong focusing on the friendship of the two main characters and well-paced and the dialogue is thought-provoking and poignant. The direction is top notch using every trick in the book and wonderfully and the characters constantly captivate. And this is helped by the magnificent playing of Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffmann, especially Hoffmann who I personally think should have got the Best Actor Oscar that year. Overall, a truly fine film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"You're gonna be the best lookin' cowboy in the whole parade.","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Good old boy Joe Buck (Jon Voight) and street con Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) form an unlikely alliance in this Oscar winning hit from director John Schlesinger. It's not what one would consider a buddy movie, far from it, but over the course of the picture, Voight's character comes to realize and understand that if not for Rizzo, he wouldn't have a friend in the world. At times touching, at other times comical, one gets an insider's view of the seedy, sordid life of an outcast in the big city, and how a naive young newcomer can be taken in and taken out by hustlers far more experienced than themselves.Now even though Voight's performance is good, maybe even great, it's Dustin Hoffman who commands every scene he's in. I especially enjoyed the taxi-cab scene, in which Rizzo ad-libs his reaction after nearly being hit by a driver that disregarded the barriers put up to restrict traffic on the street for filming. Instead of losing their composure, both actors just went with it, making the scene a classic (and more than believable I might add).Interestingly, the picture holds up well today, even though other reviewers on this board feel it has a dated quality. I'll go with that if you're considering the coked out psychedelic party the duo wound up at, along with the inconceivable notion that you can get by in New York on ten or twenty dollars at a time. The film's brilliance lies in showing how two entirely disparate and flawed characters can find and relate to each other in a maelstrom of depravity, defying the odds to trust and rely on each other, and ultimately to become friends. "},{"Title":"Best film of '69","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a classic. It deserved th best Oscar and was th first movie with an 'X' rating to do so. Dustin Hoffman gives the best performance so far as Ratso Rizzo. The pitch of his voice thee mannerisms everything is convincing as a New York low life who's heart is really in the right place if it was dug to past all the cynicism. Jon Voigt is perfectly cast and has a character development arc rarely seen.Director John Schelsinger's New York is accurately represented in all its grime and corruption. The story moves from Voigt's back story to his interaction with Rizzo with great dialog. "},{"Title":"Points for pioneering?","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Why is Midnight Cowboy not in the IMDb top 50 films?? Here is a prime example of how a review alone cannot honour the full impact of a film. Actors cast out of type, Hollywood blacklisted writer, non-studio driven, x rated Oscar winner with (at that time) extremely tabu subject matters are just some of the reasons why the status of Midnight Cowboy should be elevated prior to watching. Essentially a buddy film, its true genre is disguised in the dark and seedy reality of New York in the late 60's where 2 men down on their luck, form a symbiotic friendship. Joe Buck is a naive dishwasher who travels to New York to seek his fortune as a hustler, but soon finds the streets are not paved with gold. Conned out of $20 by street crook Enrico 'Ratso' Rizzo, Joe becomes homeless as he is unable to pay his hotel bill, until he finally catches up with 'Ratso' the next day. Joe accepts the offer of help and the two form a business relationship. The events of their past unfold while Joe and 'Ratso' decide to work towards a brighter future in Miami. During this time, 'Ratso' is becoming increasingly sick, so Joe takes drastic measures to secure the money needed for their bus tickets. In a touching and tragic end we see them both make it out of New York although 'Ratso' passes away before his dream of paradise is realised. A fantastic music score is the icing on the cake of this pioneering masterpiece. "}{"Title":"At the top of the list","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw Midnight Cowboy when it was originally released in 1969. I was 19 at the time. From the time I saw it to the present day, it has been my all time favorite movie. I've often wondered why. As an amateur film critic, I readily acknowledge that The Godfather I and II (let's forget about III) are the greatest movies I have ever seen ... and yet, Cowboy is my favorite. Why? Surely the spectacular acting by Voight and Hoffman is part of it but Brando and Pacino are equally as great (as are De Niro and Duvall) in GF I and II. The plot? What plot? Midnight Cowboy is a character study but let's review the plot anyway wannabe cowboy moves from Texas to New York City to hustle women; fails; gravitates to the underbelly of NYC; befriends crippled homeless guy; they ultimately leave New York for Miami via bus and the homeless guy (who apparently has pneumonia) dies in transit. Compare this to the Godfather story lines and it's obviously no contest. So what is it? Why do I love this movie so much? I've come to the conclusion that it's all about its poignant presentation of the human condition and how we're drawn into it. You watch Midnight Cowboy and you feel like you're right there with Joe and Ratso, like you're living what they're living. When I watch the Godfather movies, I know I'm watching a movie ... a great movie, but a movie nonetheless. When Ratso dies on the bus, it rips Joe's heart out but it also rips the heart out of everyone watching the movie. His grief becomes our grief. It's this bonding with the characters that sets Midnight Cowboy apart from other movies ... and makes it my favorite of all time. "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy is a magnificent drama with a masterful soundtrack, which offers us John Schlesinger.","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dreaming about a life as cowboy exhibition, the young and naive Texan Joe Buck (Jon Voight), was moving toward the New York City to become a gigolo, but soon discover that world is not as he imagined. Without money or friends, known to Rich (Dustin Hoffman), Ratso, a cripple swindler you want cheat.We are facing one of the great films of the 1960. The film is supported by two giants of the interpretation as John Voight and Dustin Hoffman. Buck out of its people to seek their fortune exploiting its physical, convinced of it. Unfortunately the disappointment will soon arrive. It board with a cripple that is the limit of life in the big city, and then we are the ordeal of survival in which this world you can put anything more around the corner of a street.What distinguishes this film of others is in its originality, in its way to send a halo of feelings as moving the script, and in their powerful scenes. They say that the best friends are made by moments really hard, of misfortune, when someone to your side is the only thing that you can sustain for not disappear down the drain of life.The soundtrack is excellent, like the performance of the cast of actors, and the remarkable style of the director John Schlesinger.One of the strengths of this movie that makes you wrap soon in the plot is the song of Harry Nilson which has both merit as the indent in itself, without this song is not understood today, the film.Another rightly more, is the fabulous interpretation of the couple. To Dustin Hoffman advised him to not be involved in this movie because other actors of renowned had rejected; today it counts as an nice anecdote. . Schlesinger leaves the American way of life in question, in this drama full of searching in vain, failures and dreams hiding. "},{"Title":"Midnight's meaning to me","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This superb and sad movie expresses the disconnected soul of modern man culminating in the 1960s. God is dead and the soul is left to wander the depraved streets of NYC looking for a way to survive. But men still have their dreams, even if those dreams are no greater than to be successful Miami pimps or hustlers, and come in from the cold. In a world where there is no morality and no one can be trusted, imperfect human beings still find each other and struggle to survive. Somewhere along this dark, lonely, unglamorous path, a thing called love happens. Not the amorous love of heterosexuals or homosexuals but the love of one human being for another. The Texas hustler displays something sorely lacking in many people's lives loyalty, and compassion, even though he is capable of violence and great force in order to keep his friend alive. The old expression (probably coined by the old themselves) is very apt Life is the thing that happens when you are on your way to something entirely different, or Life is what happens while you are thinking about doing something else entirely. Will Dustin Hoffman's character, Ratso die on his way to Miami in the same way that every man dies on his way to the corner drug store, the bath room, his next big project, or to some other place entirely? Or will he find a reprieve? We know the answer to these kinds of things innately whether we think about them or not, and that is why the culminating and moving scenes of this film still take your breath away. In a soul-less universe the world still goes its merry way, whether we are sick or well, rich or poor... but somehow we still have soul. There is a shot during the film that hints at Ratso's future or perhaps his past. A shot of a Times Square symbol of the sun with dazzling lights is followed by the X in the window of the tenement apartment. The sun has been or will be X'ed out, the man has not made it to his place in the sun and we wonder if he will make it to the sun in Miami; he has already been crossed out, rejected, X'ed out of the sunny life by poverty,physical handicap, disfranchisement. Historically and cosmically, the sun has been used as the symbol of one's vitality and life. The X tells us that this man has lost his vitality and will lose his life. But will he? Is it a way of preparing us for a blow in the same way that a dream or premonition prepares us for a dramatic turn of events, or has the blow already been made? Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight did a magnificent job. I first saw this film at the age of 13, over forty years ago, and all I had remembered about it was the ending and the theme of loneliness, and that it had made me cry. (But how on earth did I get into that film if it was rated X? That is now a mystery to me.) Now, after 40 years, I have just watched this film again and been even more moved the second time round, knowing much more about life, about illness and death, poverty of both the soul and the wallet, and about roads taken to dreams that never manifest. Love is more important than the dreams. That's what our young hearts finally find out before we die. Or at least that's what we hope, for dreams are as fleeting as the northern midnight wind. "},{"Title":"midnight cowboy","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a sad film about a man named Joe Buck, played by John Voight, who is looking for something great and somehow remains hopeful throughout the entire film. He travels on a bus from Texas to New York City trying to be a hustler. However, all he finds is his friend Ratso and a run down building with no heat. He never really seems to fully understand just how bad things are. Throughout the film we see unbelievable poverty, with Ratso stealing clothes and food just to stay alive. At the beginning of the film Ratso Rizzo seems like a character you should not like but somehow end up feeling bad for. Joe is so innocent that he stays with Ratso in this horrible situation; partly because he has no where else to go and also because he just wants to take care of his friend.This film uses a lot of flash backs to help us understand Joe's past; to see what he's running away from and where he wants to be. We are shown flash backs of his girlfriend who seems to have been attacked and taken away from Joe. We also see flashes of his grandmother who didn't care about him all much and leaving him alone all the time to go out. There is another clip in which we see who is probably his mother, giving him away to her mother. All his life Joe has been given away and left alone to fend for himself. However, he still doesn't know how to truly take care of himself.Voight and Hoffman's performances were excellent. Voight really showed his innocence with his facial expressions when he was confused or shocked. Hoffman's portrayal of a poverty stricken con man was amazing and a type of role I had never seen him in before. His limp and cough added a whole other dimension to his character and made us feel sorry for him. As he tries to teach Joe how to be a hustler in the big city, Joe never really learns anything and continues to get confused or thrown out of places. When Ratso gets really sick Joe finally agrees to take him to Florida. As their traveling, there is again a sense of hope with Joe. He feels like this is a new start and Ratso will be alright. However, this time he ends up alone again, holding his dead friend in his arms with no idea of what to do or where to go next. "},{"Title":"I'm walking here! I'm walking here!","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is one of the most unique films I have ever seen. The film starts by introducing Joe Buck (Jon Voight) to us. We see him getting dressed in his cowboy suit and packing his suitcase. His suit is loud, with his bright shirt and cowboy hat, in an era that most people did not dress that way. He seems somewhat surreal and over the top. He goes to what seems to be his job and quits because he intends to travel to New York City from Texas. We are not quite sure what his intentions are. He mentions, to a friend, that he wants to become a male hustler when he arrives in New York. He meets many different people on the bus to New York. During this time, we see that Joe is essentially a nice person. There is a scene where he makes friendly gestures towards a kid. This scene is ironic because we get the impression that Joe is also a child. He seems very naive in almost every way. His naiveté is shown in the way he dresses, thinking himself to be a cowboy, in the way he acts, in the way he feels it is going to be easy to be a male hustler, and in the way he feels living in New York is going to be so much easier than living in Texas.When Joe arrives in New York, he realizes that it was not going to as easy as he thought. He tries to get women to notice him and realize that he is a male hustler but to no avail. One woman does notice him and they have sex. Then she asks him for money for a cab before he asks for money for the sex. When he does, she breaks down and cries. Joe, being a genuinely nice person, offers her money for the cab and she eventually receives twenty dollars. This scene shows how naive Joe really is. Eventually Joe meets the other protagonist in the film, Rico Salvatore Rizzo a.k.a. Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman). Ratso seems to know the ropes and how the city works. He has one limp leg and he does not look like a very trustworthy person at first glance. Eventually, the two create a friendship after Joe needs a place to live and Ratso lets Joe live with him. Together, they meet hard times, without money and they live through a winter without heat.Each main character has a plan or a dream. Joe wants to become a successful male hustler in order to become rich while Ratso wants to go to Florida and live there. It seems, while watching the film, that neither character will achieve his dream. It is sad, but realistic because, for most people, things do not work out the way they plan. In America, we have been taught that anyone can do anything; that is the American dream. This film shows quite the opposite. Joe never becomes a successful hustler and Ratso dies at the end of the film. Midnight Cowboy film mirrors Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper's Easy Rider. Both films deal with journeys and the destruction of the American dream. Both films have sad endings and do not leave the audience with any good feelings. At the end of the film, Joe's naiveté leaves him at the end of the film. When Joe and Ratso arrive in Florida, Joe has to be one in charge because Ratso is unable to walk. Joe buys new clothes and dumps his cowboy outfit. This is the first time we see him without it. After Ratso dies, we know that Joe has to fend for himself and grow up.As I said before, this was a unique film. It had great performances by Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. It was superbly directed by John Schlesinger. The film still seems to be odd to me but a likable film nonetheless. It will go down as one of the best modern classics out there. I recommend the film. Even though I am not sure everyone will like it, it is still a film everyone should see. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie ever made","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember being disappointed at not being old enough to see this movie when it was first released. I would have to wait another 11 years to see it on video,but it was worth the wait.No movie I have seen since has captured the loneliness and dependence of two souls in an cold city. Shot in New York it could have easily have been Toronto or even Minneapolis anyplace the temperature dips below freezing. I felt cold when Ratso and Joe Buck were cold. When they were hungry I felt the pangs as well. Dustin Hoffman & Jon Voight inhabited the characters and at once made we want to help and walk faster. The movie perfectly snaps a shot of the late sixties and preserves the psychedelia and pace. This is a must see for anyone who claims to love movies "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy, a film of lust.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A ride on an emotion roller-coaster would be the best way to describe the film Midnight Cowboy, by director John Schlesinger. The ups and downs that the protagonist Joe Buck (played by John Voight) is subjected to truly throw the viewer around as if they were an up and coming hustler themselves. It is a story of starting a whole new life in a strange new world, thinking that you really know what you're after, and yet finding that the life you thought you wanted doesn't want you. Joe Buck is a young stud that is trying to pursue a career in hustling the rich middle aged women of New York City. He soon finds himself homeless, broke, and beat up by urban society. He becomes a lonely midnight cowboy roaming the streets, with his manager Enrico Salvatore 'Ratso' Rizzo (played by Dustin Hoffman), searching for whatever trick he can find.Joe leaves Texas as an innocent young man with visions of the illustrious urban life. We come to find out that his emigration from Texas to New York City isn't just driven by dreams, but also by the yearning to cover up a past of abandonment and bad memories. This would become a reoccurring theme in the film, one of being left by the people who are closest to you, with most incidences being revealed in flashback form. Joe is first dumped on his grandmother by his mother and aunt (or two mothers) at a young age, and she soon became his mother figure. Joe then acquired a girlfriend as a teenager/young adult and is left by her due to some sexual assault altercations that are revealed to the viewer in graphic reoccurring nightmares and daydreams. The last flashback memory of feeling alone is a scene of Joe returning to his home after serving in the army. He is shown sitting on the steps of his grandmother's dilapidated house, and we come to find that he is just as abandoned as the house.Once Joe reaches New York City he is soon hit with the reality of his situation. Many up-scale women are not into being hustled, cowboys have come to be seen as having a homosexual connotation, and the only place he can find work as a cowboy is in a modern art exposition that is actually an abstract art trip fest. It is here he solidifies the only real work he gets as a hustler, other than beating up a gay preacher who is sorry for his sins.In dealing with living in a condemned house, not knowing where your next meal is coming from, and taking care of his dying manager Rico, Joe realizes that maybe hustling and living in the city isn't for him. He is forced to discard the life he thought he was made for and travel south to Florida for Rico's sake. Once the two make it to Florida, and obtain dapper beach-life attire, Rico takes a turn for the worst and passes away, sealing the theme of abandonment in the film. Joe is left alone, and must roll with the punches of life once again.I believe this film is about the trials a traditionalist goes through while trying to assimilate themselves in a modern culture. Joe knows what New York City symbolizes, wealth and a new way of life, but he doesn't understand how it functions because he hasn't the experience to know better. This film probably played a big role in opening the countries eyes up to the new down and outers of society, and what life has come to for them. The majority of the tricks Joe found were homosexuals in the late 60s who were then only lurking in the shadows and trying to stay unnoticed by the radar of society. The explicit nature of the film brought to light the underbellies of the late 60s culture, and did it so well that even though it created and uproar with its release it still has been the only X (NC-17) rated film to ever win Best Picture by the Academy. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the half-dozen films that left me shaken upon leaving the theater where I saw it in 1969 (at the age of 19). It has all the bizarreness and griminess that was New York in the late '60s, which was pretty frightening to a sheltered Brooklyn teenager. The direction and cinematography were highly unusual for that time, and the use of montages and cuts (and the trippy shots of the Warholesque party) made the film even more disorienting. The film never sags and holds your attention throughout, and the through line of the plot -- the friendship between Rizzo and Joe Buck -- has about as much emotional impact as anything else I've ever seen. Equally of interest is the psychological content of the flashbacks that show how Joe became the way he is. The star performances are outstanding -- hard to see how either of them could lose to John Wayne -- and the sheer variety of supporting actor performances is incredible. A fully realized, three-dimensional film that probably couldn't find backers today. "},{"Title":"Everlasting Friendship!","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a very good movie, to say the least. I wasn't sure what to expect because of that controversial X-rating. But I was hearing this is one of the better influential films of the twentieth century, so I thought it was my duty to check it out. Now the film is about a close friendship that forged between two borderline criminals. How they go through life may not be endearing, but the friendship that is forged between them is very striking and moving. By the film's end, I have come to feel for the characters. The film does have a distinct overtone involving homosexuality, which is incredibly rare for a film in the 1960's. I think that is part of the controversy this film received. That being said, this is a fine work of art that stands to keep its hold in most influential films list.John Schlesinger's film is about a Texas hustler named Joe Buck who decides to move east to explore opportunities involving money and women. But he quickly realizes that New York City is nothing like his Texas hometown. He meets this outcast named Ratso who decides to show him how to strike it rich in the Big Apple. As the adventures start sailing, an everlasting friendship is forged between the two men.Now one thing that makes the film work the way it did was the outstanding performances. Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight have incredible chemistry with each other. Hoffman was coming off his role that fueled him to stardom in the Graduate and Voight just began what is the start of an incredible movie career. I really liked the makeup of the two characters. Voight, who is oblivious to the culture of the East with his cowboy attire in full swing while in the streets of NYC, and Hoffman who actually fits the name Ratso as I felt he resembled something of a human rat.Overall, Midnight Cowboy is a fantastic movie. A movie about friendship. It was a heart-warming experience for me. The ending of the movie was very proper, if a tad emotional. I can see why people rave about this movie. Now this may not end up as my all-time favorite movie, but I'd certainly put it in my top 50 films. There are a few small flaws, but nothing that hurts the film in all. If you have doubts about Hoffman and Voight as great actors, just watch Midnight Cowboy.My Grade A "},{"Title":"A Unique Story With Unique Characters","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie twice when it was in the theaters, way back when. The first viewing I was sort of hypnotized by the characters and their plight, and of course the bittersweet ending. The second viewing was just as spell-binding but in a different way. The second time around I could better take it in without being surprised by all that came by me on the screen. It is one of my favorite movies of all time.The ending is very sad and very sweet. The cinematic journey to get to that ending is what makes the film a gem. The performances of both Voight and Hoffman are outstanding. I challenge anyone to find a film that contains two performances any better, any richer in the same movie. There were several ground-braking films in the late 60s; 2001 A Space Odyssey and Easy Rider to name two. Midnight Cowboy is one more. "}{"Title":"A wonderfully crafted story of two men's lives in the gutters of New York.","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was made in the old days and the way when a good film had reality and an emotional content contained within it that truly reflected the human emotion and its real experiences. This was one of Jon Voight's early movies, one of his best, not to mention the Odessa Files, and my favorite film of his The Runaway Train with Eric Roberts and Rebecca DeMornay. No one hardly ever sees movies like this anymore because of Censorship. This movie depicts the dark underground and shady characters, and the low life elements of New York City where a newcomer can easily fall prey to their greed and use him to the last of drop of humanity he had left. If you wish to see a truly RAW movie, I suggest this one because it is one of the best ever made with Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. Enjoy the ride as it is an unforgettable experience! "},{"Title":"A Must-See.","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1969, box-office kings Jon Voigt and Dustin Hoffman were relatively new. Both did a few well- known things before, but they did not have their feet firmly planted and were still ready to tackle the toughest roles of their careers thus far in the most risqué movie they have done. This is the only X-rated movie to ever win the Oscar for Best Picture. Although it is not rated X anymore, this is not one everybody will be comfortable with, but it is one to see comfort or not. Not only did Voigt and Hoffman nail their parts and give the two best performances of 1969, but the movie itself is one to be treasured for a lifetime. Joe Buck (Voigt) is a naive cowboy from Texas who tries to make it as a hustler in the Big Apple. Buck had been around sex his whole life, and thinks it is the only thing he is good at. There, he meets the severely crippled Erico Ratso Rizzi (Hoffman) who offers to manage him. Ratso dreams of better health and living a happy life in Miami. As both men struggle to survive in the streets and in the world of prostitution, their bond deepens in an unbreakable friendship. Voigt is dazzling as Buck, but is outdone by co-star Hoffman. Hoffman is one of those method actors who live their characters out in their daily lives and show no mercy in what to do to be believable. A common misbelief, method is not that. Method acting is recalling emotional and sense memory. Ratso walks with a limp as he suffers from polio, so Hoffman actually put rocks in his shoe to keep his limp real. Ratso's inner health is also deteriorating and brutally coughs throughout the movie, so Hoffman tried so hard to makes the coughs be believably brutal, that he actually puked in on take. Hoffman's overall health in this film is so bad, some viewers may actually be uncomfortable. Both Hoffman and Voigt give arguably the best performances of their careers. Aside from the acting, the themes of survival, loyalty and friendship are all played out vibrantly. It is strong character-driven movies with sold and, sometimes provocative, themes that I love. "},{"Title":"..a stellar pair of acting performances.","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy really knows on how to build characters that would linger on for quite some time. Midnight introduces Joe Buck (Jon Voight) and his partner, 'Ratso' Rizzi (Dustin Hoffman). But how did thay' could possibly have scored distinction? The term 'distinction' I used was me referring to the ability of scoring being different; not to be perfect or marvelous. Buck stays with his appalled cowboy-texan outfit, while Ratso always sleeps with his black, gelled hair and seductive American-Italian accent. They do stay consistent with their characters' elements, and hence it made them unforgettable. Joe Buck? He is that cowboy. Ratso? The thick black haired guy with the accent.Joe Buck, a Texan dishwasher, makes his way to New York City to seek a fortune by becoming a male prostitute for women, some kind of a 'hustler', but instead, he only gets an uncomfortable friendship with a cripple con-man named Ratso. Instead of winning success in the city like how he first though he would get, he only wins a rotten apartment in a condemned building that Ratso offered after aimlessly living in the city for some time. The words that a friend of Buck used during its one of the opening sequences already quite have summed up the film Oh, I bet you it's a mess back there (New York City).Joe Buck is naïve, why? Surely he had only spent his life in a small town of Texas and rarely engaged to the outside world and he is probably the most charming lad in Texas which led to an idea that he is that 'most-goodlooking-man' in the world, but undoubtedly he is not. His biggest flaw would be his ability to not notice that his beliefs are completely as a whole, is a mistake; only the public sees, and 'Ratso' Rizzi sees. Self-esteem being misplaced perhaps? Maybe. The worst fact about being naive is that you wouldn't be able to notice it for yourself, and Midnight able to show that thoroughly. The film's study on naivety is spot on.The plot's structure is simple and incredibly easy to follow, but the little details are the ones that are very difficult to adhere. The smaller stories will be thrown around throughout the film, and I have to help myself to fix the details that are being scattered. Upon my first viewing, through its flashback moments, I am only able to notice that Joe Buck was very lonely as a child; but Joe Buck goes for far more than that. Joe Buck is a character with depth and complexity, and Midnight rewards repeat viewings.The friendship between Joe Buck and 'Ratso' Rizzi is a pure breeze. The tie stays as a fun entertainment and a backbone of the picture; a miss will prove that the film will be less successful. The praise is supported by perfect performances and a suave screenplay written for the characters. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are absolutely superb; the chemistry between the two talented stars stays in transcendence in modern cinema.Jon Voight flawlessly captured the sheer innocence of the character. His voice, and the intelligent navigation of facial expressions did help the character to appear natural or genuine. Hoffman on the other hand, succeed in becoming a crippled but yet charismatic loser. Oscar nominations for the two leads speak volumes.If you are a lazy movie audience, then it would be tough for you to enjoy the Midnight trip. I mentioned that the movie suggests enjoying throwing its stories around and having an expectation to fix them. Midnight never tells, but shows, and with that idea, you have to slightly be hard on yourself. But nonetheless, even if the movie is difficult, it is very easy to accept that the film features a stellar pair of acting performances.Score 3/4(Cinematicmadness.blogspot.com) "},{"Title":"I ain't no cowboy, but I am a stud","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck (Jon Voight) is living in Texas and is unhappy with his job and decides to up and leave and head to New York City. His aim is to become a hustler and take advantage of some of the rich women that frequent the area. Joe naively thinks that if he arrives in New York dressed as a cowboy that he will be able to hustle money out of these rich women. Whilst women do seem to like Joe, he doesn't really have the brains to be a successful hustler. Then Joe bumps into Ratso (Dustin Hoffman) - a lowlife street hustler who Joe initially takes a disliking to due to the fact that Ratso cons money out of Joe. However, when the two men realise that they both share a common goal of hustling for money, the two men set to work hustling as many people as possible with mixed results.....Midnight Cowboy is a truly wonderful film which is a human drama with a real emotional core. The main strength of this film lies with the strong performances from Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. Voight is perfect as the unintelligent red neck wannabe cowboy from out of town. His southern accent does make him sound unintelligent, but Voight's facial expressions and mannerisms help to create this effect. I've always felt that a convincing accent and sharp dialogue can only carry a film so far - sometimes you need the actor to bring that little bit extra to the table and I feel that Voight was excellent in this respect. Hoffman is also good - his character generally has a meaner edge to him, but he lives in squalor in probably one of the worst apartment in New York. His character has a limp and a cough which will more than likely make the viewer pity him rather than like him. The film flows well and I felt it was told at an even pace, the journey that the two men make was funny, heartbreaking, interesting, moving and on the odd occasion disturbing, but all this is done in a way that is both interesting and engaging.One other aspect that particularly impressed me were the photography and visuals; the editing and photography were fantastic - the part where Joe is chasing Ratso and the dream sequences were top notch. We tend to see this sort of thing more and more these days, but back in 1969 this would undoubtedly have been something that was rather novel. The music in this film is also terrific and includes the wonderful 'Everybody's talking at me'. Midnight Cowboy is an excellent film which is both touching and funny in equal measures. Ratso and Joe at times will bicker together, laugh together, and suffer together, but it's a journey you'll be glad you took time to make with them. Right from the moment Joe sets off to New York to the rather moving end, this is a rewarding and enjoyable experience. If you haven't seen Midnight Cowboy then I strongly suggest you watch it as it is an excellent film both visually and emotionally. "},{"Title":"The Odd Couple","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The disturbing decay of a City and two unfortunates make this a not so pleasant Character Study that had a New Wave, Scintillating Style and Lead Performances that are nothing short of Brilliant. The images in the Movie are just as important as the People that are placed in them.Unforgettable Street Scenes and the eroding, yet sometimes beautifully decadent Landscape of New York, before the antiseptic Renaissance, make this a Time Capsule that proves to be quite the Postcard from Hell.There are a number of Artistic flourishes mostly used in Dream Sequences and Flashbacks, but also in a Drug induced Warhol type party. The best of which is the chase sequence where Joe Buck pursues Rico/Ratso in a furious rage through the bowels of the City.It is a stunning and a drain of a Movie. It saps the Viewers energy with some gut-wrenching realism, then energizes it with some Black Humor, Psychedlia, and Pathos, then saps it again with a more realistic display of Human Frailty. This constant back and forth as it is playful and painful, is at the Heart of the Experience that is Midnight Cowboy. "},{"Title":"American New Wave masterpiece still looks fresh","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Time has not diminished this classic, and if anything it looks remarkably fresh compared to today's stale Hollywood formula.This uncompromising film takes a savage look at the American dream and its lurid underbelly, punctuated with wry social satire. Hoffman and Voight make the most of dream roles, while the cinematography is a standout, this time with a Pole behind the New Wave camera not the ubiquitous Hungarians. Small on action but big on emotion, it never falls into sentimentality, its bold exploration of social themes in strong contrast to the limp conservatism of modern American cinema.Can you imagine what Hollywood would do to this today? We love your work John, but we're going to have to reshoot the ending. It didn't rate with the test audience. Too depressing, and can we throw in some action, liven it up a bit.Midnight Cowboy was made for $3m, around $20m today, still a fraction of modern budgets, which goes to show that more doesn't mean better. As in politics, more money often results in more corruption, of ideals and ideas. Time for a new New Wave to blow away tired movies with lame plots, big on glitz but low on substance. "},{"Title":"Finest of New Hollywood, Schlesinger's Masterpiece Hoffman at his best","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film effectively ignited my spark of passion for film and the New Hollywood cinematic era in general, the plot revolves around a small time texan man striving for more fulfillment than his mediocre life cleaning dishes in the local diner offers. He decides to head for New york in search of sexual and financial satisfaction but his ambitions don't quite flourish as he expects.Hoffmans Fastidious approach to landing this role is echoed throughout every scene, his plausibility as Enrico Rizzo Salvatore the New york Hustler with ailing health is impossible to deny and his improvisational skills lead to one of the most iconic scenes and most famous lines of dialogue in Hollywood's history, Im walking here!, ya son ova bitch! as an actual New York cabby unknowingly enters an improvised on location NY city film set nearly knocking both Jon Voight and Hoffman over.This really is the one of the ultimate buddy films, the plot and depth of character really allows the audience to connect with both characters, their desperation and ultimately their growing dependence on each other in such inhospitable surroundings as echoed with Joe Buck's entrance to New York as he witnesses the drunk/dying man led on the pavement, ignored as if another piece of gum on the sidewalk.Many of the edits in it such as Bucks dream sequences in particular his theoretical Ratso chase scene is especially captivating echoing the experimental edits of Antonini's earlier classics of the 1950's.The plot doesn't fall to fowl of the James Leo Herlithy's Book with a brilliant reworking by veteran ex blacklisted screenwriter Waldo Salt, one of the finest most innovative screenwriters of his time, reworking the gangster genre to a comedy hybrid, a good 30 years before the Sopranos or Analyse this/that to very comic effect starring a very young De Niro in a Bupkipesque role of inexplicable comic scenes. Further working on Coming Home a brilliant early anti Vietnam film by Hippy of Hollywood Hal Ashby, (fantastic soundtrack too as all of Ashbys films)Serpico which speaks for itself with Lumet ( king of NY directors in my eyes) and Schlenslingers later more condemning film, Day Of the Locust, 1975..... Another must see.To sum up 10/10 great soundtrack by Schelsinger/Barry, great cinematography, top acting, sweet direction, a winner on all counts, wham bam thank ya Schlesinger ,maan x "},{"Title":"Melancholy & Moving.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Schlesinger directs this extremely powerful character study of lost souls and disillusionment. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman(Two outstanding performances, especially Hoffman) play Joe Buck & Rico Ratzo Rizo, two down on their luck hustlers who form a most unlikely friendship as the try to survive on the streets of New York, but dream of saving enough money to get to Florida.That the film gets the viewer to care about two(normally) unsavory characters as these is testament to the brilliance of the script and direction, but also the acting. Jon Voight makes Joe a likable but naive man with a troubled past, who has relocated from Texas with dreams of rich older women, only to face bitter disappointment. Dustin Hoffman plays Rico as the seen-it-all, knows-the-ropes street veteran who nonetheless is very small time, and haunted by his past, and afflicted with a limp, and is still not well...Some touches(like the psychedelic party) haven't aged well, but film is otherwise mesmerizing, and leads to a devastating end, punctuated by a powerful score and Everybody's Talking .Won Academy Awards for best picture and director(but not best actor!) "},{"Title":"As Long As I Live, I'll Never Forget This Film.","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a 1969 American drama film based on the 1965 novel of the same name by James Leo Herlihy. The script was written by Waldo Salt, directed by John Schlesinger, and stars Jon Voight in the title role alongside Dustin Hoffman. The film won three Academy Awards Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay. To date, it is the only X-rated film ever to win Best Picture. It has since been labeled as one of the greatest American movies of all time.The plot of the film deals with Joe Buck (Jon Voight), a young Texan who works as a dishwasher. As the film opens, Joe dresses in new cowboy clothing, packs a suitcase, and quits his job. He heads to New York City hoping to succeed as a male prostitute. Joe's naïveté is quickly evident. Initially unsuccessful, he succeeds in bedding a well-to-do middle-aged New Yorker (Sylvia Miles), but Joe ends up giving her money. Joe then meets Enrico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman), a crippled, street con man who takes $20 from Joe by offering to introduce him to a known pimp, who turns out to be a Bible thumper (John McGiver). Joe flees the encounter in pursuit of Rizzo.Joe spends his days wandering the city and sitting in his hotel room. Soon broke, he is locked out of his hotel room and most of his belongings are confiscated. He tries to make money by agreeing to receive oral sex from a young man (Bob Balaban) in a movie theater. When Joe learns that he has no money, Joe threatens him. The following day, Joe spots Rizzo and angrily shakes him down. Rizzo offers to share his apartment in a condemned building. Joe accepts reluctantly, and they begin a business relationship, hustling. The two loners develop a true bond. Rizzo's health, which has never been good, steadily worsens.Joe's story is told through flashbacks. His grandmother raises him after his mother abandons him, though his grandmother frequently neglects him as well. He and his girlfriend, Crazy Annie are raped, after drawing the ire of local townspeople. She is institutionalized, and Joe joins the army. Rizzo's back story comes through stories he tells Joe. His father was an illiterate Italian immigrant shoe-shiner who worked down in a subway station, developed a bad back, and coughed his lungs out from breathin' in that wax all day. Rizzo learned shining from his father but wont stoop to it. He dreams of moving one day to Miami.An unusual couple approach Joe and Ratso in a diner and hand Joe a flyer, inviting him to a party. They enter a Warhol-esque party scene (with Warhol superstars in cameos). Naive Joe smokes a joint, thinking it's a cigarette, and, after taking a pill someone offered, begins to hallucinate. He leaves the party with a socialite (Brenda Vaccaro), who agrees to pay $20 for spending the night with her, but Joe cannot perform. They play Scribbage together, and Joe shows his limited academic prowess. She teasingly suggests that Joe may be gay, and he is suddenly able to perform. The two enjoy lively, aggressive sex. In the morning, the socialite sets up her friend as Joe's next customer, and it appears that his career is on its way.When Joe returns home, Rizzo is bedridden and feverish. Rizzo refuses medical help and begs Joe to put him on a bus to Florida. Desperate, Joe picks up a man in a gay bar (Barnard Hughes), and when things go wrong, robs the man when he tries to pay with a religious medallion, instead of cash. With the cash, Joe buys bus tickets. On the journey, Rizzo's frail physical condition further deteriorates. At a rest stop, Joe buys new clothing for Rizzo and himself, discarding his cowboy outfit. As they near Miami, Joe talks of getting a regular job, only to realize Rizzo has died. The driver tells Joe there is nothing else to do but continue on to Miami. The film closes with Joe seated with his arm around his dead friend.The chemistry between Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman is why this film works. Jon Voight plays his role to perfection. His dreams of making it big are foiled at every step of his adventure. In the end he gives up and is back to where he began. The loss of his good friend Rizzo will weigh very heavily on his soul. This film was rated X, but there is nothing here than than the occasional bare butt and breasts shown. In fact today's film show more trashy scenes than this film. For persons seeking to make a career as a male escort, this is a film you should see before you embark on your adventure. "},{"Title":"Performances and Direction light up the Screen......","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We humans are a very complicated species, our lives as it is exists on numerous stratum of time. We heave ourselves from our past and simultaneously try to hustle through to the future. The future of our dreams and our aspirations. Now, right between this hustling and jostling and between our grand dreams and the mundane and crude reality is where Midnight Cowboy stands. This attempt at exploring the intricacies of our lives and our illusions is not novel but the way Midnight Cowboy went about probing it was and is definitely cutting- edge. As a movie midnight cowboy never had a dull moment which was surprising specially for a character driven drama. As the description of story line on IMDb rightly puts, it's a story of a hustler who finds himself being hustled, and though Dustin Hoffman has the top billing but he's simply a cog in the wheel which is goaded by Jon Voight. Having said that this should take absolutely nothing away from the brilliant performance put in by Dustin Hoffman. Midnight Cowboy the movie could very well have been mawkishly sentimental but thanks to the narration it never trotted that path. This is indeed what plays to the strength of the movie, it allows for a wider perspective to follow through. To elaborate; the reoccurring montages of Jon s past elucidates his character but at the same time it never hinders the on going story line, which is a fine balance maintained throughout the film. The coming together of the two leads and the unlikely bond between the two covers a whole new dimension of relationships and friendship. Also the performances by the leads were spot on, each of them donned their characters to perfection. It turned out to be quite a lethal combination .The despair and the crumbling away of the dream simply put forth the harshness of life, Midnight Cowboy was indeed a path breaking film in many ways and I don't think the accolades it received were in anyway unjustified. "}{"Title":"An enduring portrait of an unlikely friendship","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck (Jon Voight) and Rico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) seem unlikely chums. Maybe that's part of what makes them so memorable.Buck is a tall young man, healthy, ruggedly handsome, optimistic, naive. Rizzo is older, short, crippled, sick, usually oily, cynical. What brings them together is their struggle to survive, but also something more - their refusal to let the world beat them down no matter how hard it punches.Buck, a Texan who's a cowboy in wardrobe only, decides to shuck his small-town, dead-end existence and head for New York City. He dreams of earning fabulous riches as a male hustler to older wealthy women; he soon finds himself being hustled by almost everyone he encounters, including Rizzo.Rizzo is an embattled character fighting even for the right to cross the street (his famous line - I'm walkin' here!). His apartment and scavenger lifestyle take us, as viewers, into the depths of despair. The friendship he finds with Buck brings us to the opposite end of the spectrum. The humanity Hoffman is able to bring to this role is a real tribute to the art of acting.The gritty, searing look at New York city street life this movie gives us feels too real to be entirely fictional.It's also very much emblematic of its times, 1969. There's a party that seems a cross between Andy Warhol's scene and Ken Kesey's. Rizzo and Buck's sincerity make these glitterati seem like pretentious posers.Another aspect very 1960's is the way director John Schlesinger and his team use sound and image to tell this story in ways that feel exciting and daring, especially from our modern vantage point, where, sadly, many of these techniques - such as crosscutting, montage - seem to have worked their way out of movie makers' vocabulary.Some of the ways the lead characters' realism is built are quite subtle. For instance, Rizzo's visit to his father's grave. The dialogue robs even this occasion of the dignity it should have. Buck's nightmares about a past encounter with a girl named Annie, and flashbacks about being raised by his grandmother, offer some clues as to how he winds up with this 'career choice,' while still allowing room for some mystery that feels like real life.By the movie's end Joe Buck has learned hard lessons from youthful mistakes, and suffered the pain of loss. But he has found something more valuable than the riches he dreamed of, something we feel will endure.The city becomes a 3rd lead character, determined to take everything these two have - especially their dignity. That they hang on to it may be why these characters are so enduringly popular. "},{"Title":"Not as dark as you've heard","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unjustly and erroneously rated X upon release due to homosexual content, this is at its core a familiar, sentimental story about love and friendship. The narrative is progressed, however, by moments of unconventional imagery, and there are enough such moments to justify calling it an art movie. These moments can be disturbing, particularly the rapid-fire flashbacks and flash-forwards that play in the mind of Jon Voight's faux cowboy character. Traumatic memories and violent urges occupy his mind, though on the outside he seems relatively cheerful. Conversely, his unhappy friend Rico (an amazingly good Dustin Hoffman) has daydreams that are light and escapist. These dissimilar people make a good pair, and the nature of their friendship is tantalizingly ambiguous. The film is certainly dark, but thanks to likable characters and a lot of wry humor the darkness is not unrelenting or oppressive. "},{"Title":"A squalid gem of a film","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a film that I had heard about and have been meaning to watch for some time now. After reading reviews here on IMDb beforehand I was expecting a good film...and that is exactly what I got.the film really captures the era and how close the social boundaries were geographically. John Voight really did exude the naivety of his character without going over the line and becoming stupid or simple and yet still managed to command a presence in the relationship with Rizzo. Dustin Hoffman was pure magic in this film, you could almost taste the squalid stench of him and where he lived but although trying to survive was just as lonely as Joe and equally as vulnerable. The flashback scenes may have been a bit tacky (as stated by another reviewer) but still had a place showing that they dreamed of a better life away from the hardship they faced every day. In the end they escaped perhaps one day to late and what could have seen the lead characters better their lives it left us, the viewer feeling the loss of someone who just needed love.Give peas a chance "},{"Title":"The greatness of Midnight Cowboy","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Considered to be one of the greatest movies of all time due to how well it's made, and recipient of countless rewards (including making the IMDb Top 250 movie list, John Schlesinger's Midnight Cowboy (1969) is one anyone interested in movies or film should be taking the time to see. Not only is it incredibly well made artistically, but Dustin Hoffman as Ratso and Jon Voight as Joe Buck have better chemistry together than any pair I've seen together on the big screen in a long, long time. Taking place in New York City in the 1960's your eyes will be opened up to people struggling to overcome poverty and lost hope as real people do. It's a moving film that will influence you despite how long ago it was released, the message has not changed. So if you're looking for a good cry, or a really amazing work of art, don't miss Midnight Cowboy. "},{"Title":"A friendship develops in a lonely city","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy was released in 1969 and directed by John Schlesinger. The film stars Jon Voight as Joe Buck and Dustin Hoffman as Ratso Rizzo as an odd pair that develop a friendship. Joe is cowboy who decides to leave the rural Texas life for New York City - his goal is to become a male prostitute. But Joe's initial foray is met with failure. By chance Joe meets Enrico 'Ratso' Rizzo, a streetwise New Yorker. Ratso initially scams Joe out of a few dollars; Ratso earns his livelihood as a con-artist and hustler. Joe becomes disenchanted as he is kicked out of his hotel room, and loses all of his possessions &#x96; New York life is not as easy as Joe had expected. Now angry at his situation and being rooked out of money, Joe finds and confronts Ratso in a luncheonette. Ratso begins to feel guilty and invites Joe to stay with him. The two begin to learn of each other's loneliness and find confront in their growing friendship.Schlesinger does a magnificent job capturing the isolation that can occur with individuals even when living in a major city. Hoffman is well cast as a quintessential New Yorker, hitting the accent dead on, and his line I walkin' here! is consider a memorable movie quote. The movie explores homosexuality and promiscuity at the height of the counter cultural generation, and initially was given an 'X' rating by the MPAA due to its social content and commentary.Running 113 minutes, the film draws the audience in from the start and eventually one empathizes with the characters, hoping they achieve their goal of moving to Miami and living the 'easy life'. Midnight Cowboy won the Academy Award for Best Picture, and remains one of my favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Im looking for the statue of liberty","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Im not a big fan of Jon Voight, but his acting in this film was really good. I don't know if Voight currently picks poor character roles or has lost his touch, cause Anaconda wasn't cutting it. Dustin Hoffman was Excellent as usual. His nasally voice didn't work for me a first, but i got used to it once i connected it more to his character. It was funny to read that this move was considered X rated at one point in time and then compare that to the excepted violence and nudity in movies today. It was great to see a late 60's movie that dove into realistic aspect of life that where not allowed during the Hays code. There was no tip toeing around touchy issues in this movie. "},{"Title":"Voight and Hoffman update the Hope & Crosby movies on their Road to Ruin.","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1969 Everybody Was Talking' about this X rated movie which won the Oscar for Best Picture. Having risen to stardom with his role in the ground-breaking The Graduate, Dustin Hoffman followed that up with a character role (a modern day Peter Lorre) opposite Jon Voight being as far a cowboy from John Wayne or Roy Rogers as possible. For Wayne and Rogers, a stud was either something on their boots or a type of horse. But for Voight, it is something else, and he is heading as far away from Texas to be one as he can. So where does he end up? In the Big Apple, where he learns that a midnight cowboy can only work one place-the Port Authority area of Times Square, and it isn't the wealthy society matrons of Park Avenue who are interested in him.In Boys in the Band, a New York City hustler is hired by one of the party guests as a present for the birthday boy, wanting to present this lovably dumb working boy to the guest of honor as his Midnight Cowboy. In Midnight Cowboy, Hoffman humiliates Voight by revealing to him that the cowboy look only works with every Jackie on 42nd Street, calling Voight's appearance strictly for fags. Rizzo isn't being homophobic in this Stonewall era drama; He is just calling it as he sees it. And in spite of everything else, Voight can't help but admire Hoffman for his honesty. An endearing friendship is formulated which is almost a romance in itself.The fascinating Sylvia Miles is unforgettable as the Park Avenue matron who utilizes Voight's services with hysterical results. For her less than ten minutes on screen, Miles was deservedly nominated for an Oscar. Brenda Vaccaro has a memorable brief role as a guest at a party who sets Voight up for other possible paid flings. But the twist that results from this shows where the priorities really end up falling. And when Hoffman and Voight finally do end up on the road, this leads to a sad final where even a street creature like Rizzo is revealed to be a human being. Times Square in this era (and way beyond) was somewhat frightening, and many people despise the way it has been Disney-fied since then. With Hair on Broadway at the time, Midnight Cowboy in the theaters, and the news reports of crime and vice over the airwaves, Manhattan wasn't the family friendly place it is now. Like other legends that have come and gone, it is nice to go back and see the grit that was and regret the middle ground it might have transitioned to. "},{"Title":"Simply told in the most radical form of art.","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a simple American film like no other, it's a coming of age story as well as the disillusionment of the reoccurring American Dream. Despite the seemingly generic plot, this is also visual collage of a much more dark and grim New York in the late 1960's filmed from the perspective of an English filmmaker, John Schlesinger. The film's charm comes from the two main characters Joe Buck and Ratzo Rizzo (portrayed by Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman respectively). Joe Buck is a wannabe gigolo from Texas who comes to New York to satisfy rich women for a permanent living. Being the really naive and square guy, Joe's attempts fail as he ends up losing all his fortune and hooking up with male customers at 42nd street out of desperation. In the middle of those events, Joe meets Ratzo Rizzo, a third-rate con man with a gimpy leg. Ratzo initially cons Joe but the two eventually strike a close relationship that lasts until the end of the film. These characters are so real and well-portrayed by Voight and Hoffman. Their chemistry and exchange of dialogue is just so fun to watch. I hear people debating over whether the relationship between these two characters are Homosexual, but I really think that's beside the point. Intimate relationships are not necessarily sexual, which is what Schlesinger is trying to point out. The film also makes brilliant use of fast-cutting flashbacks which became somewhat of a trademark in the early era of New- Hollywood. The Warhol-esque party sequence is also one of the few sequences in the film that uses radical visuals of the late 1960's. Aside from the technological trademarks that make this film good, it as also the first and only X-rated film to win the Best Picture Oscar. However, I see the film as something more important which is the motif of an intimate relationship that definitely withstands the test of time. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, and pushing the boundaries.","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a great movie, it is extremely raw and disturbing, especially for the time that it was made in. There was no other movie made in this era of film that could compare to the disturbing qualities that are shown in this movie. Jon Voight is so good in his role as a doughy eye handsome airhead who doesn't know much and thinks life as a hustler is an easy one in New York City. It's crazy to see him deal with the harshness of homelessness and poverty on the dirty streets of the city. Then there is Ratso Rizzo, played by Dustin Hoffman who is a scumbag veteran of the harsh streets of New York City and a con artist. His character is so good and believable. It is great to see these two characters interact and both take care of each other throughout the film. I also enjoy that this movie does not end on a happy note like most movies that came out in this era. "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From Oscar and BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated director John Schlesinger (Marathon Man, Pacific Heights) I was studying this film as one of my Film Studies course works, I think it was part of my Shocking Cinema studies, I didn't realise though that I hadn't seen the entire film, so I got my hands on it and watched it. Basically Joe Buck (BAFTA and Golden Globe (also nominated) winning, and Oscar nominated Jon Voight, Angelina Jolie's father) is the stud from a small town in Texas who quits his job as a dishwasher and heads for New York City, planning to use his talents to make a splash with wealthy high society women. He is haunted occasionally by his bad memory flashbacks involving sexual abuse, violence and abandonment, but he portrays a good enthusiasm for life, with a hopeful, joyous, kind and generous spirit, but he is naive to how life in the city works, making him an easy targets for conning. Getting conned by his partners, including New York dame Cass (Oscar nominated Sylvia Miles), he meets streetwise and sick crippled conman Enrico Salvatore 'Ratso' Rizzo (BAFTA winning, and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Dustin Hoffman), who does originally rip him off, but as they get to know each other they become firm friends and Joe learns the way of the con artist. They live together in Ratso's shabby home, and he take's over the management of the stud's hustling operation, and they set about finding wealthy women to make a small fortune from, for both of them, including stealing male escort appointment details. Joe does manage to get the best of the women, and even some men, he spends time with, including socialite Shirley (Golden Globe nominated Brenda Vaccaro), he realises that Ratso is getting more dreadfully ill as time goes by, and he has to make some big decisions. Making enough money for them he decides that he and his friend should travel by bus to Florida, where they can get regular jobs, but in the end Joe has the tragedy of losing Ratso from his severe illness, he dies on the journey next to him, and Joe keeps his arms around his friend as they travel on. Also starring John McGiver as Mr. O'Daniel, George Eppersen as Ralph, Ruth White as Sally Buck, Jennifer Salt as Annie, Gilman Rankin as Woodsy Niles and T. Tom Marlow as Little Joe. Hoffman is fantastic as the cripple with the knowledge of conning, and Voight is also fantastic as the naive male prostitute who can be slow, both are matched brilliantly as pretty much opposites, and the direction by Schlesinger is well executed. I knew it was the first X (or 18) rated film to win the Oscar for Best Picture, and it is a well deserved award for being a great insight into the darker world of New York City, as the outsider is sucked into this alien world of cruelty and occasionally false opportunity, and it is different approach to the buddy movie, a must see drama. It won the Oscars for Best Picture for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing, it won the BAFTAs for Best Film, Best Film Editing and Best Screenplay, and it was nominated for the UN Award, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. I'm walking here! was number 27 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes, Nilsson's Everybody's Talking' was number 22 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, and the film was number 36 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good! "}{"Title":"The good, the bad, and the ugly","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Was there ever a film of two such extremes? John Schlesinger's film tells the story of Joe Buck (John Voight in an impressive debut), a good looking country hick who comes to the big city to make a living (so he thinks) as a gigolo. His experiences are all bad and he ends up living in utter squalor with Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) a tubercular petty criminal who had initially conned him, but who turns out to be the only person who actually gives him anything (a place to live, and food), meagre though it is. Then, just as Joe makes his first successful assignation (and through that, an inroad into the life he hoped to lead) Ratso's poor health turns worse, and Joe has to choose whether to abandon him or not.This is not a cheerful film. The characters are mostly unpleasant (although, to be fair), both Joe and Ratso, initially portrayed as seedy, petty and generally fairly worthless, are shown to have qualities which redeem them somewhat. But the events portrayed are relentlessly squalid and depressing. Fair enough, this is a part of the world we live in, no less so now than it was in 1969.Against this, however, we have Joe Buck's character arc - this is a character who learns something about himself, and who finishes the film a very much better person than he was at the start. And we have Ratso - one of life's casualties, one who will take advantage of someone who appears to be higher up the food chain than himself, but someone who will extend such generosity as is available to him when he sees that the same person is actually less equipped than he is to deal with city life.All the performances here are excellent, but Voight and Hoffman are both superb. You won't finish watching with a smile on your face (although you may have a tear in your eye), but you will be aware that you have been watching two great performances.And John Barry's music is quite special, too, with the Florida Fantasy sequence standing out for all sorts of reasons. "},{"Title":"A brutal depiction of broken dreams and lives asunder in the fetid backwash of the swinging Sixties.","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A dim-witted Texan (Jon Voight) comes to New York to offer his services as a stud for rich women, but to his distaste is forced by economic hardship to service gay men too. He falls in with a tubercular con artist (Dustin Hoffman), and they form an unlikely friendship.Midnight Cowboy is an unblinking gaze at Manhattan's seedy side, where harshness can co-exist with surprising tenderness. At the time, the film looked like a stern response to the consequence-free ethos of drop-out culture. Hoffman and Voight, two very different actors playing contrasting characters, constitute a dream team; by its end, this harrowing account feels more like a rites-of-passage story. The film won three Academy Awards Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay. "},{"Title":"Another great classic","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie many times over the years. It is produced and directed superbly, the story is wonderful. A fun fast paced movie with a heart felt climax. NYC is a character in this film, which is always fun in the 60s and 70s movies. Again another very real film, gritty and true to the times. Hoffman and Voight draw the viewer into an intense NYC atmosphere of the 60s. It's no wonder this film won many awards. Only the best in the field could put together a masterpiece like this beauty. The soundtrack isn't the best of the classic movies but it is OK some songs are fantastic and really fit the movie perfectly. Again, I think the kids probably wouldn't give this movie great ratings, they can't relate to that fantastic time period that the movie portrays so well. "},{"Title":"The dark end of the street","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I bought this as it was on sale at a very cheap price and had heard of it although I had no idea what to expect. I did expect it to be classy piece of cinema but found it a more raw and freelance film in the style of say 'Easy Rider' so it took a while to get used to the strange cutting, shots and flashbacks. Jon Voight is Joe Buck who gets the Greyhound bus to New York where he intends to make lots of money becoming rich womens play thing. Joe Buck is good looking, a cowboy stallion and a hard spirit to crush, he is full of freedom and enthusiasm but what he finds in New York is not what he expected. It is sad to watch this guys pride and spirit wither away and as he begins to lose money, he drifts into the seedy underworld of the New York streets to make ends meet. This is where he finds Dustin Hoffmans character Rizzo. Together they find a strange friendship dependent on each other to get by and start to look out for each other. I found it quite a sad film, strange and it stayed with me for a few days after. I like films that do this. What did it mean? I don't really know but I have watched it again since and found it equally enthralling. I can't put my finger on what makes this a great film, it just is - Voight and Hoffman are great in their roles and its hard to find many films like it. I wouldn't recommend it to everyone but anyone who is a film lover its a must see. "},{"Title":"Great.","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a movie that is not all good, but when it ends you feel like it really touched you, because the movie basically builds up to its ending, but the problem is that it looks like it don't care that much about it's middle.Although Voight's performance sometimes may seem a little bit too dumb, it's charismatic, and yes, good. But what really stands out is Hoffman's one, he makes his character so interesting, sometimes strong, and sometimes very emotional (look at the cemetery scene for example), and you never know if he really likes that dumb cowboy, or if he is trying to use him to get mony.There was some scenes in the movie that I really thought were boring, like the scene of wild sex between Cass and Buck, but there are also very powerful scenes, like the one with Buck and the gay teenager, that shows how desperate Buck is to get money, and you see how uncomfortable he is for doing that.Some scenes really disturbs you, like the scenes of the cooking with those dirty pots, you see how decadently some people live, and sometimes you feel bad for having so much. The last (and most powerful scenes) really touches you, the image of that tall dumb cowboy hugging his dead friend and controlling his tears although we can see in his eyes that he's suffering, is one of the most powerful scenes you'll ever see.Verdict Although sometimes it may seem boring, it's totally worth seeing for it's great performances, and touching ending, don't miss this one!. "},{"Title":"You will be blown away by the performances of Voight and Hoffman.","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A naive male prostitute and a low-down thief try to make it through New York City life.This movie is quite raw for something filmed in 1969. The performances by Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are the stuff of legends. Even though their characters are to be disliked naturally, you feel a huge sense of pity for them because it feels as though it isn't their fault that life is this way for them, but it's life's fault for making their lives the way it is. If they could just get one lucky break, they would stop doing all the rotten things that they do just to survive.One scene I found that went on way too long was the crazy 60's party scene, although it established the tone for the time and NYC life (although some would probably argue that it's STILL this way).Fantastic movie overall. "},{"Title":"The world the year I was born","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently watched Midnight Cowboy for the first time. One of the kicks I get is watching movies made in the year I was born. I was born in 1969 when Midnight Cowboy was made. It contains a timeless quality, as if the movie could have been made today. I always consider this to be the hallmark of a great movie. I enjoyed watching Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman in one of their earliest works. Most of this movie took me to down deep into a depressed state. Then at the end it brings me back up. I rooted for Voight's character to finally make a choice good for him. The constant flashbacks to his childhood were effective. The little boy reminded me of my five year old son for some strange reason. Maybe this is why I rooted for Voight. I could not stand Hoffman's character Ratzo Rizzo when I first see him but then a strange thing happened, as I got to know him better I fell in love with the character. His facial expressions when he suffered, again a weird personal twist for me, reminded me of my eight-year-old daughter. At the end I teared up when Rizzo died. I enjoyed the performances by Brenda Vaccarro and the blonde, married woman. I forgot her name. Both were sexually appealing and fun. This movie shines and I understand now why it had such a strong and powerful impact with a generation of movie goers and probably will continue to have a strong effect with future generations. "},{"Title":"Just brilliant","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is a scene in this movie where we see Ratzo hobbling across a busy New York street with Jo Buck at his side. Suddenly, a taxi cab screeches to an abrupt halt, almost hitting Ratzo on his way to the other side. Ratzo screams at the taxi driver, Hey im walking here! im walking ! At that moment I realised what a truly great actor Hoffman is. His portrayal of Ratzo is stunning.No less stunning is Jon Voights portrayal of Jo Buck, the cowboy dreamer. Eventually, the harsh realities of life on the streets of New York kill his alter ego, and we later see Jo throwing his cowboy clobber into the trash.The film is loaded with symbolism. For example, before Jo Buck beats one of his tricks and stuffs a telephone in his mouth we witness him in the penny arcade shooting cowboy targets with a rifle.What is the film about? The death of the American dream? The loss of innocence? I don't know. Something like that! It's just a great movie and one of my favourite. "},{"Title":"Struggle for survival in the big city...brilliant performances...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hardly the stuff dreams are made of is this pursuit of the brass ring by a naive hustler (JON VOIGT) and his lame con-man sidekick (DUSTIN Hoffman), soon to forge a friendship based on basic survival skills.A daring film for its time, and a foremost example of the kind of gritty landscape being explored in the more graphic films of the '60s. Symbolic of the end of innocence in American films, since it was the only X-rated film to win a Best Picture Oscar.JON VOIGT is the male hustler who comes to the big city expecting to find women an easy way to make money when they fight over his body, but soon finds the city is a cold place with no welcome mat for his ilk. Befriended by a lame con-man (DUSTIN Hoffman), he goes through a series of serio-comic adventures that leave him disillusioned and bitter, ready to leave the confines of a cold water flat for the sunshine promised in Florida, a land his friend Ratzo dreams of living in.But even in this final quest, the two are losers. John Schlesinger has directed with finesse from a brilliant script by Waldo Salt, and John Barry's haunting Midnight Cowboy theme adds to the poignant moments of search and desperation.Summing up A true American classic honestly facing a tough subject and daring to show the underbelly of certain aspects of city life. "},{"Title":"Friendship at its best","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman play their hearts out as individuals who became outcasts and find an everlasting friendship in the slums of New York. This movie deserved the Oscar for Best Picture in 1969. It is the first and only X rated movie to get the prize. This movie has changed the way we feel about friendship and the many twists and turns that can occur in a friendship. Voight's performance as the naive Joe Buck makes you believe he can go anywhere. But Hoffman's performance as Ratzo Rizzo is one for the ages. Hoffman transforms into a character that is entirely believable. He makes you feel pity for him. The ending will show you that everybody has a dream. It just might not be in your reach. A+ "}{"Title":"A Tour-De-Force!","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the 1965 novel of the same name by James Leo Herlihy, 'Midnight Cowboy' is Tour-De-Force Cinema. An Outstanding Cinematic Achevement, that shocks & stuns.'Midnight Cowboy' Synopsis A naive male prostitute and his sickly friend struggle to survive on the streets of New York City.'Midnight Cowboy' is unforgettably astonishing. A Brave Film, with a Masterful Screenplay. Waldo Salt's Oscar-Winning Screenplay magnificently captures the Journey of these 2 men. Their Journey is shocking, stunning & very brave. John Schlesinger, who Won the Oscar for Best Director, explores this story with absolute astonishment. Cinematography by Adam Holender is gritty. Editing & Art Design, are pitch-perfect.Performance-Wise Dustin Hoffman & Jon Voight are INCREDIBLE in Oscar-Nominated Performances. Hoffman delivers a heart-breaking performance. This is the FINEST Hoffman has been EVER. Voight, on the other-hand, is path-breaking as the naive young man who ends up becoming a prostitute. Their On-Screen Chemistry, Also, is Fantastic. Sylvia Miles is memorable, in also Oscar-Nominated Performance. John McGiver deserves a mention.On the whole, 'Midnight Cowboy', Winner of Best Picture Oscar, as well, is amongst the FINEST Films of it's time. "},{"Title":"disturbing yet extremely compelling with outstanding performances.","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on a James Leo Herlihy novel, British director John Schlesinger's first American film dramatized the small hopes, dashed dreams, and unlikely friendship of two late '60s lost souls. Dreaming of an easy life as a fantasy cowboy stud, cheerful Texas rube Joe Buck (Jon Voight) heads to New York City to be a gigolo, but he quickly discovers that hustling isn't what he thought it would be after he winds up paying his first trick (Sylvia Miles). He gets swindled by gimpy tubercular grifter Rico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) but, when Joe falls in the direst of straits, Ratso takes Joe into his condemned apartment so that they can help each other survive. Things start to look up when Joe finally lands his first legit female customer (Brenda Vaccaro) at a Warhol-esque party; Ratso's health, however, fails. Joe turns a final trick to get the money for one selfless goal taking Ratso out of New York to his dream life in Miami. One of the first major studio films given the newly minted X rating for its then-frank portrayal of New York decadence, Midnight Cowboy was critically praised for Schlesinger's insight into American lives, with the intercut mosaic of Joe's memories and Ratso's dreams lending their characters and actions greater psychological complexity. While they may have been drawn by the seamy content (tame by current standards), the young late '60s audience responded to Joe's and Ratso's confusion amidst turbulent times and to the connection they make with each other despite their alienation from the surrounding culture.Starring, Dustin Hoffman, Jon Voight, Sylvia Miles, John McGiver, Brenda Vaccaro , Barnard Hughes , Ruth White , Jennifer Salt , Gil Rankin , T. Tom Marlow , George Epperson , Al Scott , Linda Davis.Directed by John Schlesinger.Winner of 3 Oscars including Best Picture, Director and Adapted Screenplay. other nomination include Best Lead Actor Dustin Hoffman, Lead Actor Jon Voight, Supporting Actor Sylvia Miles and Film Editing. a total of 7 Nominations.not this is a very well done drama movie based on a novel. one of the bravest choices of Academy for Best Picture. though it wasn't that explicit or something that it got an X rating when it was released making it the first X rated movie ever to get an Best Picture Oscar and second nominated one with A Clockworks Orange. this was a bit cruel. but then the had to change their decision by giving it a R rating afterward without any editing and chopping of scenes been done.i caught this movie on TV last night, it was one of those classic movies that i couldn't wait to watch. i wasn't able to watch the first 12 minutes but still i did and i loved. this movie maybe a bit uncomfortable to watch but it shows life in such big place, what actually life is for every type of people no matter what they are, no matter what they do.you learn a lot from this movie, i loved the friendship between the two characters Ratso and Joe. memorable characters and memorable scenes. i was surprised to hear that it was Jon Voight's debut movie he gave a good performance very perfect kind of attitude and whole accent and stuff he really pulled it off very well. he though isn't a very good looking one but that is not the point here. you can see how honest his performance was. those uncomfortable moments to the shocking flashbacks the friendship or just being him he did it perfect. quite smashing performance but the one who really stands out is our very beloved Dustin Hoffman, he delivers a bravo Two thumbs Up performance and a very memorable and quoted character as well. he deserved Oscar for his portrayal of a dying and troubled poor man in New York as Ratso or what he used to love hearing, Rico. we see such a brilliant ability of him to perform such amazingly in his movie The Graduate to this. he definitely is a powerhouse performer. an excellent performance. Sylvia Miles who i would like to mention was a surprise since just for a 4 minutes screen appearance, she got a Best Supporting Actress Nomination which is a record. i thought that crying scene she did perfectly, she plays Cass, the first woman in New York that offers Joe what he wants but ends up oppositely.the whole look of the movie is old and the style and fashion is exquisite though very shocking but its the characters of Joe and Ratso along side the performers themselves who keeps it grounded and adds tremendous moral values to the movie. no matter what they are, what they do they are human beings and feels like everyone else. Direction was very well done. i found Screenplay very well written that engages you. not a dull, boring or flawed moment. brilliant performances and editing. nice score, good cinematography and art direction.it has one of the most emotional and sad endings that just breaks your heart. i found the movie extremely compelling and thought provoking while culturally significant. i found the handled the subjects of Sex and prostitution in their purest forms and appreciate the work of the makers for bringing this classic movie to screen while being aware of the odds. a brilliant movie. Recommended to everyone. "},{"Title":"I'm Going Where The Sun Keeps Shining...","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A remarkably poignant film. Unusual, powerful and well-scripted. I wish such original work were still attempted today.Voight (as Joe Buck) and Hoffman (as Rizzo) rightly received Oscar Nominations for outstanding performances in their lead roles, while Schlesinger, Hellman and Salt scooped Oscars for direction, production and screenplay.Here, writer and director have decided to take a good, long look at the underbelly of American urban-life, the gritty realities of surviving in a tough city, and the flawed nature of the characters that inhabit it. This is the jaded world of the late 60s. The party was almost over...A faux cowboy fresh in from Hicksville and streetwise hustler form an unlikely, but powerful symbiotic relationship, that develops and strengthens as the film unfolds. Both men mirror each other in subtle ways. Both have flawed, dysfunctional backgrounds beautifully observed and narrated by Schlesinger.New York's Underground, especially it's Art-house Film Movement, is debunked here, as Schlesinger makes a jarring contrast between self-indulgent New Yorkers and the two central players. Rizzo and Joe, of course, cannot hold the same values, due to their bitter daily struggles.Joe is haunted by his abused past, while Rizzo has lived so long in drafty tenements, he's dying of pneumonia. The only way they can escape these brutal realities, is by holding onto remote dreams of traveling to warmer climes.Since Rizzo never quite makes it, in the end this wonderful film seems to reinforce a worthwhile idea. That friendship holds the most value in our lives, rather than unrealistic dreams. "},{"Title":"Not what you would expect","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's an uncomfortable chore but if you can make it through Midnight Cowboy you shouldn't regret it. It is an excellent classic film that became the first X rated film to ever win best picture at the Academy Awards. And deservedly so. It follows the story of Joe Buck, a man from Texas who moves to New York to sell himself as a male prostitute. He slowly befriends the sickly and feeble Ratso who, for a time, acts as his manager if that's what you want to call it. It's a harrowing struggle for survival on the fast moving urban streets of New York, and Joe and Ratso learn this the hard way as they struggle to make money and find themselves in all sorts of tight spots, some profane and others euphoric. Whatever preconceptions you have about a film called Midnight Cowboy are probably wrong and you really just have to see this film for yourself to understand what its all about.Midnight Cowboy can be an uncomfortable film to watch but, to me at least, that makes it all the more memorable. It takes a lot of risks with its sexual content, especially for a film made in 1969. But it is all in good taste and all used to artistic effect. The film utilizes a great combination of aesthetics and storyline. I was very surprised at the visual quality of this film and all the aesthetic nuances it uses throughout. The film is very surreal at times and will take you on a very strange and enigmatic mind trip. Scenes will, practically without warning, morph into surreal acid trips that will stun and mystify. John Schlesinger really put forth a lot of effort to piece together meticulous scenes of surreal beauty and keep them appropriate within the context of the film. A lot of these bizarre scenes caught me off guard but made for some of the most visually fascinating moments of the whole film.The film isn't all aesthetic glam however. It is fueled primarily by a very strong story with two captivating main characters. The film will mislead you into thinking it will be a straightforward archetypal western, but then becomes a harrowing urban drama. It tells a dark but unique story that doesn't unfold like you would expect. And the story is powered by two very different but very well constructed characters. They are both multi-layered and well rounded. Both have their flaws but both elicit empathy, from me at least. And of course Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman do a great job in their roles as well. Jon Voight warps the perception of the cowboy hero in the most unorthodox and unconventional ways. He isn't necessarily set up as an anti-hero but instead just misguided. His moral compass is very off, and yet you can only really feel sorry for him and his naivety. Dustin Hoffman's performance as Ratso is alright, but it is undoubtedly dedicated and sincere. The ability of his acting may not be top notch in this film, but it is very apparent that he put his heart and soul into this performance and was, for the most part, believable.Midnight Cowboy isn't your average film, and that is what makes it such a classic. It intricately combines visual flare and a three dimensional storyline to make it a unique experience that encompasses what good filmmaking is all about. It's bizarre transitions from real to surreal make it an enticing watch. It is a very high quality film that can't easily be forgotten. "},{"Title":"A great film that was ahead of it's time!","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is the story of a young naive Texas boy (Joe Buck) played by Jon Voight who believes that there is more to life than the abuse and hardship he has experience thus far and seeks to find his fortune and fame in the Big Apple by utilizing his god given talents. It does not take Buck long too realize the cold harsh reality of the big city and things are not only as easy as they initially appear, it is here that he happens upon a street smart con man Ricco (Ratso) Rizzo (played by Dustin Hoffman) who offers to take Buck under his wing and help manage his one man endeavor of getting the entire female (or possibly male) population of New York to pay for his unique and well endowed services.The backdrop for this John Schlesinger film is New York City during the late sixties; a period when Times Square was at it worst and the seedy under life was most prevalent. It is here that the basic theme of the story evolves as Buck and Ratso begin to develop a co-dependent relationship as Buck receives tutelage and guidance from Ratso while continuing to only find disappointment after disappointment. Schlesinger does a wonderful job of creating a compelling story about companionship utilizing unique cinema graphic and sound editing techniques (like changing color shots to black and white) including reflective camera angles, montages and flashback scenes.As there relationship continues develop and their feeling for one another evolve viewers may begin to question how deep that affection for one another goes. Though this is never actually witnessed on film (unlike the film Brokeback Mountain) a case could be made that the relational ship comparisons' do exist. While their internal and external conflicts continue Ratso and Buck come to terms with the fact that success can not be had in New York City (and that a change of climate would do wonders for Ratso failing health) they decide that their venture is much better off in Florida.Despite the harsh cinematic qualities and graphic nature of the film both main actors deliver award winning performances that allow the underlying theme to be driven home, a message of caring and compassion between two individuals so different from the other but yet in need of the same thing, Love. "},{"Title":"The first and only X-rated movie ever to win an Oscar","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The MPAA (Motion picture Association of America) was created in 1922 in order to regulate movie making in the United States by all the six major studios. In 1930, they created the Hayes Code, used to tell what could and couldn't be in a movie. The Code was used for 38 years, until 1968, when it was replaced by the rating system used even today by the MPAA. And when the rating system started, the worst rate a movie could get was and still is the X rating, used in most cases only for Adult movies. But even with a X rating, the 1969 John Schlesinger's movie 'Midnight Cowboy' was able to win 3 Oscars, including best picture, being the only X-rated movie ever to win an Oscar with such a rating. This proves how good and powerful this movie is, and how it shocked the late-1960's society.'Midnight Cowboy' tells the story of Joe Buck (John Voight), a Texas greenhorn that, bored with his life in the countryside, decides to move to New York and work as a hustler. But he finds out that life in New York isn't as easy as he thought, until he teams up with a city bum, named Ratzo Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman). Together, they struggle to survive in the city's hard life, while they become even more good friends. The movie's screenplay is based on a novel by James Leo Herlihy. I haven't read the book in which the movie is based on, but I can say Waldo Salt did a incredible job adapting the Oscar-winning movie's screenplay. There isn't one bit missing, and the movie flows in a incredible way. It doesn't lose its pace in one single moment, and the story here couldn't be better. Throughout these two iconic and unforgettable characters, the movie develops themes like homosexuality, drugs, the life in the city for those who have nothing, prejudice, etc. These themes are all incredibly presented, in a subtle but very ferocious way, reaching out for the very soul of the American society.The acting here couldn't be any better and this movie couldn't be more well-casted. I dare to say it's one of the best overall acting ever, along with movies like 'Kramer vs. Kramer' or 'A Streetcar Named Desire'. The whole cast does a perfect job, even with small parts. The Oscar-nominated performance by Sylvia Miles as Cass, one of Joe's clients is excellent. The rest of the supporting cast do an equally incredible job, especially Brenda Vaccaro as Shirley, other Joe's client. Aside from the not so-famous but excellent supporting cast, we have in the main roles two major stars, in probably the best performances of both's career - John Voight and Dustin Hoffman. They were both Oscar-nominated for their roles as Joe Buck and Ratso Rizzo respectively, and they both lost to John Wayne for his role in 'True Grit'. John Wayne was good, indeed, but his performance wasn't even the half of the job Hoffman and Voight did. This is certainly one of the biggest injustices in Oscar's history, but more for Dustin Hoffman. Of course Voight was also incredible, doing a naive but at the same time wild interpretation, which is perfect for the character, but Hoffman did what is probably one of the best performances by a male actor in movie's history. There isn't anything I can say to describe his work. Brilliant, absolutely brilliant.And even with this incredibly good screenplay, and one of the best overall acting ever, this movie wouldn't be the same without the Oscar- winning John Schlesinger's directing work. His direction is very experimental, but who wasn't in 1969? Now that the Hayes Code went down, anything was possible, and Schlesinger utilizes this in a incredible manner. He uses a few long, gentle shots, and others more vivid, with a fast editing when the character was stoned or in his dreams, for example. The use of flashbacks here is also great, as we follow the past events only in Joe's mind, so we don't really find out what happened in Texas with his ex-girlfriend, a quite important subject for the movie's story. Throughout the film, we hear a lot of the original song made for the movie by Fred Neil, called Everybody's Talking'. While the music is great, in a very nice folk style, its constant use bothers you after a while. The cinematography here also bothered me a little bit, the movie could have a darker treatment.Overral, 'Midnight Cowboy' is an almost perfect piece of cinema. The winner of the best picture Oscar in 1969, and the only X-rated movie to accomplish this, has a perfect screenplay, with unforgettable characters and dialogs, excellent lines, and a very nice pace. It also features one of the best acting work ever, specially with Dustin Hoffman, in the best work of his career. John Schlesinger is equally great, making this movie a must-see for anyone.9/10 "},{"Title":"I ain't a f'real cowboy. But I am one helluva stud!","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is one of the many films of the 1960s that spearheaded the counterculture movement and challenged the cinematic conservatism of 1940s and 1950s America.One of the main tenets of modernism is a self-conscious questioning of moral and ethical values. A move against traditions and an overwhelming desire to explore new ideas. To the generation who grew up with the global conflicts and government scandals of the 1960s, an intense questioning of morals became necessary. Artists of the era therefore took on a frontier mentality, with the hopes that the answers to their questions lay somewhere beyond the borders. It is with this frontier mythology that Midnight Cowboy begins, and the image of the Cowboy, the lone man making sense of the wilderness, persists throughout.Dressed as a cowboy, Joe Buck (Jon Voight) sets out to become a male prostitute. Joe wants to leave home, leave his family (whose values he completely rejects), journey on his own and forge his own destiny. Rather than the desolate unsettled west, the frontier he chooses to conquer is the urban jungle of New York City. And so off he goes; note the numerous toy horses and John Wayne posters sprinkled about.But Joe's outward appearance does more than merely evoke Western mythology. It also serves as a physical manifestation of Joe's need to assert his masculinity. The sixties weren't just an era of civil rights for racial minorities, the period also ushered in a new generation of feminists. As women asserted their independence, men felt threatened and underwent a transformation of their own. As femininity began to be redefined, so to was masculinity. The result of all this is that the 60s were filled with films which either villainize women or move them to the extreme edge of male experience. Hollywood also witnessed a deliberate shift in focus to male-male rather than male-female relationships.Midnight Cowboy takes both of these approaches. Women are of little significance in the film. It focuses instead on the blossoming friendship of Joe (John Voight) and Ratso (Dustin Hoffman). In the rare instances where women are seen, they represent highly (for the time) questionable moral values.The fact that Joe is a male prostitute, already establishes that women are paying for sex, and far from submissive. This role reversal is a common theme in landmark films of the era. Consider The Graduate, which has Mrs Robinson sexually dominate a young Dustin Hoffman, or Bonnie and Clyde, which features an impotent gangster.These films themselves mirror the sexual encounters Joe has in Cowboy, in which Joe is always subordinated to women. This subordination takes away, in a sense, his masculinity. This symbolic castration is physically manifested when, after going home with a girl from a party who is willing to pay him for sex, he is unable to perform.Of course the counterculture movements of the 60s and early 70s had one foremost objective the discovery of one's true self. Perceiving tradition to be claustrophobic, the movement somewhat naively attempted to break new ground and explore new territories. The issues that they raised, and the changes that were brought about due to their abandoning traditional values, are all connected to the pursuit of individuality and of freedom of thought and expression. And so drugs, sex, morality, family, religion, politics...a bevy of issues were all paraded about as either values to rally behind or tear down.This cocktail of antagonisms is captured best during a scene late in the film, in which Joe and Ratso find themselves invited to a pseudo-bohemian party. The party is populated by stereotypical counterculture figures, all lost in a haze of marijuana smoke, politics, art and music. There are feminists, homosexuals, artists, and other such types, all spewing maxims or lost in various drug-induced daydreams. These characters aren't judged, however. They're neither right or wrong. It's all just an experience.But when you break it down, Midnight Cowboy is really a counterculture adaptation of Of Mice and Men (and a highly reactionary one, some prominent feminist critics have argued). We watch a big dumb man (Jon Voight) and a tiny cripple (Dustin Hoffman) as they wander about New York, working together to stay alive in an increasingly confusing world. Hoffman plays the brains and Voight plays the muscle. Separate, the two characters are nothing. Together, perhaps, they can become a success.7.9/10 - The film is peppered with flashback sequences which don't quite work, but the performances are excellent and Voight and Hoffman are riveting to watch.Worth only one viewing. "},{"Title":"All The Lonely People","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not unlike a lot of other screen classics but more than many of them, Midnight Cowboy is a movie I enjoy thinking about more than I do actually watching.Like say Nilsson's Everybody's Talking' comes on the radio, and I get a picture in my head of that clueless Stetson-wearing greenhorn Joe Buck (Jon Voight) chewing gum as he walks through a sea of New Yorkers, blissfully ignorant of all that lies ahead. It's a great image and a great tune, reminding me of when I was young and the world was a less ornery if just as confusing place. Yet the song exists in the movie only as a kind of fleeting counterpoint to life's meaningless brutality.The crux of Midnight Cowboy involves Buck's desperate friendship with tenement bum Enrico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman), who tries to help Buck find work as a gigolo on the fly. Buck dreams of making it in the Big Apple, while Rizzo dreams of escaping to Florida, home of life's twin necessities, sunshine and coconut milk. In Midnight Cowboy, dreams exist only to break your heart.Voight is great in his debut starring role, and Midnight Cowboy is always interesting if hardly inspiring. Manhattan itself becomes a leading character in the way it is shot by DP Adam Holender. Take the moment Buck arrives at his hotel, and looks out at a busy street where from one side a marquee advertises The Sound Of Music and on the other a billboard markets cheap whisky.It's an ugly place filled with ugly people. Hoffman wears a pair of scuzzy dentures as Rizzo, and scrunches his famous nose up so much you understand where the nickname came from. Joe's first gigolo encounter, with shrill, aging Cass (Sylvia Miles), played for laughs as she plays him for money, sets the tone of sordid misery picked up by so many other characters. It's not that the characters here live so miserably that's depressing, but that they deserve to.Occasionally director John Schlesinger throws in some odd fantasia, Joe remembering some awful rape or imagining himself chasing Ratso around the subways, which made Midnight Cowboy even more happening a film in 1969 and rather more dated now. A sequence involving a wild drug party at Andy Warhol's famous Factory seems to exist mostly for self-conscious hipness. More obscure and fascinating are the many scenes where Joe encounters homosexuals, each so pathetic and self-loathing they would excite gay protests if they appeared on screen today.What makes Midnight Cowboy work as much as it does is the undeniable chemistry of Hoffman and Voight; the occasional arresting image (a distant figure waving from a landscape, a dog being fitted with underwear); and that great score, not just Everybody's Talking' but the rest of the music including the title theme, also a hit in its day. Nilsson even had another song for the soundtrack that he wrote and performed himself, I Guess The Lord Must Be In New York City, which sounds so much of a piece with Talkin', a song he didn't write, that you almost wish it had gone in, too.Then again, with a title like that, I sort of doubt it had a chance. "},{"Title":"One of the Best of all Time","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved the movie Midnight Cowboy from the first time I saw it which was about a half dozen years after it was released. I was too young for an X rated movie when it came out. I have not seen this movie in many years but its visual stimulation has burned in my mind for a decade or more. The movie made both Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman both stars in my mind . And stars they were in this film, I never saw a more realistic sorry excuse for a New York rat street bum then Hoffman. You could feel the charisma of his character, you would feel dirty just watching his street wise persona. He was amazing. He played so well opposite Jon Voight. The out of place rural cowboy Joe Buck. He just reeked of out of his atmosphere first time in a big city hick. I have never ever seen Jon Voight in a film where I enjoyed his role as much as I did in this movie. The seedy sets of the streets of New York were so realistic just as I described with Hoffman they would make you feel like trying to brush off the filth that came off the screen. In the winter cold the characters affected you so much that you would actually button your coat as if you were there on the screen freezing with them. The climatic ending scenes were so well acted if Hoffman never made another film, I would say he was still one of the best actors ever in the business. Beautifully filmed, acted, directed and edited, absolutely beautiful. This is definitely one of the best movies of that decade and really one of the best movies I have ever seen. Heart breaking at times, often not the easiest movie to see, but one of the best movies ever made. "},{"Title":"macadam cowboy","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young dishwasher from Texas, Joe Buck (Jon Voight) decides to climb the social ladder in New York where he thinks that thanks to his charm and his handsome appearance, he'll have no trouble seducing rich women. Alas! He comes up against disappointments and disillusions. As he becomes penniless, he's bent on prostituting himself to survive until he makes the acquaintance of a small Italian immigrant Ritso Razzo (Dustin Hoffman) who struggles to live through cons and tricks and lives in a hovel. A solid friendship brings the two men closer and Razzo confides to his new found friend his desire to leave for Florida and its warm climate. Times become distressing with the arrival of winter. Joe would have recourse to theft to pay the trip to the promised land...When Midnight Cowboy appeared on the American screens, it received a X certificate and was the first American film to pocket an Oscar with this certificate! It's easy to see what seduced the members of the jury to bestow this gem from John Schlesinger with actually three golden statuettes but today this X certificate seems quite pointless. There are strong sexual sequences but crowds have seen worse since.Anyway, Midnight Cowboy is along with Marathon Man (1976) Schlesinger's peak. The friendship he showed between this mismatched pair who are his two main characters is shot with reserve and sensibility. Joe Buck a good-looking, naive young man with a child's face who will gradually lose his innocence through his degeneration in the murky darkness of New York. Who else but Jon Voight could perform this pure character who wasn't prepared at all for a cruel world? A cruel world depicted in a hard-hitting way by the filmmaker. Ritso Razzo a tuberculous Italian immigrant who craves to get out of this hell to take refuge in Florida. Schlesinger's camera work is inventive to say the least and almost always adequate with the vibe one sequence could convey. With shrewd cinematographic methods he unveils us some parts of his two characters' persona like Joe's troubled childhood or Razzo's wild dreams in Florida. Their relationship is a sunbeam in a cloudy even ominous sky. Human dignity is preserved as much as possible.What else to add? It's indispensable to have seen this film for your own cinematographic culture. But for Schlesinger, the slump will occur with his subsequent film, the mediocre Sunday Bloody Sunday (1971). "}{"Title":"Poinient commentary on loneliness and despair of the big city.","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this film again yesterday. I saw it several years ago and was totally taken in by it. Despite the depression that I feel after watching it, I decided to see it again because of a comment made by an acquaintance of mine. He saw the film for the first time several weeks ago. His comment to me was I don't get it. Why didn't they just get jobs? I was flabbergasted by this comment. He obviously didn't get the whole point of the film. The characters couldn't get regular jobs because it would destroy their dreams, even though the inhumanity of the city was doing that anyway.The plot is that Joe Buck (Voigt), a young man from Texas, decides to move to New York to become a male gigolo for the rich widows and wives in Manhattan. Joe meets a number of set backs and is swindled by crippled conman Ratso Rizzo (Hoffman). Eventually when Joe is on the down and out, he and Ratso form an unlikely partnership to try and make money so they can get to Florida.The movie takes on themes of friendship, desperation, rejection, and ultimately loneliness. It has the distinction of being the only movie rated X to ever win the Best Picture Award at the Academy Awards. The film was fantastic and never seemed to loose sight of its portrayal of the death of dreams for two struggling men. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Truly one of the finest American films of its era. Although somewhat dated it is still powerful and heartbreaking. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are simply magnetic in their honest and brave performances. A film so raw and emotionally shattering would probably not be made today unless diluted by Political Correctness. A Must See! I have seen it recently again after not having seen it for quite some time. It has been a favorite of mine for many years. I am also a great admirer of Sylvia Miles's work in this film,she gives a short but distinct performance. A well deserved winner of a Best Picture Oscar and John Schlesinger's crowning career achievement. Classic Harry Nillson song Everybody's Talking' has surprisingly not been nominated for an Academy Award. "},{"Title":"Blistering","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As blistering an attack on America as you're likely to see in a major motion picture, MIDNIGHT COWBOY is also one of the greatest movies ever made. Riveting from beginning to end, director John Schlesinger and screenwriter Waldo Salt create a bleak vision of life as two losers team up and become...two losers. Jon Voight as Joe Buck has never given a better performance and Dustin Hoffman as his pimp Ratso Rizzo is mind-blowing, particularly since this was his followup to THE GRADUATE. A grim, almost hypnotic movie. The cameos by Bob Balaban, John McGiver, and especially Sylvia Miles are priceless. Although this won the best picture Oscar, both Hoffman and Voight lost out to all-American symbol John Wayne! "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy - Greatest movie ever!!!","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy for me is the greatest movie I've ever seen. I can watch this movie time and time again and I never get bored with it.Dustin Hoffman plays a great role as Ratso a small time con man who comes across a Texan by the name of Joe Buck played by Jon Voight. Ratso rips Joe off only for Joe to later catch up with him. Instead of beating his head in he ends up becoming his friend and soon tries to help Ratso reach his dream of living in Florida.Midnight cowboy is a story of love between two great friends. This movie gives you a real insight into the poorer side of life.This movie is a must see.Trust me on this one! "},{"Title":"I hated Dustin Hoffman until I watched this movie","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I often disliked Dustin Hoffman's acting. I watched his Graduate, Marathon Man, Kramer vs. Kramer etc. and in none of these I liked his style, which to me appeared to be very static and his expressions often stone-like. I liked his acting in movies like Rain Man and Outbreak, but I didn't consider them spectacular either. This movie, however, changed that for me.This movie is worthy of all the praise it gets. A reasonably simple story is turned into a beautiful movie by the strong performance of Hoffman and John Voight. How a small town stud goes to New York (where ladies are just waiting to get it from him and pay him for it) to find that the reality differs much from the picture he has had of the scenario.. is the story in a nutshell, which is interesting and, which could be true perhaps in any big city anywhere in the world.The movie, after 35 years, still looks contemporary except for a scene that depicts a 60s-style party of drugs, sex and rock-n-roll.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A simple story with complex characters","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  -Spoilers Within-`Midnight Cowboy' was nothing like I expected.  Generally, when you watch a movie where the plot is essentially a train wreck waiting to happen, there is a low point, a high point and then a REALLY low point.  `Midnight Cowboy', the story of a cocksure and (briefly) idealistic and naïve hustler from Texas who moves to New York City to make his fortune doesn't have a high point.  Indeed, I found myself actually wanting Joe Buck (Voight) and Ratso Rizzo (Hoffman) to have that brief moment where they actually succeed in promoting and selling Buck's `services' to women (or men), but that moment just doesn't come &#150; this is a film that is brutally real, and anything but glamorous.  The characters of Buck and Rizzo are complex without being heavy-handed, and their portrayal is inspired.  At times the film turned pretty psychedelic, but it was a product of 1969, so it is forgivable.  I found that it was impossible to turn away from the film, even for a minute because Schlesinger's pace and direction are absolutely compelling.  This is certainly not a film to watch when you're trying to get a `pick me up', but it is an important one because it is a fine example of the realism that pervaded cinema in the late Sixties/early Seventies after the largely idealistic and/or melodramatic Fifties.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"Two losers adrift in dirty old New York=masterpiece (spoilers)","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a shame that John Schlesinger arguably never again made a movie as thrillingly good as this dramedy starring John Voight and Dustin Hoffman; he demonstrates a complete mastery of the film-making craft through then-cutting-edge techniques like quick cutting, playing with color, montage, and (my favorite) some very unnerving electronic sound effects and music (courtesy of legendary composer and studio engineer Walter Sear). Parts of this movie look like something you would as easily find in an MTV video as in an avant-garde cinema.His main on screen talent here are the very young future father of Angelina Jolie as Joe Buck, a good looking but pathetically naive Texan who hops a Greyhound bus to New York City in hopes of making a fortune servicing the sexual needs of rich society type women. Once he arrives, decked out in his cowboy costume, cowhide suitcase, and transistor radio, he immediately finds the city to be...inhospitable. Frustrated and broke, he finally makes a friend--Enrico Salvatore Ratso Rizzo (Hoffman), a put-upon gimp who offers to hook Joe up with a friend. For a nominal service fee, of course. Turns out, after Ratso's run off with his money, that Joe's been screwed once again--cue frightening revenge/unpleasant flashback montage--and now, frustrated, broke, AND homeless, he turns to hustling very un-society-type guys, who can't or won't pay either. Somehow, Joe runs into Ratso again. First overjoyed, then apoplectic, he demands his $20 back, but then gets more than he bargained for Ratso invites Joe to come stay with him. The rest of the movie documents the misadventures of these two lost souls as they try to survive the cruel and grungy cesspool that is (was) New York City, or at least long enough to get the ailing Ratso down to his personal paradise, Florida.Midnight Cowboy paints a sharp portrait of the grime and degradation that characterized NYC at the time; with tons of neat little details to fill in the blanks (the payphone that doesn't work, the psychedelic party, the snippets of radio broadcasts). If you remember nothing else of this movie, you'll remember the smoky, grungy atmosphere. But there is so much more, not the least of which are the actors and their memorably colorful characters Hoffman's cagey, streetwise con artist, Voight's time-bomb bumpkin, Sylvia Miles famous middle-aged gorgeous chick, an unrecognizable Bob Balaban as a young gay john, Barnard Hughes as Joe's unfortunate final john, Brenda Vaccaro as his REALLY gorgeous next-to-final client, John McGiver as Ratso's friend O'Daniel, and last but not least the one dude who played Ratso's sneery, effeminate gay tormenter in his opening scene.These odd people all demonstrate that vivid color is often hidden in all the gray squalor and the overall effect is often disturbing but always intriguing. Not to mention that friendship and bonding often happen between the unlikeliest parties under the most challenging circumstances. Ultimately it's a story of hope and redemption, although at a price that's considerably more than a nominal service fee. Very poignant and disturbing all at once.  "},{"Title":"You've Gotta Make A living Somehow","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I expected this movie to be extremely depressing. Don't get me wrong, it was somewhat a bummer. However I found myself wondering how Joe Buck could be so naive as to get himself in the position he got in. His character was rather goofy too.I did like this movie overall though. I think I had certain expectation going in and it turned out to be a little different than I expected.The plot is amusing at first then starts down a dark alley and ends... well it ends. I suppose Joe Buck's naivety are part of his character and help make the movie what it is. Ratso is definitely a different type that is worn down by being sick and poor in the big city life.**Slight Spoiler***The interplay between these two characters is rather interesting. The two most unlikely people to be friends. Yet they make great friends toward the end you wonder how they ever lived without each other.I really felt for both characters. I was hoping Joe Buck would wise up a little and that Ratso would get some medical attention. Despite both characters having qualities that annoyed me I wanted them to prevail. The way that their humanity was shown was rather compelling.**End Slight Spoiler**The movie progresses at a nice pace. The climatic ending was not what I thought it's be. However it rather tied up the movie nicely and left me with a feeling of completion.The historical fact that this was rated X in the 60s was interesting to me. Just to note how nowadays it isn't a racy as it was then, a reflection on society's standards.I would recommend this movie. The acting of Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight with the offbeat subject matter makes in an entertaining watch. "},{"Title":"One of the more poignant films I've seen","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Schlesinger toys with reality in Midnight Cowboy, overlaying dream and memory imagery intermingled to the point that no one can rely on the conscious direction of Joe Buck, the film's central character.  When the film opens, Joe is leaving his small town in Texas for the big city, harboring dreams of making it rich as a high-priced gigolo.  Even within the first few minutes, Joe is looking into the window of an empty beauty parlor, reflecting on his childhood with his grandmother.  And from that moment, one questions just what Grandma's relationship with Joe is--she has him massage her neck while calling him loverboy.Later, more images in Joe's memory are juxtaposed to reinforce our fears we see Joe in bed with Grandma and one of her old cowboy lovers (obviously where he got the misconception that a cowboy hat makes a man one hell of a stud); we also see her giving him an enema, juxtaposed with Joe as a young man getting sodomized by a gang of boys who resent that he is exclusively sleeping with the town pump, thereby denying her services to anyone else. Clearly, a lot of violation goes on in this flick.But this serves as backstory only, for the real heart of the drama is Joe's relationship with the scroungy Ratso Rizzo, a knowing New York native who takes Joe in and shows him the ropes.  The frustrating thing about the film is the inability of these characters to get a life--it takes Joe until the end of the film to realize he's neither a great cowboy nor a great lover--and go get a decent job.  They live in an abandoned building, steal and cheat people, and struggle through a hard New York winter.  Ratso's tubercular cough gets suspiciously worse, and all of this leads to a moment of truth, when Joe Buck must make sacrifice and change for the love of his friend.Some suggest that these two are gay lovers--if so, it is never specifically stated in the film.  While they do set up a household of sorts, with Ratso assuming the domestic wife's role, both seem to be an almost asexual cypers.The film is not easy to get through in places, but not so offensive and disturbing that one can't.  Rather, its plumbing of our emotional depths is what leaves us feeling empty and grateful at the same time. "},{"Title":"Stellar Voight &  Hoffman; The First (and last) x rated Best Picture Oscar winner","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MIDNIGHT COWBOY (1969) **** Jon Voight, Dustin Hoffman, Sylvia Miles.  First and last X rated film to win Best Picture (although an R by today's standards for its rather risque themes of the times) and Oscar winner for director John Schlesinger and Best Screenplay Adaptation by Waldo Salt based on James Leo Herlihy's novel about would-be Texan cowboy/hustler Joe Buck (Voight in a winningly naive Oscar nominated perf) comes to the big Apple to make his stand as a first-class gigolo and meets scuzz bag Ratso Rizzo (memorable Hoffman), a filthy cripple out to scam anyone for a few measly dollars.  Gritty, realistic and almost documentary-like in presentation with some wonderful images and a great song by Harry Nilsson Everybody's Talkin' .  Best line Ratso (to cabdriver) I'm walkin' here! "}{"Title":"Everybody's talking at me, I don't hear a word they're saying, only the echos in my mind.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  spoilers herein...It is almost as if Nilsson's song had been written for this film, as it sums up where Joe Buck (Jon Voight) is for all but the last few minutes of this fine landmark film. Voight was 30 and unknown, while  Dustin Hoffman (Rico Ratzo) was 31 when it was filmed, just coming off The Graduate. I was 23 when it came out and recall seeing a more mature Voight. Today, viewing the 1998 VHS re-issue I see a very young Voight. Only now, with his film history established, can we see what a fine actor he already was, perfectly characterizing a simple and naive dishwasher from Big Spring, Texas, who goes to NYC to become a hustler, cashing in on all the rich women there who are willing to pay for 'IT', he tells a fellow dishwasher.Joe is admitedly not very smart, almost a 'Forrest Gump', and grows up around his grandmother who calls him lover boy and always tells him he is the best-looking guy around. Flashback images even hint that he may have been sexually abused, but that is not clear nor necessary to explain his formation. As a young adult he declares, The only thing I've ever been good at is loving, meaning the sex act which rhymes with his last name.Dressed in a cowboy outfit, boots, colorful shirt, and his portable radio as his constant companion, his bus trip to NYC is used to display total lack of sophistication, radio constantly at his ear. Finally getting a NYC station fills him with visions of beautiful, rich women just waiting for him, willing to enrich him in return for his 'services.'  Having a bit of money saved, and thinking he will strike it rich, he eagerly spends it on others around him, drinks for everyone, and my friend here. But Joe gets a quick wake-up call, doesn't realize that he is being hustled by others, including the sick and homeless 'Ratzo', soon finding himself broke, locked out of his hotel room, without even being able to get his suitcase that looked like a former-time Gateway Computer box with a handle.Joe and Ratzo become an unlikely pair, Ratzo owing him for having cheated Joe out of $20, Joe needing a place to stay, ending up in the ratty unheated apartment in a condemned building. Ratzo coughs a lot, sweats, can hardly walk, it is obvious that he can't last too much longer. He only dreams and longs to go to Florida and, in a funny and whimsical dream scene we see him and Joe running on the beach. Not only is Ratzo running without a limp, he runs faster than Joe, as they are laughing and having a great time. There are several other funny scenes, which fit perfectly into the story and are not forced at all. In one, Joe kicks open a lock on a street shoeshine stand, and gets into the chair as Ratzo begins to shine his boots. Soon a pair of shoes appear next to the boots, the camera pans and we see a police officer. As Ratzo works on the second pair, another client shows up. In another, during the winter, ice coming out of the faucet, and Joe and Ratzo have to do a little dance in the apartment to keep from freezing too!Ratzo says, Frankly, you're beginning to smell, and for a stud in New York that's a handicap. Joe was getting near the bottom. He found a little mnoney by selling his blood. He had to hock his radio for $5. This metaphorically represented his finally severing any connection with the real world which he imagined, and then could he complete his journey into a personal hell, from which he might seek redemption. In the ugliest scene in the movie he is in a hotel room with a man, desperately needs money for bus tickets to get his sick friend, Ratzo, to Florida. He hits the old man, then stuffs and turns the black phone into the man's mouth, which is one of the very few scenes I remember from 30+ years ago. It isn't totally clear, but we feel that he killed the man, the deepest and darkest point of his desperate young life.Joe and Ratzo finally get to Florida, buy some tropical clothes, Joe stuffs all his cowboy getup into a trash can, and Joe tells Ratzo, I don't think I'm really cut out to be a hustler. I'm going to get a real job, something outdoors. Joe is growing up. He still has to live with his errors, he still has to make his new dreams happen, but the film is about the chapter in his life that had just concluded with his awakening.Ratzo becomes unresponsive, as Joe talks to him in the adjacent bus seat. As they are arriving into the Miami area, Ratzo has died. But he got to Florida first. Joe can only put his arm around Ratzo, while his eyes reveal a thousand things going on inside. What will become of Joe? We never find out, but somehow we believe that Joe has begun to understand his place in life and things just might work out.  "},{"Title":"The 2nd Best rated X film there is","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one great film. The movie stars two vetern actors Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. The movie is a about Joe Buck (Voight) who goes to NYC as a cowboy gigolo. He ain't doing that well until he meets Ratzo Rizzo (Hoffman). He becomes Buck's manager and develop a friendship for each other. This movie couldn't be any better. It has acting, a great plot, and themes. You may have to watch it twice, just like I did to understand it better. I got it and now it is one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Powerful, gritty, heartwarming, sad, funny - truly great!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies of our time - truly sensational (I've seen it over a dozen times).  The acting, the story, the music, the cinematography, the directing were all excellent.  This was truly a work of art - gritty, heartwarming, funny and sad!  Everyone should see this excellent movie! "},{"Title":"simply superb","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  WARNING THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THIS!!!!!!!!!!!!!This film is funny in places (Dustin Hoffman HEY I'M WALKING HERE! I SAID I'M WALKING HERE!! to the taxi driver), sad in places (the final scenes), and very weird in places (that woman and the toy mouse, as well as the party), but above all is  tremendously entertaining to watch. Dustin Hoffman is magnificent as Enrico Rizzo, the sleazy conman. Jon Voight is quite good but also quite irritating as Joe Buck, the naive cowboy/hustler. The way the two characters with opposite personalities are drawn together makes entertaining viewing, and the film has a emotional and heartfelt ending, as Joe hugs the body of his dead friend on the coach. The relationship between the two is reminiscent of that of Lenny and George in Of Mice And Men. Funny, entertaining, and sad, this film is one of the classics of its generation. "},{"Title":"The Only Real Film","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SOME SPOILERSThis is, in my opinion, the only film that is true to real life,  from the first mention of Joe Buck wanting to be a hustler out of excitement up until the end where he pays for his life of parties with a life of dread.  The movie appears to be normal, until the party scene at the house of the brother and sister Hansel and Gretel.  This wild, acid trip of a party really brings out the character of the sixties.  Some scenes may seem funny (Ratso stealing food, Ratso falling down) but really aren't.  These scenes actually show the reality of life.  Somethings aren't as easy as they appear.  Along with Schindler's List, I think that this is one of the hardest films to watch.  This is mainly in part to the scene where Joe attacks Towny, a man who invites Joe up to his room for mysterious reasons, and steals his money.  Another upsetting part is the end when Ratso dies. Just as Joe says he's giving up being a hustler and about 5 minutes before arriving in Miami, Ratso dies on the bus, as every passenger stares with wonder as Joe embraces the dead body of his only friend in the world.  A must see. "},{"Title":"A brave, sad, lonely film","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Parts of this movie definitely don't age well (psychedelic party scenes, in particular), but it remains one of the most heartwrenching films ever made. No one has ever captured the forbidding, urban loneliness of New York so well, and Toots Thielmann's sadly exquisite harmonica score is enough to bring tears to your eyes, as does Harry Nielson's title song.  What is also depressing about this film--in a different way--is the knowledge that it could never be made in Hollywood today.  What studio today would ever make such a sad, depressing film?  "},{"Title":"An extremely excellent and realistic picture.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rarely have I seen a movie that illustrated the harshness of the living the people who came to New-York with great dreams and finish broken as well as this one.  Jon Voight is very good as Joe Buck, a young little Texan who goes to New-York with big plans not realizing that life is not as sweet and easy as it quite seems.  The only friendship he is able to find is in a young con-man and pimp called Ratso terrifically played by the great Dustin Hoffman.  All through the movie, you realize how hard it had to be to hit the big-time in N.Y. in those days. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is it possible to thoroughly enjoy and love a film, even though its story is so disturbing and tragic and the the main characters don`t achieve any happiness but only heartbreak? Of course. Midnight Cowboy is perfect film to fit that description. It is no ordinary film, instead it is a unforgettable journey through the eyes of two drifters who slowly witness their lives plummeting deeper into a decadent world of drugs, sex and hopelessness. It is such a rarity for a film to provoke such intense emotions and thoughts like this film does, it leaves a sharp impact. Midnight Cowboy explores the bleaker side of life, and how cruel the world can be to people just trying to achieve their dreams. Jon Voight gives a remarkable performances as one of drifters, Joe Buck, a naive Texan native who dreams of becoming a hustler. Dustin Hoffman is equally as brilliant portraying the sleazy but dying con man, Ratso Rizzo. Midnight Cowboy is not a film that shies away from the brutal reality, instead, it displays the corrupt urban jungle at its grimmest, as it robs the two lead characters of money, dignity and ultimately hope. But amidst the depressing tale lies a unusual but profound coming-of-age story between Joe and Ratso. Midnight Cowboy shows the signifigance of a shared bond, especially through such painful cirumstances. You can call it the American Dream gone sadly wrong, Joe and Ratso`s journey comes to a tragic halt at the end of the film. Midnight Cowboy`s final scene is the most heart-breaking moment I`ve ever seen in a film. It will surely leave an impact on you forever.  "},{"Title":"Memorable comedy-drama","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Schlesinger's Oscar winning film is a romanticized country mouse-city rat tale set in a gritty NYC and it benefits greatly from the performances of Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. Thanks to them and Sylvia Miles the film is memorable. Voight's Joe Buck and Hoffman's Ratso Rizzo are a modern day Oliver Twist and Artful Dodger. Pure at heart, they're two innocents in an otherwise cruel and indifferent world. Miles, Voight and Hoffman earned well-deserved Oscar nods, but the film itself is uneven and episodic, and much of what happens to Ratso and Joe Buck feels arbitrary and unlikely; the psychedelic party is an attempt to seem contemporary while telling a basically old fashioned story. John Schlesinger's flashy directing is clever but distracting, and the intrusive flashbacks are confusing. "},{"Title":"Uh, well, sir, I ain't a f'real cowboy. But I am one helluva stud!","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Schlesinger's 'Midnight Cowboy' is perhaps most notable for being the only X-rated film in Academy history to receive the Oscar for Best Picture. This was certainly how I first came to hear of it, and, to be completely honest, I didn't really expect much of the film. This is not to say that I thought it would be horrible, but somehow I didn't consider it the sort of movie that I would enjoy watching. This is one reason why you should never trust your own instincts on such manners &#150; a remarkable combination of stellar acting, ambitious directing and a memorable soundtrack (Everybody's talking' at me, I don't hear a word they're sayin') make this film one of the finest explorations of life, naivety and friendship ever released.Young Joe Buck (then-newcomer Jon Voight), dressed proudly as a rodeo cowboy, travels from Texas to New York to seek a new life as a hustler, a male prostitute. Women, however, do not seem to be willing to pay money for his services, and Joe faces living in extreme poverty as his supply of money begins to dry up. During these exploits, Joe comes to meet Enrico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman), a sickly crippled swindler who initially tries to con Joe out of all his money. When they come to realise that they are both in the same predicament, Ratso offers Joe a place to stay, and, working together, they attempt to make (largely dishonest) lives for themselves in the cold, gritty metropolis of New York.Joe had convinced himself that New York women would be more than willing to pay for sex; however, his first such business venture ends with him guiltily paying the woman (Sylvia Miles) twenty dollars. Though he might consider himself to be somewhat intelligent, Ratso is just as naïve as Joe. Ratso, with his painful limp and hacking cough, is always assuring himself that, if only he could travel to the warmth of Miami, somehow everything would be all right. This misguided expectation that things will get better so easily is quite reminiscent of Lennie and George of John Steinbeck's classic novel, 'Of Mice and Men.'Shot largely on the streets of New York, 'Midnight Cowboy' is a grittily-realistic look at life in the slums. Watching the film, we can almost feel ourselves inside Ratso's squalid, unheated residence, our joints stiff from the aching winter cold. The acting certainly contributes to this ultra-realism, with both Voight and Hoffman masterfully portraying the two decadent dregs of modern society. Hoffman, in particular, is exceptional in his role (I'm walkin' here! I'm walkin' here!), managing to steer well clear of being typecast after his much-lauded debut in 1967's 'The Graduate.' Both stars were later nominated for Best Actor Oscars (also nominated for acting &#150; bafflingly &#150; was Sylvia Miles, for an appearance that can't have been for more than five minutes), though both ultimately lost out to John Wayne in 'True Grit.' 'Midnight Cowboy' eventually went on to win three Oscars from seven nominations, including Best Picture, Best Director for Schlesinger and Best Writing for Waldo Salt.'Midnight Cowboy' is told mainly in a linear fashion, though there are numerous flashbacks that hint at Joe's past. Rather than explicitly explaining what these brief snippets are actually about, the audience is invited to think about it for themselves, and how these circumstances could have led Joe onto the path he is now pursuing. The achingly-beautiful final scene leaves us with a glimmer of hope, but a large amount of uncertainty. Gritty, thought-provoking and intensely fascinating, 'Midnight Cowboy' is one for the ages. "}{"Title":"A TRUE classic. Brilliant.","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find it truly depressing that this movie is not even in the top #250 of the IMDb (at the time of writing). Mind you, I wonder what the average age of the IMDb voters is! This film is one of the finest of Hollywood, although it was directed by British genius John Schlesinger - who also directed one of my favourite ever films - Marathon Man.I think in a way, this movie opened the way for the tirade of classic, daring, gritty, realistic and superbly acted/crafted movies that followed in the 1970s - an era where the frequency of truly brilliant films from Hollywood has never been higher.I won't delve into the plot (the movie is more a character study than a plot driven film anyhow), but I will say that the acting by Hoffman and Voight is incredible, the direction and photography superb, and the music wonderful ('Florida Keys' is an unforgettable melody, by genius John Barry).Too many great moments and scenes - and great dialogue! The scene where Joe Buck (Voight) meets 'Father' O'Daniel is absolutely hilarious.If you think 'Independence Day' and 'Armageddon' are cinematic masterpieces, then do yourself a favour and don't watch this movie - and moreover, don't vote on a movie you obviously are not equipped to appreciate! If on the other hand you enjoy intelligent and daring (for the time) cinema, with sensational acting performances you must watch this film.Finally, I can't believe this film was X-rated - but then again, a sign of the times it was made perhaps. It is an extremely powerful film, but I would be happy to let a 15 year old see it. Any 'sexual' scenes are always put in the context of an emotional response, you always see the effect/impact of any sexual situations on the characters involved. I view the Oscars with some suspicion, but they definitely got it right by awarding Midnight Cowboy the best movie award.Best quote .. I ain't a for real cowboy, but I sure am one hell of a lover!! "},{"Title":"loneliness and friendship in the big bad world","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I never get tired of seeing the film, and even though I haven't seen if for a while, it remains burnt into my memory like no other. It easily remains Voight's finest hour and Hoffman never got into character as deep as this one. If you've ever gone to the city from a small town and been amazed at how much there is to take in and understand and be confused by, then you will relate to this film. Themes of starting a better life, running away from your past, putting all your dreams into one plan, hoping that a change of scene means a change of mind, the need for human contact no matter how hard you think you can do without it, the basic need to communicate with people. Of course if you have no heart or are as emotional as a dry mushroom, you will remain untouched, but maybe you will be able to appreciate it on a more cinematic level. Like everything to do with any kind of art, if there is no emotional content and communication and telling of people's lives, no feeling, no real people, then I have no interest in it (e.g. the Coens' time pieces). That's why I love this film. Whoever you relate to - Voight ? Hoffman ? The old man who longs for company ? - if you have a beating heart, this will get you. By the way, doesn't the theme tune leave a lump in your throat? "},{"Title":"Where the hell is Joe Buck?!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What's all the fuss about? Well, first of all, it was played on UK TV last night, but it wasn't the comments that made me want to watch the film, it was the Harry Nielsen theme tune that made me want to watch it. I downloaded the mp3 a couple of years back, but it was pleasant to now match the song to the right picture...Midnight Cowboy is indeed a great adventure of a film. To describe Joe Buck here is to spoil it for you to let your imagination paint his character, because thats what the first 10 mins of the film does.Try doing what he did - to traverse from the big country to a big city, where Joe isn't contaminated by the dark traits of city life, where no one says hello to each other on the streets, where people fear of being robbed, where people walk with heads down. No, no... Joe Buck treats everyone equal, with a nice massive Howdy to y'all from Texas.I couldn't lose concentration while watching the film you actually do become involved. I had to keep reminding myself that the film is nearing 36 years old and that the entire cast is aged.It's definitely worth a view. R2-DVD's are cheap. "},{"Title":"rent it this weekend","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i am a true 60s & 70s movie freak & this piece reminds me why. Dustin Hoffman at the onset of his fame in a dynamic role. Jon Voight's breakout performance. artists will be even more drawn in by this film...what happens when a Texan boy aspiring to be a big time hustler comes to the greatest city in the world (with all its degenerates included) and befriends a down-on-his-luck cripple? a movie masterpiece. joe buck is an amazingly stable character once the viewer realizes his past was plagued by sexual abuse. as for Rizzo's past, one can only wonder.i'm usually one who cries at the drop of a hat, but amazingly, i found myself so consumed by the artistry of this film that i forgot to shed a tear. a raw film, without question, but i'm not sure i'd call it depressing. maybe because i live in NYC? the integration of black & white sequences along with drug-like dream flashbacks are true genius and add to the dramatic & realistic portrait of the life Voight & Hoffman are forced to lead. there's a somewhat B quality to the film & by today's standards, it seems unlikely that it would have won an Oscar but the acting is of the highest standards. even that of Sylvia Myles - albeit only 5 minutes in duration. i find her scene to be the most disturbing portion of the film.i read another user's comment about the Warhol-esquire party scene being dragged out & somewhat irrelevant but i strongly disagree. it's highly relevant to the time period and sets the stage for Jon Voight's encounter with Brenda Vaquero - the most sane character that we meet in this film. also, for you underground buffs, there are cameos here by Viva & Paul Morrissey, both of Warhol fame.on a completely irrelevant note, Angelina Jolie is the perfect picture of her father as a young man.i hesitate to say more since i may spoil it for you so let's summarize by saying just go rent it. "},{"Title":"Depends upon your age and personal history","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Its too bad the user comments don't come with the person's age and experience written alongside them.  I'm a 32 year old native New Yorker. You can like or dislike a movie based upon its artistic qualities, but I can only imagine that some people would find this movie annoying or unrealistic if they are young or have led a charmed life.  Sure Joe Buck is naive - that's the point.  If he wasn't, there is no need for a movie to be made about him as he would have succeeded.  So perhaps see John Travolta in Rhinestone Cowboy if you prefer less naivetee in your cowboys while you're studying for your chemistry exam and you're really p***ed off Daddy won't give you the money to go to Cancun for Spring Break, rather you have to go to Daytona.  Even with the Disneyfication of 42nd street NY is still a tough place to make it - the sleaze has just relocated.  I know plenty of college grads who are making peanuts in dead end jobs they never would have thought they'd end up in back in college when they had the luxury of being able to say That Joe Buck.  So naive.  Believe me, the con-men are more sophisticated today and you can just as easily fail as Joe did, but for different reasons.  Replace Joe with a young kid programmer trying to succeed in Silicon Alley and you can have a modern version of Midnight Cowboy.  I myself came down to my last $6 before I got my break here but even so, I still had parents nearby I could rely on.  Joe and Ratso did not. As you go through life you see that indeed there are times when two paths diverge in the woods and you're going down one path and it makes all the difference to your future.  Usually you notice you've gone down a path after the fact.  We can see Joe realizing something is going on and its not the right thing as his bad luck starts - but part of what makes this movie a classic is its ability to deal with the many sided nature of life.  As Joe is bunking down for his first night in Ratso's apartment we see him realizing that this is not right.  This isn't how it was supposed to be. Yet at the same time he finds himself chucking over Ratso's wish to be called Rico in his own goddamn apartment.  Rico Rico Rico....  Joe doesn't want to go down this path, yet he's still trying to be himself.  Do you think life sends you a telegram saying Hey kid, this is wrong - back up a few steps and try again?  No, it doesn't.  And if you only find out when its too late to back up a few steps what are you to do?  And Joe does grow in 'street smarts'.  Note when he's in Rico's apartment he asks him what he wants (out of him).  What's the catch?  And when Joe needs money fast he is able to quickly hustle and rob Towny.  Unlike at the beginning, at the end we are left feeling Joe is able to take care of himself.  But still, at the final he is sitting in the bus like a scared boy just about to cry.  I've seen a number of people who've come to NY thinking that if they can make it somewhere else, they can make it here.  Then, sometimes sooner, sometimes later, they find NY to be the friendless, poor-making city it can be if you don't succeed.  And you know what?  Most people don't.  Only then do they find out that NY does deserve its reputation - if you can make it here, you can make it anywhere.  Not the other way around.  But I love the moment in the Florida diner when Joe is buying lunch when the woman asks him where he's from.  Born and raised in Texas, and after everything he's been through, Joe answers New York. "},{"Title":"Loneliness","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Katie Walsh Midnight Cowboy ReviewMidnight Cowboy follows the story of a man, Joe Buck, played by Jon Voight, caught between two worlds. He leaves his small Texas town, with no future for him, to travel to New York City, where his inexperience leads him through many humiliating adventures. He befriends Rico Ratzo Rizzo, played by Dustin Hoffman, who is a sleazy cripples who originally steals money from him. The two men are both lost within this fast-paced world, stuck in a condemned building with the only money for food coming from Joe's pathetic attempts at hustling. The film goes through a series of vignettes that piece together his past as objects trigger his memory. For instance, when Joe looks into the beauty salon window he pictures himself giving his grandmother a massage. Through these images we piece together a past full of sorrows such as, a relationship with a girl that led to a gang-bang, and a mother who abandoned him at his grandmother's doorstep. The girl from his past is the dominant voice inside his head throughout the movie. The fact that he becomes a hustler seems to be explained by the rape associated with her, degrading him into a job where he no longer needs to respect himself, but still earns a lot of money. This failure from before premeditates his failure later on in life. As he looks into the window in New York City, he sees himself as a dishwasher again, stuck in a low-paying job with little meaning. The relationship between Hoffman and Voight on screen displays homosexual tendencies that are never fully played out. These subtle motions are shown through the scene where Rizzo hugs Joe, and at the end, when Joe puts his arm around him. The sex scene with the girls from the party becomes interesting. She suggests that he is gay with Hoffman's character, but instead of denying it, he merely proves himself in the bedroom to her. There are also two other gay scenes, where a teenager seduces him in a movie theatre, and an old man brings him back to his place. In both cases, Voight becomes extremely violent as he throws the kid up against the wall, but the old man is knocked unconscious. We see the development of Voight's character since the teenager was let off without giving him anything because Joe was still naïve to the ways of the city. However, his heart had been hardened by the time the old man tried to offer him ten dollars for merely coming up to the room. He shows almost no sympathy as he knocks the man to and fro in an attempt to reach the money needed to bring Rizzo to safety. That fact alone shows the extremely close ties between Rizzo and Joe.A prevailing theme of loneliness jumps off the screen as viewers watch Joe go through a series of disappointments in his life. He is abandoned by everyone so that by the end, he remains completely alone. For this reason alone, I would rate the movie a 7 out of 10. The loneliness engulfed me as I walked back to my room, which shows great direction, but I prefer to be happy. "},{"Title":"I'm watchin' this!   I'm watchin' this!","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy may have marked the culmination of the '60s. Loner cowboy Joe Buck (Jon Voight) leaves his Texas town for New York, where he meets the sickly Enrico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman). There turns out to be only one thing for Joe to do become a male prostitute. Even if this is his only option in life, it works out for his and Ratso's relationship.Dustin Hoffman was clearly a great actor in The Graduate, and Midnight Cowboy reaffirms that. You can practically feel Ratso on yourself. It's easy to see why this movie won Best Picture it really was possibly the greatest movie released that year. Watching it nowadays, it seems pretty silly that they rated it X when it first came out. But the point is, you HAVE to see this movie. 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best of the zap-realism films of the late 1960's and 1970's. Hoffman and Voight are astounding in their performances, but it's the mean streets of New York City that's the real star of the film. Director Schlesinger captures the essence beautifully in every shocking scene. The most devastating scene is between Voight and BarnardHughes. The scene is offending, which is the point, but it brings into light who Voight's Joe Buck really is. Hughes, Vaccaro and Sylvia Miles are all wonderful in support.  "},{"Title":"ehhhh","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't see what the big fuss is about. The acting was very good, but I felt like the characters were undeveloped and the story went nowhere. It shows glimpses of Joe Buck's past just enough to get the point across that it was troubled, but it never connects it back to his current problems, so it's really irrelevant. Similarly, I was incredibly sympathetic to Rizzo's character, but thought his ambitions of escaping to Florida were kind of arbitrary and unexplained, and drew nothing from the story when he failed to make it. The whole film was just a story with no lesson, no message, no cultural significance. TOTALLY BLUE BALLED. "},{"Title":"The most unconventional movie I've ever seen.","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wasn't sure why I was so drawn to Midnight Cowboy after seeing it for the first time on the DVD Release. It doesn't have much of a plot, and it is quite depressing.I thought maybe it was the bleakness of the film you can almost smell the characters and touch the grit around them, but that's not it either.I think what is so evocative about this movie and what resonates with everyone who sees it, is that it is merely about friendship and the connections that all us, even the most lowly and desperate, make in this life.It is truly a landmark in Cinema History. "}{"Title":"Gloaming","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film is of historical interest only. It has two components of note the acting and the `new' notion of the eye.First, the eye. Schlesinger -- I think -- was instructed to affect a European/Russian style of parallel overlain visual consciousness, sort of a poor man's Joyce. In doing so--We have memory vision, both false and true. --We have daydreams and fantasies. --We have drugged confusion. --We have dreams. --We have a symbolic city/labyrinth (after Joe escapes from the Jesus freak). All are treated in the same way and sometimes mixed. There is some art in the associations but the shifts in layers wasn't well thought out. I suppose Schlesinger felt it was all the same uncontrolled environment in which Joe (and sometimes Ratso) drifts. But it is a very blunt notion. Only a very few camera tricks are used. A rhythm escapes us, a matter of unfamiliarity with what was needed rather than a deliberate statement of chaos (as in `Requiem for a Dream').I have to give Schlesinger a lot of credit for the attempt. Though artless, it achieved much of its intent because most of us were so unfamiliar with the notion -- and because it is peppered with then-titillating snippets and then-novel location shots. (He wandered into similarly adventuresome territory with `Day of the Locust,' and did better.)But in the context of this experiment -- and completely, wholly unrelated to it -- is the matter of the performances. I am not a fan of Dustin's. There's usually too much visible work involved in his characters. But here, that is somewhat submerged. The film is of ironies about engineered yearning versus on-rushing reality, so it is apt that we have Hoffman trying so incredibly hard to make a person who has the inability to try even the slightest. Its not art, but it is interesting. He bumps effectively off of the doe-eyed Voight, who never had a real career. One can see why here. His character works because he is essentially characterless, but such opportunities are rare. The best acting is by Brenda Vaccaro.As with all intellectual projects, there is a film within the film (the party which triggers the death). Nothing is made of this self-reference, but the iron rule holds that the abstract `distance' of the film within to the film is the same as that of the film to `real' life.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best American movies of the 60's.  Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman inhibit their roles and take you on a sad journey through their lives.  Bob Balaban and Sylvia Miles are memorable in small roles.  For an unforgettable movie experience, Midnight Cowboy is unsurpassed.  "},{"Title":"The most overrated masterpiece ever?","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"24 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the words of another classic of the period, where do I begin? Finally saw this Academy Award winner on DVD (I was 14 when it made its X-rated theater debut) and was appalled at how bad it was.Hoffman and Voight do credible jobs in the lead roles. And the soundtrack is enjoyable. But the plot is threadbare, and the two main characters so endlessly stupid as to be implausible.(SPOILER example In a scene which could have come straight from Jim Carrey's Dumb and Dumber, Buck and Ratso hang outside a male escort agency to pickpocket a lead from a departing gigolo. The agency is RIGHT THERE &#150; why doesn't Buck simply apply for a job?) One gets the feeling if the two passed a display on Park Avenue offering free money, they'd conspire to steal the sign instead.A party scene later in the film is straight out of the Late '60s Psychedelic Party filmmaker's manual. The main reason the predictability of the conclusion wasn't overly disappointing was because I stopped caring about these two clowns an hour into the film. Sad to say this Midnight Emperor is as unclothed as its Oscar statuettes. "},{"Title":"Depressing and Gritty","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed Midnight Cowboy and understand why it is understood as a great movie from the 1960's. The acting by Jon Voight (Joe Buck) and Dustin Hoffman (Ratso). Joe Buck is a stud from Texas moving to New York to make it big he then ends up meeting Ratso and befriending him even after he scammed him when he first met him. Their duo is very fascinating because they are living together in a condemned apartment and are fighting to survive. Their friendship is very unusual but they truly care for each other. The movie itself is very dark and depressing but groundbreaking because it was the only X rated film to win an Academy award for best picture which is amazing for the time just after the Hays Code. "},{"Title":"HVCC Student Yuchen Bai Review","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is as gritty and unpleasant as they come in its portrayal of the sleazy underbelly of New York City, and American society in general, at the conclusion of the 60s and the peak of the Sexual Revolution. Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight both deliver solid performances as unlikely companions whose dashed dreams and hopes provide an incredibly strong bond, a bond that is depended on for survival. Midnight Cowboy is uncomfortable, it is painful and it evokes emotion in ways never before seen on film. This experience deserves at least one viewing, as one may be all that can be handled. Overall, this is a wonderful performances from both of the leading men. An interesting, honest story. Hoffman's character really snuck up on me, all of a sudden I found myself deeply caring about him. "},{"Title":"Really good movie with Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight!","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really liked this movie, it was very interesting, funny, shocking, sad and any other emotions you can think of! I liked the fact I found out the song Everybody's Talking' by Nilsson was a soundtrack for this! Christ, I remember hearing that song when i was young and not thinking that it was for this movie. Such a class tune it is! I thought Jon Voight as the hustler looked pretty classy with his cowboy outfit. No wonder all the men and women cast were wanting to be on top of him haha! He was really good looking as a young man I have to say, no wonder Angelina Jolie always looked beautiful because of his looks haha! Seriously, they are both father and daughter legends!The only one bit I badly wanted was himself and Dustin Hoffman's characters kissed. I know I'm always a romantic but honestly, their friendship blossomed throughout the movie like I didn't understand why they didn't have a little smooch hahaha. I don't think Dustin Hoffman would be that impressed now lol! I really liked Hoffman's character as a typical new york outcast, the accent and his attitude was bang on! It was such a bummer that his character was dying from a bad chest infection and didn't get any medical help at all to cure it! I wish characters didn't die like that but there you go!Very good movie, 8/10! "},{"Title":"MONY, The Root Of All Evil.","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's filled with lines that stick in the memory.Dat's some collosal shoit you got dere. Come on, Baby, do it for mamma. I'm WALKIN' here, I'm WALKIN' here! While watching this story of two down-and-outers trying to survive like roaches in New York City, what occurred to me is that -- I hate to say it -- but they just don't make them like this anymore. It's a dignified, adult movie. The cinematic teratomas now marching across our screens resemble 2016's presidential campaigns, designed by geniuses for execution by idiots.Jon Voight is Joe Buck, the polite Texan and self-described stud who comes to New York with the idea of becoming a male gigolo. It doesn't work. Running out of money he takes up with Dustin Hoffman as Ratso Rizzo, a pneumococcal street rat who knows how to get by, by conning, thievery, and finding the niches in the rules against finding the niches.Some of the images are unforgettable -- a long shot of Voight, upright under his stylish cowboy hat, striding in his self-possessed way across a spare bridge in silhouette, with a stunted, crippled Richard III jerking and hobbling along behind him. And here is Voight, freshly arrived, spiffy in incandescent cowboy shirt, buckskin jacket, and shiny boots stopping to gawk at a well-dressed man sprawled out motionless on the sidewalk while the pedestrian traffic opens up and flow around the body.It's not a flawless picture but it should still be seen by everyone interested in movies, if only as a reminder that not every film needs to have someone's head being wrenched off or about the problems teens have in adjusting to high school, nor are the ghoulish green shots required to last no more than one picosecond. This is stylized, yes, but to an extent concordant with decency and taste. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad...for a cowboy.","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most touching films ever made and a perfect example of 70s style film-making. But this is not just a film for the 60s or 70s. It is filled with themes such as lower-class vs upper-class people, struggles in getting a job, genuine friendship, and ultimate pessimism. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are both excellent as the male hooker and his eventual best friend. Voight's Joe Buck (classic name) starts off not liking Hoffman's Enrico Ratso Rizzo, but they ultimately are the only people that they each can count on in a city where the rich people don't give a damn about the people below their level and without the proper skills and know-how, it's hard to get a job that doesn't involve anything illegal. Probably the most heart- breaking story on film that could involve a hustler who wants to do the dirty deed for money and a sickly conman who double-crosses the hustler first, only to love that same hustler as a friend. "},{"Title":"A Clash of Cultures.","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy (1969) Dir John Schlesinger / Cast Jon Voight, Dustin Hoffman, Sylvia Miles, John McGiver, Brenda Vaccaro Clash of cultures has Joe Buck quitting his job and donning his cowboy hat aimed for New York City in hopes of hustling a wealthy woman. He is played with cowboy enthusiasm by Jon Voight who learns quickly that there is a difference between his troubled past with his grandmother and a relationship gone wrong when a gang rape occurs, to street hustling people casually walk past people sleeping on the sidewalk. Dustin Hoffman plays a scheming crippled thief named Ratso Rizzo whose first encounter with Buck leads to deceit but they eventually form a team of stealing and hustling while living in a rundown building. Sylvia Miles plays a delusional older woman whom Buck attempts to hustle but ends up being hustled himself. John McGiver plays a whack job preacher who runs a male escort stable. His actions leave more traumatizing flashbacks for Buck. Brenda Vaccaro plays a pot smoking female whom Buck meets at a drug party that is full sixties bliss. This leads to rough sex when she challenges his manhood. Director John Schlesinger is skilled with innovative camera shots and grand locations but there is much disturbing content in terms some sadistic sexual encounters. Theme regards the mending of cultures, personalities, and the pursuit of paradise. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The main points for these movie, are in its acting. Voight and Hoffman to an incredible job on what can be taken as a controversial topic during that time. In its Filming, that captured the essence of NY and why these two men needed each other. As well as the editing, characters, cinematography, directing. The movie overall is a beautiful masterpiece. For me there is a homosexual element, not just a strong friendship. And the director does a beautiful job of leaving it up to the audience to decide on the status of their relationship. What he focuses on is the human connection that they get from each other. he does a masterful job with a controversial issues of that time "}{"Title":"Hey, I'm Walking Here!!","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Texan Joe Buck (Jon Voight) quits his dish washing job and heading out east to be a gigolo in NYC. He sees himself as a real ladies man but he's actually quite naive in the big city. He's so naive that he loses money after sleeping with a rich lady. He meets real hustler limping Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) who cons him out of more money. He's so broke that he does gay sex which he again gets nothing for. He runs into Rizzo and they form an odd friendship. Buck is haunted by his past while Rizzo dreams of living in Florida.Jon Voight is great and Dustin Hoffman makes one of the greatest character of all cinema. They form an iconic movie team. It's down and dirty. It's also a bit of fun. There's a good sense of decay in New York. The song Everybody's Talking' is immediately identifiable to this movie. It's also got one of the most heart breaking final scenes. It is an important American film. "},{"Title":"Survival by any means!?!?","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first, I didn't know what to think of this movie except that it has good ratings and is a classic.Then, upon watching it, I still didn't quite know what exactly to think of it...except, that it's good.While I was in the US Navy, I've seen all sorts of hustlers on the streets of New York City (card games); Philadelphia (walnut shell games); etc., but, this guy, Texas-Cowboy Joe Buck (played by Jon Voight), went right to the top with male prostitution...hustling rich married women; but, he was a failure at first and actually paid the women in the end!?!?THEN, he meets a semi-crippled New York-Italian hustler named 'Ratso' (played by Dustin Hoffman), and, everything begins to come together.I really enjoyed this movie, and, I also felt so badly for how, even though Ratso is a 'RAT,' he visited his daddy's grave site and mourned over his passing.Deep-down, both of these characters are 'good people,' but, because of the life they've each been handed, they both found a 'cruel and deceitful living' in a cruel and deceitful world; and, it paid-off when they found one another.I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"depressing, but great performances","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maybe Midnight Cowboy is not a movie I should have paired up for viewing with another somewhat depressing, gritty film based in NYC. Regardless, the story about friendship and what a person will do to survive and do for another person is compelling. I usually enjoy movies that utilize flashbacks but in this case I struggled to stay interested enough to really enjoy it.I really enjoyed the soundtrack.The performances of Hoffman and Voight are really spectacular. I have seen both actors in so many more recent movies prior to seeing this film and it is amazing to see where they started there careers. You can can definitely see why they have had such longevity and success. "},{"Title":"A groundbreaking film that could have been better","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've watched several movies from the 1960s and 70s recently and am surprised dismayed at how slow they now seem. In Midnight Cowboy, Joe Buck (Jon Voight) doesn't get to New York until about 1329 into the film and even then nothing much happens for several more minutes after he arrives.After viewing the film again, now that I am much older but not much wiser, and having read several reviews and articles about the production, I haven't the faintest notion of what the film is about. I must agree with Roger Ebert's conclusion that the film presents strong performances and enough material to whet the appetite, but fails to live up to its promise and potential.Schlesinger and Salt seem as if they couldn't decide whether they want to tell Joe Buck's story or their own, so cluttered the movie with scenes and images that have nothing to do with Joe Buck, but were strong personal impressions, such as the Warhol-esque party that British directors attend but are off limits to the unwashed masses, and images of New York shot from the wrong angle.Here's my tongue-in-cheek, cynical synopsis A simpleminded Texas hick's latent homosexual tendencies are awakened when the entire male population of his backwater town collectively decide they would rather gang-rape him than his beautiful buxom girlfriend. He tries to escape his budding homosexuality by dressing in the gayest outfits he can buy and going to New York to become the only straight hustler working 42nd Street. But like the traveller to Samarra, his homosexuality follows him and he finds bittersweet fulfillment in a bromance with a cynical asexual cripple whose physical disabilities mirror his own emotional dysfunction.The movie leaves a lot of questions unanswered. In his hotel room, Joe is shown writing a postcard to a co-worker who is shown receiving the card. But the movie shows several fantasy scenes for both Joe and Ratzo, so we can't be sure he actually sent it. In the next shot, Joe tears up a similar card and tosses the pieces out the window. Who was the intended recipient of the second card? His girlfriend Annie? What happened to Annie? As the police lead her away after the attack, she points to Joe and says, He's the only one. Then she disappears from Joe's flashbacks. Personally, I like nonlinear stories and consider flashbacks a potent tool. And I like stories told from multiple perspectives, provided those perspectives are clearly delineated. But MC presents a jumble of memories and fantasies, some in B&W, others in Technicolor, for Joe, Ratso, Schlesinger, Salt and Holender.And yet the movie won three Academy Awards, including Best Picture, which everybody expected to go to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Heller was so convinced the film would lose that he didn't even bother preparing an acceptance speech.I wonder if it won the award based on what it represented as much as what it accomplished. In 1969, the film industry was still hobbled not only by MPAA ratings but also by National Catholic Office for Motion Pictures ratings. (Curiously, the Catholics condemned Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice that year, but not Midnight Cowboy. The vanguards of cinema were the French, Italians and Swedes. Perhaps the members of the Academy rallied around MC because it broke taboos, even though BCATSD was a better film and a more conventional bromance. After MC took the Oscar, MPAA changed the rating from X to R, demonstrating that their ratings are purely objective. "},{"Title":"I only get carsick on boats.","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The American Dad parody definitely did not prepare me for thisWhat a wonderfully sad movie. I'm not sure why I love tragic films, but they certainly hold a special place in my heart. I guess it's because of the way you have to contemplate the events of the film before you can really form an opinion on it. One of my favorite parts about watching movies is how they stick with you. This film will definitely stick with me. I really appreciated how much I had to think about what I had seen before I could decide what I really thought about it.The film's not perfect. Like with most adaptations of a novel there are sections where you can tell a lot of valuable content had to be left out. Where it does succeed, though, is maintaining the substance of the tragic melancholy that had been created by the novel. This film has plenty of weight behind it. If you're a person with too much empathy like me you'll probably become nauseous when you watch some of the things the duo have to go through. I'm the kind of person that was amused by the Saw series, gore doesn't affect me at all anymore, but the things in this film made me feel the way gore did before I became a numb, jaded huskperson.The high point of this film, the aspect that really makes it a success, is Dustin Hoffman's transformative performance. This is the guy that played Ben Braddock in The Graduate. I couldn't believe it when I read it. Hoffman is so convincing in this role he earned the type of pity from me I've only ever given to Javier Bardem's character in Biutiful, and that movie is relentlessly tragic. It conjured up enough depression for three films. When Ratso has to frantically limp to keep up with Joe on the street it broke my heart. When he was freezing practically to death on the decaying furniture in their condemned building I felt my shredded up heart sink into my gut then jump into my throat. When he fell down the stairs and couldn't stand on his own anymore I died and came back as a ghost because my unfinished business was trying to understand how a single scene could be so sad. Man, this movie is going to be with me for a long, long time. Despite the pain, though, I really love knowing that about a film. "},{"Title":"It's all about Dustin Hoffman . . .","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dustin Hoffman gives a magnificent performance in a movie I find dated and disorganized.In Midnight Cowboy, Hoffman plays Enrico Salvatore Ratso Rizzo, whom we do not meet until nearly an hour into the film. Before we get to him we've been following the man who will become his confidant, Joe Buck (Jon Voight), a hick who has traveled from Texas to New York believing that his formidable manhood will allow him to make a living pleasuring rich women. As it begins, it doesn't go well, he is a babe in the jungle and doesn't learn from his mistake after he is ripped off.He meets Ratso, who claims that he can get him good gigs with high-class rich women. The man is a complete sleaze, but Joe Buck learns to trust him even after Ratso steals $20 from an arrangement that goes bad. He confides in Joe Buck that he wants to go to Florida and work the circuit down there. For Ratso, Florida is a place that is less squalid and also a place where no one knows him. It would be a chance to start over. The problem is that luck is not with them and neither is Ratso's health, which gets worse and worse. But as he declines, he and Joe Buck grow closer until Joe Buck turns down a lucrative offer in order to help his friend realize his dream.Ratso isn't like anyone we've seen in the movies (or wanted to). He's a sleazy little rat with a bum's coat, a pale face, nasty stubble, a whiney voice, a limp and a cigarette that hangs from his lip. It is difficult to like him but even more difficult not to feel something for him especially when he falls ill. What we notice first from Ratso is his defensive shield &#x96; he puts up the false front of a tough guy even though we can see that he is insecure down to his bones. Crossing the street with Joe Buck he is nearly hit by a cab and screams, I'm walking here! (The line was improvised by Hoffman when a real cab nearly ran over him.) He is knowledgeable about the New York streets (or at least seems to be), convincing the naive Joe Buck that he knows what it takes to find rich ladies who want a good time. He gives his client a place to sleep, back in his disgusting apartment in a condemned building where Ratso's facade begins to crack. Sitting in the dark with a cup of soup in his hand and tears in his eyes, he cries as he fears the ailment that will soon consume him. You know what they do to you when they know you can't w-walk, he tells Joe Buck, I'm scared. The performance comes from Hoffman's refusal to ask for our sympathies. He plays the character as a complete sleaze, a man who carries himself like a rodent and who plies his trade in a bottom-feeding industry. He stands within his environment as a result of urban decay and yet when Joe Buck feels sympathy for him we can't help but follow suit. There is something of a halted childhood in Ratso, as if he grew up but forgot to leave his defensive emotional blanket behind.I only have one quibble I wish the performance were in a better movie. The scenes between Hoffman and Voight are beautifully done, giving us the portrait of two lost souls who have found solace in one another, but those scenes are interrupted by silly scenes like a trip to an upscale party and a scene where Joe Buck shoves a telephone into the mouth of an elderly gay man. Those scenes break up the narrative and fall on the personal story like a ton of bricks. It almost feels like director John Schlesinger and screenwriter Walto Salt didn't have enough faith in their material to let the relationship lead the story. They keep letting film's forward momentum get gummed up by intrusive moments like a series of badly photographed flashbacks to Joe Buck's past.Despite anyone's objections, the film would go on to win Best Picture &#x96; the only X-rated film ever to do so &#x96; and would win further Oscars for Best Director and Adapted Screenplay. I think Hoffman would have won were it not for John Wayne. Here, he silenced critics who had written him off as a one-note actor after his performance as Benjamin Braddock in The Graduate. Ratso is a completely new character that showed Hoffman's range and showed the promise of the multiple notes that he could play. In the decade that would follow, he would provide us with the multitudes of characters he could play like Jack Crabb in Little Big Man, Louis Dega in Papillion, Lenny Bruce in Lenny, Max Dembo in Straight Time, Michael Dorsey/Dorothy Michaels in Tootsie, Willie Loman in Death of a Salesman, Raymond Babbit in Rain Man among many others. Yet, it was here that he would get his respect, in the role of this rat-like little man that you can't like but can't help feeling sad for. "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy Review","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was great in its overall meaning. This film was about the growth of these two guy's friendship from the start in New York City all the way till Florida when Ratso (a.k.a Rico). I think it was very ironic that at the very end of the movie when Joe Buck finally is willing to start over when they arrive in Florida and call Ratso Rico&#x85; he turns to look at Rico and he has passed away. Rico in a way served as a guide for Joe Buck throughout the movie. He attempted to help him get jobs in the city but then it just turned into a learning experience for him when he got to Florida when he said There has got to be an easier way to do it, I'm not a hustler, we should just get jobs.I loved the editing in this movie when it is going back and forth from Joe Bucks current life to his life back when in Texas with that girl. It gives you the back story in a flashback all while telling you the present story. This was great. "},{"Title":"Only the echos of my mind","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I believe you can tell how a person views film and minimalism to a certain degree by asking them what they thought of John Schlesinger's Midnight Cowboy. If they say they thought it was a good film about two lost souls, they only understand about half the film. If they say the film is sad or depressing, then they have effectively realized the ideas and themes in the film. Midnight Cowboy is one of the saddest films I've ever seen, which is a remarkable feat given that the film has no real sad event. The idea of a life unlived, an unwelcoming world, and people that were destined to live their lives without a true sense of belonging, encouragement, or home are communicated so effectively in the film that at times I felt my heart sink and take a moment to regain composure. Midnight Cowboy isn't a perfect film, as its loose structure can sometimes get the best of it and, as a result, the film can descend into scenes that don't always fit particularly well together, but it's the themes handled so expertly in the film that make me regard it with such a fondness. The film stars Jon Voight as Joe Buck, who we see in the opening credits of the film - set to the brilliantly fitting theme of the film Everybody's Talking' by Harry Nilsson - a dishwasher at a diner who decides to throw on a cowboy suit and head for New York City in hopes of working as a male prostitute for women. Right off the bat, it's a sad state of affairs if packing up, leaving everything you've known behind, and setting course for the big city with ambitions of being a prostitute is one's immediate goal, but I digress. Soon after he arrives in New York City, he meets Enrico Salvatore Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman), a petty con man with bad health and a limp, who initially takes money from Joe with promises of introducing him to a pimp who is in fact a Christian. Despite this deliberately insincere encounter, Joe and Ratso soon strike a business relationship of hustling New York locals in exchange for lofty cash returns.The film watches these characters take on a relationship I can only relate to that of George and Lenny in John Steinbeck's classic novel Of Mice and Men. Much like in that work, the two characters are, what we quietly assume, doomed from the start and the remaining pages of the book or minutes of the film is just a reiteration of their shattered sense of belonging. Voight and Hoffman are so good here that they essentially become the film, as we get the sense that writer Waldo Salt had additional plans for these characters in the vein of more situational occurrences, but the performances of the actors and the hopelessness of their characters bleeds through any hope of an event-driven plot. The only issue I take with Midnight Cowboy is that Salt never seemed to recognize this, and thus, never allowed as many thought-provoking or telling conversations about Joe and Ratso to take place. He never seemed to grasp the idea that Midnight Cowboy plays more like a character piece than anything, and while simultaneously leaving the characters vague enough for connection and not adapting a plot out of a plethora of situations, made a film caught somewhere in the middle of its agenda. Midnight Cowboy, as much as I want to center it and just rave about the greatness of its two leading males, is not a fully-realized film.Yet, Schlesinger and Salt give Voight and Hoffman enough free range to make them shine, and as a result, the film wound up working out for most involved. Voight became a household name after his performance, Hoffman became known for more than just The Graduate and became a name of equal importance, both earned a Best Actor nomination, Salt was granted the Best Adapted Screenplay Oscar, Schlesinger the Best Director, and the film Best Picture. While Midnight Cowboy seems to have a bit of a narrative identity crisis, it's nonetheless a display of two fine performances, a non- judgmental relationship between two hopeless characters, and a breakthrough for urban cinema, showing one of the most romanticized American cities as a place where untold ugliness can and does exist.Starring Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. Directed by John Schlesinger. "},{"Title":"great New Hollywood","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this film. John Voight and Dustin Hoffman are magnificent together and the acting is spot on. Their diverse relationship is unlike any other I've witnessed in film. As a New Hollywood film, the subject matter is counter culture material and is very graphic at times. I found this to add a very realistic feeling to the overall experience. The music featured in the film was also part of the cultural movement during this time period, and often relates to the scene or event in the film. I would recommend this film to anyone looking for a new and unusual experience that is quite different than any other. "},{"Title":"Only in New York","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The heart of Midnight Cowboy is the friendship between the two main characters, Joe Buck (Jon Voight) and Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman). At the start of the film, Joe is naive young man who dreams of earning a living as a hustle in New York City in the late 1960s. His dreams of living the high life a quickly shattered and finds himself broke and destitute.Although he is swindled early on by Ratso, a hustler, the two develop a friendship that allows them to survive against the city's harsh environment. Although the late 1960s period makes this film seem dated it is beautifully acted by both leads and the conclusion is heartbreaking.Although tame by todays standards when this film came out it was very shocking and groundbreaking regarding certain scenes involving sex and drugs. However, the grittiness and the harshness that occurs on the screen is to show the viewers how difficult surviving in the city will be and that the main characters do things that they never dreamed of in order to survive.This is film is one of the all time greats. I watched it my senior year of high school and have gone back and re-watched it several times over the years. Each time I watch it I see something new. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"The two basic items necessary to sustain life, are sunshine and coconut milk... didya know that?","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't even know what to say about this film. I didn't know what I was expecting when I started watching because of all the hype&#x85; and I laughed out loud when I found out it was rated X. It seems people categorize this film as one of two things either a pretentious movie that's only good for its shock value (at the time, New Hollywood etc.) OR an incredibly sad realistic fact- of- life type of drama. Naturally, I disagree with both. I think the people that are interpreting it as some moralistic, deep and depressing film are missing the point. Now this may be insensitive (I know you're supposed to care about the characters and put yourself in their position etc.) but I honestly think this film is comedic. Twisted, pessimistic, yes, but comedy nonetheless. Don't get me wrong; I'm not saying that I sat there and laughed at the characters predicaments, but it definitely feels as though the filmmakers were intentionally creating a satirical mood, and subtly throwing shade at the audience. Call me crazy, but I thought it was funny. Technically speaking, I loved the editing and photography. It had that perfect gritty/grungy feel that I love so much about movies from this time period, and the portrayal of NYC was great (especially the underground art scene&#x97;these bits reminded me a little of parts from Slaves of New York for some reason). The flashback sequences and the party scenes were done VERY well &#x97;felt a bit like video art. "},{"Title":"Still a magnificent film","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even after all these years of cultural change, this character study masterwork has lost none of it's bite and is still riveting. Perhaps the most complete film ever in terms of just about every facet of the picture is top notch. The greatest double lead performances ever by Hoffman and Voight (if the 3rd uncredited star is not considered and that is New York City). Great direction from Schlesinger and the best editing I've ever seen. Camera work and sets were superb. All the supporting roles were excellent and the music by Nilsson and Barry was perfect. Brilliant screenplay by Salt and producer Hellman deserves a lot of credit for the whole thing. The fact that this film began rated X and then R has a lot to do with any rejection received by the public or media and prevents it from being universally renowned as one of the hand full of best films ever made. It's my number two after The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. "},{"Title":"It's all true","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was described to me as dark, and a little odd, and I found they weren't wrong. Such an artsy style was intriguing, but I liked how the main focus of the film was really the relationship between Rizzo and Buck. It's no wonder this was a big deal at the time, as the topics covered couldn't have been tackled much before. However, that is not to say they are not worth looking at, perhaps more so than the frivolity we so often see on screen today. Montage is one of my favorite editing techniques and is put to great use here. Of course, being a character- driven plot, the character development was great, though tough to watch at times. Still, a movie that can affect you is a film well done, yes? "},{"Title":"Unlikely Friendships","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A naive country boy and a timid New York con artist don't exactly conjure up the stereotypical image one has of friendships,but this is exactly what happens in Midnight Cowboy.The film illustrates that friendships can develop out of nowhere and between individuals that one would ever suspect would be friends in a million years.I had to overlook the surrealism,which I'm not really into,and the in your face sexual content which is unnecessary,but I like the basic story that it presents.Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight do some awesome acting here,as always,and I was quite taken with Brenda Vaccarro,whom I didn't realize was so awesome looking in her youth.Good film. "},{"Title":"Joe bangs for a Buck","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Winner, Best Picture, 1970.Joe Buck, a cowboy from the South, takes a bus to New York to earn money as a gigolo. Joe, a tall and attractive man, succeeds in charming ladies but doesn't get a proper trade. He befriends a sick Ratso who promises to take him to a popular pimp, who turns out to be pansy. A disgruntled Joe searches for Ratso, who evades Joe and is finally captured by Joe and is forced to return the money he owes him. When an infuriated Joe calms down, Ratso takes him to his apartment and helps Joe find a couple of woman to sleep with and they share the amount. Joe, tired of being a gigolo, decides to take Ratso to a proper medical care and Ratso dies en route.In a way the movie brought out the harsh reality of what unemployed men not just from the South but from elsewhere resorted to- pimps and gigolos. The movie is supported by good background score and Jon Voight looks like a man straight out of a Western film. A movie worthy of the prestigious Best Picture Oscar. "},{"Title":"We'll just drive on in. There's nothing else we can do now.","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Depressing and squalid movie about the underbelly of big city life or better yet existence involving transplanted Texan Big, in more ways then one, Joe Buck, Jon Voight, who thinks that he's God's gift to women only to find out that what he's got to give them-Good O'l fashion country style lovin-isn't exactly what their interested in; Especially if they have to pay for it.Joe arriving after a five day bus ride in the Big Apple, New York City, is all set to set the town on fire in becoming a full time gigolo or hustler thinking that the women, the rich one's that is, in town will flock to him for is services. It doesn't take long for Joe to figure out that he's been deluding himself with his home grown fantasies about his sexual prowess when the first hit he makes with big time upscale city hooker Cass, Sylvia Miles, turns into to disaster for him. To Joe's shock it's Cass who demands cash for her services not the other way around!From then on Joe's dreams of becoming a big time and high paid hustler in the big city becomes more and more of a pipe dream for him and those of us watching the movie. It's when Joe runs into petty street hustler the gimpy Ratso Ricco Rizzo, Dustin Hoffman, that his life in the city truly becomes an urban nightmare. After being stiffed out of his last dollar in an arrangement with a gay religious nut, John McGiver, by Ratso Joe, after tracking him down, later ends up working for him with Ratso, as his manager, pimping him out to mostly men not woman clients. The always coughing and hard of breathing Ratso for his part knows that he doesn't have long to live at least in the cold and unfriendly surroundings of NYC and desperately wants to travel by bus to sunny Miami Florida, the land of sunshine & coconut milk, and live out his last days there.It's later after getting his naive country boy hustler act all together is when Joe finally realizes his dream of being a man in demand for rich women after a midnight fling with kinky socialite Shirly,Brenda Vaccaro. It's Shirly whom he met at a freaked out Greenwich village drug party when Ratso's medical condition, in having trouble breathing, turns for the worse. It's now up to Joe to save his friend's life by getting him,together with himself, on a bus to Miami before his heart gives out. The problem is where can he get the cash,some $50.00, to buy the bus tickets! Sleazy but interesting film that by the time it's finally over you do get to somehow force yourself to like both Joe & Ratso despite the low lives that they are. It's later that the two, or Ratso at least, gets what's coming to them for all the petty as well as serious crimes that they committed in the movie! One of which in the case of Joe Buck is the brutal and savage beating by him of out of town and helpless gay businessman Towny, Barnard Hughes, which could have possibly resulted in him being murdered! P.S Being rated X at the time of its release back in the spring of 1969 must have given Midnight Cowboy that extra boost it needed in it's winning the Academy Award as best picture, the first and only X-rated movie to win it, the following year. That's in it being considered hip cool and ahead of it's time back then in the minds of many of those members of the Academy who voted for it and probably didn't want to miss out on their big chance of making movie history which in fact they did. Watching the movie Midnight Cowboy today you come to realize that not only isn't it all that great to begin with having a dumb and dumber, Ratso & Joe, cast of characters as well as a number of mindless and confusing flashbacks only put in to pad it's running time of almost two hours. And as for its X-rating that in it being released by a major Hollywood studio, with top actors staring in it, which made it so popular at the time the film's shocking soft core sex scenes could barley pass for a R rating with today's movie going public! "},{"Title":"Outrageous","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So where to begin? This film literally leaves me at a loss for words. When I first starting watching this film, I had no idea what I was in for, and I am still a bit taken aback. Technically, the film is superb. This is obvious seeing as how it how it won the best picture academy award, and is the only X-rated film to ever do so. The cinematography is first rate, with many great scenes and shots. Additionally, the overall feel of the film is a gritty one that I am sure was used intentionally to highlight the stories bleak nature. Growing up in the generation I have, I have never been afforded the opportunity to go back and watch films like this that launched the careers of what are now established and respected actors. That being said, I also believe that many of the films of that era, ( late 60's/ early 70's) were designed to appeal to the widespread drug culture that was taking over America. The trippy dutch angle camera work as well as the montage at the party scene of reds, and blues, and cutting back and forth only further serves to reinforce this idea. The acting in the film is great and it is clear to see why both Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight were nominated for and won so many awards for their performances. But if I can be honest, I did not get the point. I understand the intended meaning of the film, namely the disconnect between the rich and poor during that era. However, all the film really made me was confused and a bit sad. The end of the film is on such a down note that I could not help but to feel bad. That is not to say that I did not enjoy the film, because I most certainly did, I am simply attempting to convey the point that I think the film could have ended on a less tragic note. That being said, I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who wishes to garner any knowledge on just how seedy NYC was in that period, as well as how difficult life was for the impoverished in general. "},{"Title":"Interesting filming style","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Garnering an X-rating when it was first released, Midnight Cowboy (19969) was one of those new Hollywood films that broke the rules. Not only did the film contain controversial story matter but, the film's style was also ahead of its time. At points in the movie when we as an audience see what a particular character is feeling the cinematographer portrays those feelings (or it seems that way) through special filming techniques. For example, the screen turns to black and white when Voight imagines catching Hoffman and when Hoffman dreams of Florida the screen turns almost too bright and lurid, and then there is the faded focus of Voight's Texas. Additionally, the scene where the two attend the party has color filters making the party seem even more trippy. All of these serve to enhance the film's ability to make us as an audience connect to and understand the characters on screen better than a more straight-forward approach stylistically. "},{"Title":"Brave.","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a 1969 movie that went beyond any other movie from that time period. While The Graduate only implied sexual act, this movie went beyond that, bluntly telling the audience the story of Joe Buck, a simple man set out to become a hustler, a male prostitute. Dustin Hoffman's performance as a con man with a gimp leg only electrifies the film even more as the movie glorifies crime and prostitution. This movie was decades ahead of it's time with its deep, and even offensive themes. Midnight Cowboy went on to earn an X rating from the Motion Picture Association and also went on to win Best Picture. What is most notable about this movie, besides it's use of camera techniques and sound, is the bravery it took to make something like this. In a time where new Hollywood was just beginning, here was a movie that implied nothing but bluntly showed the audience what it meant to say. "},{"Title":"Where one man thinks his dreams lie, another has already been at the forefront of the nightmare; as a grim and unabashed character study of people seeking escape plays out.","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy covers a character, a young Texan named Joe Buck, as he heads on out to New York City and the consequent arrival there as he ventures in search of girls; fame; life and fortune, but generally girls. What he ends up discovering, and what the film curiously comes to form in its detailing, is a relationship with another male he meets in New York native Enrico Rizzo, an equally young but dirtier, scummier and more criminally minded man. It is through Enrico that he is able to discover most about what it means to have aspirations and dreams in heading on out to a place like New York City from somewhere like Texas. In a film about a young man initially trying to hook up with as many girls as possible, it is interesting how Midnight Cowboy manifests into this burning and intriguing drama about two men. As the film transcends, so too do Buck's feelings; and we feel they do as we watch the fact that it is a male that further's the most development out of our protagonist.The film is a wonderfully directed piece from John Schlesinger, someone whom would go onto make another film set in New York about a relatively fresh faced youngster forced into coming to terms with some harsh realities that lurk in and around his place of dwelling, in 1976's Marathon Man. Here, he creates an affecting coming of age piece-come-fish out of water story about a guy from simplistic enough roots heading on out to the big time but hitting head on what it is to really live when you're starting from ground zero with the hope of heading up. It is Jon Voight playing Joe, a man who packs in his menial job at the local Texan diner so as to catch the bus on out of there; he sings in the shower, excitedly; a clever montage of him getting dressed afterwards suggests a degree of perfectionism to his actions as he goes out of his way to make this particular dressing a good one. Once at the diner to say his goodbyes, he's seen to profoundly stand out amidst the drab, white clothing of the workers occupying the space with him. Yes sir, this fella is going places.From there, it's New York City or bust as the bus rolls east; the radio plays interviews with women describing their perfect man and Buck struggles to contain his excitement NYC cannot come soon enough. Back home, a relationship with a girl ended in a lot more than just tears and the befuddled relationship with his only family member in his grandmother has its own tale to tell; but surely it's all good from here on in. We don't initially side with Joe, it becomes apparent the women are less than easily impressionable with certain failings to woo some women greeted with soft music suggesting a mite of pity is in order. Other times see him score, but mix ups in payment and a failed attempt at becoming a male prostitute add to a growing sense of swift disillusionment with the attitude. Where Schlesinger's direction comes in is his bringing everything down in tone, particularly evident when Dustin Hoffman's aforementioned Enrico Rizzo, a con man and vagrant, enters proceedings. Like his nickname 'Ratso' might suggest, the man is scrawny and rat-like; a limp born out of Polio killing off his ability to use one of his legs seeing him uncannily skittle from place to place. Cue a series of events which allows Joe to see the real New York, as a well paced bond between the two of them form and the film morphs into this interesting character study about a fast-talking but 'scarred' man teaming up with the self-proclaimed good looking stud whom cannot much talk-the-talk. In short, they get by the best they can without literally pulling a gun on somebody and holding them up.The film is more preoccupied with painting New York as a scummy, sleazy place of apparent no hope; something that hits home even more when we remember the film is initially about an outsider going there with so much of it. Its combining of content of a more down and out; realistic aesthetic, a studying of low level living and a generally nasty existence with people caught up in the middle of it all, with sporadic bursts of a more drug induced; more avant-gardist natured aesthetic in its dream sequences and the shooting of the day's youth down an 8MM camera lens during a rave calls to mind other such films from the era, including 1968's If.... and 1970's Catch-22. The clashing tones ought to alienate the audience, instead it plays its part in the bigger picture of things in projecting itself onto our lead as he realises that, having been situated in New York for 'x' amount of time with little return in what he wanted, a brooding sense of just why things are not making a whole lot of sense is manifesting. The two lead performers make use of the material detailing two differentiating characters in the same locale; events later transpiring to reveal Ratso is in a not too dissimilar position in New York to what Joe was back home, in that a way out is the ultimate goal and a bus ride to Florida remains the elusive dream. The film is very sad and very honest, dramatically involving in its documenting of the plights of these two and really rather well directed; culminating in an affecting, effective piece. "}{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman at His Finest... Jon Voight's Okay, Too","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck (Jon Voight) moves to New York because he has some weird belief that rich women there will sleep with him for money. This doesn't work so well, but he meets a hustler named Ricco Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) who takes him in and helps him learn the ways of the street. The two become friends and do what they can to survive.I enjoyed every minute of this film. The music, the characters, the presentation... it was all very well-crafted. I can't say I'm a huge Jon Voight fan, but here he did a fine job. And Dustin Hoffman did a supremely convincing job. Hoffman is always good, but this is one of his best roles, by far.I really appreciated the very mild gay subtext, if it existed at all. You can interpret it either way. The director is gay and in the book the characters are gay, but here they are presented as straight... more best buddies than gay lovers. I think that's probably how we should see them, but in light of the book it's hard to say for sure. (Roger Ebert calls this a love story, so he's weighing in, too.) Ebert thinks the film's weakness is the psychedelic scenery, and I agree. I thought some of the flashbacks were a bit much, yet necessary, but the psychedelic parts were over the top and made this a sixties film rather than a timeless film that it might have been otherwise. I was less distracted by the scenes of 42nd Street and Tiffany's. I don't think I disapprove as strongly as Ebert, does, however, as I rate the film overall much higher than he does. "},{"Title":"about the theme of the movie","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film Midnight Cowboy is based on a novel written by James Herlihy. It is about dreaming of the easy life of a cowboy stud, Joe Buck (Jon Voight) goes to New York City to be a hustler, but quickly finds out that hustling isn't what he thought it would be after he winds up paying his first (Sylvia Miles). He gets scammed by a drifter named Rico Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) but, when Joe is down on his luck, Rico takes Joe into his apartment so that they can help each other survive. Things start to look up when Joe at last gets his first real female customer (Brenda Vaccaro) at a party; Rico's health begins to fail. Joe turns a final trick to get the money for one selfless goal taking Rico to his dream life in Miami.The theme of this film is unlikely friendships; how two people who seem to be opposites and not liking each other in the beginning to become the best of friends in the end. The two guys learn how to help each other, and they grow closer and closer together. At the end of the film, Joe is holding Rico Rizzo as they continue the trip to Miami. Another scene that shows that this unlikely duo is becoming close is when it appears Joe killed the man in the hotel room so that he can get the money to get Rico to Miami. The theme of Midnight Cowboy resembles the theme of the film Of Mice and Men. The lighting and the tone that the film at the very end of the film was once that really showed what the theme of the film is. You can see palm trees passing by, and that is when Joe realizes that he has lost his best friend. They are just about to realize Rico dream of living in Miami and he passes away right before, so now Rico's dream is unrealized and Joe's dream as well. He is now on his own, after learning a lot from Rico. When Joe puts his arm around Rico, as tears stream down his face, one realizes just how strong their bond has become. Mofits were also used in the film, and it helped the viewers realize how much the two meant to each other. The two men bickered a lot in the beginning of the movie, and as their friendship grew stronger their bickering decreased. The movie didn't focus too much on many of their arguments and I think they are key to where their relationship grew to. The theme of this movie can relate to a lot of people. When you quit judging people by what they do, or look like, a friendship can be formed. "},{"Title":"MIdnight cowboy","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1969 dramatic film, Midnight Cowboy by John Schlesinger is a very compelling movie. I felt that the storyline of this film was intense, and i was blown away by the acting of both Dustin Hoffman and John Voight. While watching this movie, i grew feelings for both their characters, and actually became quite depressed more and more throughout the film. Its kind of scary how realistic the situations are, and very sad what people must endure to survive. I thought that this movie was captured perfectly, and really enjoyed the usage of the black and white flashbacks. All in all i give, Midnight Cowboys 4 1/2 out of 6. "},{"Title":"A Cliché - This is a Classic Film","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two of the best losers ever to appear on screen. The acting by Hoffman and Voight in this film is quite simply excellent. I cannot say either was better than the other, Voight's portrayal of the naive Joe Buck and Hoffman's street savvy cripple are both screen gems. It's a particularly touching end as well as to be honest you don't really expect to feel much sympathy. I've not read the biogs fully of each actor but were they both nominated for Oscars for their roles? I haven't seen Dustin Hoffman in any better role since that of Ratzo, and Voight is back on our screens again lately quite deservedly. I've just seen Pride and Glory and that has prompted me to put my comment against this film. You shone in it guys. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are spoilers! Midnight Cowboy is a classic movie. I only just saw it recently and never really cared to see it (because I am just not much of a fan of older movies such as this one) but was glad that I watched it. The main thing I want to say about it is just to say that the performances are wonderful. Dustin Hoffman and the other lead actor and both amazing in their roles as their characters-totally believable.The story is sort of sad about this guy who goes to New York from Texas (or another small town in a state like Texas) to be successful but he has to become a gay prostitute and act like a cowboy stripper to get gay customers interested. He had hopes of being with beautiful women but his customers are these gay guys and older women. He even ends up giving money to an old woman so she can get a cab. Dustin Hoffman is even better as the beaten down and sick homeless guy who becomes his friend. "},{"Title":"The story of a male prostitute with a heart of gold","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is the kind of film that's alternately hilarious and terribly creepy. If you can stand such a dichotomy, then you might enjoy this.It begins as a tale of Joe Buck (played perfectly by Jon Voight), a naive but charming Texas kid who travels to New York City with one goal in mind seducing older women into sex and earning money while doing it. Plans, of course, do not go well -- he is humiliated and frightened more than once. Rico Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) is ostensibly Joe's only friend, teaching him how to live in a cold (both metaphorically and literally) city.As a tale of an unlikely friendship (devoid of clichés, mind you), Midnight Cowboy is a frantic success. John Schlesinger's direction is wired and trippy -- Stanley Kubrick seems to have utilized the wild-eyed flashbacks and drug-induced hazes of the camera-work here as the basis of the cinematography of A Clockwork Orange -- it's a hyper-realist depiction of the world. It can be off-putting and distracting, but it rarely is such a terrible thing these moments of intense energy are often inner revelations of the characters; thus what we see is meant to reflect their present mental or emotional state.The movie's only flaw is that it runs too long. Some might complain about the ending, too, but I disagree Midnight Cowboy can be a lot of fun, but it is mostly meant as a slice of existential dread. Its ending, as well as the murky pretense of the flashbacks, enhance this feeling quite well.Personally, while I liked Hoffman's character more, I felt that Voight's performance was better. Neither man won Best Actor, though both were nominated. To this day, Midnight Cowboy is the only film with a rating stronger than R (it was rated X when it came out in 1969) to win Best Picture. It is a daring and, even today, a subversively shocking movie -- it's far too visceral to appeal to most people. But if you're feeling like a cowboy.... "},{"Title":"Subjectively  One of my favourite films of all time; Objectively  one of the best films of all time","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you're on its IMDb page you've probably heard a lot about Midnight Cowboy, and I hope to say a bit more about it than its re-release tag line that everything you've heard about Midnight Cowboy is true.Firstly, the driving force of the film comes from its two protagonists, their wonderful characters astonishingly acted by Voight and Hoffman. If you're an actor who appreciates fine performances and perhaps wants to learn from some of the masters of the profession look no further than Midnight Cowboy -- this is not to say that Voight and Hoffman's performances are THE best of all time, but perhaps no other film has showcased such quality performances in such a saturated way.Joe Buck (Voight) is the charming, good looking blue eyed 'cowboy' from Texas. He is confident, charismatic and charming but helplessly naive. Enrico 'Ratso' Rizzo is in many ways opposite to Joe, he is sickly, crippled and has none of the sexual confidence of Joe, yet these two men share a friendship that will follow you the rest of your life.Roger Ebert said of Midnight Cowboy that people we've forgotten the the off-filming style, and remembered the purity of the central characters and the Voight and Hoffman performances, which brings me onto the only criticism of the film, the filming style. The film frequently uses very dated (though fashionable at the time) flash backs and bizarre dream sequences that seem to break the general bleak atmosphere of the film, however these are soon forgotten and does not warrant deducting a star from the overall score as compared to the fine narrative, setting and performances it is trivial.Also on the topic of it being dated, the film is about a time when New York was a completely different to the rich man's playground it has now become. In this sense yes the film has dated but that phrase seems to always imply a negative connotation, a more fitting way to describe it is to call it a time capsule, and it really, truly is.But the themes  loneliness, friendship, camaraderie and the false hope of the horizon will ring true for eternity. "},{"Title":"Friendship - so beautiful","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The beauty of friendship explained. New York and its coldness. Swindler turns friend. Hustler turns an honest man. With a reason to look forward to life. The common bond between both is the purpose to live a better life. And they made the most of their circumstances. Both were dreamers. And as they stayed together in the miserable little shack, love grew. I see them as friends.The beauty of giving dignity after death cos the friendship remains. The best scene when Jon Voight hugs Dustin Hoffman's dead body to tell the staring passengers in the bus, this here is my friend.Welcome the palm trees My friend is free And I am here "},{"Title":"A powerful, disturbing film driven by two magnificent performances","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy (1969)Number 1 - 1969Top 10 - 1960sMidnight Cowboy is in my opinion a very simple, yet important film. It follows the story of a naive Texas 'cowboy' who leaves his tightly knit community for the big, filthy, sleazy streets of 1960s New York (forget the clean shaven images of NYC today then it was in many ways a terrifying city) to become a male gigolo and make money from rich city ladies. However through a chain of events he runs out of money and he is not equipped enough to handle the bustling streets of NYC. The story evolves as Joe befriends Rico a crippled third-rate pickpocket and they form a bond as they try to survive.Firstly, Jon Voight (Joe) and Dustin Hoffman (Rico) are outstanding in the roles and we get two mature, intensely dramatic Oscar nominated performances (Oscar went to John Wayne 'True Grit', big mistake in my opinion). The performances add significant weight to the whole film.Midnight Cowboy is a simple motion picture but it covers a lot of issues whether social, psychological, emotional or moral. It is about the decaying structure of America, it is about poverty and its harrowing effects, it is about a city with no hope plagued by drugs and crime, it is about a modern society with some weird, disgusting personalities; in many ways this film reminds me of Scorsese's Taxi Driver, although the films do differ slightly, they also share some similarities. Paramount to the story is friendship and trust and its importance in life in whatever social and economic tier you find yourself in.Is the film dated? Yes and no. New York City is a much safer, cleaner city today however the film touches on timeless issues; poverty, friendship, struggle and homelessness.A masterful film, powerfully executed.9/10 "},{"Title":"113 minutes of deeply excellent cinema","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy - First X rated film to win a Best Picture OscarMidnight Cowboy follows the rocky story of Joe Buck (Jon Voight) trying to live a life in the dark and gloomy New York of the late 60's. On the way he finds a friend ratzo (Dustin Hoffman) who takes him into his severely grotty apartment where they act as a team to survive.An underlying theme i noticed in the film is naivety. Joe comes to New York from the rural area of Texas where you can talk to anyone and the atmosphere is less hustle and bustle!. When he arrives at New York he becomes dislocated and lost, this contributes mostly to the vastly depressing nature of the film. It also present a small message in the difference between rural and urban areas.The film was rated X and i can see why!. This is mostly due to the predominant theme of male prostitution and constant sexual situations. Of course any hint towards these controversial themes would be an automatic X rating, similar to Kubrick's Lolita made 7 years earlier that was rated X due to the theme of paedophilia. However, at present day the film gets away with a comfortable 18 rating.Technically this was an exceptional film. The cinematography and editing were undoubtedly brilliant. There are numerous psychedelic sequences which are executed perfectly. These sequences also added to the originality of this already very original movie. Surprisingly it lost out on the best editing Oscar.As for the performances, Hoffman was as always perfect as his role of the sleazy character that is Ratzo. Voight was also brilliant but in my eyes wasn't as great as Hoffman. Despite this, they were a great pair on screen that carried the film. I feel that that either one of them had a big chance to win the best actor Oscar but it went to John Wayne in 'True Grit', I haven't seen the film so i cant comment.This film is both controversial and excellent, a great combination.9/10 "}{"Title":"Harsh reality of The Big Apple","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jon Voight plays a young Texan who goes to New York to become a hustler.He wishes to get much money from the wealthy New York dames he sleeps with.But soon he realizes he's only losing some.He meets the limping outcast Enrico Ratso Rizzo, played by Dustin Hoffman.They become true friends to each other trying to cope in the harsh reality of The Big Apple.John Schlesinger's Midnight Cowboy (1969) is a winner of 3 Academy Awards.Both of the leading men would have deserved ones but they were only nominated.Jon Voight is perfect as the naive Texan in a cowboy hat who dreams of richness but finds the way there almost impossible.Dustin Hoffman's character must be my favorite in the movie.You really start to feel for this man.The way Hoffman portrays this guy with a funny voice and a handicap...It's just amazing.Sylvia Miles plays Cass.John McGiver is Mr. O'Daniel.Brenda Vaccaro plays the part of Shirley.Barnard Hughes portrays Towny.Bob Balaban does his movie debut as The Young Student.Harry Nilsson's beautiful Everybody's Talking' is heard throughout the movie.The movie itself isn't something you could call beautiful.It is something very far from that.But that doesn't make the movie any worse. "},{"Title":"Very touching","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I hate giving movies a 10 because I always feel there might be an imperfection I missed. This movie was perfect. 2 totally different people that bonded and learned from each other. This is a movie about hopes, starting a new, reinventing yourself and living life to your fullest. Jon Voight was not a male prostitute but more of a hustler that did what he had to do to survive in NYC. Ditto Dustin Hoffman aka Ratso. This movie is timeless and interesting side note. This movie is only movie to be rated X to win best picture. Its hardly an x-rated movie and has since been re rated an R. My guess is that the raters being novices erred on the side of caution. Anyway an entertaining movie of male bonding . Fantastic movie and a segue-way for sure of more over the top , controversial movies that were a gateway to the 70s and beyond. Many of the lessons from this movie are timeless. Enough ranting just see the movie and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"The Movie that Broke All the Rules in the Industry!","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is not for everybody. It's raw, painful, and realistic but very entertaining. The lead actors Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman who would go on to become Oscar winning actors deliver amazing performances. Voight as the Texas hustler, Joe Buck, who migrates from small town Texas to New York City to become a hustler. He does not apologize for his chosen profession but it is not that easy. The New York City women like the rich lady played by Georgeann Johnson and Cass played by Oscar nominated Sylvia Miles are different than Texas women. Sadly, Buck is trying to escape from his past life in Texas. He was raised by his grandmother, Sally Buck, played by the wonderful actress Ruth White who died in 1969 from cancer. The locations in New York City are wonderful to watch as is the relationship between Fatso played by Hoffman and Buck's characters evolve into a moving male to male friendship. The men are struggling to survive the New York City life by not playing by the rules like getting a real job. As the film evolves, Buck's past comes to the surface and it's haunting but not clear. The film is not for children but compared to today's films and television programming, Midnight Cowboy might be more tame. I can't forget a young Brenda Vaccaro and a party that you can't forget. It's also a tearjerker of a film, so get your hankies out too. "},{"Title":"A movie ahead of its time, disturbing and flawed","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy made a big fuss when it was released in 1969, drawing an X rating. By today's standards, it would be hard pressed to pull an R rating. Jon Voight, who has been better, is competent in his role as Joe Buck, an out of town hick wanting to make it big with the ladies in New York City. He meets a seedy street hustler named Ratso Rizzo, who tries to befriend Buck for his own purposes. The two eventually forge a bond that is both touching and pathetic. As Ratso, Dustin Hoffman simply shines. Hoffman has often been brilliant, but never more so than in this portrayal. He is so into character that all else around him pales in comparison. Losing the Academy Award to John Wayne is one of the most ridiculous decisions ever made by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Director Schlessinger has a deft hand with his production, but this film has a grungy underbelly that leaves a bad taste in the mouth of the viewer. Worth seeing for Hoffman's performance alone. "},{"Title":"Twelve Modern-Day Reactions As I Watched This Film","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you're like me, you watched this movie knowing only that it is the only X-Rated film to win an Oscar for best picture and that a lot of cinema buffs consider it to be somewhere from pretty good to a masterpiece. Keeping in mind this movie is older than I am, here are my reactions to this film after seeing it1) Hey! It's that song that's on the Oldies station from time to time.2) Wow, John Voight really DOES look like Angelina Jolie. 3) Damn! I can't get that episode of Seinfeld out of my head where George buys a car thinking it belonged to John Voight. 4) Did Lou Reed write Walk On The Wild Side after seeing this movie?5) That Kramer vs. Kramer guy has to be 5'4 at most! I heard he was short, but he looks like a jockey next to John Voight. 6) I guess the MPAA had been around for like, 2 years when this film received an X rating, and taking the X rating literally (and before realizing that it hadn't yet become associated exclusively with porn), I guess this isn't really a film you'd necessarily want kids to see, but HOLY HELL! Viewed 40 years later, this sure seems like when censors used to freak out about the Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn line in Gone With The Wind.7) What rating would the Die Hard movies get if they were released in the 60s? 8) How come John Voight is living in squalor but he is always clean shaven and Ratso isn't? 9) Why do I keep thinking this movie is called Drugstore Cowboy? 10) I kind of like how this director uses a lot of allusion to explain Joe Buck's motivation rather than having the character tell a story. 11) What the hell was up with that party? 12)What a depressing ending! It was realistic, and we all know what kind of emotion that means.There you have it. Was it worthy of an X rating then? Probably not. Does it stand up over time? For the most part. Loneliness makes people do weird things in any era. That part hasn't changed a bit. The whole premise of a naive Texan moving to New York to become a gigolo seems a little far fetched today. Is it a good movie? You betcha. Just don't watch it with people who are easily saddened. It's kind of a downer. "},{"Title":"Truly deserves its masterpiece status and one of the most heartbreaking films ever made","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is one of those films thats been proclaimed a masterpiece with good reason - it really is one of the finest films ever made in America. Its both artistically valid yet entirely accessible and commercial. No wonder it was a huge success when initially released. But be warned, its also one of the most heartbreaking films ever made. The characters are memorable, well-developed, and ultimately tragic. The filmmakers should be applauded for not giving us the Hollywood ending, something which was basically mandatory by the 80s. Still, this is why I treasure the years of 1967 to 1977 for American film. Its a time when well-made, innovative, and most of all bleak films could be made with the big budgets that Hollywood could offer. All this was over by the time Star Wars was released.The direction by John Schlesinger makes the material work. It combines a simplistic style with some experimental editing. Unlike many other films featuring these psychedelic effects, Midnight Cowboy has aged quite well. Its still as powerful now as it was when initially released. The acting however is what makes this a masterpiece. The characters' backgrounds are never fully explained, but the performances make them completely developed. Both Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are absolutely memorable and sympathetic (despite their sometimes reprehensible actions). Plus, being a fan of vintage exploitation films, I loved the scenes set on the infamously sleazy 42nd street. Midnight Cowboy is close to being perfect and one of the most powerful films ever made. (10/10) "},{"Title":"Film bonds characters","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What makes Midnight Cowboy into a successful movie is the way in which Joe Buck becomes bonded to Ratso Rizzo through a series of hardships that affect them both. There really aren't many glimpses of hope in this film for either character, but the hard realities that beset them both give the film its own type of optimism that these men can at least find humanity within each other.This film features Jon Voight's finest performance and probably Dustin Hoffman's as well. The rest of the cast is made up of unknowns, though it is rounded out by a fine series of character actors, including the cowpoke on the bus at the start of the film. Also, for those interested, Andy Warhol's apprentice Paul Morrissey shows up briefly during the party scene.If you haven't seen this movie, it is essential. Check it out. "},{"Title":"The cowboy without a horse","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Acidic, unremitting, and beautiful, John Schlesinger's masterpiece is no less effective today than 35 years ago, when American life was even more disorienting. The film probably could not have been made at any other time in history, because so many upheavals were taking place in the late 1960s final dissolution of the Great American West, the intensification of war in Vietnam, and the clash of social ideals that were bewildering in variety.'Midnight Cowboy' is widely known as the only Academy Award-winning film to garner an 'X' rating, but there is much more behind its fame; it also exceeds the norm as a work of art. While this film (from the novel by James Leo Herlihy) has much to say about the erosion of American life, it transcends '60s politics by looking into the hidden bonds of friendship and dealing with themes familiar to man in all eras. The two main characters, in fact, are standard antiheroes - men who have nothing grand to offer but plenty to vent about our world.The initial focus of 'Midnight Cowboy' is on 28-year-old Joe Buck, a physically imposing Texas native played by Jon Voight. In the opening scenes, we follow Joe's bus trip to New York City, where he plans on using one of his few genuine talents - the ability to pleasure women - and earn his fortune as a hustler. We learn upon his arrival that Joe is laughably naïve in the sex trade. Garbed in cowboy duds and proclaiming himself as 'one hell of a stud,' the young Texan flounders through his early tricks before partnering with Enrico 'Ratso' Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman), a sickly con man and petty thief from the Bronx. Ratso, who is short, thin, and with a limp, proves of little monetary help to Joe. They quickly run out of cash and as life grows severe in the winter months, Joe and Ratso shiver in a condemned Manhattan apartment building with hardly a dollar or square meal to their names. It is over this period that a strong friendship develops between them, the two men relying on each other to battle tremendous odds.Throughout the film, Joe hearkens back to earlier years in Texas, including life with his grandmother Sally (Ruth White), who served as guardian; his harried relationship with 'Crazy' Annie (Jennifer Salt), a notorious local girl; and a traumatic event in which Joe and Annie were assaulted by town folk who wanted to break up the love affair. Very much of its time, 'Midnight Cowboy' strings together a wild array of flashbacks, dream sequences, and psychedelic imagery that shed light on the main characters while also distorting their backgrounds. For every moment of understanding we gain from Joe and Ratso, more questions about their lives are generated. Both men are no doubt in tatters; they have no clear sense of direction until Ratso falls into the throes of illness and Joe finally senses a purpose for being alive. This revelation pushes 'Midnight Cowboy' to its conclusion, a rather hopeful one in a very grim story.While Joe and Ratso badly need some luck, the direction of John Schlesinger is clearly outlined and uses the gritty atmosphere of Waldo Salt's screenplay in allowing Voight and Hoffman to thrive. Their interactions look extremely natural and the supporting cast, which features Sylvia Miles, Brenda Vaccaro, and members of the Andy Warhol clique, offers itself as an essential part of the storyline. The flashback sequences involving Voight, Ruth White, and Jennifer Salt are particularly impressive in dealing with the heartbreak of time lost.Any young person wondering about the psychedelic era is advised to watch this film, thanks to the excellent cinematography of Adam Holender ('The Boy Who Could Fly,' 'Smoke') and editing by Hugh Robertson ('Shaft'). The visuals of 'Midnight Cowboy' work with its soundtrack (assembled by John Barry) as a cohesive unit, sometimes foreseeing music videos of the past two decades. The lead song Everybody's Talking is sung by Nilsson, which was actually used as a temporary track during the editing phase. The memorable harmonica theme is played by Jean 'Toots' Thielemans.'Midnight Cowboy' has been released in a two-disc collector's edition by MGM/UA, which contains expanded features and commentary. Also available is a 1998 DVD release (used for this review), which offers dual widescreen and standard format with 5.1 Dolby Digital sound enhancement; three-language subtitles and closed captioning; French 'dubbing'; a theatrical re-release trailer (not the 'original' as advertised); and an eight-page production booklet. Both DVD editions contain a 25th anniversary restored version of the film, showing its original brilliance. Well-deserving of its three Oscars (best picture, Schlesinger, Waldo Salt) and additional nominations (Voight, Hoffman, Sylvia Miles, Hugh Robertson), 'Midnight Cowboy' will be sure to hold its place on the list of immortal classics.*** ½ out of 4 "},{"Title":"..painfully magnificent slice of real life..","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although I love this movie, I can barely watch it, it is so real. So, I put it on tonight and hid behind my bank of computers. I remembered it vividly, but just wanted to see if I could find something I hadn't seen before........I didn't that's because it's so real to me.Another user wrote the ages of the commentators should be shown with their summary. I'm all for that ! It's absolutely obvious that most of these people who've made comments about Midnight Cowboy may not have been born when it was released. They are mentioning other movies Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman have appeared in, at a later time. I'll be just as ruinously frank I am 82-years-old. If you're familiar with some of my other comments, you'll be aware that I was a professional female-impersonator for 60 of those years, and also have appeared in film - you'd never recognize me, even if you were familiar with my night-club persona. Do you think I know a lot about the characters in this film ? YOU BET I DO !!........and am not the least bit ashamed. If you haven't run-into some of them, it's your loss - but, there's a huge chance you have, but just didn't know it. So many moms, dads, sons and daughters could surprise you. It should be no secret MANY actors/actresses have emerged from the backgrounds of Midnight Cowboy. Who is to judge ? I can name several, current BIG-TIME stars who were raised on the seedy streets of many cities, and weren't the least bit damaged by their time spent there. I make no judgment, because these are humans, just as we all are - love, courage, kindness, compassion, intelligence, humility you name the attributes, they are all there, no matter what the package looks like.The trivia about Hoffman actually begging on the streets to prove he could do the role of Ratzo is a gem - he can be seen driving his auto all around Los Angeles - how do you think he gets his input? I can also name lots of male-stars who have stood on the streets and cruised the bars for money. Although the nightclub I last worked in for 26 years was world-famous and legit, I can also name some HUGE stars that had to be constantly chased out our back-street, looking to make a pick-up.This should be no surprise today, although it's definitely action in Hollywood and other cities, large and small. Wake-up and smell the roses. They smell no less sweet because they are of a different hue.Some of the users thought Joe Buck had been molested by his grandma. Although I saw him in her bed with a boyfriend, I didn't find any incidence of that. Believe-it-or-not, kids haven't ALWAYS had their own rooms - because that is a must today should tell you something kinda kinky may be going-on in the master-bedroom. Whose business? Hoffman may have begged for change on the streets, but some of the users point-out that Jon Voight was not a major star for the filming of Midnight Cowboy - his actual salary would surprise you. I think he was robbed ! No one can doubt the clarity he put into his role, nor that it MADE him a star for such great work as Deliverance. He defined a potent man who had conquered his devils and was the better for it few people commented he had been sodomized in this movie. The end of the 60s may have been one of the first films to be so open, but society has always been hip.I also did not find any homosexuality between Ratzo and Joe - they were clearly opposites, unappealing to one another. They found a much purely higher relationship - true friendship. If you didn't understand that at the end of the movie, then you've wasted your time. Joe's bewilderment, but unashamed devotion was apparent. Yes, Voight deserved an Oscar for this role - one that John Wayne could never pull-off, and he was as handsome in his youth.Hoffman is Hoffman - you expect fireworks. He gave them superbly. Wayne got his Oscar. Every character in this film was beautifully defined - if you don't think they are still around, you are mistaken. The party ? - attend some of the raves younger people attend.....if you can get in. Look at the lines of people trying to get into the hot clubs - you'll see every outrageous personality.Brenda Viccaro was the epitome of society's sleek women who have to get down to the nitty-gritty at times. If you were shocked by her brilliant acting, thinking this isn't real, look at today's ladies who live on the brink of disrepute....and are admired for it.The brutality Joe displayed in robbing the old guy, unfortunately, is also a part of life. You don't have to condone it, but it's not too much different than any violence. Joe pointedly named his purpose - in that situation, I'd have handed-over the money quicker than he asked for it. That's one of the scenes that makes this movie a break-through, one which I do not watch. I get heartbroken for both.....John Schlesinger certainly must have been familiar with this sordidness to direct this chillingly beautiful eye-opener- Waldo Salt didn't write from clairvoyance. Anyone who had any part of getting it to the screen must have realized they were making history, and should be proud for the honesty of it. Perhaps only in America can we close our eyes to unpleasant situations, while other movie-makers make no compunction in presenting it to the public. Not looking doesn't mean it isn't there - give me the truth every time. Bravo! to all...... "},{"Title":"Somebody help me out with this one.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To me, this is a sad movie.  Not because of it's depressing content.  But because I feel like I missed out on a supposedly great film.  I liked the idea of a kind of Mice and Men relationship between Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman.  But with all the misery and the flash-cut excesses, I wondered why this won Best Picure in 1969.  It's not a bad movie, but it's not a very good one either.  My honest and open opinion  Midnight Cowboy is the most miserable, sickening, and depressing movie I've ever seen!  I got a painful sore throat the day after I watched this, and I'm starting to attribute my symptoms to watching this film!  It'll make you sick, and usually I'm prepared for anything, especially an old film.  I apparently wasn't with this one.  And I am writing this because I am upset that I did not get the hidden point of the film.  Leonard Maltin called this an emotionally shattering film.  I felt sad when I didn't feel the way I was supposed to about this film.  I just thought it was physically and psychologically shattering, because it made me sick, and it nearly turned my mind into mush.  "}{"Title":"Welcome To The Scuzzy Side Of Life","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Favorite Movie Quote John Wayne!? Are you trying' to tell me that he's a fag?? As a youngster Joe Buck's childhood was sadly punctuated by domestic violence, sexual abuse, and abandonment. Now an optimistic, young adult, Joe Buck, a small-town Texan boy, gives up his menial dishwasher job, fancies himself some sort of a cowboy-stud (so he dresses the part), and, then, to top things off, naively heads to NYC to make his mark.You see, Joe Buck's got some great plans inside that empty, young head his. When he arrives in NYC, he's gonna be the most rootin', tootin'-est gigolo who ever made the scene in the Big Apple, ever.But, alas, as these things are in life, nothing ever goes as planned. Nothing.And, once in NYC, Joe Buck is quickly met with one truly eye-opening surprise-of-a-lifetime, after another. Yep. You can bet that this particular Midnight Cowboy is in for a real roller-coaster of a ride, leading him straight to disappointment and failure, like he never imagined possible.When it came to playing young Joe Buck, I thought that actor Jon Voight was right on the mark. To say that Voight's performance was near-perfect would certainly be an understatement. Voight managed, quite nicely, to project just the right amount of everything into his pathetically disillusioned character.But, on the other hand - As the rat-faced, street-scum Ratso, I hated Dustin Hoffman, big time. I deliberately docked this film 3 stars on account of Hoffman's despicable presence in the story. Overall, I think that Hoffman is a lousy actor. I see him as nothing but a snitty, snot-nosed, little wimp, no matter what film he might be starring in.A Midnight Cowboy Trivia Note - Director John Schlesinger claimed that his work on Midnight Cowboy was greatly influenced by Andy Warhol's film My Hustler from 1965. "},{"Title":"Dark Spirituality Gets a Voice","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Simply put, a masterpiece. Jon Voight is superb as the enthusiastic Joe Buck, who is through a series of jarring flashbacks, shown to be haunted by events from his childhood, particularly regarding his grandmother. At the beginning of the movie, Joe Buck quits his job and hops on a bus to New York City, where he becomes a very unsuccessful hustler. His hustling leads him to Ratso Rizzo, played by Dustin Hoffman. The unlikely pair develop a great friendship and some of my favorite parts of the movie are the scenes where the 2 of them are walking the busy streets of New York City together, with Joe Buck and his cowboy hat towering about a foot over Ratso. It is a visual that will stay in your mind long after the movie is over.There are many big themes going on in this movie, including death, Americana and spirituality, albeit a very dark spirituality. This movie would probably never get made today, and that is just a shame. The acting and cinematography are both excellent. "},{"Title":"Good movie---classic gay put down--nothing not used to","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck (Jon Voight) is a young small town naive Texan who travels to NYC to make it big as a gigolo. This flops in convincing ways...he ends up broke and befriending Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) and in desperation hustles male tricks. When this movie came out in 1969 there was a lot of controversy over it... it may have even been rated X? In Atlanta police would come in theaters with flashlight trying to catch gay men (doing what?!)--as there is nothing gay friendly about the movie. It is in fact a continual put down of gays and their lifestyle (nothing we aren't used to). But back then just to have gay life explicitly portrayed at all was a shocking novelty for mainstream movies let alone have the main protagonist participate.I was 17 at the time it scared and shaped me...for a long time I pictured gay bars as dimly lit long narrow bars filled with men in cowboy outfits. Truly!Watching the movie now, I see it was really well done other than it's negative stereotyping of gay men--the traveling salesman calling his mother etc...Other reviewers mention an unrevealed Buck Rizzo homosexual relation?-- Wishful thinking--just the opposite it shows two straight men becoming very close friends (male bonding)--sort of the antithesis of queenie 50 year salesmen calling their mothers or ugly nerds in theaters etc etc etc....it doesn't fit at all.Over all it deserves a 10--gay bashing? typical crap. I was going to take off a couple stars for that but didn't as it is really a well acted and put together movie.RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"Very Good Depiction of Memories & Dreams","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The most striking thing about this movie, for me, was the realistic way in which Joe Buck's memories and dreams were conveyed. Small, micro flashbacks interspersed in current events, such as when he was bored on the bus trip to New York and thinking about what he was leaving behind. That is exactly how memories are experienced in everyday life &#x96; little snippets of the past spliced and overlaid onto the constant flow of our present time data stream. The movie also was quite realistic with its handling of dreams &#x96; choppy and somehow frantic even when not all negative.The way the story was told also was impressive. Joe Buck never talked about the past we saw in his memories and dreams, yet it was depicted clearly enough to grasp not only his reason for leaving Texas, but also his psychological state. The representation of New York City as a crumbling den of all flavors of iniquitous behavior, from the penthouse down to the homeless was possibly a bit heavy handed, but perhaps appropriate for the time. Dustin Hoffman was also excellent as Ratso. The ending, as seen from outside the bus with the reflection of Miami's architecture sliding by provided a poignancy that nudged the movie up to the next level of excellence. "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy shoots and hits.","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Basically this movie is like a lot of other similar movies, made around the same period, that are being simplistic and very straightforward with its characters and story. The one thing that this movie still has extra going for it as well, is its originality with its story.This movie has the guts to tell a not so everyday story for a movie, especially not for its time. It's a story that involves male prostitutes, which also involves some homosexual aspects at times. But not that the movie ever gets raunchy or goes over-the-top or too far with anything. Despite all of its dramatic aspects about its story and characters, the movie manages to find a pleasant balance between its drama and entertainment. Midnight Cowboy gets never too heavy or falls into false sentiments. It makes the movie more powerful and effective than it would had been if it had gone for a more complete serious and straightforward approach.The movie so easily could had gone for shock value but instead it makes the choice to tell a more human story. And perhaps this still is the movie its greatest power; its characters. They are above all very realistic and therefore also easy to like and identify with, even while the characters are doing some not so everyday things.It's a movie that is deliberately kept simple and little. So don't expect big twists or characters doing some extreme stuff. But this is why the movie worked and why I liked its story. Nothing ever gets overdone and the movie is also far from a pretentious one.It's true that perhaps Dustin Hoffman never has been better, in any movie. He's actually quite unrecognizable in his role, since he is playing a character you normally would never expect him to play. Also quite unrecognizable is Jon Voight, in one of the earliest roles out of his career. Both actors also got nominated for an Oscar, both in the leading roles categories, which is something quite special. In my opinion it still is foremost Jon Voight who plays the leading role and also definitely has the most screen time. But both lost anyway but the movie still eventually won the three most important Oscar's, for its writing, directing and best picture of the year.A great and special movie within its genre.8/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck goes to the big city of New York for the very first time in his life. He likes the flatter and think of himself as a big and important man when it turns out that he's really the underdog and needs to take action and become street smart. While in the city he does make one real friend however who takes him around and shows him city life and how to live it. As they pow around together they really become friends and their relationship becomes very deep. It just goes to show that unlikely people can become very close and find a bond that they can share.Really cool film, great photography, actors, dialogue. Would definitely watch it again to get the full view. "},{"Title":"A gritty look at New York","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Schlesinger's 1969 film Midnight Cowboy was a huge milestone in the film industry. At the time of it release it was seen as very controversial because of its themes of prostitution and homosexuality.It was the first and only mainstream film with an X rating to receive and Oscar for best picture. The Story follows a Texan named Joe Buck, played by John Voight who moves to New York City and begins a life of prostitution. Dustin Hoffman is brilliant as a homeless con artist named Ratso Rizzo who befriends Buck and they begin an unspoken homosexual relationship. The two begin an outrageous adventure together bickering the entire way. "},{"Title":"once groundbreaking, still worthwhile","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The once notorious X-rated Oscar winner about an amateur stud chasing his dreams of easy money into the gutters of downtown Manhattan isn't as daring as it once was, but after so many years it remains a fresh and invigorating example of the sort of quality American movies once aspired to (try to imagine the same film being made today). Besides drawing a vivid portrait of New York City low life, the film gave a young Dustin Hoffman one of his signature roles in seedy con artist Ratso Rizzo, the only companion to cowboy Joe Buck (Jon Voight) during his first, hard winter in the Big Apple. Screenwriter Waldo Salt presents Buck and Rizzo (and the Manhattan underworld) in a sensitive, sympathetic light which can almost be called sentimental, but his script nevertheless achieves a remarkable depth of emotion which can till be felt today. Only the hopelessly 'mod' SoHo party scene has dated. "},{"Title":"Well done film, but very depressing!!","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film The Midnight Cowboy stars Dustin Hoffman who plays Ratso a crippled, homeless man trying to survive on the streets of NY City and Jon Voight , a young stud Joe Buck who moves from Texas to NY with hopes of becoming a successful prostitute. The two men cross paths and begin forming a strange relationship. The pair end up desperate to survive on the dreary and dark streets of NY.This film is a love story and the story is focused on the complex relationship between Ratso and Joe Buck. The relationship starts off rocky when Ratso betrays Joe Bucks trust but somehow they meet again and end up living together. Their main goal is to become wealthy and move to Florida. They make several attempts at getting Joe Buck some jobs but none of them are ever really successful and they struggle quite hard in the city.This film reminded me a lot of another film where Dustin Hoffman plays a man with Autism, Rainman. Not just because it has Dustin Hoffman in the film but because it is much like another love story between two men, they struggle in their differences but in the end they do fall in love with each other. They start out on the rocks these relationships. In the end of the films you can see their love over powers the disability of the crippled man. The films are quite similar in those aspects.Midnight Cowboy's director John Schelsinger does a great job of using different effects in the film to make it look very dingy, dark, mysterious and even in some scenes pretty trippy. He uses several flash backs, uses some black and white in the film and very good lighting techniques. There are several scenes in an abandoned building they lived in that used just candle light for lighting as they of course didn't have electricity. The director did a great job of making this film look so real, you felt as if this was really happening and like you were there with them. There is a scene where the characters go to a party that uses several special effects to make you feel like you are in the characters head while they are on drugs.Throughout my viewing of the film I wasn't quite sure what the theme of this film was. I thought maybe it was a coming of age story focusing on the character Joe Buck, and then I thought maybe it was a film focusing on the struggle for human dignity yet again focusing on the character Joe Buck. But as the relationship between Ratso and Joe Buck grew and as I saw Joe Buck become obsessed with getting Ratso to Florida in order to heal him from his sickness, I realized this was a love story and a tragic one at that. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking Roller Coaster Through New York's Dark Side","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a highly emotionally charged film that does an excellent job of drawing the viewer into the experiences of male hustler Joe Buck, and his side-kick thief con-man friend Ratso Rizzo. Both roles are superbly played by John Voight and Dustin Hoffman respectively.Joe leaves his job at a Texas diner in search of adventures in the Big Apple. He longs for exciting adventure and looks to score with the ladies. Down on his luck, and seemingly unable to get ahead doing anything else, while in New York, Joe meets and befriends con-man Ratso Rizzo who tries to show him the ropes of the big city and how to assimilate to its culture and its people.The movie takes the viewer through a series of rapid disorganized flashbacks for Joe that brilliantly display his confusion and isolation to New York City's always changing culture and people. Joe's mind flashbacks are often very dark, disturbing, and unpleasant. Some viewers may attempt to sort out these flashbacks, but should not try to do this. Midnight Cowboy uses these images to show how everything is happening in Joe's life so fast, that he has no time to slow down to reflect on what he sees and thinks.However, when he learns about the seriousness of Ratso's illness, foreshadowed in the movie by his persistent cough that gets progressively worse, Joe realizes that he needs Ratso for a friend more than anything else that has previously happened in his life. He learns that friendship is not something that you just throw away. Before meeting Ratso Rizzo, Joe appeared to be only interested in sex and adventure, using this as a form of escape from his previous dish-washing job.Ratso shows Joe the importance of compassion and humanity. Joe tries to help him overcome his compulsion for stealing. At the time of its initial release, back in 1969, Midnight Cowboy received an X-rating, due to its strong suggestive sexual undertones, references to homosexuality, (a HUGE discussion taboo in 1969) and it's disturbing flashback images. In 1971, upon re-release, the MPAA with no edits to the film, changed the rating to R. Although I took into consideration the film's controversial nature in 1969, the film would probably pass for a very strong PG-13 or light R-rating today. However, I was not offended at the film. There might have been one or two flashback scenes that I could see as slightly problematic, but because they are so varied and disjointed in how Joe sees the world, the images may symbolize different things to different people. What I did see was an incredibly complex and involved character study interwoven with stunning cinematography that is as unique as the film itself.My reasons for the score of an 8, instead of a 9 or 10 is that there are a few scenes that drag. But those faults are quickly forgotten, not only with the quality of the camera work, but the wonderful acting chemistry of Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. They were born to play these memorable roles! The powerful music score, Everybody's Talking, the haunting note sequence that plays at critical moments of the movie, and an unforgettable emotional ending prove that Midnight Cowboy has aged well! This is a very good movie! "}{"Title":"Only The Echoes Of My Mind","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy has the dubious distinction of being the first and only X-rated film ever to win the Best Picture Oscar. Then the rules got changed and mere subject matter alone could not qualify a film for an X-rating. Today the sexual subject matter of this film wouldn't get a passing wink, male prostitution's been done quite a bit on the big and small screen.Through a series of flashbacks we see what's created the character of Joe Buck that Jon Voight plays, living with a rather loose aunt played by Ruth White and finding his true love in Jennifer Salt to be not so true. Women are just sex objects to him, but when he decides to make use of his lovemaking talents in the biggest market of all, New York City, it's Voight who turns out to be the naive one.Although street character Dustin Hoffman is among many who clip this Texan, later on Hoffman and Voight form an unusual bond. Hoffman's Ratso Rizzo is one veteran of the mean streets of New York, in fact he's lived in them for too long. When Voight and Hoffman meet, they don't know it, but Hoffman's health is beyond repair.The pitiable Rizzo and the naive country boy Buck form one of the most unusual male bonding attachments ever brought to the screen. Rizzo is latently gay, but what upbringing he's had has told him that was wrong to have these feelings. Rizzo constantly uses the F word and rejects any companionship even when it's offered at that Sixties free love party with all kinds of substance aids.As for Buck, he's gay when he's got to be though he hates it because of his upbringing. Note the scene with Bob Balaban making his screen debut in the movie theater when Buck needs money. And later on he robs Barnard Hughes who plays another self-loathing gay man. Hughes is quite good in the role, he could have been a US Senator he was that good.Midnight Cowboy won Oscars for Best Picture, Best Director for John Schlesinger, and Best Adapted Screenplay for Waldo Salt. That last one must have been especially sweet for the formerly blacklisted Salt. John Voight and Dustin Hoffman were nominated for Best Actor, but with the competition being the man who put more people in movie seats than anyone else in history John Wayne, these two newbies didn't stand a chance that year. They both got Oscars eventually, but poor Richard Burton who was also up for Anne Of A Thousand Days never got the gold as did Peter O'Toole who was nominated for Goodbye Mr. Chips.Sylvia Miles was up for Best Supporting Actress as the upper East Side grande dame who polishes off a quickie with Voight and turns the tables on him in the money department. It was Voight's introduction to New York and the scene is just brilliant. It was Miles's career role as an actress although she lost to Goldie Hawn for Cactus Flower. It's the highlight of Midnight Cowboy for me.Midnight Cowboy coming out as it did in 1969 reflects its times quite accurately. It was the end of the Sixties and the Hippie generation, at the same time it was made just as people were rioting in the streets of Greenwich Village for their rights as GLBT Americans. People like Bob Balaban and Barnard Hughes's characters would no longer be the stereotypical self loathing gay men. Midnight Cowboy maybe even more than Boys In The Band is a glimpse of where we've come from.It's not a pretty place, nor is Midnight Cowboy a pretty picture. But Jon Voight, that was indeed one beautiful cowboy. "},{"Title":"It was moving, but not for everyone.","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Indeed, what I just saw was a great movie with a heart. All the superior performances and superior editing/presentation made it worthy for the academy award. But there is more than these.For each view of this film, you'd have to choose your position between the doctor and the patient. As a doctor, you will witness all the modern society syndromes(of course, as a perspective of 1969) and diagnose them with your consciousness, and conscience. After all you can prevent yourself totally from personally involving into the main characters' world, mentally or physically. But what's shining in the movie, is the perspective of the patients. If you take the positions of the patients,as either Dustin Hoffman's physically sick person, or Jon Voight's spiritually broken one. As one of these two types of patients, you can allow the main men grow on you, in an effect that the connection between them, the affection become totally nature. I am not surprised that people considering their relationship as homosexuality. But in my opinion, most accurate and original interpretation would be friendship, sometimes compassion or sympathy, since both of them were caught up in the cold and destructive NYC. I've read other users' comments and found out that today's NYC streets are much cleaner than it was in 1969, due to better city management. But I wonder how much cleaner is inside, how much sanity can a New Yorker redeem...Thanks to the smart editing(although sometimes feels dated), the movie leaves the audiences in desperation. The dream sequences and flashback footages finally revealed Joe Buck's past--a lost little boy raised up by his superficial, probably nymphomania grandma. The incomplete family leaves Joe in constant loneliness, as he confessed to one of his customer(Mr. O'Daniel). The world he confronts,either Texas farm or NYC, were brutal and sexually messy. Grandma sex-tortured him, his girl-friend framed him after they were both sexual-assaulted by the hometown mob. Joe Buck then went into jail, and probably joined the army. After his grandma's death, he set off for NYC in the hope of a totally new life. The trip was not really sex-oriented, not like his own description. He went to NYC because his American dream didn't die yet. What really killed his American dream is the societal cancers he witnessed, or infected each time he interacts with newer categories of people. Witnessing his only friend dying of poverty and disease, he decided to help him for his undead dream--which is to go to Florida. Unsurprisingly, Rico died on the bus, died in his way of finding American dream. But there are still more people losing their lives to family malfunction,Sexual immorality,denial-ism......Actually, Joe Buck is the portrait as taking all these diseases but survived, though not cured. What will be his fate? What's waiting for him ahead? The director leaves the answer to the audiences.I was so moved by the movie. I just had to give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"MIDNIGHT COWBOY is not dated and is still just as affecting as it was in 1969","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jon Voight plays a man named Joe. Joe is shook up by a haunting childhood. He has a strong fear and hatred of religion due to his traumatic baptism. He quits his job as a dishwasher and goes out to become a hustler for wealthy people. He meets a misfit named Ratso(Dustin Hoffman) and the two for a relationship. They go out and work together in helping each other out. They become thieves. The two grow remarkably close and soon can't live without each other. However, there is something very important that Ratso hasn't told Joe, and it could destroy any hope they have of surviving the city together. This is one of the greatest films ever made. It is a heartbreaking and shattering portrait of too very lonely men who have nothing to lose but each other. Their story is devastating to watch, but is ultimately important for people to see. It's one of those films where the characters are pretty much just like the seemingly crazy people you sometimes find on the street. The difference is that this film is from their perspective. Their lives are shown to us and it's devastating to see the pedestrians in this film treat them like dirt, especially if we at one time were one of those people. However, the film doesn't try to guilt trip you. Instead, it shows you the rough side of the lifestyle of hustling. It is not a pleasant and easygoing lifestyle like many Hollywood films portray it such as MILK MONEY and PRETTY WOMAN. The lifestyle of being a male hustler is a dirty, gritty, and ugly life and it's sad that people have degraded themselves like the character of Joe in this film does. What startles me the most about this film was that it came out in 1969, and it has stood the test of time perfectly. Today's audiences will still find great meaning in this film and will still love it and cherish it just as much as critics and audiences did everywhere in 1969. The film was rated X, but what I notice about this film is that the sexuality is portrayed in a much more honest, realistic, and effective way. Anybody who has had sex before will know how humorous, awkward, and scary as hell it can be and this film doesn't shy away from any of that. The sex in this film may not be as graphic as in once was thought to be. Movies that were X rated such as MIDNIGHT COWBOY, A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, GREETINGS, LAST TANGO IN Paris, and FRITZ THE CAT all seem remarkably tame compared to the shocking things that people can get away with an R rating today. The sex scenes in MIDNIGHT COWBOY will seem quite strong but they certainly aren't sexy. They are not graphic, but they are realistic, and that's what people should keep in mind when they view this film. The course language that is used in the film, particularly the word fag is used effectively and is not gratuitous. The violence is very shocking to watch even today, but again it is necessary to the plot to depict the world of a hustler. I'm really glad to see that MIDNIGHT COWBOY is not dated and is still just as affecting as it was in 1969, if not more. I can't recommend this classic enough and I do hope that it continues to find an audience because it really is a very special and unforgettable experience that will not soon be forgotten.PROS -Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are both harrowing and amazing to watch. They have never played roles like this before or since and they are completely different from usual. You'll forget who is playing them within minutes! -Beautiful score -Not at all dated or campy like many films of that decade come off as today -Fantastic and fast editing jobCONS -For mature audiences only -The opening scenes are well done, but they could be just a little stronger. "},{"Title":"Two Unforgettable losers that make a magnificent movie!","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The best way I can put this movie is a story about two losers. John Voight is Joe Buck, a naïve, handsome young man who decides that he wants more in life than just working at a burger joint. With his cowboy outfit and radio, he heads off to the Big Apple to find his fortune. There he meets Ratso (Dustin Hoffman) a sleazy con artist who also his looking for some money. After Ratso cons Joe out of twenty dollars, they become unlikely friends and develop a unique relationship.Last year, AFI ranked Midnight Cowboy among the top 100 list of America's best films. Some people that I have met contradict this movie as dull and depressing. It is a very depressing movie, for it depicts the slum of New York City's streets of the 1960s. The characters themselves are depressed by their passed and current demons. But I also understand why AFI ranks this as one of America's best movies. Despite the con artists, male and female prostitutes, and nut jobs, there is room for hope and a friendship.I have seen both actors in many different movies and seeing them together on screen is captivating. Both were nominated for the Best Actor award of 1970 but unfortunately neither of them got it. This may have been because of John Wayne (the winner of that year for True Grit) was coming of age and needed an award for something. Nonetheless, their performances are impeccable. I could easily feel for their characters.The film was also excellent in the work of the director John Schlesinger who brought to life the Gomorrah attitude of New York City. The one scene that I felt was extremely well done by the director was the sequence of where Joe and Ratso go to a party that is made up of crazies, drugs, and sex. The camera angles and the styles of editing and color made everything unusual, as if the characters were on drugs, which they were.Overall, I can't say anything bad about this movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Schlesinger's Dark Side of Life","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent from any point of view. In 1969 English director John Schlesinger gave us one of the most frightening and depressing sides of living in a town through the eyes of Joe who moves from Texas to New York to live being a stud and Ratso Rizzo , his sleazy, sick and only friend. Two lonely souls in a cold city among with hookers, criminals, homeless and undeliverable dreams of being someone and grab the one and only chance to make money. Instead of these they search desperately friendship and love to feel as human beings. A disturbing and heartbreaking film, full of human brutality, directed to perfection from Schlesinger (Academy Award Winner) in a simply way combining psychedelic visual effects and written marvelously (Waldo Salt - also an Academy Award Winner). Voight and Hoffman (both Academy Award nominees) give remarkable acting lessons, they are absolutely perfect. Take a look at Joe's eyes when he embraced the tragic, dead body of his only friend at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Strange but superb","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first I didn't know what to say, cause I was a bit in shock, right after I'd seen the movie. But now I know that the movie had one of the greatest camera work I've ever seen, and that the acting couldn't get any better. Personally, I don't really like the extremely strange movies, like Being John Malkovich and even The Blair With Project. But this movie is a piece of history and Jon Voight is really good (and cute) as a naive hustler who befriends a crippled man, Dustin Hoffman who was at, once again, one of his greatest roles ever. Í would advise you to see this movie, but DO NOT let your kids see this movie, It's way too, well gross for anyone under 15. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Scuzzy on the outside but heartwarming on the inside","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many aspects of Midnight Cowboy made it a timeless classic, among critics of 1969 and present day. To name some aspects, the cast was done perfectly. Jon Voight owned the role as hustler Joe Buck and there was no one more scuzzier for the role of Enrico Ratzo Rizzo than Dustin Hoffman. Another superb aspect was the sound mixing, with Harry Nilsson's rendition of Everybody's Talking' dispersed evenly throughout the opening sequences of the film. The transitions in the film were inventive and clever, directed by John Schlesinger. Midnight Cowboy is an emotional pitfall, leaving the viewer with few, if any, missed points. The missed happiness of the film was drown out by the moral and heartbreaking touch Midnight Cowboy depicts on screen. This film includes a deep complexity, which is unfortunately surpassed by other thoughts about the film (such as its pornographic nature, just as American Psycho, that dampens the genius of the film). Cowboy needs no introduction, nor does it need explanation- it's 1969's Cream of the Crop and clearly aspires not to be western-based material (1969 already had way too much of that from such releases as True Grit, The Wild Bunch and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid). Its media continues to captivate and elude audiences and when viewed correctly, it has powerful, moral standards appropriate for its time, appropriate for any time. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was going through a list of Oscar winners and was surprised to see that this film beat Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid for best picture in 1969. After actually seeing it, however, I'm not surprised anymore. It was way ahead of its time in regards to its style, cinematography, and use of flashback to help develop Joe Buck's character.The most amazing thing to me is the depth of Joe Buck's character in such a short movie. I think Voight captured the naivete and the viciousness-when-provoked. The two scenes that really caught me were after he gets the blowjob in the theater and when the older man solicits him. I think when he looks in the mirror he's trying to see if it's really him that has done- or is about to do- something terrible.I think it was a brilliant decision by Hoffman to take this role. Otherwise he may have been typecast after the Graduate. Anyway, this considered an all-time great for a reason. "},{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman's best performance.","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jon Voight is brilliant in Midnight Cowboy, but Hoffman's performance, though reminiscent of his later turn in Rainman, is the kind of performance that keeps me watching movies. As a portrayal of a New York character, only Daniel Day Lewis' portrayal of Bill Butcher in Gangs of New York comes to mind as comparable, and Day doesn't give his character the emotional depth that Hoffman gives Ratso. It's typical of Hoffman's way of acting that the actor we tend to identify most with Midnight Cowboy is Voight. I think Hoffman is one of the 4 or 5 best actors in the history of film at playing off the people around him in such a way that he raises their performances far above their normal levels. Voight's Buck is so naive that he would float out of the film altogether, except that Ratso pulls him down - pulls him down, but also teaches him, a lot about how to survive and, more importantly, how to live.Midnight Cowboy is a movie about escape that turns into a movie about finding yourself. I think that, as gritty a movie as it is, it has a very beautiful message, that no matter how much a loser you might be (Ratso clearly defines loser), if you can find a way to be true to yourself, you are in possession of the secret of life, and you might even be able to share that insight with someone else. I can't help but compare Midnight Cowboy to Klute, from a few years later, which I think is more like a movie about finding yourself that turns into a movie about escape. "},{"Title":"One of those greatest classics severely underrated, and with a somber ending","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":""}{"Title":"a masterpiece of cinema","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First I would like to say how great this. It is astounding and sometimes shocking. And to say the least I'm 11 years old and this is my favorite movie, I can definitely stand a boring film, but this is anything but boring. It is like a trip through humanity. Its stark realism shows through this monumental masterpiece. It is a heart wrenching tale of two down and outers (VOIGHT AND Hoffman) who build a mutual friendship. Joe Buck (VOIGHT) a naive Texan stud comes to New York to make it rich by entertaining women. Soon he meets Rico 'RATSO' Rizzo (HOFFMAN), who is a poor man barely being able to pay rent. Ratso becomes Joe's 'manager' but soon both men can't find Joe a job which results in stealing food. As they try and survive on the streets of New York we realize how tough it is. They can't get Joe a girl until they meet a lady at a party. Joe makes some money and soon Joe takes Ratso on a Ratso's dream spot, Florida. The final five minutes are heart breaking yet some of the greatest moments in the film. From MIDNIGHT COWBOY we get a stark and sometimes disturbing urban view on life. "},{"Title":"Classic Movie that was shocking on it's release.","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love MIDNIGHT COWBOY and have it in my video collection as it is a favorite of mine. What is interesting to me is how when MIDNIGHT COWBOY came out in 1969, it was so shocking to viewers that it was rated X. Of course, at that time X meant Maturity. Since I was only two years old at the time of the movie's release, it is hard for me to imagine just how shocked viewers were back then. However, when I try to take into account that many of the topics covered in the film, which included prostitution (the title itself was slang for a male prostitute); homosexuality; loneliness; physical (and to some extent emotional as well) abuse and drugs are hard for many people to talk about to this day, I can begin to get a sense of what viewers of this movie thought back on its release. It is worth noting that in the 1970's, MIDNIGHT COWBOY was downgraded to an R rating and even though it is still rated R, some of the scenes could almost be rated PG-13 by today's standards.I want to briefly give a synopsis of the plot although it is probably known to almost anyone who has heard of the movie. Jon Voight plays a young man named Joe Buck from Texas who decides that he can make it big as a male hustler in New York City escorting rich women. He emulates cowboy actors like Roy Rogers by wearing a cowboy outfit thinking that that will impress women. After being rejected by all the women he has come across, he meets a sleazy con-man named Enrico Ratso Rizzo who is played by Dustin Hoffman. Ratso convinces Joe that he can make all kinds of money if he has a manager. Once again, Joe is conned and before long is homeless. However, Joe comes across Ratso and is invited to stay in a dilapidated apartment. Without giving away much more of the plot, I want to say that the remainder of the movie deals with Joe and Ratso as they try to help one another in an attempt to fulfill their dreams. I.E. Joe making it as a gigolo and Ratso going down to Florida where he thinks he can regain his health.I want to make some comments about the movie itself. First of all, the acting is excellent, especially the leads. Although the movie is really very sad from the beginning to the end, there are some classic scenes. In fact, there are some scenes that while they are not intended to be funny, I find them amusing. For example, there is the classic scene where Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight are walking down a city street and a cab practically runs them over. Dustin Hoffman bangs on the cab and says Hey, I'm walkin' here! I'm walkin' here! I get a kick out of that scene because it is so typical of New York City where so many people are in a hurry. Another scene that comes to mind is the scene where Ratso (Dustin Hoffman) sends Joe (Jon Voight) to a guy named O'Daniel. What is amusing is that at first, we think O'Daniel is there to recruit gigolos and can see why Joe is getting so excited but then we begin to realize that O'Daniel is nothing but a religious nut. In addition to the two scenes I mentioned, I love the scene where Ratso and Joe are arguing in their apartment when Ratso says to Joe that his cowboy outfit only attracts homosexuals and Joe says in self-defense John Wayne! You gonna tell me he's a fag! What I like is the delivery in that scene.I would say that even though MIDNIGHT COWBOY was set in the late '60's, much of it rings true today. That's because although the area around 42nd Street in New York has been cleaned up in the form of Disneyfication in the last several years, homelessness is still just as prevalent there now as it was 40 years ago. Also, many people have unrealistic dreams of how they are going to strike it big only to have their dreams smashed as was the case with the Jon Voight character. One thing that impresses me about Jon Voight's character is how he is a survivor and I felt that at the end of the movie, he had matured a great deal and that Ratso (Dustin Hoffman's character) was a good influence on him.In conclusion, I want to say that I suggest that when watching this movie, one should watch it at least a couple of times because there are so many things that go on. For example, there are a bunch of flashback and dream sequences that made more sense to me after a couple of viewings. Also, what I find interesting is that there is a lot in this movie that is left to interpretation such as what really happened with Joe Buck (Jon Voight's character) and the people who were in his life in Texas. Even the ending, while I don't want to give it away for those who have not seen the movie, is rather open-ended. "},{"Title":"Real American Cinema.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this in the theater during it's initial release and have seen it on TV many, many times since and it still remains one of my favorites. What an accomplishment this film achieved with it's Best Picture, Best Director and Best Screenplay Academy Award wins for 1969. It had seven deserved nominations. Look back at the films nominated or considered for the films of 1969 at the Academy awards; Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Easy Rider, The Wild Bunch, Paint Your Wagon, Bob & Carol & Ted & Alcie, Goodbye Columbus, True Grit, Anne of a Thousand Days, The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, Cactus Flower, Hello Dolly, Z, They Shoot Horse Don't They and The Sterile Cukoo among them. For this to get Best Picture and Best Director as an X-rated movie as it was originally rated then which later became an R and to win that and be so recognized out of some great memorable films for that year is quite a statement. A great cast with great chemistry between the Principal actors in Dustin Hoffman and John Voight with wonderful support from Sylvia Miles, John McGiver, Brenda Vacaro, Barnard Hughes and Ruth White. A lot of movies departed from your typical Hollywood feature around this time and this helped lead the way and abandoned the Hollywood Movie for American Cinema. Director John Schlesinger deserves a lot of credit for putting this out and making such a remarkable picture. Great music in this flick too. I would give this a 10 on a scale of 10 and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Everybody's Talking at Me","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" SImply said, This is an astonishing story about people who don't live up to other's standards,Joe from Texas goes to New York after his Girl has been raped. He thinks he's gonna make it on his good looks with women, but really only male hustlers go to 53rd and 3rd and make it with men. He hooks up with another outcast Ratso Rizzo' Played brilliantly by Dustin Hoffman. After Joe realizes he's not going to make it alone , Ratzo is not a good manager he should have gone to 53 and 3 a painful but loving relationship begins. Just talking about this movie makes me cry, and the scenes wwith Andy's Warhol's party make me sick as he used so many people( Andy) But the end is a friendship and love between 2 men that isn't really sexual. Watch for yourself. "},{"Title":"Western meets gangster to create the gay film genre","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Scott Greenan New American Cinema February 10, 2006 Midnight CowboyMidnight Cowboy was a compilation of different genres of film. It was a western in the fact that the main character, Joe, was an impersonation of a cowboy. It also maintained the ideal of a western movie which was, essentially, to maintain your own masculinity. The gangster genre came into the film with Dustin Hoffman's character Rizzo. He was the epitome of all that is crooked and underhanded. And yet, a bond was created between these two characters, a bond that most likely had been homosexual in nature. Gay rights were a large influence on the 1960's. However, homophobia was also quite prevalent. Many people that exhibit homophobic tendencies are usually gay themselves. Thus, Rizzo's excessive use of the word fag is only a proclamation of his own sentiments. The same acts are exhibited in Joe Buck. He accepted male clients and resorted to physical assault when he is denied payment. His feelings toward love and loneliness stem back to his childhood. Although the flashback scenes were unclear at times, it may be insinuated that he was raped by his grandmother as a child. In an attempt to hide his homosexual tendencies in a state notorious for its masculinity (Texas), he raped a girl who told the police that Joe was the only one involved.Midnight Cowboy was a response to homosexuality from two of the most masculine genres in film. The gangster film responds to homosexuality with derogatory remarks, using his New York attitude and mouth. The western cowboy genre resorts to brute strength. And yet, they find solace in one another and decide to move away to a section of America that is uncommon to both genres. They shed their stereotypical clothing of the cowboy and New Yorker in order to live normally in Miami. Midnight Cowboy has, essentially, made an entirely new genre of gay film. They discarded guns as phallic representations in order to use their own bodies. One could argue that the gay community was represented poorly by the artsy men, cross dressers, and desperate men looking for physical love. It is only ironic the gay film came from (or was the love child of) the two most masculine genres in American Cinema. "},{"Title":"Terrific though depressing film","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is #36 on the American Film Institute's 100 best films and it won three Oscars including Best Picture in 1969. It was also rated X (NC17 nowadays) although today it's equivalent to a weak R which shows how much movie morals have changed in 35 years. You should see this movie for the acting of Dustin Hoffman as Ratso Rizzo and Jon Voight as Joe Buck. Ratso is a ragged New York street urchin and Joe Buck is a young plastic cowboy from Texas. Joe gets the idea that he'll go to New York and make a living as a stud off all the rich women in Manhattan. Ratso is a sickly street con-man who tricks Joe and then runs into him later. They begin an unlikely partnership. This movie is about friendship and redemption. There's no mistaking that it's a real downer film but it does make its point. Joe's journey through the underbelly of New York spirals into hell as he turns over one rock after another, each one hiding a bigger pervert. There is Towney the traveling salesman, John McGiver as the preacher in a squalid hotel room, Bob Balaban as a teen homosexual. Parts of the film are definitely dated such as the drug laden, swinging Greenwich Village party scene but it does show that aspect of 60s culture. In my opinion, Hoffman and Voight never equaled their roles in this film and Ratso and Joe are two of the most unforgettable characters in film history. Be prepared to be depressed, but see this film. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The freshly minted ratings system was applied to this film,full of very strong content. I believe at the time the X rating was being used more faithfully and thus,serious movies with objectionable material would get this rating,not so much the porn flicks it would get associated with. In little over five years, the X rating would be almost useless and exploited by adult filmmakers to sell how raunchy their movies were(e.g. the more Xs a movie had on it,the more graphic and hardcore it was).Still,I can understand where the ratings board was coming from on this film,in the sense that movies like Midnight Cowboy were rarely(if ever)made,and I doubt many mainstream audience in 1969 America were ready to sit through the story of the haunted and disenfranchised --yet amazingly still basically good-natured--male prostitute(Jon Voight)from out of town and his friendship with a deteriorating,bitter,streetwise loner(Dustin Hoffman) as they try to survive on the cold,unforgiving streets of New York City. The themes of prostitution,drugs and homosexuality are always difficult to examine in a true and unflinching way even now,let alone for filmmakers and audiences at the end of the 1960s.The one thing I got out of this movie was loneliness. The prevailing theme of this film was a sense of everybody out for themselves. And in this world of lonely,desperate people who walk the streets of a busy city,two people, an outsider and a lifelong resident,feel that they have no choice BUT to bond in spite of their differences. The direction by John Schlesinger,the cinematography and the musical score--a series of solo pieces by Danish jazz harmonica player Toots Thielemanns--all powerfully bring to full,brutal life the feeling of loneliness in a city teeming with people.The rating aside,this is a powerful film that probably could be remade now. Even so,I'm not sure how you could recapture the authenticity of the original or why one would even try. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw Midnight Cowboy in 1969 and have seen it numerous times over the decades. It's ageless, and that's the sign of a classic. Brilliantly directed by John Schlesinger and with terrific music by Nilsson, Midnight Cowboy is basically the story of two losers who find friendship in New York City. Dustin Hoffman plays Ratso (Call me Rico) Rizzo and it's one of his very best performances. Jon Voight is Joe Buck, in a performance that made him a star. Both were nominated for best actor Oscars but lost to John Wayne for True Grit! The seedy world of NYC becomes a character as it seems to control the lives of the 2 men. They live in an abandoned tenement house, and Voight does pickups on 42nd St for cash. Rizzo dreams of going to Florida to escape the city and its bitter winters; Joe Buck dreams of being a stud for pay among NCY's elite women. Neither really achieves his dreams. Several excellent supporting performances punctuate the story Sylvia Miles (Oscar nominated; she lost to Goldie Hawn for Cactus Flower) as Cass, Brenda Vaccaro (Shirley), John McGiver (the zealot), Barnard Hughes (Townie), Bob Balaban (the high school kid), Ruth White (Grandma), and several of Andy Warhol's underground stars (Viva, Ultra Violet) also appear in the Greenwich Village party scene. Schlesinger captures every nuance of the city, especially the divide between the haves and have nots. And he doesn't pull back from the filth of poverty. Filled with brilliant small moments like Mary Boylan lost in the subways after midnight, Jan Tice as the woman with the mouse (and what is THAT all about?), the flashbacks to Joe Buck's troubled past, and eventually the bus trip to Florida. Along with flashbacks, we also get flash forwards as the men dream of what could be. It's a film about friendships, dreams, the human spirit, and the harsh reality of the world we live in. It's also a film about change. For ultimately Joe Buck, like a Dickensian character, is a different person at the end of the film. What his discards is the key to the entire story. This is simply a brilliant film and won well-deserved Oscar as best film, director, and screenplay (Waldo Salt). It should have won for Hoffman because Ratso is one of his most memorable characters and just 2 years from his clean-cut kid in The Graduate. Amazing. I would also like to have seen John McGiver get nominated. His role is small but it's scarier than hell, and we never know WHY Ratso sends Joe Buck to his apartment. McGiver had a whole career of playing stuffy business men, and his scary zealot his (wu=ith sexual undertones) is great. The film was slapped with an X rating in 1969, but it was a huge hit and Oscar winner anyway. And that Nilsson music stays with you for days! "},{"Title":"strange movie, but I loved it!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, it must have been 3 AM, so I was pretty confused. I really had to pay attention, otherwise I would miss something important. It's so easy to miss the flashes of images that appear for sometimes not even a second. But despite all this madness, I've gotta say that I absolutely loved this movie. Maybe it was the complex characters that I really cared about, or just the innovative way in which the movie was shot. Or the desires of the characters that were seemingly impossible that caused a constant sense of dread to wash over me. I was crushed that Ratso never made it alive to Florida, but I was also happy that Joe had decided to live an honest live. It was the touching relationship between Joe and Ratso that I loved most - how they depended on each other, how much they learned from each other. It was heartbreaking to watch them be torn apart by tragedy, but also uplifting to know that Joe was finally living his life.  "},{"Title":"In My Top Ten of All Time!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This masterpiece from early '69 made me want to be an actor.  Easily Schlesinger's best film and a surprise winner at the Oscars.  Nice follow-up to THE GRADUATE for Dustin Hoffman and as the rumpled, dirty little Ratso from the Bronx, he gave his best performance.  Jon Voight is perfect as the Texas Stud full of naivete and wide eyes in the big city.  Able support from Sylvia Miles, Bob Balaban, and Barnard Hughes.A 10 out of 10.  Best performance = Jon Voight.  X-rating changed to R-rating after Oscar win (shows how valuable those ratings aren't).  The book is even grimier than the film, but it's definitely not a promotion for New York City (especially then).  Rich, involving and real humanity breaks through by the end of this journey.  Don't miss it! "}{"Title":"An incredible movie about friendship (NO spoilers!)","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I won't go on about the incredible acting and directing in this film. It is. What I don't see anyone mentioning in their comments is what I mainly get out of this film - the development of a great friendship. Without spoiling it for you, what happens is Joe Buck leaves his rural hometown with dreams of striking it rich in New York City. What he encounters is a life he never expected. He struggles to get by any way he can (a disturbing part of the film for most). In the meantime, he meets Ratzo Rizzo and develops the deepest of friendships. (In that respect it is similar to The Shawshank Redemption.) This is what I find beautiful about this film. Joe Buck goes in search of superficial things (money and fame) only to instead find many of the true things one needs in life - love, trust, and friendship.Now that I've completely cornified this movie, go watch it! "},{"Title":"A good representation of the time (spoilers within)","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just bought Midnight Cowboy on DVD a few days ago, and although the disc itself is average at best, the film is marvellous, even though it has dated a lot over the years.Firstly the performances from John Voight and Dustin Hoffman were both deserved of the Oscar nominations they received. I can't understand why Sylvia Miles was nominated as she was only in the film for 10 minutes at the most. Her performance wasn't even that memorable.The story follows a young Texan, Joe Buck (Voight) who moves to New York and hopes to become a hustler (male prostitute. He doesn't have much luck, then in a gay bar he bumps into a crippled thief named Ratzo Rizzo (Hoffman). Rizzo robs Buck but they meet soon after and form i very close friendship.We are never told if Ratzo or Joe are actually gay. There are little clues but we are left guessing.Anyhow, what starts as a comedy turns into a rather depressing affair, you still can't take away the quality of the main performances and Schlesinger's direction.  "},{"Title":"Shattered Dreams and Survival in the City","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `You know what you've got to do cowboy' -JoeA sad but very captivating snapshot of misguided broken dreams and survival in a big city. The happy-go-lucky Joe Buck comes to the city in hopes of becoming an easy money stud for hire. The past of Joe is hazy and jaded shown through flashbacks, thus adding to his bizarre mystique. Friendly and trusting he soon learns the hard way that life in New York is a rough existence without real income or friends.After befriending survivor Rico Rizzo a gimp conman with dreams of going somewhere warm and sunny, they struggle simply to stay alive one day at a time. Dustin Hoffman gives one of the performances that built his career, one I'm sure I'll never forget as long as I live. John Voight provides a rock solid performance as the 'cowboy'. His character Buck exudes a sleazy naive charm that is captivating from the opening scene.Easy to understand but never dumbed down this film rides the razors edge of perfection and pretension. It's a heartbreaking tale of friendship, survival and shattered dreams of two lost souls struggling desperately to keep their heads above water. While things are implied that are at times extremely dark, this film allows you to identify with the characters and for a short time and even live and die with their smalltime hopes.The only film to date that was originally rated X to win the Academy award this film (and I cannot stress this enough) needs to be watched unedited and not on television. Strange, sleazy, heartbreaking and even at times heartwarming this film is an achievement not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"very disturbing masterpiece","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The themes of this film will undeniably turn some people away. This is about as close to the dark disturbing center of mankind as a film has came. Many people captured in this film battle demonizing thoughts and impulses. New York City is portrayed in a murky view here. The film is about two hustlers from totally different worlds yet so similar in many ways. One is a cowboy from Texas played by Jon Voight named Joe Buck. He has a smile on his face most of the time, but behind the giant cowpoke grin hides a horrible past that would drive most insane. The film shows signs that Buck was possibly abused and is haunted by a rape that happened by a mob of rednecks to his girlfriend. He comes to New York to become a high paying hustler, but finds the only one getting hustled is him. The other is appropriately one that hustles Buck played by Dustin Hoffman named Ratzo(Ricco is the name he prefers). Both become friends when they realize that they need each other just to survive. They work together to make nickle and dimes and steal food, among other things. The film takes our two males down some dark places. We witness an abyss of depravity in the barrows of a New York. The film is unrelenting in showing the rawness of sexual activity and what it does and does not get you. Homosexuality is another theme that readily reard its head, especially to our midnight cowboy. The film is truly sad. It provides the icy fact that most dreams never come true. There's a poster on Ratzo's wall that has Florida on it. This explains something to me. Buck leaves Texas to supposedly start over. Ratzo wants to do the same by going to Florida. These two have this special link that binds them..getting away from a past that leaves nothing to be desired. *****/***** "},{"Title":"All hopes blown up","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People going from rural areas to the big towns are normally coming with a lot of dreams of success, and this was the case of a young good-looking man Joe Buck (Jon Voight) who supposed he could have succeeded in New York easily because of his tall athletic figure as a kind of a new gigolo. Life showed him that success in the Big Apple is an issue. This was what he learned from his new friend the sick young man Enrico Salvatore (Dustin Hoffman), also known as Ratzo. The latter lived in conditions similar to the ones common to rats, no hygiene, no food, simply surviving. The worst came in the evening during winter time, no heating at all, due to this fact Ratzo had tuberculosis. What a nightmare in a town thought by many as the best of the world! The director John Schlesinger was able to show that the appearances do not always show the true aspects of a town or a country. Ratzo was the example, he was not a bad man but he had to fight, to steal and to do whatever possible to survive, and at the same time he was Joe's teacher. Ratzo was able to persuade Joe to go to Florida looking for a more benign weather, Joe got the money serving as a gigolo for an old homosexual man, they made it, but Ratzo died. This excellent film is a lesson not only to Joe but to many people trying to emigrate to New York, where you may succeed or you may die. The film should be among the 100 best of all times.  "},{"Title":"from memory","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen this film for a few years but have watched it many times since first seeing it about 16 years ago as a 14 year old.  I find it amazing that so many were not touched by the performances and Shlesinger's direction.  The scene where Rizzo is dying and he is being held by Voigt on the coach is superb.  For me the film is about friendship and that no matter how seedy and how worthless people are, you need friendship.  A bit like Space Oddity by Bowie, 1969 seems such a long time ago for such before it's day art.  Hoffman is sublime and Voigt played his part perfectly (his part being more difficult in that he could not over play by 1% even).  On top of all that, Harry Nielson's soundtrack is haunting. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great movie with two outstanding performaces by Hoffman and Voight. 'Midnight cowboy' contains some memorable scenes and the music is just great. It surprises me to read people think this movie is out dated. It isn't. See it when you have the chance!  "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this film is one of the best of all time.I won't spend too much time rambling on about it - just go and watch it.The score is wonderful, as it truly evokes the strange concoction of happiness and sadness.The acting is superb - Voight in his best role, Hoffman stealing the show as Ratso.The city is a great character. Utterly wonderful.Schleissenger directs, what has to be, one of the best Oscar winners ever.It is a tragic film, yet one with hope, a hope that even the most sturdy of character's can change. "},{"Title":"Real and surreal","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dark, Gritty and unapologetic. Human nature at its most human. The brilliance of this movie is only surpassed by its unpretentious look at the frailties of our own human nature, a dark deep thrust into the realities of humanity at its most brittle and weakened state. But a resolution in the end of the triumph of decency and goodwill provoked by poverty and need. This movie moves genuinely like no no other mish mash hollywood heart string plucker. This is real. This is a voyage of human discovery. A Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"It's not so sad","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I imagine it's extremely difficult to forget the past when something horrible has happened to you. You cannot completely forget it however how hard you try. What you are supposed to do to recover from it is to confront yourself and digest it.Joe tormented himself with self-hatred. He lost a girl just on whom he was able to rely and he thinks he is responsible for that. Rizzo, in contrast to Joe, is quite positive and optimistic. It's interesting that they get to understand each other, having a same goal to go to Florida. The last seems sad but we know Joe is no more a male prostitute. The film tells us Joe is beginning to forgive himself though it is extremely difficult for Joe to do it. Rizzo is a sort of person who tells Joe that nothing is altered by just tormenting himself. So this film is not sad but releasing. "}{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Boils down to one thing, friendship !! In a world of rich becomes richer and poor becomes poorer, these two characters found friendship in the faceless, concrete jungle of the modern world. This is a film I would watch and watch again. "},{"Title":"A Poignant Film","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I learned long ago to stop caring about artistic value in movies, and to simply ask myself Did I enjoy it? Midnight Cowboy possesses a depth (despite Jon Voight's so-called 'bland' performance) which stirs the soul. Better yet, it pulls you into the mental and emotional states of the characters, while allowing you to keep a safe distance, a calculating distance. The story is riveting, like watching an accident, knowing the inevitable outcome, yet unable to stop looking. What you see is the depiction of two unlike people who develop a symbiotic friendship. Dustin's character has a learned method of coping with the reality of destitution in New York City, & Jon's is just learning, but not accepting. He slowly grows from the country boy believing his new friend to be a savvy guide of life in the Big Apple. I will leave it to you to determine how his friend grows. "},{"Title":"The Movie Warhol Wished He Had Made","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read about John Schlesinger's death on 25 July 2003, and realized I'd never seen Midnight Cowboy!  So I rented it and saw it 34 years after it came out and was blown away by its truthfulness and grittiness.  I couldn't help but wonder what 1969 audiences thought of this film, it must have blown everyone away on some level.  I have a feeling it was influenced by some of Warhol's films, it even had some of his Superstars in the film (Ultra Violet, International Velvet, Taylor Mead, Paul Morrissey are at the party scene).  It's the New York street movie Warhol wished he'd made about cheap street hustlers and con men.See this movie!  It's great, 10/10! "},{"Title":"Dark yet lifting","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is one of the rarest gems of American film history.  This is storytelling at its best, the characters of Voight and Hoffman contrast one another from the beginning.  The story revolves around the adventures of Joe Buck (Voight) as he travels from rural Texas to New York City in pursuit of a less than respectable career as a hustler (male prostitute).  As the story unfolds we watch his dreams collapse and a strange sort of kindness emerge from a con artist named 'Ratso' Rizzo (Hoffman).  The story is one of desperate humanity.  Joe is plagued by memories of a better life and by dark fantasies being forced into him by his new harsh environment.  The scale of this movie is small and this is its strength, Joe Buck is a tragic hero in the classical sense, he tries so hard to be more than what he is.  These attempts provide much needed humor for the film.  The film's symbolism is successful; there are moments when all hope is small enough to be funneled through a five dollar radio.  Sadness seems to dominate much of the film but the end of the film is defined by a moment of redemption that ultimately leaves the viewer with a soup of emotions that is rarely the product of watching American film.  Schlesinger directs a masterpiece artfully performed by both Voight and Hoffman.  "},{"Title":"Voight's breakthrough performance","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Explore the seedy underbelly of '60s culture through the perspective of a good ol' southern boy in the movie `Midnight Cowboy.'The film showcases some of Hollywood's finest before we really knew them. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman deliver memorable performances in conjunction with John Schlesinger's avant-garde direction.Take one Texas-bred ladies man, Joe Buck (Jon Voight), and plant him in the middle of New York City. Of course, this fellow doesn't know the city's ins and outs. He manages to hook up with the deplorable Ratso (Dustin Hoffman). It's Joe's ambition to pocket as much money as possible. However, he finds it a bit more difficult than that. He discovers the only thing he's decent at is getting laid and swindling people out of their money. That's where Ratso comes in. He's the epitome of scoundrel; he merely leeches off others. That's what makes him the pimp. However, he has a place and Joe doesn't. That what makes them friends.Throughout the film, history reminds Joe of his past failures. For instance, he keeps flashing back to a past love, a since-dead grandmother and an isolated childhood. In spite of this, Joe and Ratso attempt to make some semblance of a living on the mean streets any way they can.Both Voight's and Hoffman's characters get excellent development. In pop culture, it's easy to confuse stereotypes with reality. Voight gives Joe a semblance of street sense, while not making him into another Jed Clampet-save for his over-dressed attire. Whatever shortcomings he had when he got to New York were soon calloused over with a renewed sense of self-preservation.Joe's companion Ratso basically lived up to his name. Hoffman, playing roles like star newspaper reporter Carl Bernstein in `All the President's Men' and a pirate in `Hook,' shows he has incredible range. In this movie, he's equally part scoundrel and pathetic clot. He's greedy, he never bathes and has no friends.The themes introduced are turn up the thermostat on the taboo-o-meter-be it drug use, free love, homosexuality or male prostitution-with a social irresponsibility that will rival any Cheech & Chong movie. It some ways, it was Austin Powers before anyone knew who Austin Powers was.The directing patches the whole lump together. John Schlesinger combined innovative camera techniques with lively scenes. Be forewarned. Some flashback scenes will leave you on the brink of seizures. Take, for example, a party Joe and Ratso attend. The melding of mind-altering drugs and flashbacks provides the audience with a substance-free trip of its own.All things considered, it's not hard to understand why this movie won the '69 Academy Award for best picture, among many other nods. It should also come as no surprise that this was the first rated-X mass-market film, with all of its vices. Since then, of course, it's been downgraded to an R rating.It's likely this movie will trounce at least one of your social taboos. It's probably what the director intended anyway.  "},{"Title":"Excellent character study","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Originally X-rated, `Midnight Cowboy' was released in 1969 and it was believed that due to its strong subject matter, male prostitution, the film deserved a strong rating. Nearly 34 years after its theatrical release, the MPAA has afforded the film a new R-rating, and it suits the film far better than its former rating. Directed by John Schlesinger (`The Next Best Thing') and starring John Voight (`Holes') and Dustin Hoffman (`Confidence'), `Midnight Cowboy' is a film that gives its audience moments of pause and reflection not only on the issues that it addresses, but also on other social wrongs that exist in society, even after 34 years.	`Midnight Cowboy' is the story of Joe Buck (Voight) who leaves his sleepy little Texas town for the lights of New York City. Naturally, like any young, naïve person, he dreams of making it rich in the &#145;big apple.' But his means of achieving that end are as irrational as the day is long-being a gigolo. When he arrives in the city, he encounters a slightly crippled man named Enrico Salvatore Rizzo (Hoffman). After a few miss-encounters with the wrong people, the two become friends and Buck moves in with Rizzo. As such, Rizzo becomes Buck's pimp, to a certain degree, as they try to squander any money possible on the mean streets of New York.  	One can look at `Midnight Cowboy' and simply say that moral is to avoid prostitution-but it's far more than that. The film questions choices we make in life and the roads we choose to go down that may seem enticing, but ultimately lead to what could possibly be a person's defeat. Apropos, this is the situation that Buck encounters in New York. He thinks he's not a great cowboy, but as he would put it, `I'm one hell of a stud!' He's a young man, in his mid to late twenties, and naturally has dreams of being a woman's greatest sexual desire. But at what cost? He doesn't realize the detrimental affect that his actions could have on his life. He's going to have to beg for cash. What's more, the film was made during a time when the sexual revolution and drug use were at their zenith, but to the gullibility of the filmmakers, the issues of STDs and the AIDS virus weren't brought up in the film, as they were primarily unknown to the general public.	Performances in the film were excellent. Hoffman gives a sad portrayal of a man at the end of his rope, with no money, a terrible apartment, and to make things worse he's loosing the use of his legs and he's developing pneumonia. Voight's presentment of the character Buck is superb. Buck is extraordinarily ignorant in his pursuit of his dream, but no more ignorant the Hoffman's character, Rizzo. Rizzo's dream becomes the vision of Buck, as well-going to Miami and basically living off the fat of the land.	Outstanding direction from Schlesinger makes `Midnight Cowboy' a must see. With his uses of quick cuts in the film, lighting, and the gritty atmosphere of a once dingy New York City, Schlesinger provides a dark feel to subject matter.  	`Midnight Cowboy' is not a film for the faint of heart. Modern films that deal in the ideas of the downfall of dreams and degradation of the worlds we inhabit would be `Requiem For A Dream,' and `Summer Of Sam.' As for `Midnight Cowboy,' it's an extraordinary film about characters that suffer from their own downfalls and from their own naïveté. ***1/2  "},{"Title":"It well deserves its place on the AFI's top 100.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stunning performances in a darkly compelling story.  Very adult fare with strong sexual content.  The sexual content is not exploitive, or even sensual.  I dislike films that are made for shock value and this film has an unearned reputation as a sex film from its X rating.  It is an engrossing study of marginalized people in a harsh environment.  I think it is one of the finest American films and well deserves its place on the AFI's top 100. Don't watch it with your children, or maybe even with your parents, but it is an absolute must see. "},{"Title":"The Black and White Scenes","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was a bit confused about the black and white scenes with the girl saying you're the only one, too, until I read the book.  Basically, those scenes show the motivation Joe (Voight) has for becoming a prostitute.  In the book, Joe has an encounter with this girl, and she proclaims him to be the best she has ever had in bed.  He then realizes that sex is the only thing he was ever good at, and that is when he decides to go to New York. "},{"Title":"Talented Hoffmann and Voight!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I got the tape I was sure I had a good movie in my hands. It was easy to know how good it was when I saw the cast list and the director's name in the credits. Midnight Cowboy can't be considered the best movie in the world, but it is simply great, and this true. Dustin Hoffmann is very well in his character and John Voight really surprised me. I knew he is good, but not that good. John Schlesinger directs this film with talent and sensibility. It just can't be missed. My Rate 8/10   "},{"Title":"Excellent but everybody knows that","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A masterpiece. Way up high with other masterpieces such as Pierrot le Fou or La Dolce Vita. More of an emotional short-cut but great nevertheless. Watch it absolutely even if you don't give a damn about Andy Warhol's factory "}{"Title":"Beautiful New York-period Movie","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a time when a lot of superb movies about New York were made (Taxi Driver(10/10),French Connection(10/10),Death Wish(9/10),Shaft(8/10),Marathon Man(9/10),Mean Streets(7/10)) Midnight Cowboy is one of the best.There are a lot of similarities in these moviesAll play in New York,all have great acting and rely on these performances,all of them show the dark side of the city with lonesomeness and crime as main stories and all have great music scores,except French Connection which doesn't seem to have one.The story of Midnight Cowboy is pretty good,but what makes it a really good movie is the score,the pictures of New York in a time when it was a dump and especially the acting by Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight. Voight is a naive cowboy from Texas who wants to become a gigolo in the biggest and loneliest city in the world and Hoffman plays a poor invalid kid from the Bronx,always scamming and stealing. The way that the two are stuck together is beautifully filmed.New York is shot in the most dark way,mostly at night (just like the other movies written above).This makes for an even sadder picture which is topped by a sincere but also sad score with a beautiful harmonica through it.Each scene has something nice to offer and they are all very different and complete the story line,there are no loose scenes. Of course,since it is 1969,there is also a pretty psychedelic sequence in the latter stages of the movie.Although the end is not very satisfying (like most other movies written above),it still makes for one of the best movies ever. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy was a very well made movie, however I couldn't help but to feel at the end a little let down. The ending had little impact, and this is a bad thing because it was supose to be one of the most dramatic endings a movie can get. Some people can easily relate to Ratso Rizzo or Joe Buck. Take the worst sickness you've ever caught, multiply it by five, and make it a chronic disorder with a crippled muscle or broken bone, and you've got Rizzo. Most people have slept in the freezing cold and been sick at least once, that's what he felt everyday. Joe Buck is the ambitious guy who shows up at a party, but doesn't know anybody, and has a hard time striking up something.This movie was a good film about friendship at the lowest level of society, you can learn a great deal from this movie. It also reminds us of how hopeless life can get, and just when you think you're back on track, you get U-Turned right back where you don't want to be. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Play it again, Toots","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every now and then, a haunting little harmonica solo creeps back into my mind. It starts out as a simple sequence of double notes, then changes gear and turns into a beautiful melody. That haunting solo is the theme song from Midnight Cowboy. It's arrangement - and indeed the melody itself - are reminiscent of early Bond movies. Which makes sense, as it was composed by John Barry. But what makes it into such a heartbreakingly beautiful song is the inimitable style of harmonica virtuoso Toots Thielemans.There have been greater movie scores, but never a theme song which captured a movie's atmosphere better than this one. Midnight Cowboy tells the story of a country boy who sets out to conquer the big city, only to discover he is no match for his opponent. A theme that has been told before and since, but never as well as in this movie. Sad and funny moments are mixed with just the right amount of irony and realism. Outstanding performances by Hoffman and Voight and great direction by Schlesinger make this movie a true classic. And Toots  will never let me forget it. "},{"Title":"I'M WALKING HERE!! I'M WALKING HERE!!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MIDNIGHT COWBOY is the most depressing movie I've ever seen, but it's also one of the best. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are dynamite in their classic roles as a hustler hick from Texas who moves to NYC because he knows the women up there got money. He soon realizes that the world is a lonely place as his dreams of riches are never achieved. He then meets Ratso Rizzo (Hoffman) and the two find that they are remarkable alike two human beings struggling to find existence and happiness in this world. Filmmaking at its best. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Worth the time","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the gutter. It's messy, dirty, depressing. And yet, it's pure genius, solid, captivating, memorable, compelling.Using words like gritty to describe a movie became trite only AFTER they were used properly. This movie is gritty.This movie deserved everything it won, and is still worth a serious look today. No no, not a cynical look, because you can find fault with anything. Let yourself get immersed, and you will be changed.A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"its been awhile...","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It gets harder and harder to find a film that you really can connect with. And it is even harder to find a film that can come close to the classic Taxi Driver. But Midnight Cowboy, dare I say, comes very close to the standards of Taxi Driver. And considering that this movie was done 9 years earlier than TD, I must say that it is pretty impressive. Jon is pretty good in this movie but I must say that Dustin is on a league on his own with Bobby D.  "},{"Title":"It's the acting. Wow!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes, the cliches apply, and this is one of those times. They simply don't  make movies like this anymore. It lacks the type of action and explicit drawn out  sex scenes that would be demanded of the story were it made today, and thathas allowed it to be a better movie. The theme song, Everybody Talking isused throughout the film in little snippets. The pacing of the scenes all are  carefully managed. I don't see how any viewer can't be drawn into the mood of  the film.But it is really about the acting. Voight's Joe Buck seems rather simply drawn,  but by the end of the film, one can't help but appreciate what a fine job the actor  did. He really created something lasting. And Dustin Hoffman is, to use a trite  phrase, at the heights of his powers. Keeping in mind that Midnight Cowboy was  created a mere two years after The Graduate, it is impossible not to be amazed  at his work in this movie. Rizzo is an entirely different character than Ben, one  that draws the viewer in on a far more intimate level.There is no question that this is one of the all time great films. "},{"Title":"A film that inspired the 1970's filmmaking era...","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Two of the best performances ever. The film scores because of Voight/Hoffman and the path to the actuality of what happens when the American Dream goes wrong. This film seared a place on my mind, the gritty, amazing camera work and direction as well as my genuine affinity for the main characters broke my heart. While this film gave Hollywood a reason/excuse to make good movies, it is even more important for its depiction of how easy it was/is to be ignored and left behind by the greatest society in the world. In this case, the post-war middle to upper-middle class life is shown as less than perfect for many Americans. A treat for the mind, the eye and the heart... "},{"Title":"Gets better with time","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Most movies that show periodic dress and hair styles tend to make us cringe as we see ourselves way back when. Midnight Cowboy is so provocative and compelling it takes us beyond that point.A terrifically acted, directed, and written movie it is the story of a naive young man from the southwest who meets up with the cold hard truth of New York City street life. Joe Buck (brilliantly played by Jon Voight) comes to NY seeking his fortune. The product of a broken home, brought up by his grandmother, he has no real marketable work skills other than a penchant for pleasing women in bed.He meets up with Ratzo Rizzo (played to perfection by Dustin Hoffman) a homeless street hustler who has been knocked down repeatedly by the harsh elements of the street and the NY winters. But he still is looking to hustle and hustle he does. He cons young Joe, after they meet initially, and when Joe realizes he's been had he seeks revenge.Through it all a sense of compassion and even friendship grows out of this unlikely pairing as they embark on NY's seedier side of life eventually hoping to get out of NY to Florida and warmer climes.Through it all the film holds the viewers attention and strikes at our compassionate side. One of the true skills of a great writer is to have the viewer identify with a character(s) whose makeup is entirely different than that of the viewer. In this Midnight Cowboy does it very well.Supporting acting by John McGiver, Brenda Vacarro, and the rest of the cast is superb. This film would be on my must see list for anyone looking to see timeless classic movies. "},{"Title":"Dated, but still a fine story","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I always refer to the late 60s/early 70s as the best era in American filmaking.  My opinion probably has a lot to do with the fact that I was an adolesent during that time and the movies seemed to reflect my emerging value system.  I didn't see Midnight Cowboy back then, but if I did it would undoubtably have impressed me more than it did when I saw it recently.  Not that it wasn't good, it just seemed dated.Anyway it's still a superior work, and a good character study.  New York City has always been a meeting place for divergent personalities, and the results are often cold.  The fact that Joe Buck makes a friend of Ratzso thaws the chill of the uncaring city, and reminds us that this is a story about humans and not about a place. "}{"Title":"Connecting with others is all that matters","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When Midnight Cowboy was released back in 1969, I heard it described in hushed tones as a film about male prostitution;  so, I avoided seeing it.  Fortunately, however, a friend of mine convinced me to have a look, and loaned me the video.  I was blown away.  The acting, screenplay, and cinematography are all brilliant.  In one scene, for example, the camera finds a wealthy, middle-aged woman outside a Manhattan apartment building waiting for her dog to finish its business. We spy her at first from the cowboy gigolo's perspective, who is walking past her; but then, as he turns and approaches, the camera rolls back and down to shoe level, where we see the movement of his gaudy, ornate cowboy boots.  This is great cinematography  by tying the action to the pavement, the drama of the scene takes on new meaning.  We understand that the transaction takes place at the lowest possible level.  The boots evoke the feeling of a carnival atmosphere, cheap thrills and awkward sexual aggression.  The sidewalk conjures up images of street hookers and johns, of urban decadence, but with the energy of the outdoors.  The dog's fecal elimination suggests creatures that are not ashamed to satisfy their base impulses in public.  The scene is drenched with visual meaning.  Midnight Cowboy has dozens of scenes such as this. And it's not a movie about male prostitution.  To say so is to equate its content with the theatrical tableau.  It's a movie about social misfits and outcasts, who find refuge with each other.  They're opposites, who unmask each other's self-delusions &#150; lies that they were forced to tell themselves since childhood simply to survive; and yet, they reach acceptance, even love.  It's an incredibly life-affirming message.  Sure, `Ratzo' (Hoffman) dies in the end; but, he dies achieving his dream.  This movie clearly says that human survival depends, first and foremost, upon the necessity of connecting with other people.  All else is secondary.  Disney productions, with all their contrived sentimentality, can't come close to expressing these feelings with such power and vigor.  Movies don't get any better than this.    "},{"Title":"A disturbing labyrinth that is the city","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It a simple plot. A young Texan tries to make it as a male prostitute in New York, during the 70's. Simple. But you not only get a movie that teaches us about people, life, and what people go though to survive it, we see one of the most memorable friendships in the history of cinema. If you sit down and watch this movie shot by shot, you see more than a friendship between Ratso and Joe Buck.I'd like to mention scene in the movie. After he has the disturbing experience with O'Daniel, he starts to run after Ratso. You always see Ratso very close to Joe in that scene, but always impossible to get. It is also interesting when you see Joe tying to get to Ratso in the subway, while there are a lot of people there. But when he finally gets through everyone, no one is one the subway except Ratso, who is, again, far away from him. While he is trying to run after him, and Ratso keeps on getting farther away, who see quick shots of Joe's past, which I will mention next paragraph. And you also see some shots of Joe choking Ratso, which shows that Joe will do anything to Ratso just to hurt him. And there is an interesting music to this scene, which adds to its greatness. The music adds a sort of nauseating churning effect of an impossible labyrinth that is the city and hate is it's wall. There is no escapeI'd like to mention another scene in this movie. Where you see Joe's past experience that haunted his life, he gets so mixed up with past and present. As an example, when they take away Joe's girlfriend, first you see him running for when she is in a car in Texas. Then you see her in NYC with him running after her shirtless. When the police come to find Joe's girlfriend raped, you can see Ratso in the crowd, like he has been following him, or is an evil that he should fear. Also in that scene, you see a wrecking ball hit a building. And right after you see that, you see Joe getting hit into a fence. Again, there is something strange in that scene. You see a shot of Ratso with a broken glass bottle trying to hurt him. He has to wake. And it is so great and confusing.Joe Buck and Enrico Salvador Rizzo may as well take their place with other famous friendships as Humphrey Bogart and Claude Rains, Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis, and Will Sampson (Chief from One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest) and Jack Nicholson. But there is a difference to their friendship. Joe's is not really sure whether Ratso is person who can help him, or a person who wants to hurt him like everyone else.  "},{"Title":"American Gigolo","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the first serious look at the underbelly of Civilization, American or otherwise.  The filmmakers of this one--and thanks to an able cast--show us a glimpse of skid row trials and tribulations.  The glimpses, by today's standards, are never heavy handed or contrived... they are what they are.  This film couldn't have been made today (as the DVD booklet informs us) and, given the increasing levels of civic apathy overall, who'd care to.  The look on actor Voight's face, as Joe Buck, a sensitive and caring individual thrust into a world of grand disillusionment and strife, is all you need to know when making your own assessments of this particular slice of run-down Americana.  If, after the film is over, you still don't feel anything in your heart, then it's because you've never had to wait in a soup line before... and your time has merely been wasted. "},{"Title":"This is one of hollywood's greatest acheivments","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I feel this movie has as much of an impact today as it did 33yrs ago in its original release. A story of a naive cowboy in New York City, that despite its pretense is actually a tale of enduring friendship, compassion, choices, new beginnings, leaving the past, and the ability to find good in any man. I adore this movie for both its subject matter, and the direction. it is a feat of no small proportion visually, and emotionally you feel connected to every character involved. I feel that Dustin Hoofman gives his most powerful performance as a crippled man, dying of TB and still fending for himself on the hard streets of a heartless city. John Voight is amazing as Joe Buck, the lost soul who unknowingly throws himself into this same bitter world.I do love this story. I however find the irony of the films past is almost as enduring as the story. The fact that upon original release ot was so Brave and Cruse, by the standards of the time, that it was released with a rating normally dedicated to only adult films. However today it is mild by the current standards. However it will most likely always remain the only X-rated film to win an Academy Award.  "},{"Title":"Great,Great,Great","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great story,Great filming,great acting.Also great sets,locale,music and plot.If it were any better it would hurt.Has all the ingredients of great filmmaking.A movie like this with outstanding story and performances comes along,maybe every other decade or so.Best Picture Kudo's and hopefully a must see for many generation's to come. It is not an easy task to build a credible and sustainable storyline around two polar opposite characters,and display every emotion known to mankind in the process.But this film did,and does.From the overt hucksterism and chicanery,to the innocent bravura and extending with heartfelt range to loyal kinship and eventual pathos.Not just a typical buddy movie,but rather an exploration into the inner depths of human conscience and soul. Jon Voight starts off the movie as young rascal from texas who wants to exploit his looks and libido for profit in far away N.Y.City,since he has been local hearttrob to many a country girl in his hayseed hometown.Fed up with washing dishes in local beanery,and considering himself spirited enought to play lothario in biggest of all big cities.So,with pocket change and quick dismissal from hash house he takes first available bus to big apple.Thereupon he learns with as much quickness as his pocket monet will allow,that being a male Hustler in N.Y.City isn't the piece of cake,he figured. Enter the King of N.Y.City street hustlers Dustin Hoffman as sleazy Rizzo,con artist and scam man.With gimpy leg and overly slicked back greasy hair he coughts himself on to the scene for mischief and much needed help,himself.Strong enough,initially to give Joe Buck Jon Voight the quick give and take,they eventually fall in with each for support and survival.Mostly survival at first.Their friendship is built around money and shelter and the desperate search for the two. The music and film quality is state of the art and some scenes have fastest editing,sans Russ Meyerfastest on planetever put to big screen at that time.Just within last few years,fast editing has been at forefront of new movie movement.I like most if not all the songs being played and they are well placed.Title song is catchy and very fitting of movie theme. I particularly like movies shot in the heart of N.Y.City.The street scenes are textbook examples of realistic and grim inner city hubbub and bustle.Brought to life with a panoramic view that both takes viewer there and creates excitement,of the big city variety But the true crux of the movie is the innerplay of emotions felt by the two lead characters.One can really feel their predicament and cause for concern,especially near the end.The ending is true pathos,but never sappy.I felt good for watching a cinematic masterpiece unfold and come to terms with reality and its near tragic consequences. 5 out of 5 star or 10/10 for Great filming of Great story,realized with Great intensity.A one of a kind great experience.Dig Daddio. "},{"Title":"A look at the underbelly of America at that time.","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film, in its methods of production, direction, cinematography, dialogue and sequence were ground-breaking in its era. The idea of the shattered American Dream as portrayed is poignant, emotive and compelling. The casting was inspired, albeit with a first lead of great box-office potential, still managed to show a society of callous reckoning. The impersonality of the city compared to the almost parochial nature of the outer states is shown with a clarity that is stupefying. The shortest comment I can  make is watch this film and think. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my personal favourites of all time, that more than deserved it's Oscar for Best Picture. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman (both nominated for Best Actor) bring in performances that are brilliant , funny and most of all touching. You can feel real sympathy for these characters and the situation they are in. John Barry's theme is really good, but I prefer Harry Nielson's version of Everybody's Talkin' at me, which used many time in the film, but never more effective than the opening title. The ending has to be one of the best in cinema history, and one of the most touching also. "},{"Title":"one of my faves","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is a terrific drama with fantastic acting from it's lead actors. Voight stars as a dim witted cowboy who comes to New York to make it as a hustler. Instead he winds up being conned by the pathetic Ratso Rizzo in Dustin Hoffman's greatest performance. Ratso decides to be his pimp and the two spend the movie around New York's seedy part of town. The psycedelic party is awesome. This is a sad movie and display's Voight's loneliness. From I'm walking here! to Ratso's visions of success in Florida, Midnight Cowboy is an American classic. **** "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is the movie that should be on everyone's top ten list.  It is so unlike any other film I have ever seen, and it really affects you.  It is the story of a cowboy named Joe Buck who dreams of becoming a big-time hustler in New York City.  But because of his innocence, he gets taken advantage of, and can never find the success he dreamt about.  Instead, he resorts to becoming a male prostitute just so he and his friend, Ratso, can survive.  Midnight Cowboy features two magnificent performances by its leads, Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman, who were both nominated for Oscars.  I just can't say enough about Midnight Cowboy.  It's a movie that everyone needs to see at least once.  If you haven't seen it, you're missing one of the greatest movies ever made.  See this movie!!!!! "},{"Title":"Probably the most hard hitting human drama.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The casual way we are introduced to Voight's plans for occupation after he leaves his job and heads off to new york really helps the impact of his lack of success with it, nothing in this movie is close to convenient and it takes the form of a downward spiral in stamina, voights performance is great as is Hoffmans more demanding one and the ending just leaves you de-vitalised. I had thought that he would have some success in his aim but what happens is neither predictable nor pleasing.I still do not understand why he killed that man but I don't disbelieve it, and the way the man to his very end shows that he has no self respect or esteem just hardens the impact. And the main thing is that you forget your ethics and morals for this and just wish that he would have some success and start getting his life back, you know he will never be re united with the woman that was in the truest sense of the phrase his one true love in life.And the way he gets first hustled by Hoffman and then given a roof by him, making a friend of an enemy, it is like a turn from every ideal that ever was.I would not recommend viewing this film to anyone except watchers, it is a well adapted movie but you have to take watching movies pretty seriously to see it. As a movie I give it 10.  "}{"Title":"Bleak, bruising, brilliant character study -- with New York City never more dark or depressing.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The vivid dreams of a naive but ambitious country boy are quickly dashed by the cold, cruel realities of big city living in Midnight Cowboy, director John Schlesinger's gritty, lacerating study of two disparate creatures who initially clash, then inexorably bond out of necessity.Strapping, fair-haired Joe Buck is a simple, sensitive, extremely handsome Texas hick going nowhere fast in a nowhere town.  Reduced to dishwashing jobs and with no viable goals or training that will likely steer him away from the pots and pans any time soon, the plucky dude finds himself swayed enough by magazines and posters to leave his hell hole of an existence and shoot for much bigger dreams.  The narcissistic Joe actually fancies himself a ladies' man and aims to pleasure the rich city women with very costly stud services that will take him to the top of his trade, eventually retiring to his dream spot -- Florida.Within a very short time of arriving in NYC, things go woefully wrong.  The con man becomes the conned as he quickly falls prey to other more streetwise characters, duped even by his own tricks.   As money and hope run low and fear and despair fear set in, Joe crosses paths with a slimy little street mole named Ratso Rizzo, an ailing, crippled loser who also scammed him at one point.  Dire circumstances eventually draw the two misfits together as they begin to rely on one another for companionship and survival.  Eventually, the homeless, destitute pair are forced into petty thievery, pimping, and even worse.Soulful-eyed Jon Voight became a star with this picture, and Joe Buck remains THE role of his enviable career despite a number of sensational performances that followed.  His subtle but startling transition from  cocky upstart to grim, terrified street hustler is piteous and achingly real. And it all registers so beautifully on that angelic, good-looking mug of his.  In fact, the moment Joe gets off the bus in the middle of hustling, bustling New York, decked out in his absurd stud gear, you find yourself begging him to get back on the bus, go back home, pick up the dishrag, and think again.  Joe's wild, garish-looking western outfit, complete with Stetson, spit-polished boots and Texas drawl, looks about as out of place as a polar bear in the Sahara Desert.Dustin Hoffman, one of Hollywood's greatest character stars, immerses himself completely into the pathetic role of Ratso, almost unrecognizable both in appearance and mannerisms.  The relationship the two are destined to forge becomes one of the oddest, most fascinating  pairings since George and Lenny in Of Mice and Men.  Hoffman and Voight are both so superb they probably knocked the Oscar trophy right out of each other's hands, allowing a sentimental win for John Wayne.Surrounding this powerhouse duo are a number of smaller but highly potent cameos that underscore NYC's seamy underbelly, including Brenda Vaccaro as a casual but promising encounter, Sylvia Miles as a gaudy matron who knows how to turn the tables on her tricks, and Bob Balaban and Bernard Hughes as last resort customers.  Ruth White and Jennifer Salt add some effective moments in flashback as Joe's mother and girlfriend, allowing the audience insight into our protagonist's background and stability.      1969's Midnight Cowboy was the first X-rated picture ever to land an Oscar.  It may seem tame now by today's rating scale, but, all that aside, this movie will hold its own as one of Hollywood's most compelling character studies for decades to come.You owe it to yourself to see what brilliant film-making is all about.  "},{"Title":"a rancid apple","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Roger Ebert has written that Midnight Cowboy is a good movie with a masterpiece trapped within. I first saw it at a small-town drive-in theater at age 14 and again, years later, on TCM> The movie speaks of New York and the 1960s. With the exception of Brenda Vaccaro, the acting was uniformly superb. It's a shame that Dustin Hoffman received an Academy Award for his one-note performance in Rain Man and not for playing Enrico Rizzo. His physical deterioration is something to see and the final scene of Jon Voight cradling Rico's head on the bus bound for Florida ranks with the best in American cinema. Voight's performance is over the top but still resonates strongly. It is remarkable that the same actor (Hoffman) played Benjamin Braddock in The Graduate, Rico Rizzo in Midnight Cowboy and the lead role in Tootsie. Voight deserved his Oscar for Coming Home, but neither he nor Hoffman has done anything better than Midnight Cowboy. Not a perfect movie, but emotionally enriching even after 30-something years. "},{"Title":"an ever-relevant classic","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am not a sentimental person.  Midnight Cowboy is the first movie that has ever made me cry, and it made me SOB.  It is such an accurate prtrayal of two of the most poignant things in the human world platonic friendship and failed dreams.  I think the comparisons to Easy Rider are inaccurate; Easy Rider's psychedelic tone relied heavily on cheesy camera effects and overbearing music; the graveyard acid sequence seems overwhelmingly dated.  Although Midnight Cowboy employs its fair share of hallucinogenuc camerawork, the fundamental cinematography is still quite strong.  (I will never forget the final shot of palm trees reflected against Rizzo's face.)  Also, unlike the hipsters of Easy Rider, Buck and Rizzo are fundamentally outsiders.  They are not icons of the 70s scene; they are looking in on it helplessly. I think this film will last. Monigan "},{"Title":"An brutally truthful account of 2 refugies in 70ies NY, NY.","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never had a movie effect me so much, ever.  And with the number of movies I have seen, well that makes Midnight Cowboy my reluctant favorite.Why reluctant?  Because this film is a heartbreaker.  We follow the misadventures of Joe Buck, a kid dropped off at his Granny's when he's no more than 6.  After she dies and his girlfriend? is carted away to the loony bin he decides to go to the Big Apple.  Thinking that all the 70's NY rich women will go crazy for a cowboy stud, he tries to be a hustler to NY's women.Soon the reality sets in and Joe Buck is tricked/befriended by Ratso Rizzo, a what appears to be, lifetime street person, survivor.  This is where the movie really does its magic in my view.  Building the relationship between these unlikely allies. Joe Buck, the ignorant, (stupid), red-necked, good-old-boy & Ratso the low, debased, sickly, dirty, survivor.As the pair learns about themselves and survives the life of NY on the streets, a growing friendship, galvanized by strife and ignorance, sets the movieIf you haven't seen this movie, go rent it, call someone you love over, and experience Dustin Hoffman in his best role ever.  YOU WILL cry at this movie.You have been forewarned.  A 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A touching and sad Movie...","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Voight gave a very touching performance as 'Joe'. The soundtrack is perfect for this movie. The beginning of the movie, especially when Joe quits his job at the Diner, and the end of the movie, in the bus, are very well done. I couldn't help but remember the first scene throughout the movie. However I do agree with another person who's commented on this movie that the Flashbacks do not really reveal much and leave you a bit dissatisfied.It's a good movie to watch at least once. "},{"Title":"Funny, sad, deeply involving character drama","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everything about this film says great artists. Voight and Hoffmann turn in superb performances. Director Schlesinger interprets the novel with a unique pace and vision. Music supervisor Barry concocts a great musical accompaniment with particular insistence on Everybody's Talkin' and his own Grammy winning harmonica theme.The subject may be difficult to take, certainly some of the disturbed people to be found, but using Schlesinger's pacing and Barry's music it plays as a kaleidoscope of New York fantasy. "},{"Title":"The most amazing film EVER!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite film, without a doubt. I actually find it difficult to find words which can do this film justice. From the opening sequence right down the credits, this film is succeeds on every level. It needs to be seen. "},{"Title":"terrific movie, just really good","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie totally blew my mind. the story, the acting, everything was really well done. But what I just happened to notice was that this movie reminded me of two things from two other movies. The first thing was the drug party scene. The wild cinematography, like the camera movements and such, reminded me of the graveyard scene from Easy Rider, where the main characters (Minus Jack Nicholson) go on an acid trip that's out of control. The second thing was the movie's gritty look at New York City, with the loneliness and depression that was in the air, during the period of the Vietnam War and afterwards.  I'm not sure if anyone else sees this, but that seemed to go hand in hand with Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver which was made several years later. Notice the similarities there? "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A  farm boy goes to New York in search of money but ends up being a Male prostitute.Powerful drama is greatly acted by the main leads & shows the trashy side of New York.Rating****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"a moving story...","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is this a bio-pic of two minor characters surrounding the warholian crowd at Max's Kansas Bar in NY at the end of the 1970's? If so then it definitely adds to the note-worthiness of this excellent film. For a predecessor to Scorsese's Mean Streets it definitely shows the meanness of the streets where two drop-outs with dreams live. If you want romance then Joe Buck is a romantic; if you want a character who deserving of luck, who could be more unlucky than Ratso Rizzo. This film engages the emotions of the viewer and yet doesn't allow itself to become a victim to them when the two reach for their dream and come so close, the honesty of the final scene is truly moving. "}{"Title":"An American Masterpiece","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is absolutely brilliant. A brutally honest look into the lives of a naive hustler and an ailing con-man while they wander through the corrupt streets of New York City, holding bright dreams but facing harsh realities. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman give performances nothing less than remarkable. Honest dialogue, profound and absorbing story, heart-shattering conclusion, Midnight Cowboy is a film that will leave an impact on you forever. "},{"Title":"Dramatic coaster through New York","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One reason I love Midnight Cowboy is because every time I watch it, it's as if it's free to do its own will (hence the X rating, on a lighter note). The characters have a goal in life, but the film doesn't want them to reach that goal, because it is testing the darkest side of society, represented in this case by New York City.  Even the characters have a dark side, and as the film unfolds, their characterizations flip-flop.  Happy-go-lucky Joe Buck becomes desperate, nervous, and angry.  Sleezy, smooth Ratso Rizzo becomes harmless, unhealthy, and weakened.  The film can be depressing and, near the end, sad.  Many housewives and even modernized teens will probably cry at the closing shots.  That's not to say the film is not upbeat.  It is frequently funny.  It's like the guy says at the party Joe and Ratso attend. Upper or downer?  Another thing I love about the film is it has courage. John Schlesinger commented that he thought the X rating was correct for the film.  It withstands the aging that so many other films gave in to (The Graduate, Annie Hall, Citizen Kane) and remains my favorite film of all time.    "},{"Title":"A great American film!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is certainly what you'd consider a classic motion picture. It's a film that deals with loneliness, forgiveness, acceptance...and ultimately, love. Hoffman and Voight are both wonderful and give top-notch performances. This film also has a great script, great camera work, and a wonderful musical score.  It's easy to see why it made the AFI top 100 films of all time.  It's been one of my all-time favorites for years.  If you've never seen Midnight Cowboy, rent it! "},{"Title":"Great performances.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The performances from Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are reason enough to watch this film. They make their characters seem very real. This is a great film, but it is also a very sad one. The film shows us a side of the world we don't usually see, and it's a tough life for these two street hustlers. There are some true heart-breaking moments in this one. Strong film.  "},{"Title":"A SCREEN MASTERPIECE NOT EASILY FORGOTTEN!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  EVERY ONCE IN A BLUE MOON, YOU DISCOVER A MOTION PICTURE THAT IS SO ENTHRALLING, ENTERTAINING, POETIC WITHOUT BEING UNINTERPRETABLE, AND JUST ONE HELL OF A MOVIE! THAT FILM FOR ME WAS MIDNIGHT COWBOY, THE DEFINITIVE FILM ABOUT AMERICA'S CHANGING STATE OF MIND DURING THE VIETNAM WAR. JON VOIGHT AND DUSTIN HOFFMAN ARE MESMERIZING IN THE ROLES OF RATSO RIZZO AND JOE BUCK, TWO HUSTLERS WHO FALL BETWEEN THE CRACKS OF OPPORTUNITY IN NEW YORK CITY, TRYING TO FIND THEIR WAY THROUGH A SOCIETY TURNED UPSIDE DOWN, AND BECOMING THE BEST OF FRIENDS IN THE PROCESS. THE DIRECTOR JOHN SCHLESINGER IS THE PRECURSOR FOR SCORSESE'S TAXI DRIVER IN A WAY, DEPICTING NEW YORK AT ITS WORST, AND ITS PEOPLE TURNING INTO IMPERSONAL NOBODIES. THE SONG BY NILSSON IN THE FILM COULD NOT BE MORE FITTING OR MORE HAUNTING. THIS IS ONE INCREDIBLE FILM I VERY HIGHLY RECOMMEND! "},{"Title":"Nicht","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film, directed by John Schlesinger, was certainly deserving of its Best Picture Oscar in 1969. A hugely American movie, taking place in Texas, New York City, Florida, and places in between, Midnight Cowboy tells the story of two startlingly different people who end up relying on one another to survive because of their similar situations. Joe Buck, played by a young Jon Voight, is a cocky, innocent, and totally unprepared young Texan who moves to New York to become a male hustler. During his time there he meets up with Enrico Salvatore Rizzo (Ratso), played by Dustin Hoffman. Ratso has an appearance that is similar to his nickname, but despite his gross exterior, he is an experienced New Yorker who knows how to survive on the streets.The film opens in Texas, following young Joe as he begins his journey from his tiny rural town to the metropolitan area of the Northeast. The naïve, gum chewing Joe is in high spirits as he moves slowly (in a cramped Greyhound bus) toward his intended future as a hustler. In these scenes on the bus, the director gives us various shots of people on the bus and around it that seem to symbolize something to Joe. The old man who he offers the cigarette to seems to show him what he would have become if he wasn't leaving Texas. The old woman who takes the old man's seat further in the trip spurs a transition to a flashback of his grandmother. Outside the bus the camera focuses in on signs like Jesus Saves and other obvious aspects of Texas life, creating a great comparison for when Joe reaches New York.When he finally arrives in New York, Joe's attempts at becoming a male hustler are not successful. Then finally he does have sex with an older married woman, but when he asks her for money she cries, making a scene and forcing him to pay her. In a state of slight desperation and complete failure, Joe allows himself to be played over by Ratso. Here, Joe's New York life goes to hell. As his situation worsens and he is forced into doing unwanted things (such as homosexual acts in movie theaters) the makers of the film give the viewers more quick flashbacks, and we begin to understand why Joe has come to New York, and what he is running away from.Eventually, through an interesting turn of events, Joe and Ratso begin living together in an abandoned apartment complex that Ratso has been squatting in. Things begin with Ratso using his fiendish ways to help Joe clean his clothes, steal food and start to get back into the hustling business. But later, when winter sets in on the city and Ratso gets a fever and stops walking well, Joe is forced to take care of this scumbag turned best friend. This occurs when Joe has just had sex with a woman for money he met at a tripped out drug party, and his hustling business seems to be gaining steam again. Instead, he is forced to resort to his homosexual ways again in order to get money. He even steals from a man, beating him and perhaps killing him in the process in order to get money to bring Ratso to Florida, the warm place of his dreams.In general, Midnight Cowboy is a film about desperation, avoiding one's past and mainly the failure to fulfill ones dreams. We see this through both main characters. We see through Ratso's daydreams that he wishes to live in Florida and be the manager of a resort for older people. This daydream is shattered at first by Joe's failure to pick up the woman in the hotel, and ultimately destroyed when Ratso dies on the bus upon entering Florida, his dream place. His true life is the complete opposite of his dream. Joe, on the other hand, realizes that his dream of becoming a male hustler can lead to nothing. He is trying to escape a troubled past where his girlfriend (and probably Joe as well) was raped, and where he had a strange and perhaps sexually abusive relationship with his grandmother. Joe fails in New York, and then fails to get Ratso to Florida alive, and is left on his own. This film ends in a depressing way, and although Joe is alive, with fresh clothes on his back, we get the sense that without Ratso to help guide him, he will be lost in this new location like he was in New York. "},{"Title":"Loss of a dream","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is a film about a fake cowboy from Texas named Joe and a crippled bum from the Bronx named Rico and their struggle to make it out of the dredges of society. Throughout the entire film there is the hope of a better tomorrow&#151;an unrealized hope, in the end.The concept of the unattainable American dream is very prevalent in this film. It begins with Joe's flight from Texas&#151;looking to leave his sordid past behind him and move on to greener pastures. What he gets are the hard, cold streets of New York City, which are not as promising as he'd hoped for. He continuously is reminded of his past, no matter how he may try to escape it, and is not able to make his dream of becoming a rich man a reality. He wants to be a hustler but he is too ignorant of city life to be able to figure it out and too sexually confused (it would seem) to be able to do it well.Enter Rico Rizzo, a crippled, dirty, lowlife bum who would do anything to make a dime so that he could move to Florida&#151;the focus of the two men's American dream for the rest of the film. Rico (nicknamed Ratso due to his scheming nature) tries to help Joe out with his hustler dreams, but to no avail. Joe often has to resort to male customers, which perhaps says something about his sexuality.Right before Joe is about to go home with his first paying woman customer, Rico has a bad fall down the stairs. Joe (who had just unknowingly experimented with marijuana) was worried but forced by the necessity of money to go back to the woman's place with her. There, he is unable to sustain an erection for long enough to successfully finish having sex with her at first. To me, this crippling feature in Joe parallels Rico's crippled state, and the fall that had occurred directly before. Also, it seems further evidence that Joe's preferences lie in men&#151;when is finally able to perform, it's only because the woman accused him of being gay and he was trying to prove her wrong. He is continuously defensive of his sexuality, which is characteristic of someone who is trying to overcompensate or hide their true preferences.The relationship between Joe and Rico is quite the peculiar one. They argue, they share intimate moments (Joe often nurses Rico's sicknesses throughout the film), and they share the same dream of success and wealth. They head off to Florida at the end of the film&#151;Rico in a worse and worse state. Just as they're entering Miami, Rico dies with Joe contemplating the way their life could be once they arrive. With Rico dies the dream Joe had for the two of them&#151;building themselves up the old fashioned way and being able to live together happily. The dream had to die because it could never really be alive to begin with. There was no way in the 1960s that two men could live together happily (whether as friends or lovers, and it's not entirely clear which Rico and Joe were) and successfully when they started off in the state they were in. The film leaves the audience wondering how Joe will try to move on to escape yet another painful chapter of his past behind. "},{"Title":"One of the few films to impact me deeply","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have a relatively small movie collection (DVD/VHS) because so few films have made an impression upon me; this is one of those films. There's an expression I learned in Social Studies in High School Politics makes strange bedfellows. This is an example of that idea, on the most grassroots level. These two men - Joe Buck and Enrico Ratso Rizzo - have such dissimilar backgrounds, yet ultimately become each other's only real friend. Joe is handsome, is accustomed to getting what he wants - be it from the grandmother who raised him or women who succumbed to his charms - but whose naivete becomes quite apparent when he gets to New York City, hoping to become a hustler. Ratso lives in abandoned buildings, hasn't showered or changed his clothing in weeks, steals when he can, and is a far better hustler than Joe. However, they have one, crucially important commonality isolation. They are both walking the fringe of mainstream society but, in their isolation, they find a bond that has the power to transcend their differences. As the last scene took place, it was the only time I cried from watching a movie.  "},{"Title":"Bored","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was really bored through out this movie, I did not really like the story at all. I thought it was really weird and unappealing. I think that the acting was way over the top and really annoying to watch. I just really wanted to stop watching the movie after 20 minutes but I powered through and watched it anyway. I honestly wish that I could have just fast forwarded it. To make it even worse it was predictable, there was no shocking twist. I guess I could say that the camera work was well done, but that is about the only good thing I could say about this. I do not think anyone should watch this movie.....ever. "},{"Title":"great performances but over-rated","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hoffman and Voight are great but the movie didn't meet my expectations. Firstly I was annoyed the Flashback sequences never got explained (it looked like Joe Bucks girlfriend was raped, and Buck got the blame?) and scenes such as the woman pulling a toy rat out of her hair and running it over her childs face also left me clueless?  if there was any meaning behind them, it wasn't clear.  Secondly I didn't feel the movie went anywhere.The only praise I could give it, is for Hoffman and Voights performance, I'd mention the soundtrack but that was just one good song overplayed. "}{"Title":"Depressing","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw Midnight Cowboy in 1969 when I was 21. I liked it a lot then and thought it was insightful and meaningful. I saw it today for the first time since then, uncut and without commercials. Now it's a depressing film about losers to me. I had to FF thru the scene with Barnard Hughes, just too ugly for me now. Still had some humor and seeing Brenda Vaccaro in her prime was nice. And of course it would barely be rated R now as opposed to the X rating it had. NYC was a real cesspool then and I just didn't need to be reminded of it. Always thought my kids (now in their 30s) might enjoy it, but I now know they wouldn't. Anyway, kinda glad I did see it again, just to get it out of my system. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie Minus The Music","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found Midnight Cowboy to overall engaging and moving in many parts. It is an excellent character study of men and what they will do to survive.Although I enjoyed the film, it certainly had some faults. The main theme song set a pleasant tone in the beginning, but wore thin as it was played incessantly throughout the film. The flashback and dream sequences helped develop the characters and show some of their inner thoughts, but I found some of them to be confusing. The sequences showing Joe's relationship with his girlfriend was difficult to understand. Overall, an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy (the name was then contemporaneous slang for a male prostitute) is one of those solid, well-made films, from the 1960s that's best recalled than watched. This is not to say it's a bad film. It's not. It's a good, occasionally very good film- especially in terms of editing, cutting, and realism, but in many ways it's an interesting short subject film of 25-30 minutes' length, blown up to four or five times its optimum running time. The film was adapted by Waldo Salt, from a 1965 novel of the same name, by James Leo Herlihy, and directed by veteran journeyman filmmaker John Schlesinger. I use that term to describe the director because much of the film is pedestrian, in what occurs, how it is interpreted by the actors, and in its routine banality. However, this acts as a good setup for the flights of fancy and supposed recollection that litter the film, even if the pedestrian-ness of the bulk of the film is rather banal. Of course, most critics praise the banality as realism, again showing what the carrying of even a pocket dictionary could do to ameliorate film criticism.That stated, let it not sound like I'm knocking the film. It is a good, solid film, and an emotionally enjoyable one, even if what it says about humanity is rather plain. In this way, it resembles films of that era, from Easy Rider to Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore. Its initial X rating is an absurdity, for the nudity is brief, and the violence even briefer. The acting is standout. While Dustin Hoffman usually gets the raves for his portrayal of sickly and crippled loser, Enrico 'Ratso' Rizzo, the better performance is turned in by Jon Voight, as Joe Buck, because he has to show emotion in a character whose whole life is acting the part of the dumb yokel cowboy to try and 'sucker' city slicker women with his lovemaking abilities. Even better than the lead duo is the supporting cast of Sylvia Miles- as a Manhattanite bitch who cheats Voight out of cash; John McGiver as a psychotic pimp turned evangelist; Brenda Vaccaro as another horny Manhattanite diva; and Barnard Hughes and Bob Balaban as homosexuals who use Voight for sex and end up getting manhandled by him- the former with violent results the viewer never learns the full scope of. The film won three Oscars- for Best Screenplay, Best Picture, and Best Director, but only the last is really justifiable. The screenplay has merits, but too many flaws to name, and there certainly were better films that year. However, the solidity of the screenplay is heightened by Schlesinger's direction, editing, and the cinematography of Adam Holender. The use of black and white dream sequences for Joe, the uber-color of Ratso's fantasies, the psychedelic sequences at an Andy Warhol Factory Party; all make the film stylistically interesting and innovative, far above its rather pedestrian theme of the decency of the common man. "},{"Title":"After Midnight","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In John Schlesinger's Midnight Cowboy a country bumpkin (Jon Voight) moves to New York with dreams of becoming a hustler. Instead, he finds that the mean streets of New York aren't as inviting as he hoped. However, he does manage to hatch an unlikely friendship with a streetwise lowlife (Dustin Hoffman) who's doing just as poorly as he is. Amid the struggle to attain their dreams of living the good life the two form a bond akin to brotherhood.The acting is perhaps the film's strength, with both Jon Voight & Dustin Hoffman being rewarded with Oscar nominations for their convincing, compassionate portrayals of outcasts. Sylvia Miles also received an Oscar nomination for her small role. There's little else worth remarking on but keep an eye out for Bob Balaban in his film debut.The film's Oscar for adapted screenplay reflects the story's emotional impact but I expect that it also got extra credit for tackling taboo subject matter. Nowadays, of course, this sort of thing is less remarkable but the story is still good, if not as great as it's reputation suggests.The Oscar-winning direction by Schlesinger is well handled but sometimes goes overboard with stylization. Some of the visuals are very 'of their time'. The music, on the other hand, is one of the most memorable aspects of the film. Harry Nilsson's Everybody's Talking' is classic and the rest of the music fits the film nicely.Ultimately, I think that Midnight Cowboy is worth viewing but I have some reservations. Barring the late stages of the film I find the story somewhat aimless & uninvolving. Granted, the film was undeniably daring for the time, but I think that it gets too much credit for this. That being said, there are nevertheless parts of the film that are worthy of classic status. "},{"Title":"A Great Film to Watch","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Living the American Dream in today's society is very important to everybody. It is important for people to find a way to work themselves up to earn money in a career that'll make them happy and ready to enjoy life as it comes to them in great or consequential results. Finding yourself in life and helping friends and family out in times of need is the best way to establish yourself as a great, caring person, despite the obstacles that the individual had to face in life.The overall theme of the film was very compelling and heart felt. The screenplay for this film was written well. The acting from Voight and Hoffman throughout the film was excellent and very convincing through the mise-en-scene. These round characters were life-like, believable, and unpredictable through their actions as two men that are attempting to make a living in New York City as controversial con artists and prostitutes that use people for their wealth and pleasure in order to survive. The use of artificial light shone on Voigt's face during a night scene was used well. The use of back light on Ratzo's boss was really nice. The use of the color and black and white flashbacks and flash forewords in the montages were excellent and used well to show Joe's disturbing past and present future. The subjective editing through the video camera capturing the reaction of the party guests was used well.Overall, it was a great film. If you're interested in watching the incredible story of two friends from different backgrounds live together, help each other out in times of need, and struggle to live their American dreams and reach their dream in success, then watch this film. "},{"Title":"Once considered radical, Cowboy's modern message is much simpler","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Forty years later, it's much harder to call John Schlesinger's film Midnight Cowboy avant- garde, but the greatest X-rated film of all time is as much a reflection of the '60s as it is a study of unusual and pitiable characters.Joe Buck (Jon Voight) is a cowboy by attitude, hustler by trade who travels to New York City in hopes of making a killing on the massive numbers of sexually frustrated urban married women. Unfortunately, Joe is not only naive, but all kinds of stupid and he's haunted by a difficult past that comes to us in trippy flashbacks edited like a classic horror film. In the city he meets Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman), a scummy pickpocket with a bum leg who offers to be his manager.The sexuality of the film is nothing surprising to the modern viewer, but for 1969 it's conceivable that it was. The original tagline was Whatever you hear about Midnight Cowboy is true. That gives you a sense of what it was perceived as upon its release. Prostitution is a constant (although nudity not as gratuitous as one might expect), homosexuality is suggested on more than a couple occasions and the sexual liberation of women is acknowledged. That's a lot for that era, which combined with Woodstock makes '69 the beginning of a new one.Look behind the shocking social issues in Midnight Cowboy, however, and there's a much simpler quality story that most film-lovers watching today will tap into. Religious fanatic Mr. O'Daniel (John McGiver) gets it out early when he questions Joe about his loneliness. From then on, despite the conscious objectives of the film and its characters to try and make a living and survive in a downtrodden NYC, Midnight Cowboy is about all the characters having the satisfaction of companionship in every sense and on every level.Very little positive happens to Joe because of his lack of street smarts. He keeps getting screwed over or taken advantage of by everyone in the city until Rizzo changes his mind and the two look out for each other. The way these two handle their adversity is the most interesting part and what really allowed Voight and Hoffman to earn their Oscar nominations.Another way the film stands out as groundbreaking is through Schlesinger's direction. Although we're left wanting more definitive answers and insights regarding Joe's bad dreams and flashbacks about his past, they're still edited in a way that makes them critical to the story. We're able to draw our own understanding from how the past and present are stitched together, able to like or be interested in Joe because this abrupt style communicates the psychological impact it has on him.Midnight Cowboy isn't a cathartic story, but more a simple one shrouded in social issues and more radical film-making decades ahead of its time. The way it's best appreciated now is in that light, not in the way it pushed our boundaries and took a bite out of censorship back in its day, but in the fundamental and universal message it comes to and instills in its audience about loneliness by way of unique characters that many of us might find morally questionable. ~Steven CFind more of my reviews at http//moviemusereviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Wonderful film of clashing cultures. Yet it counters with a learning and growing experience, that's supported well with flashback and foreshadowing.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1969's best picture winner Midnight Cowboy clearly is one of the better films ever made as at it's time was controversial due to it's many nude scenes. As now those scenes are mostly overlooked, still this film presents a journey that still holds up and last the test of time. Midnight Cowboy is blended well with humor, drama, and sadness which all of those themes wraps around perfect to showcase it's main message of that is life is a learning experience and it's possible on a journey even when different cultures clash. The acting is top notch as the chemistry between the two leads Hoffman and Voight is just perfect, all of those elements made this a classic picture to remember and cherish.Enter and meet Joe Buck(played great by Jon Voight)who's a small town country boy in Texas. Joe has his sights set on bigger and better things he wants to go to the northeast and the big apple of New York city. He wants to escape the howdies and sheltered ways of small town Texas, as his plans are to earn money by clever means and he also wants to romance and bed attractive and elegant women. After riding the bus and arriving he conquers some prey yet soon Joe finds still the big city had plenty of strange people and uncertainty. As it's an eye opener for this Texan as he sees the dirty streets and easy come and easy go women plus Joe even encounters the wild side by seeing homosexuals. Yet his most important friendship is meeting Ratso Rizzo(executed comically and to form by Dustin Hoffman)this man is a on your edge con man who makes his living from schemes and bribes. Still Rizzo lives on the edge of society, yet he takes the tall Texan under his wing as both learn a lot about life, living, and counter culture as their different personalities clash while learning each other. Thru it all the journey and goal is to bus away to sunny Miami, Florida as that goal is reached it doesn't happen though without sadness occurring.Overall great film one of the 60's best it showcased that life is a journey and it proves that unexpected friendship can happen even if it involves the clashing of two different cultures. Though many might find the con man and scheming ways of living along with the sex scenes a turnoff to this film, still it's story is great as the chemistry between the two leads make it enjoyable and it blends well with humor and life experience which lead to a tragic end making it more memorable. "},{"Title":"A very special film.","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy, directed by John Schlesinger, is the story of a naive cowboy bound to make his fortune in New York City. The country boy is bursting with gusto for the promised opportunity, only to find that it would turn into a fight for his survival in an urban jungle.The beautiful thing about this film is the unlikely friendship between the country boy, played by Jon Voight, and Ratso Rizzo, the derelict, homeless conman magnificently played by Dustin Hoffman. This relationship should have been a more centralized theme. It was the only aspect of the film that drew me in.I guess it was the fad back in the late 60s but this film is full of montages set to popular music of the era. This is a problem with the film, the pop music clashes with what could have been the tone of the film; gritty, depressing and tragic. I thought the psychedelic Warhol party didn't fit. I didn't see how it developed the plot or the characters. I saw it as one more way the filmmakers were trying to push the limits of censorship.Despite all the things I thought were wrong with this picture, I think it is very special. The acting could not have been more superb and the ending was so thought provoking, I skipped back and watched it again. "},{"Title":"An unexpectedly moving and lovable experience","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are plenty of movies about losers, Trainspotting is a more recent and memorable one. In my opinion Midnight Cowboy is the best movie about losers and a great movie about friendship.I admit that I feel that this movie is packed with metaphors - but I only understood a fraction of them. There are also a notable number of flashbacks that never quiet resolve. But that does not matter since this movie is able to produce strange, unforeseen and intense emotions.I see Joe Buck's and Ratzo Rizzo's likable relationship in the center of those emotions. Voight's and Hoffman's play is outrageous, I never saw a better Hoffman, not even in The Godfather. I have not seen much of Voight at all but he, too, acts just great.Marathon Man is another superb Schlesinger film, of course. I recommend both for a DVD night. They really go together well, Marathon Man is a solid and intelligent Thriller and Midnight Cowboy is ... hard to say what but very strong. "},{"Title":"Effectively solid...","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Schlesinger's Best Picture winner is where great acting by two (then) up-and-coming actors meets a solid and ultimately emotional script with great cinematography and a decent soundtrack. Perhaps not the best film to pick up the Best Picture, Best Director and Best Screenplay treble, but it is effective and solid.It is difficult to summarise MIDNIGHT COWBOY's implications in a single short review/comment as it touches on a vast array of emotions, thanks in part to excellent use of flashback scenes and daydream scenes, which reveal unspoken elements of the main characters.Best Actor nods for Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight were well-deserved, as was the nod for Sylvia Miles for Best Supporting Actress.MIDNIGHT COWBOY may not be described as a superbly great movie, and is perhaps not one for the ages, nor is it an epic. But as mentioned, it is solid and effective. 3.5 stars (out of 4). 8/10. Will enter my Top 250 at 244. Highly recommended, even if it's just because it is a Best Picture. "}{"Title":"No matter how bad things get, at least you have your friends","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck, fresh off the bus from Texas. Ricco Ratso Rizzo a petty thief from the Bronx. The two meet when Ratso swindles money from Joe. They soon become unlikely friends when they find there's no one two rely on but each other in their downward spiral of hustling and botched con jobs.That's all you really need to know about this film. Yes, it got an X rating (which just goes to show that even back in the early days, the MPAA Ratings Board was out of touch) but it's relatively tame by todays standards of sex, violence and profanity. It probably got such a rating from it's dark, somber tone which gets under your skin and sticks with you. If so, that's quite a tribute. And yet, the film is not without it's heartwarming moments. Not nearly as depressing as many other films of life on the streets that have come out since. And in the darkest hour, Joe, in learning to care for someone else, just might come out a better man than he was before meeting Ratso. "},{"Title":"King of the rodeo","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck (Jon Voight) is a cowboy from Texas, he goes to New York City with the idea of become a gigolo to earn a lot of money. Terrifed and confused because of a dark past with his girlfriend and his grandma, Joe Buck doesn't find any luck in New York just Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman), a swindler that soon will be his only friend.Midnight Cowboy is one of the most famous films of the late 60's, thanks to the two memorable performances of the main actors and to the Oscar for best film. I never feel a lot of desires to watch but i have hear a lot of things about it; the other day i was checking some of my dad's old tapes and he owns this film. So i remove the dust of the video tape recorder and watch this film that i really like . The plot is simple but good, showing two characters full of hopes with a very strong friendship. The character of Jon Voight is a confused man, i don't know what does he imagine when he arrive to New York, an easy job with several women and a lot of money but soon all of his hopes will end and he will be in a mad world alone. The other character, the one of Hoffman, is another strange man, first he seems to be just another guy from the mad world in which Joe was suffering a lot. He was a swindler but in the end he is the only one who brings some help to Joe, from that their friendship starts and never ends.As i said the performances of Voight and Hoffman are just memorable. I like more the character of Hoffman but Voight's one is great too. The cast is another favorable aspect of the film.Conclusion i really like this film.Great music that works perfect in every scene, with some amazing and very original scenes (like the party or the way two scenes are showed at the same time)and a great but sad end. All of that makes this film a worth watching classic. 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Rough and Raw Life of a Midnight Cowboy","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie Midnight Cowboy, starring Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman as two down and out men in NYC, is one of the most real and interesting films I have seen. The honesty and naiveté of Jon Voight's character Joe Buck is endearing and heartbreaking. This is a movie about friendship, love, innocence, and survival all the while remaining raw and real.After watching this movie you feel dirty, and not because of the X rating that this movie had when it came out. Dustin Hoffman's character, 'Ratso' Rizzo, reeks of poverty. His cough is persistent throughout the movie and foreshadows his death. Joe Buck goes through times where he is unshaven and dirty, but does not stay this way long. He cleans himself up and gets right back out there. Joe travels from Texas to New York to start a new life as male hustler but has no clue what he is doing. He is easily taken advantage of and does not seem to understand how the world works. An interesting part of the film is the flashbacks he has, which are coupled with flash forwards throughout the film as well. Through the flashbacks we learn about Joe's past and his relationship with Crazy Annie. These flashbacks I will admit caused me to tear up. This poor guy has been through so much and literally has no one except this dirty con man to turn to. After awhile I began to sympathize with Rico as well, but Joe's struggle kept my attention for the whole movie. Annie's voice is still very much with him as we hear at several points in the film and shows how tenderly he felt towards her. As he was then he still is just a boy at heart.The flash forwards were an interesting technique. For example as he is beating the old man up at the end he sees himself carrying Ratso on to the bus and escaping to Florida, then we are brought back to the violent display. For Ratso Florida represents everything he can't have. He imagines himself walking upright along the beaches having people clean his shoes for a change. His apartment is papered with posters for Florida with fresh oranges and bright beaches. For Joe penthouses and nice clothes are what luxury is all about. When he has to sell his radio he looses his link to the outside world and the one luxury he had in life. He is rarely without it and when he has to sell it the look on his face is awful. Joe also sees himself doing certain things that he knows will never happen. When he first gets to NYC and asks a women where the Statue of Liberty is, he imagines himself going home with her as she walks away. He is so desperate for a different life that he imagines one instead. The 'trippy' scene in the movie was just that. There were lots of close-ups here, and in other scenes, so that you're not sure exactly what you are seeing. Is that a fur-coat or a leg? Fur coats are another image of luxury in this film. As Joe is going for his escort date Ratso is pictured in front of store window display with fur coats and hats while he is standing outside freezing. The woman that Joe goes home with from the party also has a fur coat on. While Ratso is waiting he begins to think about what it would mean if Joe succeeds at this. At first he is excited as Joe enters the hotel for women, but as the scene inside turns ugly so does the one in Ratso's head which is an interesting connection.This movie shows the dirty side of the streets contrasted with the plush penthouses filled with poodles and money. Joe Buck is a sympathetic character that befriends someone worse off then himself, and hopefully grows from that experience, but we are left to wonder if he does. Having been through so much in his life it is hard to think about how he will end up. By the end of the movie I was dying to know what happened to him and if he goes through with his plans, or heads back to Texas defeated. "},{"Title":"Cowboy and the Weakling in Remarkable Sync ***1/2","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Both Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight were best actor nominees for their performances in this 1969 Oscar winning film. Too bad that they probably were able to cancel each other out. American icon, John Wayne, would have probably won anyway due to his long Hollywood history. Can anyone ever say that he was better than Voight or Hoffman?Voight's naivety is believable. He encounters Ratso, a conniving character. Both soon have the tables turned on them by Sylvia Miles, who plays the prostitute Cass, in a memorable brief but supporting performance. The frustration and contempt on her face tells her whole story.You want to cough with Ratso. His disgusting appearance, his motions, his entire demeanor made his performance even more outstanding. Ratso,you deserved that Oscar and not the Duke!Midnight Cowboy has the distinction of being the only x-rated Oscar winning film in the history of the Academy Awards.An achievement of two losers who find each other and a hostile, uncaring environment about them. The film is also greatly helped by the song Everybody's Talking, beautifully arranged and sung. "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is absolutely amazing. Even though it's from 1969, it's main themes (starting a new life, finding your way in a new environment) are still current. Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffmann do a magnificent job in playing two of society's misfits; people the world doesn't really want.Something I found rather surprising was that Midnight Cowboy deals with homosexuality quite a bit. It shows a number of gay people, all of whom have their own problems and views of life. The director does this in a way that we see the different issues someone, even today, might have with being gay. This unexpected subplot increased my enjoyment tremendously.Midnight Cowboy has won an Oscar for Best Picture. And it deserved it. "},{"Title":"A movie which proves that you CAN go beyond the norm.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A movie that dives into themes not explored so eloquently, a raw slice of life, the rawest paean to loneliness I have ever seen. Some were shocked by the sexuality of the movie. But that was never the point. The loneliness really was what shocked more, IMHO. Sexuality was only a means to assuage loneliness. the friendship, a means to end the loneliness which is the truest theme. I cried when I saw it for that theme alone. Sexuality is cheap...companionship is a far more precious thing. Gather your friends and family round in your heart after viewing this. you will appreciate them more.Very much like A Clockwork Orange, people were shocked by the violence in A Clockwork Orange and the sexuality in here. In both cases, the real point was missed. ACO had the main point of the loss of free will being a robbing of morality. and here....I think I said enough up there on it ) "},{"Title":"Distubing, Heart Wrenching, and shocking....yet you'll love it","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is the story of Joe Buck (Jon Voight), a Texas boy who dreams of going to New York City and making a fortune by becoming a 'hustler' (male prostitute). Joe Buck soon finds out that being a cowboy hustler in the Big Apple is not as easy as he had anticipated. He gets ripped off by a few people including a hygienically impaired small time con man named Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman). Ratso dreams of going to Florida where he feels that he will be respected and loved unlike his current condition in New York where he is treated like trash and has to steal whatever he can get just to get by. These two outcasts become friends and together struggle through the hardships that face them everyday.Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman deliver absolutely phenomenal performances. They were born to play these characters. They make you feel like your right beside them walking down the streets of New York. Director John Schlesinger uses amazing images to show Joe's past and what is going on inside Joe's head. The movie was originally rated X for some of its scenes involving Joe's 'work' as well as a drug party hosted by Hansel and Gretel. In the end Midnight Cowboy is an excellent movie and is essential in any film collection. "},{"Title":"Brave Boys","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy has its own cinematographic style  it reminds me of another Hoffman movie The Graduate.The portrait of two excluded souls in the most humanly way is what makes this film great,dont get me wrong,this film doesn't have low punches and it is not dull sentimental, Midnight Cowboy is more close to Taxi Driver than Rainman.The real monster of the film is the city of the sky scrapers where the `solidarity' does not exist but this two pals make things possible in this impossible place.Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman really convince me as two lost men especially in the  touching ending with that great song.I also liked very much the contrast the the film presents it shows how horrible  could be life in the streets but at the same time Jon stays with Razzo in that den  only to take care of him.  "},{"Title":"A powerful classic, but not for everyone.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is one of the greatest masterpieces of filmmaking. Several scenes show expert cinematography, which can only mean that the director, John Schlesinger did some research on fine camera use. The story is also very good, courtesy of James Leo Herlihy's novel. The plot is deeper than any new movie can ever live up to. Anyone who is a fan of Dustin Hoffman or Jon Voight should see them in their best performances ever.However, this film is not intended for everyone. Several scenes may be objectional, including a very disturbing theme of a male prostitute. One of the very formidable scenes is the rape sequence where Jon Voight's character and his girlfriend are gang-raped by neighborhood hoodlums. But anyone who feels they can handle such an upsetting atmosphere should definitely see this film. Five Stars!!! "},{"Title":"Sylvia Miles is the BEST!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Want to see NYC and 42nd Street as it used to be? See this film!  Wonderful performances by Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman, but it is Sylvia Miles in her 6 minutes on screen that steals the movie!  This small role won Sylvia an Oscar nomination!  Brenda Vacarro is also greatHey Fella You Fellshe utters as she is tripping in LSD! Very 70's!ONE OF THE BEST!!! "}{"Title":"I ain't a f'real cowboy, but I'm one helluva stud!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman are in their biggest peaks of theircareers in the hard-hitting drama MIDNIGHT COWBOY. Voight plays Joe Buck, an impressionable Texan who believes he's a real stud, and tries to make his mark as a hustler. He then encounters Rico Rizzo, who offers to be Buck's management, aka pimp. With rat-like eccent- ricity, Hoffman portrays Rizzo as if he actually did spawn off thestreets! A great classic, MIDNIGHT COWBOY serves as one of the best urban dramas there are.  "},{"Title":"A touching and sad Movie...","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Voight gave a very touching performance as 'Joe'. The soundtrack is perfect for this movie. The beginning of the movie, especially when Joe quits his job at the Diner, and the end of the movie, in the bus, are very well done. I couldn't help but remember the first scene throughout the movie. However I do agree with another person who's commented on this movie that the Flashbacks do not really reveal much and leave you a bit dissatisfied.It's a good movie to watch at least once. "},{"Title":"Wow! number 2 on my never before seen classics to watch list is a winner!","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well number 2 on my list of never before seen classics is a winner! Throughout my life i had only seen bits and pieces of this film, however the saying is...good things come to those who are patient. I think the word awesome is not enough to define the jobs that both Voight and Hoffman do in this compelling drama of a naive male prostitute a.k.a. drifter Joe Buck (Voight) who hears all the money he can make on the streets of New York cause All the men are tutti fruity's As he puts it and their horny rich wife's will be starving for it hence the word naive. Joe makes his way to New York from Texas and eventually meets up with a sickly dirty homeless drifter named Ratso (Hoffman) and a friendship ensues as Joe makes what he can to support and nurture the sickly and crippled Ratso. For a movie that was the first they say to be rated x, as to which i can't understand why however those were the times that on film even brief nudity and very mild language were a no-no! I think i'm not being too bold to state that this also paved the way as being one of the very first gritty films that pulls no punches showing life on the streets of N.Y. for an average street hustler. This film also did OK at the '69 Oscar awards winning Best Picture of the year as well as winning the best director and writing awards. For a guy who really never enjoyed any classics, i am now looking forward to number 3 on my list. "},{"Title":"Where is that Joe Buck?","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe is not here ... he is now in NY, to make come true his dream. That is the story of the classic x rated movie Midnight Cowboy Midnight Cowboy told us the story of Joe, a man who came from a little of USA to big NY. He i now with an old bag, a radio and much dreams. He is a hustler, there is a lot of people in NY who wants him ... well, that is what he think. When he came to NY, he mets Ratso (I mean... Rico). Since here, in middle of poverty, Joe and Rico going to live together, to be sustained together.Midnight Cowboy is one of the most perfect movies which talks about the dreams and poverty in the United States, before, in that time, and now. How men and women must sale their bodies to be alive, stealing to eat, dreaming in a life, in a different life (There is a few excellent films like this one about this horrible topic, like Christiane F. or My Own Private Idaho). Talks about poors and rich. Drugs and sex, and Midnight Cowboy show us that, with an outstanding cold scenario with touching performances.I loved this movie, not only for its message, too for it performances (All in the movie are terrific). But there is a special performance, which i want to talk about a little , and is the character that have Dustin Huffman, Rico. Is not only an interesting character with certain charisma, is one of my favorites characters in all the movies that i have ever seen. Rico is guy who just want to live a different life. He lives in an abandoned building where he smokes, in spite of coughs. That certain stutterer and show of sickness makes me made me tremble. Is a beautiful character, who has dreams. Irresponsable and sagacious. Dustin Hoffman's performance is more than impacting and believable, is unforgettable, and that proves which is the actor who knows act.Midnight Cowboy is amazing, a masterpiece that always going to be useful for a society (And i speaks universally) what only want bodies to consume, and then, to bounce to the garbage, so in this way, drift how steal they next meal.*Sorry for the mistakes ... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Ride 'Em, Cowboy","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oy vay. Midnight Cowboy is a serious contender in my book for most depressing film ever made.Every once in a while, there's a film that makes me wish I could go back and experience it the way audiences at the time of its release experienced it, and this movie is one of them. I'd venture to guess that American mainstream audiences had seen nothing quite like this at the time, and even now, though there have been hundreds of films since that are more violent, more realistic, more daring in subject matter, it's hard to shake off the grimy grittiness of this sad, sad story.Jon Voight of course plays Joe Buck, young Texan stud who dreams of going to the Big Apple and making his fortune as a hustler to beautiful, rich women. Voight walks a tight rope playing this pathetic and self-delusional character, and gives a tremendous performance. He quickly realizes that the cowboy routine is looked on as a joke in NYC, that he's nowhere near tough enough to make it in this hell-hole of a city, and that it's not beautiful rich women who are likely to pay for his services. He befriends the sickly Ratso Rizzo, played iconically by Dustin Hoffman, and the two of them strike up the kind of friendship that can only develop between two people who are such lonely losers that no one else will have them.This movie isn't remotely entertaining. It's relentlessly grim, depicting a version of New York City that looks nothing like the city today, filled with degenerates and dregs, sleazy sex, drugs and perverts. Director John Schlesinger can't control himself and uses all manner of trendy 60s cinematic devices, including crazy zooms, shock editing, abrupt changes from color to black and white, sped up action. All of this likely seemed cutting edge at the time, and enhanced the feeling for audiences that they were seeing something unique, but now it all makes the film look terribly dated, much more so than other films released at the same time.But it's worth sitting through, because of its marvelous acting, and its rich thematic structure. Schlesinger addresses a lot of issues in this film the idea of masculinity; the different kinds of love possible between two men; the barriers between country and city; urban loneliness and isolation. In its own way, Midnight Cowboy even contributes its own voice to the death of the western hero theme that was so prevalent in other films from 1969, like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and The Wild Bunch. Joe Buck, a cowboy modeled on the masculine ideals he picks up at drive-in movies, finds that what works in the world of myth doesn't work in the cruel, harsh realities of America's urban jungles.Some feminine sensibilities are provided by Sylvia Miles, in a brief but memorable appearance as Joe Buck's first conquest, a strung out society lady who hustles the hustler; and Brenda Vacarro, as a party-going druggie, who makes Joe go limp (if you know what I mean). A very young Bob Balaban also appears as a creepy young man who picks Joe up at a movie theatre and orally services him during the show. I wonder how he's billed in the closing cast credits.A must-see for anyone seriously interested in film history, but you're forgiven if you only want to see it once.Grade A "},{"Title":"Before Brokeback Mountain, there was Midnight Cowboy","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A quarter century before Brokeback Mountain was acclaimed as a great gay love story, John Schlesinger's Midnight Cowboy had already broken the same ground, although in a subtler manner. Anyone who misted up at the sight of Jack's denim jacket within Ennis's shirt will certainly be moved by the ending of Midnight Cowboy. Joe Buck and Ratso Rizzo are not as ideally coupled as Ennis and Jack, although all four men considered themselves to be straight, and at least three of them had sexual relations with women. Joe Buck is a self-styled stud from Texas, who arrives in New York City intent on making his fortune by servicing the sex-starved ladies of Manhattan. Enter Ratso Rizzo, a lame, sick con man, who scratches out an existence on the fringes of society. After an initial swindle, Ratso senses an opportunity in the naive young Joe. He offers Joe shelter in his rooms within an abandoned building after the Texan has run through his meager funds. Joe and Ratso make an Oscar and Felix odd couple. However, a bond grows between the two men as the roles shift from Ratso's seeking to help Joe establish himself as a hustler to Joe's becoming the protector and provider for a seriously ill Ratso.While there is no implicit or implied sexual relationship between the two men, only the purposely blind could fail to see that love grows between them as Ratso becomes increasingly dependent on Joe and Joe assumes a care-giving role. However, the sexual orientation of Joe Buck is ambiguous. While he has bedded his girlfriend in Texas and a couple of women in New York, he also allowed a young male student to perform a sex act on him in a theater and went back to the hotel room of an older man with the apparent knowledge of the man's intentions. Although ostensibly imitating Paul Newman's image in Hud, Joe's cowboy attire, which is complete with boots, fringe, and stetson, are iconic gay apparel, and Ratso tells him so. Ratso's orientation is also ambiguous, and his sexual virginity was made clear. Thus, there is no barrier to assuming that Joe and Ratso had feelings for each other that were similar to those between Ennis and Jack.Schlesinger set his love story against the flash and grime of 60's New York, and his visual style is replete with flashbacks, quick cuts, and black-and-white scenes. Although the film basically follows Joe's adventures in the big city and his relationship with Ratso, there is not a dull moment, and, like Taxi Driver, Midnight Cowboy is a time-capsule look at the pimps, drug culture, and sleaze of 42nd Street during the pre-Giuliani days. Surrounded by colorful supporting performances from Sylvia Miles, Brenda Vaccaro, Barnard Hughes, and John McGiver, Jon Voight as Joe Buck and Dustin Hoffman as Ratso Rizzo have arguably never been better. Add Fred Neil's song Everybody's Talking' at Me, Adam Holender's cinematography, and Hugh Robertson's editing, and Midnight Cowboy is a classic love story between two unlikely individuals who both happen to be men. "},{"Title":"Don't Mess with Texas","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is the story of a naive lad from Texas who is out of touch with reality and believes that he is more qualified for the task at hand than he really is. Apparently the Lone Star State has this effect on many of its young studs. The comment by Joe Buck at the beginning of the film, I only get car sick on boats, sounds like it is right out of the logic structure of our present day famous cowboy. I am being facetious, but a comparison between King George and Joe Buck can be very interesting ideologically. The film does a great job of showing the exuberant Texan creating a self image and confidence that breaks down when taken out of the dream world and put into the reality we all inhabit. The use of mirrors in the film, especially when Joe makes the quick turns at his reflection, hammers home the self indulgent fixation he has. The footage in Texas also support this character trait because they show how isolated the small town he comes from is. It is not necessarily saying anything bad about small town life, but it does show the danger of disillusionment that easily manifests itself in the desert. The only contact that Joe apparently has with society outside of his home town is from a small transistor radio. When his bus is finally within close enough range to pick up stations from New York City, he tunes into a station that tells him exactly what he wants to hear that all the girls are just waiting for this cowboy to show them what a real man is. This is an interesting comment on mass media in its own right, but Joe is not merely corrupted by false promises coming across the air ways. He has already created some perversion of reality within which he will be able self-actualize according to his created persona. This is the ideological characteristic of the far right in today's political discourse. Everything that was ever needed to be known about the real world is embodied in the microcosm of small town Texas and New York City is full of queers.The other cinematic technique that plays on the discord between ideal dream world and reality are the flashbacks and flash forwards, so to speak. The flashbacks that are the most interesting are the ones where Joe is with his old girlfriend. At the beginning of the film, we see Crazy Anne Loves Joe Buck on a water tower at the edge of town from the bus window that is exporting Joe. All of the flashbacks at the beginning of the film suggest that this relationship had a positive effect on Joe. However, as the film progresses and the optimism of Joe disintegrates, the true nature of his memory shows itself. There was an incident that was really traumatic, where Joe's girlfriend was raped and she was forced to believe that Joe did it. (i.e., He was the only one!) The incident is not very clear, but it gives you the idea of how that memory is and has been affecting Joe. The fact that his memory is changing over time suggest the malleability of memory. When Joe has self-confidence, he is able to shape his memory to support his idea of self. This is a concept as American as apple pie; allowing history to tell us what we want to hear. "},{"Title":"Never have I loved a movie more...","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a 23 year old female college student, studying American Literature. This movie broke my heart the very first time I saw it, and every time since. I cry every time I see it- I weep for Rizzo, I weep for Joe Buck, I weep for the people that are the slum of society, that no one notices, but they are a part of this world too. This movie from 1969 has stood the test of time beautifully, portraying the world as it is seen through a young man's eyes- desolate and trying. For every young person who has never seen this movie- I eagerly suggest you watch it. Be prepared- this is the most disturbing movie I've ever seen, yet it is the most moving movie I've ever witnessed. The youth of America needs to experience this movie, to experience what life is like for 30% of the population, and to notice and understand the trials that the poor men and women of this country go through. Thank you Dustin Hoffman, Jon Voigt, and John Schlesinger. Your work has forever moved me. "},{"Title":"don't miss this movie","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I write this review to simply say do not pass the movie over once you hear the words a naive male prostitute.  This is a great movie with incredible acting by Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight.  Too many times I have heard people put this movie off once they hear that it is about a male prostitute, but never in this film will you feel like you are watching anything grossly inappropriate.  All you will see is a great movie with Hoffman's and Voight's career best performances.  I don't think I will ever forget Ratso Rizzo and Joe Buck. "},{"Title":"What more can be said?","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is in my all time top 10 for sure. I think everyone who watches this movie can see something they identify with.Joe Buck is a good looking young man that lives in a backstreet town in Texas. He has got this notion that he will go to New York and sell himself to the rich ladies of the city. What follows is humorous, touching and very true to life.How many of us have built something up in out minds and when it finally arrives, we find we have been very naive and it is nothing like we imagine. The cast here is quality. Voight is superb and Dustin Hoffman as Ratso fits the part of his streetwise associate to perfection. Also, the main theme tune by John Barry is so dreamy its unreal. I cannot seem to go a day without hearing it. A true masterpiece. "}{"Title":"One of the top 25 of the 20th Century","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film for the first time uncut in 1995. I was too, too young to see it when it came out. But when it did come out, it was rated X. At that time X meant adult content, not what it would come to be known for with the release of Deep Throat only a mere four years later. Midnight Cowboy was a wonderful piece of film making...disturbing, horrific and yes, sad. To me it was one of the only films about friendship that didn't show lovely colors, vibrant fields and everyone singing happy songs. New York City is not like this any more but if you ever want a piece of New York City history before Disney got hold of it, Midnight Cowboy is it. Jon Voight was wonderful as Joe Buck (and in history it was actually another named actor who had the part but had another part so the Producers couldn't wait for him!) and Dustin Hoffman as slimy Ratso Rizzo was just perfect. We know why these actors are great in their craft just from this film. It's not pretty. You have to reach deep down as an actor to develop the adult content as such in this movie. (I did get to read the book so there's much more I know about this than what is in the movie).It's not going to be a palatable story for most, and for its time, it was pretty revealing. Quite a rough lesson for a youngster to an adult transition, not fully knowing the world, but expecting much out of it for all the wrong expectations. How does one 'grow up' with such horrid experiences in a small town to move into big City life? Here he gets the world....to experience being dead broke, finding humanity, accepting friendship (on MANY levels) and finally being left alone in this world to learn from it all. Great, great film. "},{"Title":"masterpiece for the ages","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is a story about a Texas cowboy named Joe Buck(played to perfection by Jon Voight)who decides to pack up and move to the big apple to try to make it as a hustler. He is be friended by RicoratsoRizzo, played by Dustin Hoffman. The movie spends quality time in building the characters and making them real. We care for these people and by the end of the movie we experience their lives, we feel there despair and we move along with them. Not many movies tell stories so powerful and poignant as this. A true study of the human condition and how sometimes are dreams are misguided, regardless of our intentions. **** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"We go through our lives dreaming","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We are old when we feel our dreams won't turn real. For Joe Buck, raised in Texas, the dream was New York. For Rizzo/Rico/Ratso, raised in New York, the dream was Florida. I don't know, because I've never been in the gutter like this film's main characters, but perhaps life is like that -- you can never truly reach what you fight for. Depressing. One curious thing, our society hasn't changed very much in the last 30 years. Cars evolved from ashtrays to salad bowls, and we don't see women wearing pink dresses anymore, but the social situations in Midnight Cowboy aren't much different now from 1969. And Alanis Morrissette could have sung all the songs. Brenda Vaccaro was a cute, 30 years old woman, and she is now a respectable 60 years old lady. Jon Voight played the part of a young stud, today he plays the part of president Franklin Roosevelt. His daughter, Angelina Jolie, was born six years after Midnight Cowboy was made, etc, but the film doesn't feel old.Surely, the difference between 1969 and 2000 is much less than the difference between 1899 and 1930, for instance. We have computers that are a million times more powerful, but they could create credible psychedelic images in the 1960's by simply projecting images through a bubbling liquid. Compare the party scenes in Midnight Cowboy to those in the 1998 film Blade, with Wesley Snipes. Am I cheating, comparing a true classic with a horror film? Well, the technique is the same, flashing scenes used to conjure feelings, the same as deejays' strobo lights. I've been waiting all my life for a music style that will surpass Rock'n'Roll, but there's nothing new in the social scene since the mid 1960's.Midnight Cowboy may not be so revolutionary anymore, but it's still a great film. "},{"Title":"That's how it all began","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now I know where from come Knocking on Heaven's Door,Sky on Fire, Hana-bi and a number of others. This film seems to be the first to feature a common man and his ability to rise above the circumstances, to abandon everything but humanism and compassion in search of the Dream. Dustin Hoffman is superb. It's a pity that the film loses somewhat when compared with more modern films on the same topic. It's less dynamic, less fun, but on the other hand it's more lifelike. A funny thing is that the work of the camera man and editor seems to be done today.  "},{"Title":"the human character","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  spoilersSeeing this movie with no clue as to what it's about (call me naive, but it's the best way to see a movie) I nearly expected it to be a western set in the 1800s, until the camera slowly goes down to the 60's diner.  And that's something that describes Joe, the main character, fairly well at the beginning.  With mannerisms that contrast so much to the modernday lifestyle, including overfrielndliness and a couple YEEHAWs thrown in random conversation, I was unsure whether I was supposed to laugh or feel spite at this character.  So I chose spite.  It worked, even as the story begins to unfold.  The sheer obliviousness of Joe and the life he wants can either be funny or just something to scorn.  And as the tone slowly sets in, you realize that certain scenes might appear to be funny for their irony in other movies, but here?  Here they have a very attached tone to them.  The situations seem real enough that they're barely laughable, and instead inspire pity.  You realize that Joe is trying to live through New York one day at a time, with a very self centered goal, and all his actions are not done in jest.  But along the way insights into Joe's past slowly seep in, and you start to wonder just who he is.Soon, Joe's image of a completely innocent male twist as you learn about his childhood being spoiled and isolated from the street life, making him believe in a different world than what exists.  You learn of his relationship with a girl, and an open ended reason for their splitting up (was she underage?  were the men her brothers?).  You learn of Joe's rape and repressed sexual feelings, and the shame that goes along with it daily.Though talkative, many scenes go unspoken, and in fact your head begins to fill in it's own scenes and thoughts.  Like a book, certain things are said between the lines, and not narrated so blatantly in front of your face. Though some parts may seem alarmist or unrealistic, the movie isn't always portraying an accurate life of New York, or even a generalization.  It simply shows things.  Things that exist behind the scenes.  Events.  It doesn't say all things happen this way, but it shows pieces of a man's life that aren't so unbelievable.  Things that are dark, and yet in their own way are parts of living and being, a little beyond notions of right and wrong.For similar movies about a man's lost journey through a city of thought and conflicted emotion, see Taxi Driver or Eyes wide Shut.          "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I will never get bored of watching this movie. If the story does not appeal to you watch it just for the outstanding performances by Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman. If only there was character acting like this in the movies of today. Dustin Hoffmans performance is up there with The Graduate and Rainman. A must see. "},{"Title":"Great from Begining to end","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is probably my favorite movie ever, it is so moving and touching. The good part is it never loses it's feeling no matter how much you watch it. The acting is unbelievable. Especially by John Voit. Dustin Hoffman is also great. This is his second best performance ever. His first is in The Rain Man.One of my favorite parts of this movie is the beginning. The part where Joe is walking around town getting on the bus with that song Everybody's talking at me. Also when Joe gets to New York and sees that guy washing dishes in the window, just like he did when he was in Texas. These are just a few of my favorite parts.This movie showed a truth that I don't think any other movie has showed. The truth to most American dreams. For some people it is Midnight all the Time. "},{"Title":"A controversial masterpiece.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw Midnight Cowboy was back in the 70s and it left me totally indifferent.  As a female and a native New Yorker who loves her birthplace there was little I could relate to in a buddy movie that depicts women as sickos and New York as a cesspool of depravity, a largely forgivable country bumpkin's, or less pardonable petit-bourgeois' stereotyped opinion of  New York. When I saw the picture in 1999, for the reasons mentioned, the film made me angry.  I thought of the millions, like my parents, who came from starvation or persecution, anchored in New York and survived because despite its many defects, New York was and is a place of succor where the neediest have some hope of surviving, and in many cases go beyond survival.  Just how many other cities in the world have been as generous as New York in this regard?  Not many right? When Scorsese talks about New York in Bringing Out the Dead, his vision has to do with redemption, hope and, in spite of all the bleakness, love.  Schlesinger seems to have been driven by rancor, hate and resentment albeit brilliantly filmed. The last time I saw Midnight Cowboy was May 2000 and although I still disagree with the outsider's one-dimensional  depiction of New York and the macho's fearful and destructive view of women, I am forced to admit that Midnight Cowboy is, cinematographically speaking, one of the greatest pictures of the 60s/70s era.  Why?,  would be too long to explain here. Suffice it to say that I think Schlesinger deserves to be forgiven for his twisted depiction of womanhood and New York because of the beautiful way he did it. "},{"Title":"Excellent, though very depressing","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films of all time. Unlike a great many pictures of the 1960's this has stood the test of time extremely well. Essentially it is about a naive young Texan who tries to find his fortune by becoming a giggolo in New York mistakenly in the belief that there are thousands of wealthy bored housewives gagging to pay for sex. There are many reasons why this film is brilliant, one of which is the slick direction by Schlesinger. The camera seems to take an objective view of Joe Buck's decline and depravity within what appears to be a cruel, unforgiving city. This is evident in the scenes where Joe walks aimlessly on the busy streets of New York, the camera watches him like a casual observer. The other reason is John Barry's masterful soundtrack which, with Nielsson's song, captures Joe's optimism at the beginning and then becomes downbeat as things start to go wrong. As Joe walks the streets with no money, the Midnight Cowboy theme is hauntingly played.The film becomes very depressing at this point because you don't see a way out for the main character, especially when he has Ratso Rizzo in tow. Rizzo, a small time crook with expanded ideas, is played brilliantly by Dustin Hoffman who coughs and limps his way through the film befriending Buck and conning him out of what little money he has. One of my favourite scenes is when the two are invited to a psychadelic party. Buck is plied with mind expanding drugs, strange music is played and a kaleidascope of colours blurr the picture. The film is also depressing because just as you think that things are going to improve for Buck, Fate casts a cruel blow. Movies like this, with so much to take in, are enjoyable because you never tire of watching them. However, it is a film that you come away feeling overwhelmed and depressed. Don't watch it if you have just broken up with someone!     "},{"Title":"Recommended, but definitely flawed","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, I saw this film for the first time just the other day, and I was left with mixed reactions.  It was good, but I don't understand why this is regarded as a classic.  Solid performances by Voight and Hoffman are almost wasted by a number of irritating flashbacks and the occasional worthless scene that helped to pad an already bloated running time.  With all that said, I did enjoy the film.  Besides the good acting, I did end up liking these characters, which made the ending all the more effective.  This is a mixed review to be sure, but I still think that it's worth checking out. "}{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director John Schlesinger serves up the cinematic masterpiece. The cast of seasoned veterans in secondary roles, joined by virtual newcomers, stars Voight and Hoffman, all deliver stellar performances based on this most intelligent and perceptive of scripts.Nothing like this had ever been seen when this film was released. Groundbreaking technical effects and cinematic approaches, a directorial tour de force, the first X-rating of a major studio motion picture, a brilliant soundtrack fronted by a haunting top 40 hit, and a harshly realistic view at the human condition, and a closing 5 minutes that make you re-evaluate life, resulted in the justly deserved Oscar for Best Picture.Forget Citizen, Gone, or whatever - This Is The Best! Watch it alone....it will change your life.   "},{"Title":"Few Films Can Match The Level Of Astonishing Narrative, The Visual Perfection and The Achingly Beautiful Key Performances","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Midnight Cowboy was first released it was an X-rated film (now rated R) which was not expected to appeal to the mass audiences, nor the critics because of its open nature. Yet, it was a huge success and managed to even grab three Oscars including Best Picture and Best Director. Not only does Midnight Cowboy remain iconic, but it also remains a fascinating and hugely influential portrayal of a sadly misguided life. The prime reason for Midnight Cowboy attracting the attention it did was probably from the wonderful casting of Dustin Hoffman as the renowned Ratso Rizzo, who after The Graduate had become a big name in the film industry.Midnight Cowboy follows the story of a young, kind, naive and lonesome man named Joe Buck (Jon Voight) who is seeking a life that will enable him wealth. So he abandons his back-country life and treks to New York in search of glory. He thinks he has everything planned out and upon arriving in the vast city his plan to be a hustler goes array and he finds himself in poverty with the most unlikely of companions Ratso Rizzo. Joe Buck realises that many things have being missing from his life, he soon is opened up to the harsh reality of life and what he needs to come to terms with.Midnight Cowboy is a fascinating story, brimming with the countless, memorable occurrences showing the spiralling downfall of a life that was destined to end in sadness. The film is endlessly captivating through its use of entertainment, hysterical encounters, powerful acting, emotive narrative and the depiction of a gritty urban underclass. Midnight Cowboy is a film with so much to offer its viewers and remains a masterpiece in cinematic perfection. Few American films have remained such a giant counterpart in cinema, yet Midnight Cowboy hails brilliance and echoes flawlessness.The acting from Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman is some of the greatest you're ever going to see. The chemistry and friendship that is shown between Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman is astoundingly tremendous. Both roles have gone down in cinematic history for being two of the finest and most hauntingly poignant roles to have ever been filmed. The characters are perfect and so is the casting. It's never difficult to understand the characters' emotions, their way of getting around their problems and how the deal with a life. They're easily two of the greatest actors at the pinnacle of their incredible careers. Few performances have managed to captivate so many generations of film lovers and still provoke audiences today. The mixture of comedy, fierce anger at society and sexual confusion help to make them such meaningful and deep characters. The script is truly outstanding and works fantastically with the actors who manage to make the lines instantly quotable and motivating.The extraordinary cinematic devices that are littered throughout the film are just another one of the elements that beg you become involved in such a profound illustration of cinematic perfection. The glorious editing is taken to the notch and runs smoothly alongside the film; the beautiful cinematography is natural art that contrasts with the gritty and bitter lifestyles of the main protagonists. The use of music helps give the added pop-culture element to the film and the light-hearted Everybody's Talking' helps represent the youthful surroundings turned to lost innocence. Midnight Cowboy studies the idea of identity. The homosexual theme that runs through the film is hinted on, yet it never really gets forced towards you and it's up for you to decide if it was just a bond of friendship between the two characters.Enhanced with the stunning array of film-making glory, tremendous story-telling techniques, punched through a flawless script and some of the most tremendous acting you're ever going to see. Midnight Cowboy remains perfection in art and one of truly great American pictures. It has to be seen to be believed, a film of true force. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's a shame this isn't in the top 250. It damn well deserves to be. It is Dustin Hoffman's best work, as down-and-out New York tramp Ratso... He shines in a role that he made his own. In the mix is Jon Voight (also on top form) as Joe Buck a Texas stud going to New York to appease the sexual frustrations of all the New York women. Obviously his plan is a little weak, and he gets there to find out he has no idea how to live in such a chaotic place. With the help of Ratso though, he might just survive. Although at first he neglects and insults Ratso tenfold. It seems that their brooding friendship may be the only thing keeping them alive in the harsh city. But as winter comes, Ratso gets ill, and with Joe almost finding his business as gigolo up and running, it's time to make a statement of what he finds more important. His friendship, or his livelihood. The ending is heartbreaking... But I won't spoil any more. This film is a brilliant accompaniment of harrowing themes, and supreme direction. Maybe a little underrated, but it is sure that this film is a living testimony to how important friendship is. "},{"Title":"It was...interesting at least","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy differs freshly from the movies of 60s. The story is about Joe Buck (Jon Voight) a male hustler from Texas who moves to New York for money. There he meets Enrico Ratso Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) who helps him in money earning. Both of those actors are charismatics and express their role greatly. For example when Joe Buck is going to New York in bus and he tries to talk with people around him his feeling from being an outsider can be felt in any audience.The story is quite unique and handles finely human emotions There are however couple of problems. First some parts of the movie have little too long scenes for example when Joe Buck is walking along the streets of New York or mysterious party of 60s where Joe and Rizzo are invited. Second is Joe Buck's flashbacks from his past. Although they try to show Joe's past they don't serve any clear function. In some of his flashbacks is a guy who looks like Rizzo (or is it him really?) and he seems to be quite hostile but it now underlines too much the fact that Joe doesn't trust at first some helping stranger. The whole movie would have survive without those flashbacks too.In summary Midnight Cowboy is a good movie but not a great movie. The chaotic script survives mostly due of its excellent actors. You can also live without watching this but it is...at least interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"This Is Not Exceptional","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is simply a tremendous waste of time. The whole thing drags from start to finish. In order to spice the whole thing up, the director tosses in random flashbacks with little or no explanation. These amazingly random cuts are apparently the plot developement. The whole film takes two hours to go nowhere.  As for characters, there is quite a bit of depth in Rizzo. He seems to be the only person capable of stirring emotion in the audience. The Cowboy is not compelling and the faggot just seems like he was thrown in for shock value.  I did like how it was a tale of failure. There are not enough films out where the good guy loses. The only interesting thing about this film is that some retard actually thought it was deserving of an Academy Award. Shame on you, nominator of this film.  "},{"Title":"Out dated","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoiler This movie must have been a shock in 69, but tame by todays standards.  I found it predictable, and the characters as did that done that before.  I guess the movie has been copied to death.  It has the typical late 60 early 70's downer ending.  Watch something more happy 4/10. "},{"Title":"very important for the time...but time hurts this one (marginal 8)","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" by this movie's opening, Hollywood was forever changed > no more stilted, unrealism, if you will > actors do not speak as actors and the soundstage and phony location shots are not gonna fly no more! our Director takes us into New York, New York (no, it's not 1950 with dudes dancing up and down fifth avenue). we get two very down and out but well meaning losers, sifting through the dregs of the dregs....one guy, Hoffman, is a street savvy homeless man who first screws Voight by taking 10 bucks for a referral to a client, say no more. Not a rich and beautiful socialite but a bible thumper, JOhn McGiver, who wants to save the young Texan's soul. no more give-aways.sounds interesting...but let's get real....if Hoffman is that hip to the streets he would know how to work the system to live a lot better than in an abandoned building. if Voight is that tall and good looking and strong, why can't he get a job n a warehouse? is he that freaking dumb? the economy was ghood in 1969. all right, whatever.buy this DVD as a period piece and a very compelling but totally implausible drama. you know the soundtrack music. "},{"Title":"Very gritty.","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very gritty movie that pushes the boundaries. Only a year after the Hays Code was diminished, and the ratings became the source of classifying a movie, this movie definitely is over the top and earns the X rating. Very sexual and overwhelming plot of a male prostitute trying to find his way in NYC. A lot of nudity, prostitution and sexual content that was banned only a year earlier. Kisses were not supposed to last more then 5 seconds and if a woman showed her back or even much of her legs, it was pushing the Hays Code. Interesting how only a year later, directors are going as far as this director went with this movie. The end of the Hays Code was the beginning of  New Hollywood and this over dramatic plot definitely fulfilled the rating system by getting a high rating. Not a favorite of mine, but it shows how Hollywood changed drastically within just one year. "},{"Title":"I laughed...I cried...I became a better person...","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If I could rate this film a 100 out of 10 I would. If I could rate this film 100000 out of 100 I would. Midnight Cowboy is possibly the most beautiful and most touching film I've ever seen. It's possibly the greatest movie ever. Actually, it IS the greatest movie ever. In fact, it's so great, that on first seeing it you must wear protecting eye wear so they don't explode from their sockets from pure greatness. Here are some movies it's better than Citizen Kane, The Godfather (1 & 2), Gone with the Wind, The Shashank Redempetion, Casablanca, Pulp Fiction, Taxi Driver, Chinatown, Birth of a Nation, A Clockwork Orange, On the Waterfront, Lawerence of Arabia, Singing in the Rain, Sunset Boulvard, Psycho, 2001 A Space Oddessy, One Flew over the Cuckcoo's Nest, The Jazz Singer, Goodfellas, And so many others that this list would exceed the letter requirements for this submission thing. Dustin Hoffman in the movie is a genius and Jon Voight is even a bigger one. Their characters are so real and so original. The dialog is memorable and beautiful. The music is heartwarming and heartbreaking. The scenery adds to the movies mood at every moment, whether it be depressing or energetic. This is possibly the only movie that doesn't shove inspiration down your throats. Symbolism either. Go see it. Now. Like, RIGHT NOW. Your life will change forever. "},{"Title":"Not Best Picture","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A hick from Texas hopes to make it as a male prostitute in New York, but things don't pan out. Voight and Hoffman are fine, although the latter's performance is somewhat overdone and has since become a popular caricature. The film looks very much like a product of its times, the late 1960s, including a psychedelic party scene. What must have seemed cutting edge at the time now appears tame and hackneyed. The usage of flashbacks, where a woman inexplicably keeps repeating a sentence, is vague and adds little to the narrative. Speaking of repetition, the song Everybody's Talking' is overused on the soundtrack. Schlesinger won an Oscar for this but he's done better. "}{"Title":"Everybody Was Talking","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I appreciated the emotional attachment between the two characters. I thought this was Hoffman's consummate performance. Of course, he had the advantage of getting a really bizarre and complex figure to play. He rants, crossing the streets of New York, looking for coins in a pay phone. He exists. That's about it. One the other hand, we have John Voight who could have stayed behind in Texas, but he's too thick to understand what he's getting into. Everyone considers him a stud, but he just blends right in with every other messed up male prostitute in the city. What they do is the issue. If this had a real well developed plot, it would have been a great movie. The actors work with subtlety, mostly as their friendship continues. It's a love story. But it's a bit barren and sick. I remember that it was rated X when it first came out. It shows how far we've come in our ratings (not all that great in my mind), but this is barely an R rated movie these days. If you want to see actors act and sparks fly, this is your movie. As an overall story beyond that, we really don't have the characters going anywhere with anything. I suspect that the sixties made this movie, the wacko times and the tension. The New York world was so full of itself and Joe Buck was able to infiltrate a bit. But, somehow it left me empty. "},{"Title":"horses, not cowboys","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A lot of reviews note that this film has not aged since its release. I think that's false. Popular conventions have caught up with it both in its stylistic conceits (which were then borrowed from Europe) and its treatment of seedy subjects. It might have been mildly innovative and daring in its day but whatever influence it had on cinema has ultimately been its undoing. What it attempted has been done better since.On the surface, this film is about a drifter hustled out of his simpleminded desires by a brutish New York, which I guess is meant to represent the real world. The perspective shifts gradually from Joe's subjective-fantasy life to the harsh objective reality of a modern day capitalist setting, in league with his increasing maturity. At one point we are even tethered to the fantasies of Hoffman's character, which are altered according to his perception of events, but the shuffling between these perspectives comes across confused, even chaotic. Art can be dug for here, sure, but it doesn't come naturally. As such there is no central, stabilising aesthetic, but that's probably the point. It finds its centre in its aimlessness, as it drifts through a melange of styles. At times it jars like a gritty documentary, other times it moves like a surrealist experiment, and the overall feel is like an extended film clip for a popular song, ala The Graduate. That's what I will probably remember it as. It may have worked better with a more coherent vision, a director who could juggle all the elements into an integrated whole without necessarily abandoning its stylistic playfulness, but it comes out a mess, carried only by the sturdy performances of its two leads. "},{"Title":"Too modern for a 1969 movie","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Normally hearing about this Oscar winner for Best Picture, I might as well try it out.Jon Voight is a feel-cowboy stud with a gleam past life trying to raise money in the Big Apple, until he met a small-time crook croak-legged homeless Dustin Hoffman, a seemingly mutual friendship amidst the non-reliability of raising money in the hardness of city life.After watching this movie...I thought it was an 80's movie. It feels like an 80's movie. I might say that Dustin Hoffman has been this versatile in acting and it shows from watching a bunch of his movies with different roles. The story was simple, not like Godfather or Platoon or Clockwork Orange...but I think the thing that makes it for the Best Picture Award is for feeling this film when you're watching it in 1969. It really feels too modern for a 1969 simple story movie. Recommended for movie collectors. "},{"Title":"The First And Only X-Rated Best Picture Winner","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy has well put impact that is undeniable. It is marked by exceptional performances by Dustin Hoffman and newcomer Jon Voight who have both never been better and a keen sense of observation. The director Schlesinger uses fast cutting and tricky camera work to provide a satirical background as enrichment of the story. The point of the movie must be to give us some insight into the derelicts-two of the many kinds of dreamers and failures in the city. The film is also emotionally shattering and is old-fashioned with unusual modern twists. A naive Texas cowboy named Joe Buck(Voight) comes to N.Y.C. to become a gigolo but he finds nothing but the help and friendship of a petty, crippled con man named Ratso Rizzo(Hoffman).I'm afraid I may have to spoil one thing. When Ratso dies and you put his Florida dream scene together it is really sad because he is derelict who didn't get what he wanted. It was rated X in 1969 and changed to R in 1971.It was rated X because of the realistic sex scenes which isn't good for the film at all but the film itself is fascinating. It gets better and better. A 9.6/10. Also I recommend that nobody should watch this on commercial TV. They ludicrously dub the language and it runs at 104 minutes. "},{"Title":"The First And Only X-Rated Best Picture Winner","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy's impact was undeniable. The two leads Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight have never been better. The director John Schlesinger uses fast cutting and tricky camera work to provide a satirical background as enrichment of the story. The point of this film is to give us some insight into the homeless. A naive Texas cowboy named Joe Buck(Voight) travels to New York City and dreams of becoming a gigolo but he finds absolutely nothing but the help and friendship of petty, crippled con man Ratso Rizzo(Hoffman). The film does get a bit emotional at times and shattering and its a bit old fashioned with unusual modern twists. It is fascinating. It won 3 Oscars for Best Picture, Director and Screenplay. Based on a novel by James Leo Herlihy. The film gets a bit weighed down by its crappy, realistic sex scenes and the drug party which makes this film a 9/10. "},{"Title":"The underbelly of the American experience","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is an insightful exposé into the unseemly underbelly of the American experience. Thankfully most of us will never have to experience what it is like to be left behind as one of the castoffs unable to enjoy the finer things in life as we wallow in filth and degeneracy desperately looking for some temporary escape. Jon Voigt and Dustin Hoffman deserved their Oscar nominations for playing the dull-witted would-be gigolo and the greasy small-time con man respectively. I appreciated the narrative, the acting, and the technical competence of the film, though I have no desire to ever visit these two godless characters again, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Naivete and the big city","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film is basically the experience of a naive cowboy in New York City, who finds he can resort to prostitution. It is a brave film, containing some scenes that were considered explicit and unacceptable upon it's original release. Tinted throughout by a dirty, sad atmosphere, the film is an epic story of guilt, self-loathing, and the loss of innocence. those who, such as myself, find themselves transfixed by the movie's opening theme song, should make sure to look into an album called Angel Dust by faith No More. They perform a very impressive version of the song. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This may very well be the most disgusting film ever made. I am half way through it and I fully intend to watch the rest of it only because it is part of a mini-film festival my bud and I have put together and we have included within the film festival a mini-tribute to John Schlesinger which also includes Far From the Maddening Crowd and Sunday Bloody Sunday. But Cowboy is a real hurdle to get over the story is so utterly disgusting that all I can think while watching is what possible reason could they have had for making it. Why? What does it say? Does it move the world forward in any single way? Am I a better person for having watched this movie. Can I bring anything cogent from it? Something that says to me I have learned something important? I think not! "},{"Title":"If you are looking for FUN, then keep looking!","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy is not the sort of film I'd usually watch. I generally avoid films like this and is the first X-rated film I have seen. However, because it won the Oscar for Best Picture and is considered a classic, I decided to give it a try. For others out there who are also hesitant to watch, understand that the film today would receive an R rating, as there really isn't much nudity in the film at all. However, since the film is about a male prostitute, it still isn't what you'd call 'family friendly'! The film begins with Joe Buck (Jon Voight) leaving his home in Texas. He's headed to New York to make his fortune as a male prostitute. Considering he isn't gay and isn't willing to sleep with guys, that makes his prospects REAL slim. On top of that, he's as dumb as a tomato and walks about town in cowboy gear--hardly the look that will drive women wild (he actually looks a bit like the cowboy from The Village People minus the mustache). Not surprisingly, he goes broke very quickly--partly because no women want to pay him and partly because people keep cheating him because he's so naive. He eventually meets up with a low-life named 'Ratso' Rizzo and the two of them BARELY scrape by--stealing, scamming and living in a condemned building. The film explores themes of fears of homosexuality and rape. It's all very sad and pathetic and isn't at all the sort of film to lift your spirits--particularly the awfully dark ending.So did I enjoy watching the film? No. It's not the sort of film anyone could actually enjoy. It's more a film that is a joint character study--an unpleasant but oddly fascinating one. It's well made but not a film I could heartily recommend--you have to be the sort of person that would enjoy or at least appreciate the film.By the way, you might already have noticed that the Muppet character, Rizzo (the rat), is a play on Hoffman's character from this film. Thank goodness they are alike in name only! "},{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman's real coming out party","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is quite remarkable in that it makes a couple of practically homeless New York City delinquents into a pair of the best friends the movies have ever seen. Dustin Hoffman is hauntingly real as Ratso Rizzo, and Jon Voight is a true good 'ol southern boy. The film is really the story of how this friendship is built through a lot of bad times. When Joe Buck arrives in New York with a plan to be a hustler, and not much else, one of the first people he meets is Ratso. Ratso convinces the naïve Texan to seek out a mysterious manager and gives his advice for the mere price of $20. When the manager turns out to be a Christian zealot, not exactly what a new hustler is looking for, Buck sets out to find Ratso to, at the very least, get his money back.Eventually the two reunite and share a room in an abandoned apartment complex. They have no heat, hardly any money, and are forced to steal to get things like milk and bread. As their first winter together turns harsher and harsher in their cold apartment, Ratso's cough turns into a full-blown sickness. His only hope of survival, given that he and Joe Buck do not attempt to seek medical help, is to get to Florida. After a few breaks fall their way, they mount a bus and make it within 20 minutes of their Miami destination when Rizzo finally succumbs to whatever un-named illness he suffered from. Joe Buck is left, once again, alone in a new place. A telling sign of the strength of their friendship occurs at this time when Buck is off the bus in Miami and someone asks him where he's from. So, using his obvious southern drawl, Joe replies, New York. Buck and Rizzo set out to bring their New York world to Florida, and Buck finishes it.The fascinating thing in this film, though, is the flashbacks that Joe Buck has of his previous life in Texas. The viewer is subject to many episodes of glimpses into Joe's past. We see, among other things, his childhood and his demanding mother, his old lover, and his over-bearing old boss at the diner. Joe is clearly pained by his flashbacks, and it soon becomes obvious that he's in New York to escape from this past. We're led to believe that for some reason Joe's old lover is no longer in his life. As far as I recall, we do not find out why or what happened, but the pain and longing in Buck's eyes following these flashbacks is particularly telling.The overall message of this film is that sometimes life sucks, then you find a friend, then the friend dies, and life becomes good with a newfound perspective. Joe and Ratso are not good people in this film. In fact, there aren't any good moral people in this film. Yet we see an incredible bonding of two people practically without hope. It is a story of friendship, it is a story of survival, but it's also a story of a male prostitute and a retard (Ratso's word). In the end, I did not particularly enjoy the film. My lasting impression is off how well acted this film is. Dustin Hoffman especially, because less than two years earlier he was Ben Braddock. Never have I seen an actor be able to make a shift in character this severe, and be 100% believable in both roles. The best thing I can say about it is that not once while watching Midnight Cowboy did I think to myself, That's Benjamin Braddock! So, what will I take away from this film? Mainly that Dustin Hoffman is an incredible actor. I doubt that a year from now I'll remember much else than that from this film. "}{"Title":"Everyone's Talking About It Being a Great Movie","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Despite this being a very good film it's also a very strange one . Joe Buck decides to travel to The Big Apple as a male escort . This sets up MIDNIGHT COWBOY as something of a comedy and much of the movie is very , very amusing as Joe finds himself out of his depth in the big bad city . Let's face it this guy is naive and pathetic as he pulls out his wallet and gives his clients money for a taxi . LOL . However there is a slight problem the way the movie constantly changes in mood . Towards the end of the movie Hoffman's character is the one the audience find themselves feeling sorry for , helped in no small part by Joe committing a needless act of violence . I wouldn't say this is a mistake on the part of screenwriter Waldo Salt but the scene in the hotel room made me lose any type of empathy I had left for Joe . we instantly like Joe and dislike Ratso and by the end of the movie our feelings for the pair are reversed ! Probably deliberate . As for the rest of Salt's screenplay I did feel that Joe's background story was rather unexplained ( Just who is that lover of Joe's and who are that gang ? ) but I guess it's up to the individual to work out what it was all about and the story is very well paced Director John Schlesinger won an Oscar for this movie back in the days when the Academy voters were more interested in giving awards for people who deserved it . Schlesinger makes good the use of music without drowning the audience in the score , a pity that later directors seem unable to get the balance right . It's also a beautifully edited movie as characters experience flashbacks and hopeful hallucinations , most memorable the sunshine by the Maimi pool that comes to a halt when Joe gets his face slapped and is ejected from a hotel . The acting can't be faulted either . Possibly the only real criticism about the directing is that the psychedelic party scene seems rather dated now Over all this is a very good film but in my opinion not a great one because of my eventual feelings for Joe which does spoil the movie ever so slightly . I should also point out that I read OF MICE AND MEN for my English exams as both a schoolboy and as a student , so much so that I ended up hating the novel and if MIDNIGHT COWBOY resembles any literary classic it's the aforementioned Stienbeck book . "},{"Title":"Pretty well made, but nothing spectacular","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is the type of film I can say is good and pretty well-made, but I wouldn't watch it again.  It's a very unpleasant film to sit through.  It involves two characters who are at the bottom of the barrel of society.  I think Schlesinger did the best he could with this kind of subject matter.  The acting is very good.  Jon Voight does a superb job and so does Dustin Hoffman, though I wouldn't regard this as his best performance.  Dustin's one of my favorite actors, but when I think of him Rainman comes to mind.  I don't think he could've played the role any better, but I don't consider it a memorable role.  The flashbacks and dream sequences are quite pretentious, and get annoying and confusing at times.  I guess 1969 was a time when directors were experimenting with all sorts of fancy-schmancy cinematic tools that they couldn't use back in the day.  And I'm pretty sure the nudity and sexual content was considered shocking back then.  Watching this movie in contemporary times, the explicit nudity and sex in this movie doesn't shock me one bit.  This is basically a character study.  There's no solid storyline here.  The characters are realistic and well-written, but it's hard to engage yourself in their scummy environment.  Nevertheless, they are somewhat likable and I did find the ending very sad.  This is also a movie that exemplifies the power of friendship--a subject that many movies tend to overlook.  Especially if it's between two guys.  Nowadays you see a lot of movies about female bonding, but if you make a movie about two guys who love and care for each other it would be considered gay.  I wish people can be more mature and make more films about the power of friendship, whether it's between males or females.  And of course, no one can forget the title song Everybody's Talkin'.  Ever since I watched the movie yesterday, I couldn't flush this song out of my head.  It's such a great song.Midnight Cowboy is a good, but unpleasant and deeply disturbing film that I would recommend.  But if you're like me, you would probably stick to seeing it once.  My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Unrelenting and Somewhat Disturbing Best Picture of 1969","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Midnight Cowboy is one of those films that is a pure trial to sit through. It is realistic, disturbing, somewhat perverted, and overall outstanding in every sense.  Rated X at the time of its release, it is the story of a young man named Joe Buck (Jon Voight, in an Oscar-nominated role) who leaves a somewhat meaningless existence in Texas to make it big as a hustler in New York City.  However, he is far from as cunning and smart as he believes he is.  He wants to make it as a high-class male prostitute, but finds that he has trouble attracting women.  After minimal success (basically no success) he becomes an attraction to some very unsavory characters along 42nd Street. He becomes entangled in several homosexual situations and is still unable to outsmart any of the deviant characters.  Dustin Hoffman (also Oscar-nominated) is also along as a crippled hustler who is about as lousy at what he does as Voight.  However, they become the unlikeliest of friends and decide that a warmer climate in Miami is the best place for the both of them.  Hoffman is suffering from a deadly illness that is never really explained.  This just makes the trip to Miami that much more imperative and puts more pressure on Voight to get the money needed for the trip. Midnight Cowboy was trail-blazing in 1969, but becomes more important as it ages.  It is an eerie film because it is a frightening foreshadower of things to come.  Hoffman's strange illness (it appears that he may have AIDS, but of course this was not around in 1969) is the most frightening part of the movie.  The screenplay is amazingly insightful and the direction is harsh and focused.  If there was ever a film that proved to be the start of a new style of film-making in Hollywood, it would definitely be Midnight Cowboy.  5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Didn't Like It","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'll start off by saying that this was one of the weirdest movies I've ever had to watch for sure. And not in a particularly good way. I suppose the creator of this story was going for offensive, to which they definitely achieved with me. I don't want to give out any details of the film, but it just dealt with different themes that just utterly repulsed me. I'm not even quite sure what I can write about it, because I just disliked it so much. It was too mysterious. Too obscure and non- descriptive. Too cryptic. It just focused on the real, scum of the earth types of people. At least to my standards. The only nice thing was the relationship between the characters Joe and Rizzo. That was kind of sweet in some sort of awful way.I'll give the movie enough credit in that it kept my attention. I was fixated on it, even though I wasn't pleased with it. It was very strange. "},{"Title":"The Big Street updated to the sleazy '60s, still sentimental but mainly unpleasant","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only X-rated movie ever to nab the Academy Award for best picture, Midnight Cowboy plays like a druggy, grind-house remake of 1942's The Big Street, a Damon Runyon vehicle in which endearing simpleton Henry Fonda pushes wheelchair-bound witch Lucille Ball from the cold streets of Manhattan through the Holland Tunnel and all the way to balmy Florida, where she dies.The Fonda character is taken by Jon Voight as Joe Buck, a six-foot slab of blond beefcake out of Texas (where a dimly referenced past seems to include a history of sexual abuse by a grandmother plus a homosexual gang rape). He rides the Big Dog to New York, where he hopes to cut a wide swath as a swain to wealthy women. Instead, he crosses paths with a crippled street-smart street person, played by Dustin Hoffmann as Rico (Ratzo) Rizzo &#150; the Ball part. And the only emotional thrust in the movie lies in their sexless, antagonistic romance (and the heat kindled by its two stars &#150; offscreen, two New York actors on the make as single-mindedly as the characters they portray).Other than that, the movie's off-puttingly chilly, almost repellently misanthropic. Director John Schlesinger turns an avid eye on the grotesques and misfits and just plain wretched of the earth who seem to reach critical mass in a metropolis, but shows scant pity for them &#150; they're just dress extras for his soulless carnival. He enlists a whole ladies' auxiliary of over-made-up old Janes gawking at the goings-on, as though it weren't the director himself doing all the gawking.In scene after scene, shot after shot, he opts for the cheapest gimmick, squelching any hint of complexity in his vast cast of supporting players. John McGiver, for example, may well be a pitiful old queen who got religion once he could no longer score tricks, but the pulsating plastic Jesus behind the bathroom door of his seedy, SRO hotel lingers as a spiteful, unwarranted detail. Just as unconvincingly &#150; unworthily &#150; staged are Buck's encounters with over-the-hill rich roundheels Sylvia Miles (where she out-hustles the hustler out of 20 bucks), scared-stiff schoolboy Bob Balaban (in the balcony and bathroom of a 42nd Street sex-and-cinema palace), and mama's-boy oldster Barnard Hughes (who gets a telephone receiver crammed into his dentureless mouth instead of what he hoped and paid for).Schlesinger was good with actors, and was in the vanguard in pushing for edgy material &#150; particularly about homosexuality &#150; long before it became reasonably mainstream (he was gay himself and open about it in a Hollywood which preferred circumspection, i.e. the closet). Though it may be unchivalrous to speak ill of the recently departed, he was an uneven, almost mediocre director. His work suffered either from suffocatingly stately and prim taste (Far From The Madding Crowd) or catastrophic lapses of it (Day of The Locust). If he made one movie that approaches a masterwork, it's not Midnight Cowboy, it's Sunday, Bloody Sunday. And even there he can't take a lion's share of the credit, which belongs to actors Peter Finch and Glenda Jackson, and most luminously to the writer of its unforgettable script, Penelope Gilliatt. "},{"Title":"Midnight Cowboy is incredibly dated, time to put it out to pasture!","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, I'm sure I'm going to ruffle a few feathers with this review, but that's all right...I didn't like Midnight Cowboy. I don't understand why it's thought of as such a great movie. I just didn't see anything special about it. I mean, what's so great about it? Jon Voight plays a hick who travels to New York City to become a male prostitute...Then, he meets a gimpy guy (played by Dustin Hoffman) who agrees to manage him. You know what happens next? Pretty much nothing interesting!I feel like this movie is just another hype picture. For whatever reason, every once in a while people get all hyped up over a movie for nothing. It's like someone must've put something in the water to convince everyone to like this movie. That's my best guess as to what could've happened because I sure as hell didn't see any masterpiece here. The only good part of the whole damn movie is Harry Nilsson's song, Everybody's Talking', that's it! I have no interest in watching it again. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone else, either. That's really all the more I have to say about this joke of a movie. "},{"Title":"The Name Ratso Rizzo About Sums Up The Sordidness Of This Story","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"22 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For those who like depressing films with sleazy characters and a sordid storyline, this one is for you! From the bleak New York City atmosphere, which comes across as an extremely grim and almost hopeless place, to two diverse lead characters devoid of much sense of morality, this movie is a real downer. Why it won the Academy Award was because it was so shocking at that time that Hollywood, brand new its freedom to show anything it wanted with all moral codes abandoned, wanted to celebrate that fact. Filmmakers then were like an immature six-year-old with an unlimited expense account at the local candy store. So, Hollywood gave theater viewers (for probably the first time) a dose of rape, prostitution, homosexuality, child nudity, homeless existence and other such wonderful sights and sounds only its twisted brain would think is appealing....and then awarded its work. It also hoped, I'm sure, to shock mainstream audiences. Well, it succeeded on that level. Audiences were stunned at what they say and heard and the Academy, proud of itself for being able to display filth and make money at the same time, couldn't help but bestow honors upon this piece of gilded garbage.Forty years ago, as a very young man, I found this film fascinating, too. However, seeing it again in the 1990s left such a bad taste in my mouth I never watched to view it again. The acting was good, but so what? Acting is good in many films. Nobody ever said Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight couldn't act. Hoffman was particularly good in his younger days in playing wacked-out people. He was kind of like the Johnny Depp of his era, playing guys like Ratso Rizzo in this film and then going to be the Rain Man later on. Yes, Ratso is a character you'll never forget, and Joe Buck (Voight) is one you want to forget, but the story is so sordid, it overwhelms the fine acting.This movie isn't art, and it isn't worthy of its many awards; it only pushed the envelope big-time in 1969 and that's why it is so fondly remembered in the hearts of film people and critics. It's two hours of profanity and ultra-sleazy, religious cheap shots, glorifying weirdos (Andy Warhol even gets in the act - no surprise), and generally despicable people.I did like the catchy song, Everybody's Talking' that helped make Harry Nilsson famous, but even that was bogus because Fred Neil wrote the song and sang it better, before Nilsson did it....and few people have ever heard of Neil (which is their loss). And - as mentioned - the name Ratso Rizzo kind of stays with you!The film is a landmark, but in a negative sense, I fear this marked it as official that Hollywood had gone down the toilet, and it has remained in the sewer ever since. "},{"Title":"sad but well done","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time just last month and to my surprise it was in the classic section.This made me unsure about two things....I have waited too long to see this film and should this movie that was originally rated X be sitting next to films like Cassablanca and The Sound of Music.Oh well. Above all I was impressed with this production. I don't how this thing ever made it big screen because it was so contriversal.In some places it was banned. I will give the film makers the gaul for making something like this however. Considering the time it was made it was outlandish but now it is not quiet as bad. I thought this film was going to have world class nudity(since it was rated X to beginning), that is one reason why I rented it. The really wasn't that much, and nothing really to turn anybody on either. I also rented it because I knew there was a plot and a storyline to all this. It is about a young cowboy from Texas who wants to be a gigalo in New York.Along the way he meets a big mouth little guy who helps him out and shows him the ropes to the Big Apple.In short he basically becomes his manager. They form a friendship during the flick and the big mouth,you will see, is just a closet sweetheart and the cowboy sticks to him closer than a brother. My fault with it is too depressing at times because of where they live and sickness has plagued the big mouth's life.The other thing is some of the sex scenes are gross. None of them last long,but a few were too much for me,and I don't get grossed out that easily. You see what I mean if ya view it.Please have an open mined while watching. "},{"Title":"Black and White scenes","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was watching the movie the other day and was very confused about the black and white scenes where the lady says You're the only one.... Can anyone explain the purpose of those scenes to me? I also thought the party scene slowed down the film. What do you think? "},{"Title":"A great film but unfortunately, one that does not age well.","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The role of Ratso Rizzo is one of the greatest roles of Dustin Hoffman's distinguished career. Greater even, in my opinion, than the Rain Man. Dustin Hoffman commented that he will be remembered for 3 roles Ratso Rizzo, Tootsie and Rain Man. Jon Voight, who played the starring role of Joe Buck, also gives an excellent performance for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor. How ironic!The story is about Joe Buck, a male prostitute from Texas, who tries to make his way in New York City during the late 1960s. He meets Ratso Rizzo who at first, tries to take advantage of him. Later on though, they develop a strong friendship in their struggle to survive in New York. The movie contains incredible gems such as the scene when Ratso steps in front of a New York taxi cab and shouts I'm walking here.I saw the movie again in 2005, and I regret to say that it did not age well. "}{"Title":"You have got to admit, it's a little over rated and dated","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Please, don't be upset with me, I am in love with classic cinema. Not to mention, I am a huge fan of Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight, both are incredibly talented actors, and unfortunately not too many actors have been able to compare to them now-a-days. But for me the film just didn't work, it was just incredibly dated, you can tell by the film making, and the story just was too depressing. Although, I have to admit, I still got a few kicks out of the movie, especially now that I know where that line came from Hey! I'm walking here!. Dustin rocks!Basically, Jon Voight plays Buck, a cowboy who has moved to New York to be a prostitute to makes ends meat, but he ends up meeting Enrico, played by Hoffman, a crippled con artist. They buddy up together to make it and have dreams, or at least more so by Enrico, to move to Florida/paradise. But things take a horrible turn when Enrico comes down with a bad fever, it really puts their friendship to the test.The first X-Rated (by the way what's up with that rating?) film to be voted Best Picture, it really was interesting to watch, and I don't regret seeing it, just I felt that it was kind of dated and could have been done a little better. But it truly is Dustin who steals the movie with his killer performance.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not enthralling but excellent performances by Hoffman & Voight","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Voight plays 'Cowboy', a young man who moves to New York with dreams of being a gigolo to rich older women. However it isn't easy and he soon finds he has nowhere to stay and he looses all his belongings. He becomes friends with 'Ratso' (Dustin Hoffman) and together they earn and acquire enough money to stay alive.Due to the storyline and some of the other themes, I can see why this was a controversial and ground breaking movie in its time. The flashback and drug scenes add to the movie without confusing or detracting from the story, but I wasn't enthralled despite the excellent performances of John Voight and Dustin Hoffman. "},{"Title":"summary","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was about the coming together of opposites to achieve the same goal. Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) and Joe Buck (Jon Voigt) are complete opposites but they come together and work together to achieve their goal. Joe Buck comes from a little town in Texas where he doesn't fit in. So Joe moves to New York to make it big, like everyone that moves to the Big Apple wants to do. The only thing that is different about Joe is that he plans to make his money by selling himself for sexual favors. This is where Rizzo comes in.Rizzo is from New York City, and is a true city man. He lives in a run down apartment and he has barely anything. He is ignorant and he lives off other people, and that is how he met Joe. Joe is naïve and has no place to go so when he runs into Rizzo he moves in with him even though he doesn't really want to. They are both complete opposites at the time, the only thing they have is that Joe needs a place to live and Rizzo has that place. Rizzo helps Joe out in his male prostitution because Joe isn't very good at it. Over time Rizzo becomes Joe's pimp, and they work together to help Joe sell his body and make them some money.By the end of the movie these two friends have molded together into the same man. Joe has rubbed off on Rizzo a little making him not as ignorant, and Rizzo has rubbed off on Joe by making him a hard, tough city man. So at the beginning of the movie these two were complete opposites from completely different backgrounds. By the end they were friends and they were working together to support themselves. By working together and living together they became similar men both after the American Dream. They went about the Dream differently then most people do, but they were still going after it none the less. So that is how two men that were complete opposites can come together to accomplish the same goal of living the American Dream. "},{"Title":"An OK film but not that well developed and for each iconic moment there are at least three messy ones","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Buck is a strapping young man, working as a dishwasher in Texas. Hearing that women on the East coast will pay for sex because so many of the men are homosexuals. Arriving in New York, Joe quickly finds that things are not as simple as he had imagined and, seeking help from the friendly Rizzo, finds himself conned out of $20. Joe eventually catches up with Rizzo and the two end up sharing a condemned flat together, with Joe still trying to become a hustler and Rizzo dreaming of a life in Florida.Although I think this is a good film with plenty of things to think about in it, I don't think it does as much as it really could have done and am slightly at a loss as to why it is so universally praised as one of the greatest films of all time&#153;. I'm not sure if its cynical edge hit the right note at the end of the sexual revolution that supposedly was the 1960s but it certainly seems to be of its time, and that might explain why it ranks lower on this site (mostly younger people) than it does it other lists. Anyway, the plot is a fairly rough affair that starts well, with plenty of flashbacks hinting that Joe is much more complex than he lets on however it never manages to really dig into him. Instead it just becomes a rather simplistic journey through New York's depressing underbelly. It still is interesting but it never does more than give basic building-block flashbacks. Certainly beyond these it doesn't develop Joe's character very well and ignores the early suggestions of where his sexual feelings towards older women came from, the effects of the gang rape on his girlfriend and the ease with which homosexuality becomes an option.The film skirts most of these in favour of a general story that is still good but not great. The direction is mixed; at times it is fine but other times it is very dated and filled with cheap little visual tricks and cuts that don't really work, although it is not all bad and some of the images and sounds have become iconic over the years. The narrative quickly becomes quite dull thanks to this and the poor character development and it only leads to an ending that would be more in place in an exploitative daytime TV weepy than one of the best etc. Having said that, Voight does do pretty well even if he can't raise the material all by himself. Hoffman is memorable but he doesn't have much of a character to speak of and is really just a load of ticks and quirks. The rest of the cast are all good enough for this film but few have much to really do.Overall this is an interesting film that is worth seeing because it is so famous and is actually quite good &#150; but don't expect something great because this isn't it. The plot is interesting enough if a little cynical and simple but the early hints at Joe's sexual background are never brought to the fore or developed in any significant way. Without this to work with the performances cannot ever be great although they are all good. Some shots and the music is iconic of course, but generally I found this to be lacking in real heart and I can only assume that it hit a cultural wave at the time and has been riding that ever since. "},{"Title":"For die-hard Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman fans only","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Though I enjoyed looking at the strikingly handsome Jon Voight in this 1969 movie, I wouldn't consider this movie, as a whole, great. The biggest weakness in this movie is we knew everything about Voight's character Joe Buck, but new nothing about Hoffman's character, Ratso Rizzo. Jon Voight plays an uneducated and clueless dishwasher from Texas who thinks he's going to get rich being a gigolo in New York. He meets a transient with a limp ,Rizzo, in a bar, and the two quickly depend on each other for survival, sharing a cockroach infested rat hole in NYC. This movie originally received an X rating, though I really don't see how, other than the flashbacks of his life had some perverted content in them. Obviously he was molested as a child by his pedophile granny. The streets of New York in 1969 are pretty cool in this movie and the movie has its moments, but unless you're a big fan of Voight or Hoffman, you may find Midnight Cowboy both a little disturbing and disappointing. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe I am a jaded teenager, but I thought that this movie was good, but not great.  It held my attention and wasted two hours, but that is it.  That song, Everybody talkin'  gets on my nerves.  The movie was not that graphic, hence the R ratingP I do not think it deserves any recognition other than it is a movie.  It did not pull at my heart strings, and I kept getting p****d at Jon Voight's character for being so naive.  I thought he was too nice a guy to be real.  This movie is for those who saw it before the hype, and not for my generation.  It has lost all touch with me, and I did not like it.  Rent Citizen Kane or Annie Hall or 2001 or Clockwork Orange or anything else on the Top 100 list, except for the movies by that shlockmeister Spielberg (E.T. and Close Encounters) for intellectual stuff.  This is just fluff that changed the point of view of sex in movies, although it should not have.  -----------5 "},{"Title":"The most annoying movie of all time!!!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film had a really bad effect on me.  First of all, the story is completely improbable and dated, and second of all, there is not one likeable character in this stupid film.  I mean its bad enough seeing Jon Voight strutin around town like a horny schoolboy, set to that awful theme song.  Let's see, the worst moment?, must have been the scene were John Voight and Dustin Hoffman were hopping around to Orange Juice On Ice.  A really awful film, full of dull characters and writing.  The is probubly Hoffman's worst film up until Ishtar(1987), and Im still thinking that might have even been better!!  My rating *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Terrible - Another classic that may have been good at one time - like using clay tablets for writing.","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"27 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I logged on to IMDb and created this account for the sole purpose of reviewing this movie.Awful. Horrible. What a waste of time.I have now seen 4 or 5 movies from the 10 year time period around this movie. They are all described as classics. Like the French Connection (which was bad, but not horrible).This movie bored me to anger. Don't let the claims that this was fine acting or exploring a poignant issue fool you.The story stunk and the acting was hammy and overboard. Hoffman was his usual overacting, nasal annoying self. I think he'll be remembered as an overrated actor some day, who always took a character and made it into a caricature.Voight acted great if by that we mean he played the role of an annoying, too dumb to be believable guy.POTENTIAL SPOILER STARTS HERE.Perhaps this movie was considered Oscar worthy at the time because it had gay scenes in it. Perhaps it was considered Oscar worthy because it jumped all over the place, had no story, and involved generally ignored or disregarded topics. Look! How novel! There's no discernible story, just two guys randomly doing stupid stuff. Look! There're a bunch of flashbacks! Wow! Images of old girlfriend, sodomy, rape, grandma giving him an enema, grandma catching him having sex with a girl, girl saying you're the only one 100 times. Wow! That probably has some deep meaning - I'm just too stupid to understand it. Maybe if I watch the movie 4 or 5 times then the incoherent garbage will make some more sense.This movie was annoying. The story was nonexistent, the acting was bad, the scenes were so stupid so as to be unbelievable, and the ending so predictable so as to be an anti-climax.I wasted almost 2 hours of my life on this garbage, but I solidified two lessons in my head about this . . .1) The next time I am 1 hour into a movie that is considered great and it's been garbage to that point, I am turning it off. There have been so many that I have watched to see if the last 1/2 reveals something that caused the high rating or Oscar or whatever. But! But it never does! It always gets worse. And the really really bad movies run out to 2.5 hours or more, as if length can compensate for lack of quality.2) I am done watching classics that were made after the Humprey Bogart, Place in the Sun era of movies and before I started watching movies in the late 70s.3) If you watch this crap, don't be baited in. Don't review it as if you were watching it in 1969. That's like reviewing the game pong that came out on telestar in the late 70s, you know, with the two paddles and the ball, and giving it an 8 because it was great for its time. Pong stunk at the time, just like Midnight Cowboy. "},{"Title":"This is the least-enjoyable film-watching experience I have ever had.","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If Midnight Cowboy hadn't beaten Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid for the Best Picture Oscar, I'd probably just hate it a lot, and forget about it. But it did, and it keeps showing up on people's lists of great not-to-be-missed movies. I know there must have been worse movies made, but I haven't seen them. I usually enjoy movies, even ones that other people find fault with. I think it's possible for a film to have many flaws and still be worth my time. It is certainly possible for a movie to have disturbing images, or leave me unsettled, and still be worth my time. Midnight Cowboy made me feel bad about being a member of the human race. It made me want to ask for my money back, even though I watched it for free when my boyfriend worked at a video store. Midnight Cowboy is what will be playing on every screen in Hell, in the unlikely event that I have been wrong all along about the loving nature of God. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece That Keeps Getting Better with Age","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Midnight Cowboy (1969) **** (out of 4)Landmark film picked up three Oscars including Best Picture and today is considered one of the greatest movies ever made. The film tells the story of Texas cowboy Joe Buck (Jon Voight) who travels to New York City where he plans on making money as a prostitute but things don't work out as planned and soon he's staying with 'Ratso' Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) who tries to teach him the ropes while they struggle to stay alive. MIDNIGHT COWBOY will always be remembered for being the first X-rated picture to win the top prize at the Oscars but it's a film I didn't care too much about the first time I watched it but since it has become one of my favorites and it's the type of film that just keeps getting better with time. I think the real key to the film's greatness are naturally the performances but also the story is quite touching if very depressing. The Oscar-winning screenplay really does a remarkable job with these two lead characters because even though it's doubtful the majority of viewers have been homeless or worked as a hooker, the screenplay really makes you understand these two so well that you can always feel the coldness that they're fighting in the winter as well as feel their hunger. The movie does a rather remarkable job at letting the viewer get to know these characters as well as their lives and why everything has gone so badly for them. I think the film made the right decision to add in plenty of laughs and especially during the first portion of the film. I think this works well with the naive nature of Joe but also we get some laughs at the expense of Ratso. As the picture moves along more things go wrong and soon we're deep into a very dark drama with some extremely hard scenes to watch as well as a rather heartbreaking conclusion. There's no question that this wonderful screenplay wouldn't have worked had they not found the right actors and there's really no one else I could imagine in the lead roles. Hoffman turns in a remarkable performance and it's easy to see why this character has become a legend. Even though Voight picked up an Oscar-nomination it seems time hasn't been as friendly to him as he's often overlooked but he is just brilliant playing the naive character who is so full of himself that he really is as stupid as Ratso constantly reminds him about. The two men have a terrific chemistry together and you can't help but feel everything they're going through and it's impossible not to believe their characters. Sylvia Miles is extremely memorable in her small part as is John McGiver and Brenda Vaccaro. The film is flawless on all accounts with the cinematography, music score and haunting song all perfectly done. MIDNIGHT COWBOY is one of the greatest love stories ever made and I think it's the love between the two characters that really makes the film hold up so well over time. Not to mention the terrific performances, which are still among some of the greatest to ever be put on film. "}{"Title":"A great last 10 minutes!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And a blah first 90 minutes.  Having expected a wonderfully insightful character piece, I found this picture to be meandering, and ultimately saying little.  I also was irritated by the barage of flashbacks to a story... that was not delved into!  Nonetheless, it was wonderfully acted. "},{"Title":"Was the Academy on Crack?","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't just hate this movie, I loathe and detest this movie! A couple of years back, I decided (being a good movie buff and all) that I would worm my way through as many of the Best Picture winners available on video as I possibly could. Midnight Cowboy's reputation preceded it (first X rated film to win Best Picture), so naturally I was curious. I popped the tape in the VCR and proceeded to waste 2+ hours of my time on this piece of crap. Yes, Hoffman and Voight give good performances, but there's one thing sadly lacking we really don't care for these people, much less what happens to them. Even Pulp Fiction, which dealt with the same sort of scumballs and lowlifes, succeeded in making you care, and thanks to the Gump machine, It couldn't win Best Picture! Enough ranting; I know that most of you would fight bitterly against me on this one, but it ain't for me. "},{"Title":"Gritty?","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Who cares? Yeah, the movie is technically well done, but to what end? Few films have gone so out of their way to make me dislike and hold in contempt the main characters. This is simply another 60s/70s 'America sucks' film, and as such, isn't worth the time I wastedwatching it... "}]