[{"Title":"This movie Is a classic.","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"103 out of 151 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Is amuses me how easily many here can offer condemnation of this film. If you condemn it by reason that it doesn't capture the viewer in a way that say The Maltese Falcon or Vertigo did then perhaps I can understand.It seems however that most of the harsh words are coming from the youngsters without much desire to even know what real films were like. I suppose it's not entirely their fault. I mean an action film to them has to involve no less than 55% CGI effects, 25% scantily clad, or outright nude actresses, oh! and more times than not a totally unrealistic plot. But you see many years back in the early 70s and beyond they didn't have CGI to make up for lacking plots and poor acting. And at that point and time you couldn't really show full nudity so you couldn't rack them into theaters that way either (note the first scene with the lovely Miss. Bissett where she emerges from the shower and barely flashes just the side of her breast. That was probably pretty racy for the time).So since you can't have any cheap outs like you can today, Gee Whiz! you had to have a real plot and have the ability to act! Lancaster has always been a favorite and he did act very well in this film. Youngsters see the likes of Dean Martin and George Kennedy and don't know what to think because all they've ever known was a Hollywood that produces computer generated fluff. Frankly guys if your idea of an action movie is watching Speed then you need to widen your horizon (no offense to the great Dennis Hopper).Airport was not as in depth as the book, this is true. Seldom will you find a screenplay to be written with the same depth. Do you know why? Because you can't make the film last for 9 hours!I know this is more a rebuttal that an outright review of the movie, but it amazes me how some of the CGI junkies have room to talk when it comes to offering their disdain for films with some of the most historic actors in history. This movie is totally entertaining and works well. And the idea some whine because it may not be 'PC' by today's standards is nothing more than extremist liberal drivel. Dino womanizing is apparently an offensive no-no. But today you can show something 50 times as bad and because its more modern and allegedly more acceptable by this standard, no one blinks. Amazing. "},{"Title":"The First Real Disaster Film...","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Another of my guilty pleasures is AIRPORT, the 1970 all-star cast drama based on the best selling novel by Arthur Hailey. This soapy potboiler follows multiple stories throughout a busy metropolitan airport. Subplots that appeared in the book naturally had to be watered down or removed entirely, but that was to be expected in telling a story of such size back in the late 60's. However, after 35 years, I still find this film a lot of fun to watch (even though it really should be experienced in a theater). Burt Lancaster is all stone-faced authority as Mel Bakersfield, the airport manager who neglects his wife (Dana Wynter) while lusting after his passenger relations agent (Jean Seberg). Dean Martin almost gives an actual performance as Vernon Demarest, the smooth-talking pilot who also neglects his wife (Barbara Hale) while having an affair with a stewardess (lovely Jacqueline Bisset)whom he has impregnated. George Kennedy began his long association with the character of Joe Patroni here(he would play the role in three subsequent sequels). Van Heflin is extremely effective as D.O. Guerrero, the sad and twisted man who plans to blow up an airliner. Helen Hayes won an Oscar playing Ada Quonsett, a little old lady who stows away on the plane, but that Oscar should have gone to Maureen Stapleton, who is just devastating as Guerrero's wife, who is totally dismayed about her husband's plan and is tragically heartbreaking during one brief scene near the end of the film. For those who like their adventure films spiced with some somewhat corny, soap suds, put your brain in check and have your fill with AIRPORT. "},{"Title":"Air Plot","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"48 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 1968, Arthur Hailey's best selling novel Airport was a fixture atop the best seller's lists.  It was an intricate detailed telling of the inner workings of fictional Lincoln International Airport trying desperately to function during one of the worst snow storms in decades.  Hailey had researched the book for five years, and as he weaved his soap opera storyline magic, we gained a fascinating behind the scenes look of airport operations, why airlines function the way they do, and a detailed look at the stressful lives of air-traffic controllers.  It was these details that made the novel great.  Hailey wrote his characters with substance, digging deep into their personalities, motivations and psyche, so that we always understood their actions and reactions.  The basic plot lines may have been high class soap-opera but the book as a whole was one of great substance and readability.In 1970, Hailey's book hit the big screen as an all star glitzy Hollywood production.  Unable to put the complex details of Airport operations onto the big screen, director and writer George Seaton gave us all melodrama and not much technical details.  As Hollywood spectacle it's fun to watch and taken on that level you won't mind giving it a look.  If you've read Hailey's novel, you'll probably be disappointed.Of course in a film such as this with enough plots to make six movies, you are bound by the unwritten law of Hollywood to have a recognizable all star cast. So get your pens and pencils out and get ready to draw a chart. Headlining Airport are Burt Lancaster as Mel Bakersfield the airport manager, and Dean Martin as his Mel's brother-in-law and a philandering pilot, Vern Demerest.  Lancaster is easily the better of the two.  He has this aura about him that makes us believe he could be running a Metropolitan Airport.  Martin is not quite as successful as Lancaster.  He is Dean Martin playing Dean Martin pretending to be the aforementioned playboy pilot. Heck, though, he makes the character a likable enough guy that you won't mind it a bit.  Another disappointment is that Martin and Lancaster only have one brief scene together.  It would have been nice if Seaton would have added a few more, just so we could watch two legends work together.Jean Seberg plays Tonya Livingston, an airline representative who has designs on Mel despite the fact that Mel is still married.  We believe her as the airline rep., but the chemistry between Seberg and Lancaster never really clicks. If the relationship were gone into in more detail then perhaps one would feel differently.  Unfortunately that's one thing this film is in short supply of is important details.Next up in our role call is Jacqueline Bisset, who plays stewardess and Mistress Gwen Meighen who also happens to be pregnant (Captain, we have an extra passenger on board).  As Gwen, Bisset gives us one of the more believable characters in this film, making us understand her feelings for Vern enough that though she never says it we see her love for him. George Kennedy provides comedy relief as Joe Patroni, an ace airline mechanic brought in to remove an airliner mired in the snow and blocking a key runway.  Helen Hayes is on hand as an airplane stowaway.  Though she may look like a sweet little old lady, don't be fooled.  Having won an Oscar in 1932 for The Sin of Madelon Claudet, she would pick up another on thirty eight years later as a supporting actress for her role as Ada Quonsett.The very best in this film though are Van Heflin as D.O. Guerrero, a down on his luck, out of work construction worker, who hatches a chilling desperate plan to change the financial fortunes of his family.  As his wife Inez, Maureen Stapleton may not have copped the Oscar, but should have.  Her portrayal of Inez has some of the more touching moments in Airport.One of the other great stars of Airport is the snow storm itself.  In scenes filmed by Ernest Lazlo and directed by Henry Hathaway, the outdoor settings of snow blanketing the airport are so realistic; you'll be going to the closet to grab a coat.  Alfred Newman's lush score blends right into the goings on, and his opening title overture will suck you right into the film.Ross Hunter was the producer on airport. His involvement in glitzy Hollywood soap operas of the past such as Imitation of Life, Madame X, would help to explain much of the goings on in this film.  On another note, I was unimpressed with Edith Head's costume design for the stewardesses.  They are unattractively bland,  and seem almost matronly.Airport will never be confused with great film making.  None the less, it is still highly watchable entertainment.  It gives us a lot of plots, a lot of stars, a lot of snow and a some suspense.  And for all that you get my grade which is  B "},{"Title":"Airport scales the lofty heights","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched Airport on TCM. It was the first time I had seen it in its original widescreen format since it came out in 1970. I was surprised at how well it has held up with the passage of time. Although there have been disaster movies from the beginning of cinema in the late 19th century and one that dealt specifically with an airplane in danger (The High and the Mighty), this was the film that launched the modern disaster craze that produced The Towering Inferno, The Poseidon Adventure, and countless others including The Day After Tomorrow. The hilarious spoof Airplane which poked fun at the clichés and pretentiousness of the films did much to discredit the genre until recently.Airport was based on the popular best seller by Arthur Hailey. Although over two hours long, the movie moves and the viewer never gets bored. The stellar cast does an exceptional job with a standout performance by the legendary Helen Hayes. The ending is both happy and sad. So it does not cop out on several key themes of the story. Many of the roles, such as George Kennedy's Joe Patroni, are played lightly and this adds zest to the performances. When the script begins to get syrupy a new element of emergency is thrown in to pick it up and go.Forget all the cliché-ridden disaster flicks you have seen since Airport. You will be entertained and not feel cheated when the closing credits appear. "},{"Title":"Undeniably entertaining!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport is a fascinating well-made drama, based on Arthur Hailey's best-selling novel, chronicling the unlucky event that strike a trans-Atlantic flight bound to Rome...With its strong cast, the film provides excitement, thrill and tension played on the wide-spread danger of air travel...Directed by the veteran George Seaton, Airport has two romantic triangles besides some major complications...Burt Lancaster performs the unhappily-married man to an elegant Dana Wynter, and the exhausted airport manager who, in a single night, is forced to contend with everything, from a devastating snow-storm to a Boeing 707 bomber...Helen Hayes stands out as the eccentric little old lady passenger, winner of a well-deserved Oscar as Supporting Actress, after a 12-year absence from the screen...Another nominee is Maureen Stapleton in an outstanding performance as the afflictive, desperate wife of an expert in demolition (a disturb Heflin) projecting vitality and fatigue as vulnerability and strength to her role...Barbara Hale does not have much showcasing compared to the scene-stealing performances of Hayes or Stapleton but she handles well the sequence of relief, then despair and finally resignation as she witnesses her husband escorting Bisset in the climax of the film... George Kennedy is excellent as the 'biting cigar' maintenance Chief Patroni, the expert in the aviation world... The scene of his maneuvering of the Boeing, trapped in the snow, to free the runway, is incredible... In this scene we can appreciate the prototype of the Boeing 707 that 'could do everything, but read.'The highlights of the film the scene of the cabin class, after the violent explosion; the effects of the compression at 30,000 feet; the Radar Room and Air Traffic Control; and the unperturbed voice of one of the Air Controller, his steadiness, serenity, skill and knowledge...Nominated for 10 Academy Awards, Airport is undeniably entertaining! "},{"Title":"Disaster in More Ways Than One","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed Airport, hands down the best of the four flicks in the serial(does Concorde count? It was MFTV). There was so much tension going on both with the airline, the airport and the lives of some of the passengers and crew members. This was a good old fashioned 60's flick, but not too cheesy. Helen Hayes is excellent as the little old lady who with all the grace and charm, has made a career out of stowing away. I love how she fights with Jacqueline Bisset's character in order to distract the mad bomber on board(Van Heflin). The tension when Joe Patroni(George Kennedy) guns the plane's engines and gets that plane out of the snow was gut wrenching. Burt Lancaster as the married and harried airport manager who has some what of an affinity for his assistant. Dean Martin gave such a surprising dramatic performance as the captain who was carrying on a love affair with Bisset's stewardess who later tells him she's pregnant. Even Gary Collins wasn't THAT bad. The film's climactic ending leaves you nothing short of disturbed and breathless. Maureen Stapleton, upon learning the plane has landed after being blown up by her husband, walks up to the injured passengers bawling her eyes out and apologizing for her husband's actions. Of course my favorite is the scene where Bisset's character Gwen(who was wounded in the blast) is being escorted by the doctor who tells the EMT's on the ground that Gwen is pregnant. Martin is also escorting her, completely bypassing his wife, who is ready to give him a hug and then soon puts two and two together. What a way to find out! That dejected look on Hale's face, who is once again playing her, oh so kind and understanding character, you can't help but hate Martin for this last scene. Hale almost never played the bad girl. She's a favorite of mine. Airport will keep you on edge. Haley managed to intertwine the suspension and soap opera dramatics that made the prime time soap opera Hotel so popular. He definitely walks a fine line and doesn't go over either one. "},{"Title":"The Original Disaster Flick","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is an impressive disaster epic that rises high above the ground due to its characters.  Every key player adds to the plot and that fact makes Airport a very good film from a great decade of movies. Oscar-winner Helen Hayes, in particular, dominates when she appears on the screen.  Unfortunately this film would spawn one of the most trivial genres in the history of the cinema.  4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A Great Film with Great Actors","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       Airport is a classic film that was one of the films that began the disaster film genre. It contains great actors like Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin, Helen Hayes, George Kennedy and Jaquline Bissett. Helen Hayes won the films only Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her comic role as the Stow away. I have one question. Where was George Kennedy's Oscar? I think he should have recieved an Oscar for his role as Joe Patronni. To recieve 10 Oscar nominations is an incredible achievement for a film of this Genre. Alfred Newman gives an upbeat and suspenseful music score and Ernest Laszlo's cinematography is good. Altogether, this film is a great one and there isn't any down spots that I noticed. Dean Martin was great as the smart mouthed airline pilot and Burt Lancaster as Bakerfeld, the airport manager. Van Hefiln was also good because he made you believe that his character had problems. A great film, worth your time to watch. "},{"Title":"A sort of 'Grand Hotel' in the sky...","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Watching AIRPORT today is like watching a parody of the film because of all of the spinoffs that followed, including the hilarious AIRPLANE! And sometimes you have to wonder about the humor--especially the scene where the priest slaps a hysterical man across the aisle without even a glance at him.  But the sub-plots (and there are quite a few) hold together very well and at the center of all the suspense is a humorous plot involving a little old lady stowaway (Helen Hayes). Her interrogation scene with Jean Seberg is priceless and all the way through she shows a remarkable talent for scene-stealing. It's hard to watch anyone else when she's going through her paces.The suspense build-up is slow but steady once the plane takes off in a snowstorm--and by the way, the snow effects are very realistic for a change--almost as though the film was shot in a real blizzard, which it probably wasn't.This is well played by the entire cast--with the exception of Dean Martin who looks too casual even when the plane is making a final, desperate landing. He never gets inside his role as a pilot. Burt Lancaster doesn't do much with his character either--but everyone else shines. Maureen Stapleton is touching as the worried wife of the bomber (Van Heflin). Heflin was in his last film role here, looking rather flabby and worn but good as the paranoid bomber. Too bad that two of the male leads gave less than adequate performances. It would have helped considerably to make us believe more in the overall tale. By today's standards, the film looks dated and a bit overwrought almost to the point of comic foolishness--but that's what we get for seeing all the subsequent 'Airport' films. "},{"Title":"More an epic soap opera than a disaster movie, but still a fun ride","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although The Poseidon Adventure gets all the credit, Airport is the film that really kicked off the 70s disaster craze. Unlike its three follow-ups, this adaptation of Arthur Hailey's doorstop novel really is as much about the snowbound airport as it is the imperilled plane, one of many plots the movie juggles. Hailey had built his novel around a 1956 Canadian TV movie he wrote called Flight Into Danger, but much of it plays like a Peyton Place-esquire soap opera will embattled airport manager Burt Lancaster stay married to Dana Wynter or to his job &#150; or will he go off into the sunrise with that nice airline rep Jean Seberg? Will pilot Dean Martin leave his wife now he's got stewardess Jacqueline Bisset up the duff? Will Helen Hayes' scene-stealing geriatric stowaway get caught? Will George Kennedy clear the blocked runway in time to avoid tragedy? Will Van Heflin's mentally troubled demolitions expert set off the bomb in his briefcase? Would there be a movie if he didn't? Shot like an epic to emphasise the size and scale of everything (it even opens with an overture of sound effects of a busy airport terminal before bursting into Alfred Newman's urgent rumba-led score) it's a big, glossy well crafted entertainment that still holds up surprisingly well, especially in widescreen where the occasional split-screen effects come into their own (not to mention a great gag with a priest and an annoying passenger during the crash landing that's usually lost in the TV panning-and-scanning). It's the least sensational of the series but still the most effective, and there's no shortage of familiar faces in the passenger seats, from Lloyd Nolan, Maureen Stapleton, Jesse Royce Landis, Whit Bissell and the original Jimmy Bond 007 of the CIA, Barry Nelson. Sadly, setting something of an unfortunate pattern for the series, the 707 used in the film crashed in 1989, somewhat disproving the constant accolades the plane's abilities receive throughout the film (The only thing a 707 can't do is read!). "}{"Title":"Where's This Going? Oh.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You'll spend the first quarter of this film wondering where it's going. Once you find out, Airport is an entertaining effort. An ensemble cast including Dean Martin, Burt Lancaster and George Kennedy lead the way on a snowy winter night at a midwestern airport. Not only is one of their planes stuck in deep snow, blocking a valuable runway, but a separate flight has been forced to turn around and make an emergency landing after a botched bombing.Two things hurt Airport the most. The first is its drawn out get to know the characters opening. It starts out like a family drama, and it's more than 35 minutes -- far too long -- before we learn what it truly wants to be. Secondly, the film sporadically attempts humor. With the rest of the running time so serious -- dealing with terror, suspense, adultery and the like -- such lightheartedness comes off as plain awkward. Besides that, the acting is a little stiff, but its overall harm to the picture is minimal.See Airport on a rainy day. Just be prepared to invest a lot of time before things really pick up. It's rated G, so don't worry about the kiddies walking in. "},{"Title":"Boeing Boeing","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport, which was recently shown on cable, was a popular film when it was released. Arthur Hailey, whose novel is the basis for this movie, adapted his own material with the director. Airport is a fine example of the 'disaster' film genre that was much in vogue during those years. The nature of the setting serves to present a lot of characters in small stories related to that particular winter night at a large airport where things go wrong because of the weather and the inner conflicts of most of the people that are involved in the story.In a way, as Neil Doyle has pointed out in this forum, Airport can be seen as the equivalent of Grand Hotel, in that so many larger than life figures are seen center stage, as they bring their conflicts to the surface.There is Mel Bakersfeld, the airport director, whose life is so involved in his job, his married life is suffering. At the same time, Tanya Livingston, the executive airline lady, who loves Mel, but knows she can't have him, is seen as a dignified woman who won't make a move to make him feel guilty.We also meet Capt. Vernon Demarest, a married airline pilot who is having an affair with a gorgeous flight attendant, Gwen. When she tells him she is pregnant, Vernon doesn't know what to do. He is in a way, a coward, because he has played with her and probably has no intentions of ever leaving his wife and cushy life.The other couple, the Guerreros, are going through some hard times. The husband is an unemployed explosives expert, who decides to take matters into his own hands. By bringing a small device to the flight he has booked to Rome, will leave Inez, his wife, a wealthy woman because he has taken care of insuring himself.The comic relief comes in the way of Ada Quansett, a crafty older woman, who has a wonderful plan to get free rides on different airlines. Mrs. Quansett is able to get away with her scheme by using her intelligence. Unfortunately, she is in the fateful Rome flight that scares everyone on board and one figures the scare to try ever again, but she has a surprise for everyone at the end, where she gets to fly first class.The film can't concentrate in anyone in particular, so all the principals are never seen for too long. Burt Lancaster, Jean Seberg, Dean Martin, Jacqueline Bisset, Helen Hayes, Van Heflin, Maureen Stapleton, George Kennedy, Dana Wynter, Lloyd Nolan, Gary Collins, Jessie Royce Landis, and the rest, contribute to make the film a nice trip to nowhere.Alfred Newman's music is an asset in the film and Ernest Lazlo cinematography is also effective in showing how people traveled at the time. George Seaton directs this multi talented cast well, creating an entertaining movie along the way. "},{"Title":"Interesting for its parts, and players, not for the bloated plot","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport (1970)This has such a stellar cast, and such hype (left over from the day), it's hard to remember that this is also a over-the-top kind of polished production not so terribly different than Ben Hur and other big studio product. But does it work? Yes, overall. It's fast, enjoyable, and not really serious, even though it's gripping at times. Don't confuse this with Airplane, for sure, though the comedy gets part of its inspiration here, for sure.When I say stellar cast, I don't just mean Burt Lancaster who is terrific (and who called it the biggest piece of junk ever made). He plays the determined leading man (running the airport) very well. Not just Dean Martin, Jean Seberg, and Jacqueline Bisset, either. These all play fairly thin roles, and very well, if you can play a thin role well. I'm thinking not even of every larger George Kennedy who is in charge of keeping the runways running (and that's the core of the crisis here, as a plane has turned too soon and gotten stuck in the snow), nor Helen Hayes, who plays a terrific batty old woman who sneaks onto planes (she won the Oscar for best supporting actress).Maybe most impressive are the two actors playing a troubled couple, the man an actor I think is always underrated, Van Heflin. This is his last role, and he's still a master at subtle believability. His wife is played by the really impressive Maureen Stapleton, pouring out a small but moving performance as a worried, disenchanted, sad woman who suddenly realizes her husband is going to do something terrible. She won a Golden Globe for best supporting actress, well deserved.The production? Glossy and sterile. The plot? Sterile, for sure, and predictable. Subplots (of which there are many)? Forced and absurd. (One example&#x97;Martin and Bisset, playing pilot and stewardess, are having an affair. And she's pregnant. And they get serious in the aisles about what do to. But then she gets hurt in the big crisis in the air later on, and so on.)I hate to admit I enjoyed this movie. It really is a big piece of junk. But all these actors are fascinating in some way or another. And the crappy plot is still exciting and interwoven in that way airport novels are. Yes, that kind of book you pick up to read on the place because it's distracting and not demanding. That's it, said and done. "},{"Title":"Enjoy it every time!","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this film again. I always enjoy it. It is a time warp 39 years ago, the hairstyles, the clothing, the airport. I always get a hoot when Van Heflin just strolls on the airplane, with a bomb in a briefcase. I have been flying since 1974, and since Sept 11 2001, you have to strip, take off your shoes, and get wanded. Strange to see the airport procedures of this bygone era.The ensemble cast is always enjoyable. I like Dean Martin (the pilot) who is married to Barbara Hale (Perry Mason's secretary, Della Street, in one of her few film roles. When Dean Martin decides to divorce her, and continue in the relationship with Jacqueline Bisset (the stewardess), I hope the wife does not get Perry Mason for the divorce! Parry will clean his plow! "},{"Title":"Classy action","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is a film that has been unfairly tarnished by having spawned three `sequels' which were really just variations on the aviation disaster plot-line with little in common with this film. In fact there is a whole lot more to this film than aviation disaster but at no point is there the feeling of `gee I wish the plane would hurry up and crash'. Much of the running time is taken with exploring the personal dramas of the various personalities of Lincoln Airport; Mel Bakersfield (Burt Lancaster) must contend with stacked up planes and a snow-bound airport, a bitter wife, and philandering and antagonistic brother-in-law Vernon Demerest (Dean Martin). Between dealing with complaints by nearby residents and airport officials, Mel loves Tania Livingstone (Jean Seberg), the calm and efficient Airport administrator who spends her time at the airport dealing with complaining customers, customs cheats, and little old lady stowaway Ada Quonset (Helen Hayes). Meanwhile Vernon, married to Mel's sister Sarah also loves flight attendant Gwen Mieghan (Jacqueline Bissett) who has just announced her pregnancy. Much sympathy is generated for struggling older woman Inez Guerrero (Maureen Stapleton, who is excellent) who discovers that her heavily insured husband D O Guerrero (Van Heflin, also excellent in one of his last roles) who has claimed to have found demolition work in Milwaukee, has actually booked a one-way ticket to Rome. Inez frantically travels to the airport but arrives after the plane has taken off... with Vernon, Gwen and Ada amongst those on board.The film is an classy, old-fashioned drama which does not feel at all like the wave of disaster films that followed. The acting and characterisation is good and the subplots genuinely involving. There is also an interesting use of split-screen type devices, and a nice line in comedy. A great film if you can ignore all those silly disclaimers insisting that Boeing 707s are excellent aeroplanes, etc. (Not that they aren't good planes or anything...)  "},{"Title":"Hollywood's first big-budget disaster film...and still the best","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Universal assembled an all-star cast for this film version of Arthur Hailey's best-selling novel Airport, and the result was a critical and box-office smash that earned 10 Oscar nominations.  The film is at its basics pure soap-opera built around the impending bomb on a 707 bound for Rome.  The workings of a major international airport are well depicted and the cast provides some great performances.  Burt Lancaster, Jacqueline Bisset, Jean Seberg, Maureen Stapleton, Dean Martin, and Van Heflin all turn in some of the best performances of their careers, and Helen Hayes (who won an Oscar for supporting actress) is endearing as the stowaway, who has worked out quite a system for flying for free.  Airport's success signaled the beginning of the disaster movie era that was followed over the next several years by such films as The Poseidon Adventure, The Towering Inferno, Earthquake, Two Minute Warning, and Rollercoaster. Airport also inspired three sequels, although none of them even approached the original. "},{"Title":"First-class entertainment.","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My Take A bit cheesy and stodgy at times, but so old-fashioned, it's very entertaining.Although it's been acknowledged that it began the disaster movie craze in the 1970's, AIRPORT was more melodrama than a real disaster movie. In fact, the main disaster, about a mad bomber on a plane, takes backstage to everyday disasters; the drama of different people set on a busy, snowy night at the airport. Although its rather trite by today's standards, AIRPORT is an excellent relic of pure 70's cinema. Hate to bring up a cliché but they don't make 'em like this anymore!It's a busy winter night at Lincoln International Airport. A 707 takes a shortcut across the runway and gets stuck in the snow. Airport manager Mel Bakersfield (Burt Lancaster) sorts out the problem (with a little help from , while at the same time having a few problems with his angry wife (Dana Wynter). Meanwhile, pilot Vernon Demerest (Dean Martin), married to Bakersfield's sister (Barbara Hale), is having an affair with stewardess Gwen Meighen (Jacqueline Bisset). Back on the ground, Bakersfield's assistant Tanya (Jean Seaberg) is having a few problems with a stubborn elderly stowaway Ada Quonsett (Helen Hayes, in an Oscar-winning role), whose not the nice old lady you think she is. Meanwhile, desperate loose cannon Guerrero (Van Heflin) boards a plane (not to coincidentally, the plane piloted by Martin) with a suspicious suitcase. Add to that, the airport struggles to stay open despite a devastating winter storm and the bickering of angry homeowners and engineer Joe Patroni (George Kennedy) struggles to move the trapped airliner to clear the path of the runway. Whew! Now that's more plot than you'll ever find in one soap opera! Based on the novel by Arthur Hailey, and written for the screen by George Seaton (who also directed), AIRPORT tries its best to balance these several stories (as advertised, that's seven stories!) together. Although the movie's several subplots tend to be too crowded and therefore a bit confusing, the movie still plays along just fine, moving along from one subplot to another without harming the film's overall narrative, and all is resolved in the end. But AIRPORT is nothing without its legendary cast (which the advertisements proclaim The biggest cast ever assembled for a Universal Picture). They surely won't be able to do this kind of casting today without risking half a film's budget. That, along with the tuneful score by Alfred Newman and a witty old-school screenplay, give AIRPORT that irresistible old-fashioned charm that makes it still worth seeing.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"I'll do it right this time, I won't mess it up","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Some Spoilers) With the heaviest snowfall hitting the Chicago area in six years Lincoln International Airport is close to being shut down but it's bull-headed manager Mel Brekersfeld, Burt Lancaster. Mel Berkerfeld is determined to keep the airport open at all costs even if it costs him his job. It's within the next 12 hours that Mel will go through a series gut wrenching crisis's that by the time that their over he'll finally have time to get away from his high pressure job leave his nagging stuck-up and socially conscious wife Cindy (Dana Wynter), who didn't seem to understand or appreciate the stress he was under, for good and drive off with his secretary and airline service & personal manager Tanya, Jean Seaberg. To have a sample of Tanya's famous and talked about scramble eggs for breakfast.The granddaddy of all Airport/Airplane disaster movies Airport had millions of eager moviegoers ready to see it since the book Arthur Halley's Airport was published two years earlier and became one the biggest best-sellers of the 1960's. It was expected by the makers of Airport that the movie would follow as one of the biggest hit's coming out of the motion picture industry of the 1970's, they were right on target. Breaking all records Airport made some 50 million dollars in ticket sales within the first six months after it's release in March 1970. Even though it wasn't taken seriously at all by the film critics and even it's star Burt Lancaster but the public just loved it.After clearing up the tarmac of ice and snow the Trans Global Airline flight from Chicago to Rome Italy is airborne and what at first seemed headed across he Atlantic. News coming from the control tower at Lincoln is very disturbing about one of the passengers on board. A desperate and suicidal lunatic had bought a $250,000.00 insurance policy and is planing to blow himself and the plane up when it flies over the North Atlantic. D.O Goerrero, Van Heflin, had hocked his wife's Inez, Maureen Stapleton, mother's wedding ring and with the money bought himself a plane ticket on a one way flight, for him and those on board, to the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean.Guerrero a former mental patient and explosive expert in the US Army tells his wife that he's going to Milwaukee for a job as a building demolition man. Unknown to Inez her husband is really out of his mind and with a number of dynamite sticks that he stole from his former employer is going to end it all in order to have her collect the $250,000.00 insurance policy that he took out on himself.Tense drama at 30,000 feet as plane Captain Vernon Demerest, Dean Martin, Mel's brother-in-law and Co-Captain Harris, Barry Nelson, attempt to steer the 100 passenger and crew 707 back to Chicago. Without letting Guerrero know that their on to him and land the plane safely in the middle of a blistering and blinding winter snowstorm.There's also a number of side stories in the movie with both Mel & Vernon cheating on their wives and in Mel's case his wife cheating on him. There's also the lovable little old lady stowaway Mrs. Alda Quonsett, Helen Hayes,who steals not only a free ride but everyones heart. And there's the beautiful 25 year-old Jackie Bissett as stewardess Gwen Meighen who's been having an affair with the plane Captain Vernon Demerest, lucky guy, and is now pregnant by him and, together with Vernon, wants to have their baby, despite him being happily married to Mel's sister Shara, Barbara Hale.Exciting final sequence as Vernon together with his co-pilot Capt. Nelson fly the 707, with it's tail section about to break off, into the ice covered airport runway as the feisty ground crew chief Joe Patroni, George Kenndey, dives a stuck in the ice and snow airliner clear of the path of the descending passenger plane. All this just before it's, the grounded plane, about to be cut to pieces by a dozen of so bulldozers in order to move it out in time. Everyone but poor and hysterical Mrs. Inza Guerrero's husband D.O, who was killed in the bomb blast, is safe in the end with Vernon and the badly injured, from the bomb explosion, Gwen being rushed off to the hospital. As Vernon's wife Shrah rushes to the airport to see if he's safe only to find out that Vernons been doing a lot more then flying and landing planes all those long and lonely days and nights that he's been away from her. "},{"Title":"Gleefully Walks the Line of Good and Hilarious Unintentional Comedy","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I should qualify my above statement by saying I'm 25 and my entire experience with Airport before hand was none. I have seen both Airplane movies, I own them and the Naked Gun movies, their my favorite comedies.So I wondered when this came up on Turner Classic Movies if I could take this movie seriously.I was not surprised how much unintentional comedy is in this movie. There are so many things in this movie that could only happen not only pre-9/11, but pre-Lockerbie Bombing. Like how a passenger (Helen Hayes) managed to sneak aboard an international flight and it did not caused every federal agency to freak out. Or the captain leaving the flight deck during the flight. Or that the captain smoked a pipe... while flying. Or that George Kennedy is in this movie. I'm know he was a serious actor, but I will always remember him as the man foaming at the mouth in the Naked Gun 2 1/2.But I was even more surprised how much intentional comedy there is in this movie. There is a scene when the plane is returning because something went horribly wrong (not much of a spoiler in the original disaster movie) and one of the passengers is freaking out screaming we're all gonna' die!. On the other side of the aisle is a priest in one fluid movement crosses himself and backhands the guy in the face.The drama is also pretty good as you see a three or so minor plots all pull together in one major disaster threatening to kill everyone on board this Boeing 707. As someone who watches that air disaster documentary I felt like it was a story done by someone who actually knew a thing or two about airlines. Actually Airport is apparently based off a book written with enough technical details worthy of Tom Clancy... and since Tom Clancy is my favorite author I might read it.There are some things like slightly stilted acting and some odd editing choices like when characters are talking via phone or radio they insert the person on the other end. It's not a bad idea, but I normally associate this kind of shot with sitcoms and feels out of place in a drama. It was better used in the middle of the movie when a woman disappears and they use the PA to alert security and as they make the announcement it shows security guards in different points in the airport all snapping to attention, I thought it was very effective there.Also points where I thought when the plane comes in for its inevitable emergency landing that I thought we needed more exterior shots or the people on the ground waiting for the plane, but I assume they just didn't have the budget since in 1970 they would have had to use practical effects. But that is also what I liked, everything was practical. Even seeing the obvious toy airplane gliding on a string through dry ice just made me smile.Airport is in summary a good movie. It has comedy, it has drama, it has romance, it has interesting cinematography, it has good actors, it has practical effects, and it has the charm of an old movie. I think having seen Airplane first enhanced my enjoyment. It's one of those movies that has something for everyone. "},{"Title":"Sweet old ladies, mad bombers, pilots with marital problems...Its all here!","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This delightful disaster soap opera started off a trend of all-star popcorn movies where some sort of tragic occurrence changed the courses of people's lives. Whether it be a bomb exploding on a plane, a tidal wave tossing a cruise ship upside down, a skyscraper catching on fire or a massive earthquake, Hollywood filmmakers became obsessed with finding new ways to toss old and new actors together to bring fun onto the screen while giving its audience something to bite their nails over as famous people fought to survive something totally beyond their control.Of the four Airport films, this is by far the best, although Airport '75 is certainly more famous as a camp classic. Here, a group of strangers are tossed together in an enclosed space where they have no idea a disgruntled man has gotten onto the plane with a man made bomb he intends to explode so his wife can get money from the insurance policy he's just purchased. It doesn't matter that innocent people will be taken out with him or that there are laws that would keep her from getting anything, he's determined to put his evil plan into motion. Yet, there's a pitiful quality about this down on his luck elderly man (a magnificent Van Heflin) that prevents you from totally hating him, and his lovable wife (Maureen Stapleton in one of her finest performances) has obviously remained loyal in spite of his shortcomings.To off-set the tragedy, there's a cute old lady (Helen Hayes) who stows away all the time in order to go see her grown children. Yet, this time, she may not get away with it, giving away her secrets to amused airport executive Burt Lancaster and the no-nonsense Jean Seberg whom Hayes politely tells to lighten up after Seberg grills her for breaking the law. Pilot Dean Martin is involved with pretty stewardess Jacqueline Bisset even though he's married to the older and very rich Barbara Hale. Bisset has a secret however which will be greatly affected by the results of what occurs with Heflin's bomb.Then, there's irascible George Kennedy in the first of four Airport appearances as Patroni, a technical genius who spouts all sorts of technical jargon to give the audience the opportunity to understand how an airport works behind the scenes of the ticket counter and the baggage claim. Kennedy's dialog in these films seemed to get sillier and sillier, and by the time of 1979's Concorde, his appearances here were deemed as some sort of bad joke.Veteran actress Jessie Royce Landis is amusing in a cameo as a wealthy matron smuggling diamonds in her pooch's collar and Lloyd Nolan is memorable as an aging security guard. A ton of familiar character actors pop in and out in amusing cameos, with James Nolan very funny as a priest whose patience has run out as he deals with the obnoxious passenger next to him on the plane.While Hayes won the Oscar here for her first film in 14 years, it is Stapleton who was certainly more worthy. She would have to wait more than a decade to get an Oscar, but her performance is certainly more memorable, although Hayes is an adorable old lady. All she's missing is the tweety bird and cage and black and white cat, because ultimately, she is more of a cartoon character than a real person. This created a huge box office sensation in the early 70's and remains greatly enjoyable. The split screen sequences are a lot of fun (having been used by producer Ross Hunter a decade before in Pillow Talk) and an excellent music score by Alfred Newman also adds to the tension. Yes, there is a bit of a lack of reality, but ultimately, when you've got so much fun on screen, who really cares? "}{"Title":"Good Disaster Drama.","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" George Seaton directed this massive box-office hit about an busy airport(of course!) threatened not only by a blizzard, but a bomber on one of its planes. All-star cast includes Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin, Jacqueline Bissit, Van Heflin, Maureen Stapleton, and George Kennedy as Joe Patroni, a role he would reprise in the three sequels.Though long, contrived, and potentially silly, this film still managed to be entertaining in spite of the melodrama, thanks to the good cast of actors who still give it their all(and a wonderful, Academy Award winning performance by Helen Hayes as a chronic stowaway.)Though star Burt Lancaster was embarrassed by its success, and despite later spoofing, this holds up as fine escapist fare. "},{"Title":"You gotta see this","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's nice to see a movie well made. And Airport is one of them. The movie begins with a display of stuff that makes an airport function. Viewer might get a little bored during the first 30 minutes, especially if he/she is looking for some adrenaline pumping action from the first frame. Now if you stop watching at this point then you would have missed quite a lot. Airport is the kind of movie that slowly but surely builds up a tempo, ending with a nail-biting finish. I would suggest every user get their hands on the novel Airport by Arthur Hailey either before watching the movie (will make the movie seem quicker in comparison) or at least after watching (believe me you will crave for every detail you can get in the book). I did it the first way and loved every moment of the movie. This is a must watch for every drama freak. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece; but not the grandaddy of disaster films -- the grandson, maybe!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The grandaddy of aviation disaster films would be The High and The Mighty, starring John Wayne.  Airport, however, brought such films into the jet age, and did so in a manner which was at once dramatically exciting, and hilarious!  This is a very funny movie!Burt Lancaster is perfection as Mel Bakersfield, the harried, overworked, wife-harassed General Manager of a great Midwestern Airport, Lincoln International (actually Minneapolis-St. Paul International).  They must have actually filmed during a blizzard, or spent a lot of money making it look like they did.Helen Hayes, as the stowaway Ada Quonset, and George Kennedy, as the rough-and-tumble maintenance chief Joe Patroni, provide most of the humor. The scene with Hayes, Seberg, and Lancaster, where Mrs. Quonset is being interviewed regarding her procedures for stowing away on airliners, is one of my favorite comedy scenes!  Joe Patroni's simple, brute-force way of making things happen makes me proud to be an American!  The plot is standard, yet we get to care about all the characters, and we get a pretty good sense of closure at the end of the film!A real challenge to any filmmaker would be to re-make this film and bring it up-to-date, without insulting the intelligence of aviation film buffs like me!   "},{"Title":"It smartly works the audience up while never being too outlandish...","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport wasn't the first all-star disaster movie--those have always been a bankable commodity in Hollywood--but it was probably the first one to garner truly blockbuster returns (and effusive reviews and awards), creating a new vogue in cinema which lasted throughout the 1970s. Sprawling melodrama from Arthur Hailey's bestseller intertwines several sudsy plots as an ill-fated airliner leaves a snowbound airport. Helen Hayes won a Supporting Actress Oscar as a stowaway, all but stealing the film from headliners Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin and George Kennedy. Jacqueline Bisset plays a stewardess in love with married pilot Martin (what an odd combination), and her youthful beauty is stunning though the role itself is colorless (when she gets a burst of conviction near the end, it appears to come out of nowhere). Van Heflin and Maureen Stapleton do very well in pivotal supporting roles, the undercurrent of cynical humor is appealing, and the handsome production looks sumptuous and credible. Director George Seaton takes it all at a steady pace, though the disaster action is a long time in coming. Plenty of juicy tidbits keep it interesting and engaging. Followed by a myriad of sequels and imitations. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent entertainment and historic air travel fun!","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Glad to see that others enjoyed the movie on TCM this evening. I'm rather disturbed that they used an older cut-up version that was intended for network showing. Several good scenes were cut out of the way. (I have several different versions and cuts of this movie on DVD and VHS). Yes, I still enjoy watching the movie.I think the important thing to observe is that during the 1970's air travel was considered much more luxurious than it is now, and a majority of middle class Americans had not yet taken to the sky. Believe it or not, you really did get real wine glasses while in coach. -) The set design of the 707 is EXACTLY perfect. I flew with my parents many times and remember those interiors well. I wish the airlines would take a look at this movie while they are doing personnel reviews. HEHE..Sure, the writing is a little campy but overall it is an excellent movie with actual historic value. "},{"Title":"A Simple Treasure","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's been a big debate for years on the baseball Hall of Fame about who really belongs, the best players ever? the best at their position? the best of their generation of players? If you apply the last standard then this one would certainly make the Movie Hall of Fame. Lancaster, Deano and Kennedy lead a star-studded cast in a non-stop roller-coaster ride over 8 hours or so at a snowy Nebraska airport and in the skies. I suppose this movie is more derivative than I realize - there were a number of airplane disaster films before this one - but the sources go back before my time. As it is this one is perfectly paced and never lets up from beginning to end. This was the first and best of the 70's big budget disaster movies; it was also followed by several mediocre Airport sequels that bear little resemblance to this simple treasure. Derivative or not, this film has been so copied (hilariously by Airplane! among others) that I suspect younger viewers don't give it the credit it deserves. "},{"Title":"If you are a disaster genre fan? Get in line for your ticket.","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lincoln International Airport is swamped by a truly severe snow storm, frozen runways and inadequate vision are causing no end of problems. Yet these are not the only things causing distress on this blustery evening, marital strife and stress management issues are besetting some of the airports major players, all this when a madman with a bomb has boarded the flight to Rome!Based on the hugely successful novel written by Arthur Hayley, Airport is not only the trail blazer for the disaster genre, it's also a case study for star appeal over basic substance. Which all told makes for an interesting bed fellow. Yet as niggly as Airport is at times, and as dated as it so clearly is (but lets say period piece), the entertainment value and slick professionalism more than make it a hugely enjoyable piece of fluff. I mean come on, when Dean Martin is the Captain of your flight, you just know that this is a film to be enjoyed with a pinch of salt, this in spite of the multi threaded strands of character arcs that seam throughout the course of the picture.Not without tension, excitement and surprisingly deft moments of humour, (something the makers of Airplane would wonderfully exploit ten years later), Airport suffers mainly because it just doesn't have the time to cram in all of Haley's technical aspects from the book. We do get little tasters of just how pressurised the workers of a busy airport are, both with Dean Martin's Captain Demerest and Burt Lancaster's airport manager, Mel Bakersfield. But in the main the substance needed is glossed over in favour of a star cast mugging for all they are worth. That they are all duty bound to look good as they triumph is of course a given. But in spite of my grumblings, and my willingness to accept Airport's failings (you will never find me debating with someone who thinks it's awful) I just flipping think it's great viewing, but then again I'm a disaster genre fan, a genre that doesn't take itself as seriously as some of its detractors do.Universal Studios were well sweating on the reception to Airport, after plunging in $10 million to make the piece, there was a big feeling that the film would fail miserably. They needn't have worried, it made four times that amount, was nominated for 10 Oscar's, winning the one for Best Supporting Actress (Helen Hayes wonderful as batty stowaway Ada Quonsett) and the 70s public lapped it up.Not bad for a star laden piece of cheese really. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Take off your eyeglasses, and return your seats to their upright position!","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A solid disaster tale that attempts to feature characters of depth. It largely succeeds on that score -- and to have stood the test of time.Let's face it -- how bad could this have been with Burt Lancaster at the helm? He's excellent as a straight-talking airport manager who faces professional problems head-on but has never gotten around to tackling the challenges in his marriage. He's found a little comfort along the way in conversation with his gal Friday, played well by the luminous Jean Seberg (herself only years away from her own tragic, premature demise).Also excellent are Van Hefflin and Maureen Stapleton, another couple in a troubled marriage who struggle to cope in a radically different way. Then there is Dean Martin, striking his usual, superficial persona as a pilot having an affair with his too-classy-to-be-believed head flight attendant (Jacqueline Bisset). And the inimitable Helen Hayes as perhaps the more recalcitrant psychopath on the embattled jet. And George Kennedy as the cigar-chomping chief mechanic Patroni, interestingly cast as the married father of five who cannot wait to get back home to make-out session with his wife. (One can count that sort of motivation in the movies on one hand!) The cast features many lesser lights of movie history in cameo roles, including Whit Bissel, Barry Nelson, and Gary Collins. I was sorry I couldn't identify Virginia Grey, whom I've admired since seeing her in Uncle Tom's Cabin and especially the sublime Naked Kiss.I was fascinated to read here on IMDb that Arthur Hailey based the 1968 novel on which this film was based on Continental Airlines Flight 11, which crashed in an alfalfa field in Missouri in 1962, killing all 45 people aboard.This film builds considerable suspense as the embattled airliner attempts to land. One admires the courage of pilots who do what they have to do -- despite zero visibility, frayed nerves, and white knuckles. These are the heroes in whom we entrust our lives every time we defy the Earth's gravity. The land-based action of this film takes places during a stunning, driving snowstorm. Haven't enjoyed snow this omnipresent since the animated version of Beowulf. What a lovely backdrop! "},{"Title":"Changed Air Travel","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So here I am, taking a few days off from work, and I thought I'd watch something I haven't seen for a while. Airport sounds good. Bummer! I'm sure I've recorded it to VHS at least once, but I can't find it.So now, I'm just thinking about the movie and all of the things that have changed since, and maybe because of, Airport. Airport was released in the summer of 1970, a decade after the dawn of the Jet Age, but also the sunset of the Golden Age of flying.In the summer of 1970, my brother and I flew from Atlanta to El Paso, carrying our rifles on board the airliners with us. I was 17 and my brother was 13 that summer, but just like the summer of 1967, which is when we started our annual unaccompanied trek to and from El Paso, nobody paid much attention to the two of us carrying rifles through the Atlanta, Dallas (where we changed planes), and El Paso Airports. When we boarded planes, we always asked the crew where we should stow our rifles. American and Continental pilots usually let us give them the guns so they could safely keep them in the cockpit, but Delta crews usually told us to just find a place in the back of the coat rack. (Overhead bins were virtually non-existent in the 1960s.) In the summer of 1970, when Airport came out, no PAN AM airplane had ever been blown up over Lockerbie Scotland. In the summer of 1970, no one had ever heard of D.B. Cooper much less of anyone threatening to blow up a passenger plane in midair if a ransom was not paid. 9/11 meant nothing in 1970.In the summer of 1970, we certainly didn't have metal detectors at airports. Can you imagine my brother and me walking through a metal detector in 1970 with our rifles? Beeeepp! Hey, hold it up right there boys. You set off the metal detectors! Oh, I'm sorry Mr. Security Guard, but I think it's just these two rifles and our pocket knives. Well, I hope that's all! We don't want you trying to sneak any of those beatnik Peace medallions past us . . . or anything else that you boys know you shouldn't be carrying . (Whoopee Cushions? Straws?) Oh no sir, it's just these two rifles and our knives. Okay boys, go on. Get out of here. Have a nice flight. Finally, in the summer of 1970, flying wasn't glamorous, but it was still a somewhat pleasant experience. The lobby of the theatre that was showing Airport was decked out to look like an airport. I can't remember for sure, but I think our theatre tickets came with boarding pass jackets. I do remember that the signs in the lobby pointed, not to the theatre entrance, but rather to the boarding gate. The theatre was trying hard to once again make flying seem glamorous.In many ways, Airport was similar to the 1950s movie The High and the Mighty (substitute a pistol for a bomb and a partially-detached engine for a cracked fuselage and you've got the same in-flight drama), but The High and the Mighty, perhaps because in the early 1950s we lived in less of an activist, knee-jerk, 60-minutes and 20-20 asking probing questions type of world, did nothing really to change flying.The Crowded Sky (1960) came out about midway between The High and the Mighty and Airport, but, unfortunately, its story of a military jet crashing into a passenger plane was hardly new. Let's see, in the real world an F-89 collided with a DC-7 in January of 1957 over Southern California. An F-100 collided with a DC-7 in April of 1958 over Las Vegas, and a month later, over Maryland, a T-33 collided with a Vickers Viscount. Combine those three military/civilian accidents with the earlier, and even more horrific 1956 United/TWA mid-air collision over the Grand Canyon, and you can understand how the U.S. Congress was able to pass, and President Eisenhower was able to sign, a new Federal Aviation Act by August of 1958. That Act brought about the Air Traffic Control system that Arthur Hailey wrote about in the book Airport, and that the movie Airport, at least partially, showed.I'll admit that I was too young to know or care about the 1958 Act when I was watching The Crowded Sky, but I had heard of some of the real-life mid-airs, and I just assumed that everything that could be done was being done to prevent future accidents. I'm also sure that, other than a few squeamish movie-goers canceling their future air-travel plans when they walked out of the theatre, The Crowded Sky played no major role in shaping or changing public perception of aviation. It told us what had been, not what was to be.Things really changed after Airport, though.I can only wonder what flying would be like today if D. O. Guerrero hadn't set off that bomb in Airport. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but definitely entertaining--and surprisingly gutsy","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" TCM has been showing this recently, and if you tune in just to have some laughs and marvel in its kitsch, you might be surprised.Having never seen it before, I was expecting it to be kind of in the cheesy mold of POSEIDON ADVENTURE and TOWERING INFERNO. It certainly has elements of those movies in it.But it also kind of tough-minded in a way that contemporary films are flaccid, and is more entertaining because of that.(Note Here come some spoilers)The most surprising thing you'll come away with in this movie is how different it is from modern would-be blockbusters where everyone escapes without injury and the hero is likable at all costs. Not here. Jackie Bissett is caught in an explosion and suffers real injuries and might lose her eye. Burt Lancaster wants out of his marriage so he can be with Jean Seberg, and the filmmakers kind of take it easy on him by showing that his wife wants out of the marriage too. But that's not the case with the Dean Martin character. He's got, by all appearances, a great wife. But he cheats on her with Bissett, and his fellow pilot Barry Nelson gives him hell for it. If you're accustomed to modern movies, you keep thinking there's going to be some trumped-up development where the filmmakers try to make Martin totally likable. Instead, things stay realistic, and there's a fairly heart-wrenching shot where Martin's wife (played by Barbara Hale) sees his love for Bissett and realizes their marriage is over. You simply don't get that kind of drama from newer action-adventures very often, and maybe that's why audiences are starting to tune them out.The Helen Hayes character is well-written too. It's a surprisingly worthwhile movie. "}{"Title":"The film is detailing hectic flighty hijacked by a dangerous bomber and relationship among passengers","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This air catastrophe movie blends drama , intrigue , disaster spectacle , suspense and emotional byplay with romance included . Plastic acting and stock characters detailing a hectic flight in 747 Boeing . This is the original of four movies in the Airport series . It's exciting and amusing but full clichés and stereotypes with acceptable performance by top-of-the-range actors . The movie is another jetliner epic with all star cast in ¨Grand Hotel¨ plot formula that reaches his zenith in this exciting film . Taking place on a fateful winter night , a commercial airline of the American Airlines 747 Boeing ( piloted by Dean Martin , Gary Collins , Barry Nelson ) . Then Commandant Dean Martin along with crew and flight attendant ( Jacqueline Bisset who brings conviction to her character as dedicated stewardess and Dean Martin's lover ) taking on a dangerous bomber (Van Heflin) . The film is detailing hectic flighty and the relationship among passengers . All clichéd and stock roles with regurgitation of all usual stereotypical situations from disaster films , the nuns, an aging woman ( Helen Hayes who won Academy Award as likable stowaway ), nervous passengers . Taking place on freeze and rainy skies as background and the airplane heading to Rome .This ultra-slick picture contains thriller , suspense , melodrama , moderate tension and is quite entertaining although with some flaws and gaps . Filmed at the height of the disaster genre from the 7os , this entry in the spectacular series profits of a strong acting by Burt Lancaster and Dean Martin bringing life to main characters and remaining actors formed by all-star-cast . And of course appears the classic character Patroni played by usual George Kennedy who will his role in subsequent sequels . This old-fashioned motion picture is professionally directed by George Seaton ( Country girl , Miracle on 34th street ) . It's followed by ¨Airport 1975¨ by Jack Smight with Charlton Heston , Karen Black and Gloria Swanson , ¨Airport 1977¨ by Jerry Jameson with Jack Lemmon and James Stewart and ¨Airport 79 the Concorde¨ by David Lowell Rich with Alain Delon and Robert Wagner . Furthermore , ¨ Skyjacked (1972) ¨ by John Guillermin with Charlton Heston and the film was parodied heavily in Airplane! (1980) by Jim Abrahams and David Zucker . It's an inoffensive diversion but is sometimes tediously unspooled and contains some stiff performances . But if you've seen the original ¨Airport¨ based on the Arthur Hailey's novel 'the daddy of them all' , you have seen them all . The film will appeal to Lancaster-Martin fans and disaster genre enthusiasts "},{"Title":"May we invite you to dine with us?","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yep, Airport is like an in-flight meal overcooked and underseasoned, but you're stuck with it. (To a generation that only started traveling after Southwest took over the friendly skies, please note airlines used to feed people more than pretzels and peanuts.) Here's what's on your menuSliced Ham with a side of Kale and Vanilla Pudding for Dessert - this would be the semi-tortured love triangle of Burt Lancaster, unhappily married to Dana Wynter (maybe her attitude would improve if that five-years-out-of-date bouffant hairstyle weren't weighing down on her scalp) and dabbling with pretty blonde Jean Seberg, his single-gal secretary (and we all know what that means). You're lucky this isn't the only thing on the tray since this plot line was already cliché by 1970, a staple of Playboy fiction and pseudo-serious movies about Middle America (see our boy Burt in The Swimmer or even Dino in Some Came Running). Naturally, frustrated housewife and mother Wynter doesn't understand the demands the job of running a fictional airport place on poor Burt, but Jean does, even if she's starting to suspect that she'll never land her man and takes out her frustration on plucky stowaway Helen Hayes. Tragedy in the sky and at home forces everybody to re-evaluate their priorities. (If you think that's a spoiler, you've never seen a movie in your life.)Sirloin Steak Marinated in Bourbon with a side of Iceberg Lettuce and Raspberry Tart for Dessert -- this would be the movie's other pseudo-tormented love triangle, swingin' pilot Dean Martin, his boring but faithful wife Barbara Hale, and sexy stewardess Jacqueline Bisset. Yeah, it's another Playboy short story. Now, Dino was a better actor than anyone gave him credit for (he was nothing like his boozy persona) and he makes the philandering pilot an almost credible human being, plagued by doubts and beginning to feel the first stirrings of real love for anybody, i.e. Bissett. As lovely Gwen the Stew, Jackie is sweet, funny and sympathetic, and five years later Dino wouldn't have thought twice about dumping the frump and picking up his trophy. But in 1970, the idea that marriage was difficult and divorce was not a devastating decision was new to Hollywood. (Well, it wasn't, but Hollywood assumed it was to the rest of us.)Your beverage choices Old Crow -- Theater legend Helen Hayes, a chronic stowaway who evades airport security in a way that would land her 20 in Guantanamo nowadays. Gin and Tonic -- Van Heflin as a wannabe mad bomber whose suspicious activities (tracing the flight path?) would land him 50 in Guantanamo nowadays, and his sad, understanding wife Maureen Stapleton, who figures out her hubby's dastardly scheme just in the knick of time . . . or does she? Boilermaker -- George Kennedy, whose blunt, monotonous acting was often taken for macho authenticity and could land him in the White House nowadays. He plays Joe Petroni, cigar-chomping veteran engineer who performs the dramatically unriveting task of driving a 747 through a snowstorm. (Well, at least his jaw remains firm, convincing us that it's difficult and he's performing a superhuman task.) Soft Drinks -- the whiny passenger, the tough priest, the nerdy kid and all the other caricatures that fill out this cast of hundreds. "},{"Title":"Quite an entertaining piece of filmmaking","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport was an enormous hit when it was first released in 1970, the biggest blockbuster of its time. Today it's best known for being the basis for the spoof film Airplane!. Heck, more people have probably seen Airplane II the Sequel than have seen Airport, probably more than even know Airport exists. The film has become a joke, and that's unfortunate. It's no great masterpiece, it may not have deserved 10 Oscar nominations, it may not have deserved to make so much money and spawn several sequels, but it's certainly an engaging 140 minutes. The film mixes personal melodrama with a suspense film. There are a dozen or so characters and several big actors on the bill. Burt Lancaster and Dean Martin are the most immediately recognizable. Lancaster plays the manager of the airport, and he is quite good (although he was better in umpteen other roles in his career). Dean Martin plays a pilot. Now, he probably wouldn't be my first pick to play an airplane pilot. Rumor has it that Dino has a bit of a drinking problem. But he is quite good in the role. Jean Seberg has a pretty thankless role as Lancaster's second in command. It's petty, but her hair is awful in this film. I didn't even recognize her until she put on a parka, when she began to look more like her Breathless days. Jacqueline Bisset plays Lancaster's whiny wife. She's got to be one of the least understanding spouses in cinema history. Helen Hayes plays an old woman who is able to make her way around the country by stowing away in planes. She's sure that they won't bust her - no airline wants that kind of bad publicity. The film was nominated for 10 Academy Awards, and she was its only winner, for Best Supporting Actress. The film probably deserved any of the other awards before it deserved that one - she's annoying. Perhaps people found her funny in 1970, but I was quite hoping that she would get her butt sucked out of the plane. Airport definitely suffers from some major dating, which is why hardly anyone ever mentions it anymore unless as a camp reference. Dino has knocked up a stewardess, and they have a cheesy (but not unaffecting) dialogue about what they should do. The film never does resolve the fact that he loves both his wife and his mistress. In his first scene in the film, Dino's dropped off at the airport by his wife who tells Lancaster confidently Some day he'll come home and find a reason to stay. And it seems like he loves her back. But the end leaves us with little doubt as to whether he'll stay with the stewardess (and be father to her child). A lot of the personal melodramatics seem too abundant, especially the stuff between Lancaster and Bisset. Fortunately, the suspense is much more successful.Some people may scoff at the use of split screen and similar techniques that are used to depict two separate settings, such as the cockpit and the control station. Sometimes the head of the control tower will appear in between Dino and the other pilot in a little bubble with a thick, black outline - it almost looks like the little squares in which the members of the Brady family appear at the beginning of each episode of the Brady Bunch. However, that technique works quite well. I think, if anything, the film may have deserved an Oscar for Best Editing (I don't even know offhand if that was one of the categories in which it was nominated - nor do I know what other films were up against it in that category, although I assume MASH was, which would be an even more deserving nominee). 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Disastrous Fun for the Whole Family","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spend the first Act of the film developing the characters (what a concept!) so that we know all of them and their relationships to the story for later on. Then introduce the central plot, who is carrying out and even why. Then put the plot in motion and allow all the characters we know to work together to triumph over the impossible. This was the basic structure of the great disaster films of the 70s - Poseidon Adventure, Towering Inferno, Earthquake and this terrific thriller. The acting is top-notch. Burt Lancaster looks terrific in his suit and red tie courtesy of Edith Head. The ladies are gorgeous. George Kennedy was never better. Dean Martin is sober and believable as a pilot. And Helen Hayes is perhaps the most deserved Supporting Actress in movie history. Even the 'bad guy' has his motivation fully detailed, and you even feel sympathy for him and for his wife. If you're looking to introduce your younger viewers to the disaster genre before bludgeoning them with San Andreas, start with this one. You'll have a great time. It's a great movie. "},{"Title":"Burt Lancaster Considered this Trash but it is aging better Than  That","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read Arthur Hiller's work on this and this script is very faithful to it. It is the first movie of it's time and kind and made a lot of money for Universal along with Dean Martin and Lancaster who got pieces of the box office. The cast is loaded and yet only Helen Hayes won a best supporting actress for it. This series drama inspired some terrible sequels and then a series of Airplane Comedy films. This one is the drama and played straight. Funny how Dean Martin does so well in drama films including this one as his persona proved many times over he could act. He actually upstages the great Lancaster in this one but then he got a better role. Lancaster is only the manager of the airport, not as dramatic as being a pilot on the plane. That might have influenced his opinion of the film as his script is not well written compared to his other films.This is one of the few films which had Jacquelin Bisset Pregnant and hurt. This film was prior to her becoming the ultimate wet tee shirt model. Now over 70, I am hoping she has aged well after becoming a lot of men's fantasy but this movie as a stewardess, though younger she does not jump out at you though she has a good role. Watching it now, the slap scenes in it show you what inspired the same on the air plane series.This movie has a lot of reasons to watch as it shows how team work can save lives and though the technology looks ancient today, great drama ages well. "},{"Title":"So many characters","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a snow storm at Chicago's Lincoln International Airport. Manager Mel Bakersfeld (Burt Lancaster) is working hard to handle all the emergencies. There is a demonstration against the new runway that flies over a neighborhood. He calls in mechanic Joe Patroni (George Kennedy) to pull out a plane stuck in the snow. D.O. Guerrero (Van Heflin) intends to blow up his plane in the air so that his wife Inez (Maureen Stapleton) could collect the life insurance money. Captain Vernon Demerest (Dean Martin) keeps pushing the airport to run faster and pushes the pilot to take off. Stewardess Gwen Meighen (Jacqueline Bisset) is on board and is pregnant with the married Demerest's baby. Mrs. Ada Quonsett (Helen Hayes) is an expert stowaway.The movie has a lot of character minutiae before it gets to the drama. The cast is amazing and Helen Hayes probably won the Oscar for her body of work. The acting suffers from the scale which overshadows everything. There are too many stories to follow. I don't care about most of them. It's rather boring for much of the movie. It's a big movie that doesn't generate enough tension. I am also uncertain whether to praise its influence in starting the 70s disaster movie craze or to hate it for the camp that most of that genre represent. This is not a terribly compelling movie until they get on the plane. Basically the last half is a good disaster movie but the first half is boring as hell. "},{"Title":"An  on-set  Bias actor review.","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Being the only child on the plane, I can speak from first hand experience. This movie was the start of the entire disaster craze. I have many fond memories of kicking it with Jacqueline Bisset between takes and watching the dailies of the bomb explosion scene. Dean Martin was pretty much enamored with himself through the entire shoot. The doting women on the set didn't help matters. I had my own trailer right next to David Cassidy (Partridge Family Fame/Teen Idol). Also Planet of the Apes was shooting at the same time as Airport. I watched Universal Studios evolve into it's first tours. The evolution of a theme park was taking place right before my eyes. What glorious times these were. Truly fond memories working with some of the greatest actors of their time. Burt Lancaster, Helen Hayes, George Kennedy, Van Heflin, Maureen Stapleton and of course Jacqueline Bisset. Forget about it.No other movie has spawned so many sequels and spoofs as this one did. 10 Academy nominations including best picture can't be wrong. Times have not changed that much. Good is good.I suspect that one day, I will be the only surviving cast member since I was only five years old when we did this shoot. I highly recommend this movie, but then again.... I might be biased. "},{"Title":"I didn't always fly a desk.","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" All-star disaster flick is pure soap opera but undeniably fun to watch. Burt Lancaster and Dean Martin are our adulterous heroes. Jean Seberg and Jacqueline Bisset are their younger mistresses and, ostensibly, the heroines of the picture. The rest of the cast is made up of aging stars like Helen Hayes, Van Heflin (his last film), Maureen Stapleton, Lloyd Nolan, Barry Nelson, and Barbara Hale. The scene stealer of the movie is George Kennedy, whose character Joe Patroni would be the one constant throughout the Airport series. The cast does a great job and the direction is much more ambitious than the sequels. An excessive use of split screen, for example, shows someone wanted this to be something more than a cookie cutter drama. I enjoyed the Airport series a great deal and this is probably the best of the bunch. Not as much campy fun as the later Airport movies, it's still a very entertaining way to pass a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Henry Hathaway to the rescue!","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not surprised to learn that Henry Hathaway worked on this one without credit, directing the winter location scenes. Some of these and two or three other sequences are quite inventively directed. Special effects are also excellent. Big budget and star power pulls even the sudsy story together. The movie is admittedly entertaining if too slick to be convincing and too obviously tailored for undemanding brainpower. It delivers a bumpy ride with a happy ending (although the Barbra Hale sequence strikes an unusually effective note that has a bit more guts than the rest). Otherwise, all credits are A-1 glossy and the players seem so determinedly sincere as to make even the sudsiest characters appear to be as interesting as real flesh-and-blood. Admittedly, there's some over-acting, but by and large, Airport is a fairly interesting ensemble picture with all the action, spectacle and Hollywood gloss to more than satisfy the average moviegoer. Just like TV maybe, only bigger, much bigger, glossier, more expensive with a budget that TV would find it absolutely impossible to match. No wonder the movie grossed on first release more than ten times its $10 million budget in the USA alone! "},{"Title":"Issues....","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I take serious issue with dbr7474's review. I'm not a fan of this film because of the unrealistic nature of it. The fact that a plan is nearly torn in half and the airports and people in charge aren't more concerned than they seem to be is only one issue. The other thing is that a woman is seriously injured and is in the back of the plane, they don't move her, and leave her in the exact spot where the plane could rupture at any moment. I also take issue with the fact that youngsters don't like the classics. I love classics. I watch them all the time. I've seen everything from The General to Casablanca to The Maltese Falcon to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. And I'm 24. I think movies back in the day were nearly always better than the movies they shove out today. I'm a writer, so I always look at plots and characters and analyze whether or not they could be plausible. Yes, I certainly think this is plausible, but the acting doesn't completely convince me. Burt Lancaster is decent and I've seen so much better from Dean Martin (in Rio Bravo, for example, he's spectacular). Maureen Stapleton and Helen Hayes steal the show completely, so I think Hayes definitely deserved the Oscar for this role. My point is that I am iffy with this movie only because it isn't 100% believable to me, not because it doesn't have all the fancy CGI and stuff....but this is just an opinion of a youngster. "}{"Title":"A true classic and time capsule","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not only did Airport spawn a whole new film genre of epic movies dealing with the full variety of catastrophes modern life has to offer (for which alone it would deserve its kudos), it is also a very rich, colorful and highly entertaining journey back into the late 60's.For the wonderful all-star cast alone, this movie is fun to watch. But what really thrills me every time is how much our world in general -- and aviation in particular -- has changed in the last 40 years, and how well this movie, albeit unintentionally, captures it. And then, there's Joe Patroni. ) Just think of Mrs. Quonsett's wallet trick -- unimaginable today. Smoking in airplane (and in many other scenes as well), no security inspection to pass, a wardrobe on a plane... but there also are things that don't seem to age a bit airport expansion, struggle with residents living close to an airport, and, of course the drama of work vs. social life.Arthur Hailey's novel may be richer in the details, but it's also lengthy at times, and the movie does a good job in focusing on the relevant things while still keeping many parallel plots progressing smoothly through the story. Even though so many things are happening in parallel (or maybe *because* of it), the movie never, ever gets boring. Also, it is technically surprisingly adequate when it comes to aviation, except for a few glitches which are acceptable.Even though the special effect of the plane rising through the cloud layer is not very convincing, the rest of the movie is -- especially because the shots of the 707 on the runway at the end of the movie are real, which make for some breathtaking scenes. I'm sure that the Flying Tigers would've though twice before lending their airliner to the production had they known what they'd do to their lady. ) I could go on with many scenes or things I like about the movie, but it's best if you see for yourself. Please forget about today's blockbusters, though; they aren't the right reference frame to use. If you can let go of this, you will find yourself enjoying a gorgeous movie about people, planes, and disaster from the first second to the last.By the way, I do think that Chuck Norris was a padawan to Joe Patroni. ;) "},{"Title":"They won't make 'em like that any more","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's not often when you're in a movie theatre that you get a sense of something passing, something ending.Yet that was the feeling my wife and I both had when emerging from 'Airport' way back when in 1970 that this was indeed a calling card from Old Hollywood,complete with all its lushness and daftness and sheer unbeatable hoky mesmerism.It may have spawned exactly the phenomenon which was to characterise the Hollywood that was to replace it -- the emergence of the bean counters and with them, the proliferation of inexecrable sequels -- but that's actually an irony made all the more delicious by the passage of time, for 'Airport' depended not on any other's template, nor on CGI, nor the gutter language that passes for dialog in contemporary scripts.Gloriously preposterous, yet superbly crafted, and drenched in a score that must by any yardstick be one of the best ever penned for any movie, of any genre, 'Airport' was, and is, remarkable for managing to be two things simultaneously out of date the day it was born, yet never to be past its sell-by date as long as there's an appreciation of, and affection for, Hollywood at its best and glossiest.We adored it thirty seven years ago. We adore it still.Helen Hayes. Burt Lancaster. Van Heflin. Dean Martin. . .C'mon Mr Newman. . . play it again -- and again! "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I received Airport in the DVD collection with all 4 movies in it. I really like this movie because after a slow start it really does keep you on the edge of your sit. I though Burt Lancaster was excellent in role as the airport manager in charge of whether to shut down the airport or not. Dean Martin role as the captain of the plane in the air did an excellent job. This is the first of four airport movies where George Kennedy begins his role as Joe Patroni. My favorite star in this film however was Helen Hayes who played the role of an elderly women who has no money and sneaks on airplanes as stow away to get to New York to see her daughter. The movie starts out slow while setting up all the roles of the key stars. However, once the plane gets of the ground that's when it starts to get interesting. I have one problem with this film and that there's no leading actress. Even though the action isn't bad without the leading actress I have to give this only 7 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"Great disaster flick!","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport is the grand-daddy of all disaster flicks. Burt Lancaster (Mel Bakersfeld) has his hands full at Lincoln International Airport as the general manager....a huge snow storm, a failing marriage, a pilot brother-in-law Vernon Demerest (Dean Martin) who seems to be hell-bent on putting him down, an old-lady stow away, Ada Quonsett (Helen Hayes), a 707 stuck in the snow blocking his primary runway, & a kook on a 707 bound for Rome, D.O. Guerrero (Van Heflin) who threatens them all! The other characters have problems of their own, including Martin's relationship with Gwen Meighen (Jacqueline Bisset) (head stewardess) Heflin's home life, & Hayes' desire to see her daughter. Also twisted up in this is Tanya Livingston (Jean Seberg), who works for the airline of the ill-fated flight & her realtionship with Bakersfeld & tough but lovable Joe Patroni (George Kennedy), whom everyone is counting on to help them! Also worth mentioning is Capt. Anson Harris (Barry Nelson), Dana Wynter (Cindy Bakersfeld), & Maureen Stapleton (Inez Guerrero). If you haven't seen it, watch it, I've seen it 100 times & it still gives me a thrill 36 years later. "},{"Title":"Grandaddy of all 70's disaster flicks starts slowly, but does get off the ground.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie as a kid in 1970 and it was a big deal- 70mm, 6-track stereo, reserved seating, nominated for best picture, etc. It's high quality, conventional major studio filmaking at a critical time in Hollywood. It represents the end of one era and the beginning of another. All of the big roadshow musicals in the wake of Sound of Music flopped at the box office, and with the studios nearly bankrupt, disaster epics were worth a gamble, and this one paid off.It was writer-director George Seaton's last major film (Miracle on 34th St, Counterfeit Traitor) and the last film scored by legendary composer Alfred Newman (How The West Was Won).It showed Hollywood where the next holy grail of profit would come from by spawning really terrible sequels and other disaster epics from Irwin Allen, the master of disaster - he produced Poseidon Adventure and Towering Inferno shortly after. These movies were in theaters alongside New Hollywood fare like MASH, Easy Rider, Scarecrow, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, Klute, etc. They gave the old Hollywood guard a reason to hang on for a few more years.It's rather bloated and dull in some scenes, and despite the star power of Burt Lancaster and Jean Seberg (what a waste), George Kennedy comes off with the most convincing performance. Let's hear it for upward mobility- in this film, Kennedy's character Joe Patroni drives a snow plow and by the last sequel, Airport 79' The Concorde, he's running the bloody airline!This is essentially grade B material dressed up in Grade A clothing, but highly entertaining and worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Good Way to Spend a Couple of Hours","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just purchased the 4 Airport movie DVD set and watched Airport for the first time again in years. I has been so long that I didn't remember the plot and so enjoyed it all over again. I agree with commenter Zetes on much except Lancaster's Character's wife is played by Dana Wynter. Jacqueline Bisset plays Dean Martin's Character's stewardess girlfriend. As far as Dino not being suitable for the role because he imbibes, the recent flap concerning drunk or HBD pilots indicate that maybe he was perfect! The movie is somewhat dated, but does have some novel screen division effects when radio or telephone communication takes place. I found it refreshing and helpful in keeping straight who was doing the talking. If not for the divisions, Dana Wynter would have had a small part, indeed.I don't know if I like the way they virtually showed HOW to build a simple bomb, but I guess if one would want to build one, there are plenty of sources out there to consult on how. I liked the multiple story lines. I think the bomber plot all by itself would have been somewhat thin. Another plus is that one identifies with the passengers and then cares more if they were to be killed by the bomb. Of course the movie was before Roe vs Wade and two of the characters discuss going to Sweden to have an abortion... Except for that and the showing of smoking on the airplane which has been banned for how many years now? And I only wish the 707/727/737/757 body types would have the wide aisle depicted in the movie! "},{"Title":"The Beginning","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film could be seen as the beginning of the 70's disaster craze.  Even though the Poseidon Adventure was the first big budget, all star film, this could be seen as the first film to put a bunch of soap opera stories together in one film and have them come together in a huge disaster.  This could also be seen as the best in the Airport series as each of the following films became more and more melodramatic and boring.  However, the original will always be the best. "},{"Title":"Commentary","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The entire series of the Airport franchise movies were some of the best,if not the least movies,ever produced during its heyday in the decade of the 1970's and with good reason. A bit of trivia Out of all the Airport movies that were made only actor George Kennedy starred in all four feature films as Joe Patroni including a TV-version that was resurrected...and also actress Nancy Olson,who was a staple in several Disney-oriented films in the 50's and 60's,starred in only two feature length films to the Airport trilogy.First of,let me start with the best of the series and then from there the worst of the series that were released in theatres from the beginning of one of the most successful franchises of its day...all of this happened in the 1970's.....THE BEST Airport(Universal,1970)-This was the one,the only,the original and perhaps the one that started a craze of disaster-related,soap opera,and excitement oriented action pictures and this one was a sure winner when it hit theatres in Christmas of 1970,and went one to become that year's biggest box-office winner and became the studio's highest grossing picture of 1970 as well. Produced by Ross Hunter and based on the best selling novel by Arthur Hailey,this one was as gripping as the book itself,but its plays itself as a melodrama of sorts,mostly dealing with the personal problems at a large metropolitian airport during a sudden snowstorm. Its begins upfront with a lists of characters including a nasty blizzard,a stowaway elderly lady,a passenger with a bomb set to go off in mid-air,a pregnant stewardess,and best of all a really good fist fight between the pilot and the airport administrator. This movie had an all-star cast which was composed of some very high-profile stars including a Hollywood list of who's-who in motion pictures at the time Dean Martin,Burt Lancaster,Jean Seberg,George Kennedy,Van Heflin,Barry Nelson,Jacqueline Bisset,Dana Wynter,and Helen Hayes,who won a Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her role,and also to included high-profile directors as wellGeorge Seaton and Henry Hathaway. It may drag on a bit but once the action takes off,you'll never know what to expected.Airport77(Universal,1977)-This was probably the best in the series. First off,you have a luxury 747 airliner that is carrying some valuable art work is hijacked in mid-air and lands in the middle of the ocean submerged underwater with passengers and crew trapped below in a watery grave with time running out crashes in the Bermuda Triangle. First off,you have some great suspense and some excellent performances from Jack Lemmon,James Stewart,George Kennedy,Joesph Cotten,Lee Grant, Olivia deHavilland,Darren McGavin and Brenda Vaccaro as part of the all-star cast here. However,their are some silly moments here that makes this drag on somewhat and some lame performances too,especially from Lee Grant and Christopher Lee(whom here is totally wasted in this film),but what saves this film and keeps in suspense till the end is from the gut-wrenching performance of Jack Lemmon and the great Jimmy Stewart. Out of the disaster movies that came out during that period,this was one of the best of the 1970's and one of the better ones of the series. Produced by Jennings Lane and was released in the summer of 1977.THE WORST Airport75(Universal,1974)-Produced by the king of disaster epics,Jennings Lane and was released that same year as did another disaster flick also produced by Lane,called Earthquake,both released by Universal Pictures. However,this was very silly indeed and here's the reason why A 747 in flight collides with a smaller plane,in mid-air,and is rendered pilotless with the hull of the aircraft torned in half,and the cockpit crew seriously injured. Somehow the control tower gets a pilot aboard so the jet can land. And who did they get to do this??? A stewardess who is as ditsy as they come and is totally clueless when the plane almost collides into a mountain,a thousand feet off the ground headed into unknown peril. This one was a true turkey and its shows with a cast that includes Charlton Heston,Karen Black,George Kennedy,Linda Blair,Efrem Zimbalist,Jr.,Susan Clark,and the legendary Gloria Swanson,in her final film role and she is totally wasted here and it shows. But what gets me is this....Who casted Helen Reddy in this film? As a nun?  Please.Airport79-The Concorde-(Universal,1979)-The last of the series and was,suppose to be the end of the Airport genre. This one was totally stupid,totally dumb,and totally pathetic,and very hilarious too with a cast that includes George Kennedy(again),Susan Blakely,Robert Wagner, Eddie Albert,Charo,adult-film actress,yes Emmanuelle herself Sylvia Kristel,Alain Delon. And who is totally wasted here,actresses Cicely Tyson,Bibi Andersson,and as for comedical relief,who casted Jimmie Walker from Good Times???? The worst of the Airport movies.THE BEST Airport,and Airport77 THE WORST Airport75,and Airport79 "},{"Title":"A very successful flight","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An all star cast contributes to the high flying success of Airport, Universal's 1970 film version of Arthur Hailey's bestselling novel. The legendary Burt Lancaster has his greatest role here and is supported by many of the era's top names including Dean Martin, Jean Seberg, Jacqueline Bisset, and George Kennedy. This film was the first to inspire the highly successful disaster film genre of the 1970's. Ten years later, this film would be successfully spoofed under the title, Airplane. "},{"Title":"I'm his disaster insurance....More like GROUP insurance.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While not the first airborne disaster flick to ever hit the screen, this is certainly one of the most successful and trend-setting of them all.  It spawned 3 inferior sequels and a host of imitations.  It's distinction is it's strong story which ingeniously weaves various threads into a stirring climax.  It also focuses more on the actual airport than any of the subsequent films.  A truly astonishing cast is assembled in this Grand Hotel in the Sky film.  Lancaster claimed to have contempt for the picture, but gave a committed and passionate performance as the harried General Manager.  Martin (as a cocky, adulterous pilot) is cast against type and comes of quite well.  Seberg shows a lot of grace and class in her somewhat thankless part....sad that this was her last Hollywood film.  Bisset was never more beautiful and showed some interesting authority as the Chief Stewardess.  Heflin is appropriately nervous and disturbed and Stapleton as his wife tugs at the heartstrings.  Kennedy puts the original stamp on his infamous role of Petroni.  A gallery of other stars big and small appear, but they must all step aside for the lady in the tweed coat with a velvet collar and a brown hat with a brown pom-pom.  Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Helen Hayes trots in and walks off with the picture.  From her very first entrance to her memorable exit, she owns every foot of film she appears in.  She shamelessly uses every trick in the book to gain the most comic momentum and attention that she possibly can.  It's not that she upstages everyone spitefully like some stage actors do, she was given the opportunity on a silver platter and ran with it.  The part seems made for her, even though it stems from a novel.  Every gesture and expression is geared to make the viewer enjoy the shenanigans of the little imp.  This film was already considered old-fashioned entertainment when it came out, but it still pleased more audiences than any other film that year.  It was a monumental success.  Take away some of the dated aspects (like the endless Air Traffic Controller technobabble) and the film is still suspenseful and exciting.  The sentiment is a little cheesy at times and the humor even more so (a priest slapping a passenger, a nun boozing it up) but the film remains quite entertaining.  Highlights include Seberg's interrogation of Hayes (Crafty little old biddy!), Bisset's confrontation with Hayes (You are Miss Ada Quonsett, aren't you?), Stapleton's admission of her husband's problems (He was .....sick...) and of course the climax which takes place in the rear lavatory (!!)  Look among the passengers for All My Children 's Dr. Chuck Tyler in military garb, TV mom Marion Ross (Happy Days) endlessly yammering Can we get a blanket?? and a little balding man in 1st class who unbelievably turns up on the plane in Airport 1975!!  That is one unlucky guy!  Alfred Newman's music is gravy, adding all the right nuances and occasional thrills. "}{"Title":"The first and the best","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  AIRPORT is a fantastic movie based on a more fantastic book.  I have been well familiar with the movie for a long time, but only recently did I get the chance to read the novel.  I would say the movie follows the plot at least as well as most movies based upon a novel.  They always have the needless alterations, such as one character saying a line which in the book was said by a different character and/or way out of sequence.  The movie AIRPORT does this, but since both the book and the movie are set in a time span of about 7-8 hours, the time distortion or condensation is not a deficiency in the movie.But I am aware now that the movie greatly extends the role of Airport Manager Mel Bakersfeld Burt Lancaster way out of shape.  He makes several auto trips from the main airport terminal to the primary runway where the 707 is stuck beneath the snow, and, as the book points out correctly, each such trip would take a long time with many orders from ground control.  And then Bakersfeld was the one who interrogated the distraught bomber's wife, where in the book, as would be in reality, that was done by the airport police supervisor, who in the movie was relegated to a lead security guard. These things were presumably done to create a more 'starring' role for Lancaster; who does a good job, but his character, already proficient, just goes well beyond an airport manager's scope.Captain Vernon Demarest Dean Martin is played well, but he is toned down a little from the unfriendly arrogance found in the book.  Jean Seaberg plays a good Tanya, but her going with Bakersfeld on his many trips to the runway is another 'starring role' insertion device.  Helen Hayes was wonderful as the old lady stowaway; probably the one character who was actually improved from the novel.As for the long time in character developoment, delaying the *action* the audience is supposed to know has to be coming, I consider that a positive. Obviously movie fans, especially young, are conditioned to expect wild action right away.  But I think developing the stories of the people involved helps to give a feel for the true *impact* of the disaster...which was really a disaster only for the perpetrator and one of the persons we have come to know in a sympathetic way.  It is true we don't get the feeling of impending doom-- that the jet is going to wreck and perhaps explode by landing on a too-short and too-slick runway.  But this is just a confirmation of the strength of character to which we have been sampled-- Cpt. Demarest's pushy disposition coupled wilth his and Cpt. Harris' flight skills; Bakersfeld's dilemmas of multi-million dollar decisions; and Joe Patroni's determination and tough handling of both people and machines. "},{"Title":"A Semi-Classic, With It's Faults","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorite films of my childhood was Airport '77, trapping Christopher Lee, Lee Grant, Jack Lemmon, Brenda Vaccaro, and plenty more underwater in a super-duper airplane owned by Jimmy Stewart. There was plenty of action, a substantial amount of drama, suspense, romance, and peril, and overall, it was a good time. Being nine, I thought this was wonderful, and my imagination was all over the place with it. Well, I still like that movie. It's still exciting. And that's the point of this digression. That was a genuinely fun movie, once it really got going. Airport, the original of a series of all-star in-flight dramas, was, well...let's just say a few explosives on a plane don't do it for me.The film takes place over one night at a Chicago airport. There's a terrible snow storm, and to start things off, a plane is stuck on the runway. Mel Bakersfeld (Burt Lancaster) is head honcho of the airport, and with the help of his assistant Tanya (Jean Seberg), must deal with the snow, the airplane, his scorned wife Cindy (Dana Wynter), and the threat of the airport being closed.Enter stage left, Ada Quonsett (Helen Hayes), a kindly old woman, who turns out to be a stowaway, whom Mel and Tanya must deal with. Then there's Mel's brother-in-law, Vernon Demerest (Dean Martin), who's cheating on his wife Sarah (Barbara Hale) with stewardess Gwen (Jacqueline Bisset), who, as it turns out, is pregnant. And then there's Joe Patroni (George Kennedy) working desperately to get airplane out of the snow. And to top it all off, D.O. Guerrero (Van Heflin) is boarding the flight to Rome (flown by Vernon, served by Gwen, taken by Ada) with explosives in his briefcase, with plans to blow up the plane, much to the eventual dismay of his wife Inez (Maureen Stapleton), who, once realizing his plans, tries desperately to get to him before he kills himself and many other people. Whew, that's a lot of drama in one night.And to the film's credit, each subplot is carefully weaved into the story and handled surprisingly well. It's just too bad none of the stories amount to too much. I mean, the story about Mrs. Quonsett is pretty funny, and there's some familiar but effective ground tread by the Vernon-Sarah-Gwen triangle. And there are times when the explosives-on-the-airplane story gets somewhat tense. But in the end, the movie is missing something. Once the crescedo is reached (take a guess as to what happens), there isn't much suspense, and you don't get the impression everyone won't be okay. And in a way, what happens is sort of weak. The film's sequels (no real connection, except Kennedy's recurring role) at least put their characters in some peril. Well, at least Aiport '77 did. And the solution was not easy, and you didn't know for sure who would live and who wouldn't. Here, you have a general idea of who will make it and who won't, and one outweighs the other far too heavily.If anything, the acting is generally good. Burt Lancaster and Dean Martin are worthy leading men, but don't fill every scene so that you get tired of them. Jean Seberg is excellent at Tanya, and Helen Hayes deserved the Oscar as Ada. George Kennedy gave a typical George Kennedy performance, but he always comes across as a nice guy. Jacqueline Bisset is likable, and gives a particularly notable performance. Van Heflin does the paranoid bomber quite well, and Maureen Stapleton is wonderful as his distressed wife. The scenes of her racing through the airport to get to the plane and stop him are quite tense. Towards the end of the movie, she got a little hammy, but it was forgivable. Everyone else has a somewhat small role, but for the most part, I liked them all. Anyway, the movie lacks some needed tension, and never becomes too harrowing. But the acting is good, there's some substaintial drama (though I would have liked more out of the love triangle story), a great musical score, some appropriate humor, and a nice early 70s feel. So, I recommend it for drama fans, but those who like these sort of movies as disaster films, move on.   "},{"Title":"Very true to the novel it is based on.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is based on the first novel I read in high school. The book was both engaging and suspenseful and the film brings it to life on the screen (right down to verbatim dialog from the book). When I saw this film in the theater the first time I was blown away.Veteran film makers Ross Hunter and George Seaton gather an excellent cast and do justice to the book (material not used in this film was developed to make Airport '75). It's no wonder the film, though panned by critics of its time, garnered 10 Academy Award Nominations, including Best Picture!This is a must film for those who are fans of its genre. I was glad it came to DVD but the print is the same one that appears on laser disc, no real improvements here. A 30 year anniversary of the film would have been an appropriate tribute to honor all those involved with its making (many are no longer with us). Remastering it in its original widescreen presentation would have been great too! "},{"Title":"Mindless fun","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think anyone will call this movie a masterpiece, but it's fun to watch in a cheesy, mindless way. Probably the first of many disaster movies from the 70's. A good film to watch when you're in the mood, but check your brain at the door. "},{"Title":"Looks Like I Picked a Bad Day to...","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ..legendary Helen Hayes...)-------------- Airport scales the lofty heights, 16 October 2005 Author krorie from Van Buren, ArkansasI recently watched Airport on TCM. It was the first time I had seen it in its original widescreen format since it came out in 1970. I was surprised at how well it has held up with the passage of time. ...Airport was based on the popular best seller by Arthur Hailey. Although over two hours long, the movie moves and the viewer never gets bored. The stellar cast does an exceptional job with a standout performance by the legendary Helen Hayes. The ending is both happy and sad. "},{"Title":"Disaster in the air","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport (1970) is the first movie in the Airport franchise.This is, could I say the king of disaster movies.It was followed by many others after this.It has Dean Martin as the ladies man (what a surprise!) Captain Vernon Demerest.He's more than close with the stewardess Gwen Meighen (Jacqueline Bisset).The worst snowstorm in 25 years is making the flight to Rome almost impossible.But they takeoff eventually only to find out it only gets worse in the air.There's a man named D.O. Guerrero, played by Van Heflin who has a bomb in his briefcase.Burt Lancaster plays Mel Bakersfeld who pulls the strings on the ground.George Seaton's Airport is some fine entertainment.Besides the previously mentioned stars there are other great actors in the picture.Jean Seberg plays Tanya Livingston.George Kennedy plays Joe Patroni.Maureen Stapleton is Inez Guerrero.Dana Wynter is Cindy Bakersfeld and Barbara Hale is Sarah Bakersfeld Demerest.Helen Hayes (won an Oscar) plays the little old lady Ada Quonsett who likes flying for free.Marion Ross of Happy Days is seen as one of the passengers.This movie offers many thrilling moments in the air.Sure it may look like to many of the modern viewers that it's packed with clichés but you have to remember that these kind of movies were new nearly forty years ago.So don't look for the clichés.Watch the movie as if you were watching it in 1970. "},{"Title":"It took me a while to get into this film...","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...but when i did, it was a very enjoyable film!I was going to take a big risk and buy the Airport Boxset without seeing any of the films before but i caught Airport '77 On Sky Modern Greats and i loved it, so it wasn't as big a risk to buy the whole Boxset anymore!In the first 30 minutes - 1 hour, this film was a 6/10 in my opinion but as it progressed after the first hour, it got really good and interesting, the sudden explosion of the bomb sent shock waves right threw my body and it film was very good after the explosion!If you have ever watched this film, you'll notice it likeness to use split screens which i thought was pretty weird!*The Bottom Line It took me around an hour to get into Airport but once i did i enjoyed it a lot!7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best of all times, a 10.   They should make them like this today.","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know that everyone is entitled to their opinion on things, and like them I have a opinion too. Airport was and still is one of the best, and traditional great films to be made. Even with its story being about a mentally ill, desperate man on board ready to commit suicide and take all that he can with him, I still find it to be very relaxing to watch. Of course, I've seen it many, many times over the years and the decades. They don't make them like this anymore. The quality of actors and actresses is to be admired. Some may say that this sort of movie is dated, and it is, and that is what's so great about it. It was made in some of the greatest times for films and with the best stars still alive and in their heyday. The little stories intermixed in the movie make it very relaxing and enjoyable. I get the same feeling from other great films of the '70's such as 'The Towering Inferno' which has first rate stars and great stories. These movies are very enjoyable and I wish there were producers, writers who had it in them to make films like these today. Any film today in excess of Bamby or Mickey Mouse is, of course, not suitable for easily corruptible children or even timid adults. But, unlike the status quo of todays peoples thinking on these things, I grew up when children were not so shielded from little 'nothings' like a little scare or some minor profanity in a film. There is absolutely nothing wrong with these lines being written into a script, as they only outline the characters much better. If people are offended by comments made in this film, then they have indeed led a very sheltered existence. This is after all a 35 year old film. Just look at what it takes today to scare people or offend them. "},{"Title":"Burt is the administrator, Dean the pilot","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This disaster movie has it all. A stowaway old lady, a passenger with a bomb, a pregnant stewardess, a nasty blizzard and a truly good fist fight between the pilot (Dean Martin) and the airport administrator (Burt Lancaster). Oh! and did I mention that the cast is composed of high-profile stars.Yes, the movie has its fair share of faults. I mean, it doesn't take an aerospace engineer to figure out this is no real plane to begin with. But the movie is still able to thrill us. For that, Airport is a good drama. Entertaining even if it drags on a little bit.Out of 100, I give it 81. That's good for *** out of ****.Seen at home, in Toronto, on October 12th, 2002. First seen on December 16th, 2000. Same rating. "},{"Title":"A movie that got better as it progressed","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know how many people will agree with me on this but the beginging of Airport is boring. But it gets better when the plot of the bomb gets in the story. When that set in, I didn't know what was going to happen. Totally unpredictable. I highly recommend it.9/10 "}{"Title":"One of the best among thrillers","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first Airport movie is one of the best ever made, whatever the critics say. I always judge a movie from how well it puts across what it is trying to tell the audience. In this respect, 'Airport' scores at least 9 out of 10. So what if the characters appear shallow? If you take a group of people in a real life situation...as 'Airport' does...individual characters don't always shine through; if you think about it, they seldom do. In the case of 'Airport' I got hooked from the first scene to last and watching it on the big screen was a real experience. The script is tight and to the point, the photography excellent for its period and the direction superb. Only the slightly artificial and repetitive music is a slight put off in an otherwise excellent film. Pity that the DVD is only a cropped 43 edition. "},{"Title":"Great, old-fashioned entertainment","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a marvellous drama, in Hollywood´s very best style. The film has everything you need for an evening of great entertainment. Famous actors, a marvellous score (by Alfred Newman) and a suspenseful plot. Yes, the story is indeed rather predictable, but you would not want it any other way in a film like this. The three sequels rank from good enough to ridiculous, but they are all worth checking out if you are a fan of 1970´s disaster movies. A must-see. "},{"Title":"A must for airliner enthusiasts.  Entertaining & exciting.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw Airport when I was 12 years old (guess that gives away my age!) and I was totally mesmerized, having already developed a passion for airliners.   My most vivid memories are the landing approach shots from the pilot's eye-view, and Joe Patroni (the George Kennedy character) driving the snow-mired Boeing 707 free with engines screaming at full power.  I also remember the snow making an impression on me, because when the movie was over, I felt I would be walking out of the theater into a blizzard, even though it was mid-summer!  The bomb blast and subsequent decompression of the aircraft cabin were awesome.  I loved the way they built the suspense up, with the bomb-damaged 707 limping in for an emergency landing at an airport where the only runway long enough for it to land safely was blocked by another 707 stuck in the snow!  (Patroni Think of what this baby costs! -- Bakersfeld I'm thinking of that planeload of people.  This runway's the only hope they've got!)After 30 years, it is fascinating to watch the movie as it has aged.  It gives one a glimpse into a different era of travel as well as the era of the late 1960's itself.As for the acting, Helen Hayes was pure delight as the elderly stowaway, and I will never forget the look of shock, horror, and despair on Maureen Stapleton's face as she learned that her mentally-ill husband (bomb-in-briefcase) was indeed on the plane to Rome that had just departed.I was sad to see Airport recently being marketed in a what I call a bargain-basement format at the local Wal-Mart.  Fortunately, I own a first-quality videocassette of the movie.   I only wish it was available in letterbox format so I could see the whole plane instead of just sections of it 'formatted to fit my tv screen.'Airport is among some of my favorite childhood memories.  It was one of those things that made an impression on my mind as I was growing up.  I believe that movies have that power, and regardless of what critics say, the way movies affect and touch our lives is a very personal, individual experience.   "},{"Title":"Classic combo of soap opera and suspense","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have a great deal of affection for Airport  the Arthur Hailey novel was the first 'big' book I ever read as a child; my father was, in fact, a commercial airline pilot; and I, myself, actually work for a major airline (love the first line of dialogue in this flick!)  So, perhaps my appreciation of Airport is just a little skewed.  But, then, I'm also a huge movie buff and will honestly tell you that Airport is one grand piece of cinematic entertainment.  It combines all the melodramatic trappings of a Grand Hotel--an all-star cast centered in a specific location--with the added, er, incentive of impending disaster.  Tho Airport jump-started the disaster craze of the 1970s, it isn't really the granddaddy, nor is it the grandson--it's more like the great-grandson (check out San Francisco or In Old Chicago from the '30s).  Airport is crisply, intelligently filmed by George Seaton (I especially love his effective use of split-screen), with a rousing score by Alfred Newman.  And the cast is just great  Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin, Jacqueline Bissett, Jean Seberg all give fine performances.  But the best performances are provided by George Kennedy (actually, tho playing a mechanic, a more accurate portrayal of a sky jockey I've ever seen), Helen Hayes (hilarious in an Oscar-winning performance), Van Heflin (sobering in his final screen appearance), and Maureen Stapleton (who provides the film with some necessary gravity).  This is classy, funny, pull-out-all-the-stops entertainment! "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's cheesy, it's hokey, it's cliched to the max, but I never get tired of it.  When it first came out I was just a kid, and I'll never forget the edge-of-my-seat suspense.  Now it's just plain fun, and I'm old enough to appreciate it for its quality.Van Heflin and Maureen Stapleton, both wonderful acting.  Brilliant musical score, too.My only problem is with Dean Martin and Jacqueline Bisset.  NO chemistry there.  When he's mauling her in her apartment, and his comment on her nightie Ooh I like THAT, you can see right through it! it's like UGH, totally creepy, go away you dirty old man.  *shudder*  If there was supposed to be Love and Romance implied, it sure didn't come across to me.Oh yeah -- I love it when Vern is trying to reason with the Mad Bomber you'll kill yourself for nothing if you EXPLODE THAT BOMB  Tee hee. After all their work to keep the passengers calm, is that tact or what??Great flick.  If you haven't seen it, rent it just for historical value, if nothing else.  You'll end up finding a lot more than that to appreciate. "},{"Title":"Some of the best acting I have seen, technically sound","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a better movie than the average score might suggest. The characters in this movie were interesting and convincing. Burt Lancaster portrayed the role of the airport manager married to his job so well. The lack of time with his family, his sense of obligation to keep the airport running and his clashes with the city councilman were realistic. George Kennedy, one of the best supporting actors of all time, was a great cowboy mechanic. Helen Hayes was appropriately awarded a best supporting actress award for her role as an elderly woman who exploits her senior citizen status and the gullibility of airline workers to get free flights.One of my biggest pet peeves in movies is a blatant ignorance of anything technical. Among many things, I was pleased to see that radio protocol between the pilots and air traffic controllers was consistent with what you would experience at a real airport. There was none of the Roger Wilco, over and out rubbish that you often hear in other movies where radios are used.  "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is my guiltiest pleasure and I still have a tremendous affection for it. 2 things which make it stand out over most of the Disaster films that followed and especially the other Airports. 1) This was the only Airport movie that was about the Airport itself and not simply the Disaster. Lincoln Airport is itself the Lead character and the director and crew do a wonderful job in creating the sense of a real place. Even though the sets are overlit and obviously fake, this Airport will always be alive in my memory. 2) After the bomb goes off, the film, which has teetered from Soap Opera to Slapstick switches immediately to a tense and realistic story. When the Air Traffic Controllers (who had to have been non-actors - they are so dry and entirely without any emotion - very realistic) start talking the plane down, the movie stops pandering to the Audience and gives them a dry, technical, and ultimately suspenseful last 30 minutes. When the plane has entered the clouds and it's impossible to see anything and all you can hear are the reports from Approach Control ' 5 miles from runway' '4 miles from runway' it is to this day more exciting to me than 200 million dollars of CGI Asteroid in Armageddon.    "},{"Title":"Very good movie; worth the time!!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you like the 707, Boeing, or airplanes in general, it's an excellent movie. A must-see! "},{"Title":"Soap that really suds!","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I never get bored watching this film. It never stops being interesting. We get all the suspense, back talk, trickery, adultery, & comedy needed. The conniving old lady, with tricks up her sleeves, is continuous entertainment. Our rat pack middle age pilot with a nice wife, just can't keep his hands off of that knock-out gorgeous flight attendant (it was OK to call them stewardesses back then), and we're all so forgiving. The incredibly obvious commercialism in regards to Boeing and the airline industry is a bit disgusting though. But in spite of it's faults, the movie was great. And, the formula was magical to the very pointed, uncreative, 'bottom line is all that matters' producers of Hollywood. The greatest scene to me, or one of the greatest, is the irritating jerk getting whacked upside the head by a priest. All in all, the movie is fun to watch, even for the 30th time. "},{"Title":"First Saw it as Kid, Enjoy it Even More Now!","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Saw this last light on Encore with my wife who had never seen it. At first she was turned off by the dated cars and clothes but as it went on she got hooked into the story. The characters were great. Burt Lancaster and the overwhelmed but level headed airport manager Mel Bakersfeld. Dean Martin as the philandering, cool but unlikeable pilot Vernon Demerest. The Great George Kennedy as the gruff, cigar chewing, Marine Drill Sergeant of a Chief Mechanic Joe Patroni. Van Heflin as a suicidal airline passenger with a bomb. Jackie Bissett as a stewardess and Martin's love interest. The inimitable Helen Hayes who won an Oscar for her performance as an elderly stowaway.There are other characters who though unnamed played vital roles in the film. Among these are the Air Traffic Controllers who knowing the tremendous stakes calmly guide the crippled Boeing 707 across the Midwest during a blizzard. Their cool unexcited demeanor assuring the pilots of the aircraft that everything will workout.The blizzard itself is a character, driving events forward, adding to the gut wrenching suspense.As the plot zooms along with obstacle after obstacle thrown up in front of the harried pilots and passengers it all comes down to the 707 with a hole in the side, crippled stabilizers and iffy hydraulics and brakes making a desperate emergency landing on the only runway long enough to handle such a situation. One problem though. Another 707 has skidded off the runway and is stuck, blocking the runway with a wing and part of its fuselage.Enter Master Chief Joe Patroni, spinning the turbines up, pushing the stuck aircraft to the breaking point and almost by sheer force of will forcing it back onto the runway and taxiing it out of the way as the crippled 707 is on final approach. A true, harrowing, white knuckled, nail biting piece of film-making there.The movie takes a while to get going as it has a large cast and many characters to develop but once it finds it's legs, hang on. It is a heck of a ride. I had not seen this film in over a decade and in that time it aged even better than I remembered it. "}{"Title":"A Big Heaping Cornball with an Extra Slice of Cheese","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's easy to sneer at Airport for its old-fashioned quaintness, its clunky direction and its laughably melodramatic plot. But all of the same attributes describe any number of films from, say, the 1930s that we now hail as classics (like Grand Hotel, for example, except that I wouldn't call the direction in that film clunky). Airport had the misfortune of appearing at a time when American cinema was FINALLY becoming more daring, and it now seems like a dinosaur compared to many of its contemporaries. But it is notable for creating the prototype for the all-star disaster film that has been a staple of the movie-going experience ever since.This all-star cast includes Burt Lancaster, slumming it mightily; Dean Martin (God, who'd want HIM piloting your plane?); George Kennedy; Helen Hayes, cute as a button in the twinkly little old lady role (can you feel my sarcasm from where you're sitting?); Van Heflin, as a middle-aged mad bomber; and Maureen Stapleton, as the mad bomber's wife, who has the dubious job of running around for nearly the duration of the film's running time looking perplexed. Character development is not this kind of film's strong suit, and neither is credibility in any other regard. But it makes for a rather cozy viewing experience, because you know the plane and everyone on it is going to be safe, there are old-fashioned heroes to root for, there's a marvelous Alfred Newman score, and you get to see Helen Hayes socked in the face. If that's not worth the price of a Netflix rental, I don't know what is.Grade B "},{"Title":"The daddy of all disaster movies","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So much has been written here about this films tremendous influence that i won't dwell too much on it. It seems to be rolled out here in England on a quiet holiday afternoon, and I usually sit and watch it. For me, the pleasure is the glossy 60s appearance, the myriad of stars gracing thesceen, and the very innovative splitscreen presentation.This movie has a glamour about that is undeniably sexy, with a multitude of interwoven plots all coming to a head. It doesn't get bogged down in the technology, like the other films in the franchise, and focuses on the human aspect of the plot.Finally, i just love looking back at the relative glamour that air travel still had, and try to pretend that as I board my Easyjet flight, with the cabin crew all dressed in orange polo shirts, that the world hasn't really changed that much ! "},{"Title":"Did You Ever Have One of Those Days?","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Airport, Burt Lancaster was having one of those days. His neglected wife Dana Wynter is complaining about him not making a banquet for the umpteenth time. But Burt's got his problems other than the normal ones that come with the job of running the Lincoln Airport and I assume they mean Lincoln, Nebraska. Unexpected snow has hit and being from Buffalo that's something I can appreciate. He's got a stuck plane on his best runway. He's getting harassed from the board of directors, he's getting complaints about the noise from the nearby residents. He's been brought a perennial stowaway in Helen Hayes by his girl Friday Jean Seberg. His brother-in-law, pilot Dean Martin, has filed a complaint against him to the Board of Directors. And he's got Van Heflin loose with a bomb. It's just one those days he should never have come to work.Director George Seaton packed a whole lot of stars and a whole lot of plot into the 137 minute running time of Airport. It's good entertaining drama that made a whole lot of money back in the early Seventies and was so popular it spawned three sequels. Of course these were really giant commercials for the airline industry, but who cared, then or now.Seaton kept the action going pretty good, almost so that you forget that you're movie star gazing and concentrate on the plot. George Kennedy played maintenance man Joe Petroni, a role he repeated in all four Airport films. Maureen Stapleton gives a tragic, gut wrenching performance as the suicidal Van Heflin's wife, undeservedly, unheralded at the time.The comic relief in this belongs to the first lady of the American Theater Helen Hayes. She won her second Oscar as the perennial stowaway, Ada Quonset. Her scene with Jean Seberg and Burt Lancaster as she matter of factly tells of her methods of theft of service is a delight. And she figures prominently in the climax as well.A year ago I saw Peter Riegert when he made an appearance in Buffalo with his film King of the Corner. I asked him about Burt Lancaster who he worked with and he said that Lancaster told him his philosophy of choosing roles was that he alternated his choices. As he quoted Burt Lancaster, Riegert said that Burt's philosophy was that he made one film for himself and one for the poke. One for artistry and one that would be a commercial success so he could afford to do the other.Airport was one for the poke. But the fact is that Lancaster and the rest of the players made it good entertainment as well. "},{"Title":"All-star pageant lives down to expectations","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" AIRPORT Aspect ratio 2.201 (Todd-AO)Sound format 6-track magnetic stereoDuring one of the worst snowstorms in recent memory, overworked airport officials must contend with a series of crises, culminating in a bomb scare on board a loaded passenger plane.Glossy all-star extravaganza - written and directed by George Seaton from Arthur Hailey's bestselling novel, and produced by Ross Hunter - which set the template for a range of similar epics throughout the 1970's (various characters suffering a wide range of personal problems are thrown together during a catastrophic event). While entirely serviceable, the movie never really comes to the boil, perhaps because it doesn't live up to its reputation as a 'disaster' thriller (there's a small calamity at the halfway mark, and a threat of further misfortune, but nothing more). Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin and Jacqueline Bisset topline a terrific cast, which includes Oscar-winning Helen Hayes as a 'dotty' old lady who cons her way onto the wrong flight, and Van Heflin as a desperate man whose final act of sabotage prompts much of the ensuing drama. Tech credits are ultra-professional, but despite Ernest Laszlo's expansive cinematography (in 70mm, no less!), the film has the look and feel of a widescreen TV movie, typical of many Universal productions from this era. Followed by AIRPORT 1975 (1974) - much trashier, and therefore much more satisfying - and thoroughly spoofed by AIRPLANE! (1980). "},{"Title":"A rainy day matinée on the Jersey shore","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a good movie memory for me. I was ten when I saw this, and it was the first time I saw a movie without an adult. I went with my cousin on a rainy afternoon on the Jersey shore.I remember being very impressed when the bomb blew the plane up. Now I realize its a sound effect and a big fan blowing stuff around, but at the time, it was cool.I also remember how strange it was to hear someone curse in a movie - Dana Wynter says 'damn' and 'hell' in her first scenes, and when you're 10, that's hot stuff..at least it was for me.The actors are all pretty good, except for Dean Martin, who's not as convincing as a pilot as he would be with a drink, a cigarette and a Golddigger on each arm. I have nothing against the guy, but he's just not that good an actor. Its shallow how Helen Hayes gets all the same music over her scenes, telling you she's a dotty old lady, as if you couldn't tell by looking at her and her little hat. She beat poor Maureen Stapleton for an Oscar that year, and I guess you can see why. Poor Mo, all she does is suffer as a desperate mans wife and there is no catharsis for her character at all. Burt Lancaster was too busy looking at the zeroes on his paycheck to notice that there was not much of a part for him, but he was smart enough to take the money and do something worthwhile with it, like make something meaningful..This movie single-handedly started the craze of 1970's disaster movies, so we do owe it some respect. And I saw practically all the them, too. "},{"Title":"Some Good Diversionary Fluff","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An all-star cast and a big budget highlight this film about the hubbub at a busy American airport, from the POV of the airport's general manager, Mel Bakersfeld (Burt Lancaster). He must deal with all kinds of headaches including local politics, domestic trouble with his wife, and a crisis at the airport, where a plane gets stuck in the snow on the main runway. While all this is happening, a man with a bomb in his carry-on luggage boards a plane bound for Rome. Dramatic tension escalates as Mel works with the ground crew to clear the moribund jet off the runway, so that the plane with the bomber can return.The film's first half is very slow; too much time is spent on the domestics of wives and lovers. Drama picks up at the midpoint plot turn, when the airport staff realizes there's a lunatic on one of its flights. Some of the film's plot elements are a tad contrived, especially the coincidental timing of the two major airport events.Casting for the film is fine, except for Dean Martin as a commercial airline pilot, yikes. Acting is generally acceptable. I especially liked the performances of George Kennedy and Jacqueline Bisset. Although Helen Hayes gives a nice performance as a little old lady stowaway, I can't see that she deserved an Oscar award.The film's color cinematography is acceptable, if unremarkable; but I did not like the split screen effect. Background music is highly manipulative; it's frenetic when there's lots of drama, elevator-ish during romantic scenes. Production design, hairstyles, and clothes are predictably 1970s; as a result, the film looks very dated.This is not a movie to watch for deep themes. But, as diversionary fluff, it does have entertainment value. At well over two hours, the film seems long and drawn out to me. But other viewers may like all those varied and overlapping plot strands.If you want to watch a movie with an all-star cast and some fairly good fictional, albeit unrealistic, drama, and not have to do a lot of heavy-duty thinking, Airport is a film you can fly away with. "},{"Title":"Airport","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Empty film with nothing holding it together, except the performances of Kennedy as the heroic ground chief and Hayes, who won an Oscar as a cutesy passenger. Mediocre script that helped the dawning of the disaster film in the 1970's; a part of film history that stuns and boggles the mind.  "},{"Title":"Greatest movie ever made!","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK, so it's not the greatest movie ever made. In many ways it is, in the words of movie critics everywhere, a big piece of junk. Nevertheless, on a cold winter night with a tub of microwave popcorn and a cold case of nostalgia, I'd rather watch Airport than, say, Citizen Kane, or Potemkin, or Gone WTW, or any of the other so-called classics of the cinema.Everyone in this movie is so...tacky! So contrived! And oh so serious! People actually dressed in suits to fly on an airplane. Burt Lancaster never stops working, damnit, cuz running an airport is a full-time job. Dean Martin actually uses the adjective precious to describe jet fuel. Remember this was before OPEC, when the stuff was pretty cheap!Yet it's all authentic, in its own horrible way. Not authentic to real people and to a real story, God forbid, but authentic to an idealized way of life that people imagined I suppose as late as 1970, when this clunker was made.Why watch it now? Watch for the airport exteriors shot at a real airport---Minneapolis/St. Paul International--which does not look like this any more. Gone are the open-air parking lot, the gleaming white concourses, the tin and cheesecloth ticket counters. Gone with them are the silly notions that stewardesses are sex kittens in jolly nice uniforms, that real men smoke tobacco products on any and all occasions, and that nothing could be more glamorous than a Boeing 707 taking off for Rome. Especially gone is the era when a passenger could stroll aboard an airplane toting even a sewing scissors, nevermind what D.O. Guerrero was packing in that briefcase.Gone is the innocence of the uninspected life, an innocence this movie holds in spades. "},{"Title":"Dandy disaster film with solid performances from Burt and Dean","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As an avid Dean Martin fan, sure I loved this film. But watching it again now, 46 years later, it's a darned good film. A bit dated, of course. But, if you wonder what air travel was like back in 1970, this gives you a pretty good idea from terminal issues to actual flying. And of course, Airport spawned a whole series of sequels.Before I get into the film, I wanted to mention that I am watching this on Universal's Blu Ray edition, and it's an extremely nice transfer. However, the way the disc works with special features and restarting after a pause is rather odd.The first thing that I remember from my original viewing of this film in theaters was how interesting just seeing how airports work. There's a bit of technical stuff here than adds to the realism.The second thing remembered was how worn out Burt Lancaster looked. Of course, he was nearing 60, but a little better makeup would have helped. Nevertheless, it's a good performance, and I say that as someone who didn't always appreciate Lancaster.I remember folks wondering if Dean would be believable as an airline pilot. Well, he was, and in fact his is another very good performance, particularly in the scene just before the bomb goes off.I usually wan't impressed with Jean Seberg, although she does nicely here. Her personal life and the intrigue surrounding it were probably more interesting than many of her acting roles. I feel similarly about Jacqueline Bisset -- a little shallow as an actress. But they were both beautiful. Another actor I was never impressed with is here, too -- George Kennedy as trouble shooter; chomping on a cigar never impresses me; it's a stereotypical performance.The beloved performance by Helen Hayes as elderly stowaway Ada Quonsett.Among the most intriguing characters are Van Heflin as a failed contractor and the bomber of the airplane in question. Maureen Stapleton plays his despondent wife; a bravura performance by a talented character actress.Good performances are turned in by Barry Nelson as the co-pilot, Dana Wynter as Lancaster's wife, Lloyd Nolan as a custom's agent, and Barbara Hale as Dean's wife (Barbara was Della Street in Perry Mason).I flew in and out of Minneapolis-St. Paul many times on the way to and from Thailand beginning a decade later, and that's where much of the film was made. I was also interested to see my old favorite airline -- Northwest Orient -- advertised in several shots. But I also was reminded how much smoking there used to be on airplanes.I thought they did a nice job with some of the very minor characters aboard the airline, even those who had no speaking parts. It added humor and detail. And, you'll recognize a few of those character actors whose names you never quite remember.There have been complaints that Airport is melodramatic, and it' somewhat true. And yet, the stories of any of the portrayed passengers are all realistic. And, that's the kind of film that Ross Hunter often produced, and so many of his films were so popular.It's interesting to compare this film with it's ancestor -- The High And The Mighty, and to note how much air travel had changed from 1954 until 1970.The one problem I saw technically is my doubt that in the middle of winter during a snowstorm that men digging with shovels to make a sort of ramp for the plane was unlikely. Ever try digging with a shovel into soil in the middle of the winter? I just don't think so.Airport is a very fine film. It was a blockbuster, and deservedly so. A $90 million profit at a time when that rarely happened. "},{"Title":"A Listers with B-Dialogue","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The (not) so holy mother of all modern disaster films that started the craze (and a franchise) and laid out the rules of such movies - many stars, little bit slow start to get a quick glimpse of the characters and their problems, and then the tense and fast paced second half. Filled with classic stars and character actors so there aren't many too bland characters, most of them are bit one dimensional, but still entertaining to watch. Magnificent Helen Hayes as charismatic con-woman and Van Heflin in one of his last roles are definitely standouts. They both seemed to have enough fun and not taking themselves too seriously. George Kennedy's wise cracking and smart Patroni was also nice touch for comic relief.Though cliché ridden plot and with hammy dialogue 'Airport' is aged pretty well. Not the greatest film from disaster sub-genre, but definitely one of the most entertaining ones. "}{"Title":"Very Dated but just about watchable.","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I guess out of all the 70's Disaster Movies Airport is about the most watchable (along with Towering Inferno) Both have their boring parts and this one some pretty corny dialogue (These days that has morphed into banal so not a lot of change there.) The best feature of this movie is the casting of a real professional actor in Burt Lancaster, I don't like all of his movies but he never gave a poor performance in his life. There is the usual line up of veterans who have all seen better days. I'm totally mystified by the Oscar for Helen Hayes as best supporting actress, there is nothing special about her acting and in fact her character is Hollywood at it's most corny. Worth seeing through but don't expect anything very special or you might be very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good, Cheesy Fun!","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So I confess that I have a love for disaster films, no matter what other people think of them. Thank heavens for movie subjectivity! Anyhow, Airport is a movie that is the pioneer for modern disaster movies, but I really enjoyed it. There are undeniably many flaws, but my gosh I had a blast watching the film and the campy tone gave the film spirit. My biggest flaw I had with the film is the scenes involving the personal lives of the manager. I mean, his pending divorce has nothing to do with the rest of the plot, including trying to save the plane. Other than that plot issue, I really had fun watching the granddaddy of all disaster films.This film is about this airport that is stricken due to a blizzard. But even more serious problems arise when a bomb-damaged plane needs an emergency landing in order to save the people on the plane. The manager of the Lincoln Airport, Mel Bakersfield, has his hands full in trying to combat the weather and personnel in order to save the plane.The film has a stacked cast full of Oscar nominees. Now while no one truly gives Oscar-worthy performances, there is no denying that they were solid performances. Burt Lancaster did a good job as Mel and Dean Martin as the head pilot, Vernon. Those performances came across as serious despite the campy tone, but they were still good. However, I felt the best performance came from Helen Hayes, a 70-year-old woman who makes a fuss about plane tickets which causes her to hitch airplane rides while avoiding authorities. Her comic relief was excellent, and maybe she did deserve that Oscar.Overall, Airport is a fun disaster movie and in hindsight, it set the tone for the major disaster movies that will come in the future. It is a great movie? Not really. Is it a fun, entertaining movie? You bet it is! I am very amazed how this film achieved ten Oscar nominations. If this same film was released in 2015, it more likely would have received ten Razzie nominations. Oh how the time change! But on the whole, a really fun movie with some cool sequences including my favorite which was the bomb going off in the plane.My Grade B+/A- "},{"Title":"typical disaster flick but it still works","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I still remember those disaster flicks from the seventies with buildings, boats and airplanes. Now that they are all available on DVD or Blu Ray it's time to pick up those you still remember seen with your parents back then. At a convention I found the Airplane box knowing that they go from good to a, no pun intended, disaster I started this classic.At the end I was surprised that the disaster itself only took maybe 30 minutes of this flick but don't worry. I kept watching it and before I knew it it was over and done. It wasn't that bad at all, the way they edited conversations was way before their time. And it works. On the other hand the way the pilots and stewardesses are presented gave me a smile too. Here they all are cheating and are doing it when they have night stops with each other. And the pilots are smoking when attending flying. Go figure that one out. And they do smoke a lot in the plane and the movie itself. There's also a bit of comedy to catch here and there even as it is all about the bomb and the disaster.The effects used are rather good for the time being, even as you can spot the fake airplane in the air it didn't bother me at all, just have a look at the last entry with the Concorde, the effects used their are laughable.A lot of blah blah indeed but still even as you know how this is going to end it's worth seeing.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0,5/5 "},{"Title":"Proof that the Silent Majority was Still Being Heard","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" At Times Anachronistic, the Movie was Dated Even in 1970. Famous Movie Critic Judith Crist Famously Called This...The Best Movie of 1944. It was Released at the Height of the Generation Gap, The Vietnam War, Richard Nixon, and Right in the Middle of the Hollywood System's Inevitable Demise.The Country at the Time was Divided Right Down the Middle. Simply Stated, Young vs Old, or it Could be Said, Those that THINK YOUNG and Those that THINK OLD. No Doubt What Side This Thing Was On. Anyway, it was Turbulent Times.The Movie is High Gloss and Looks Great. It is So Slick it Almost Slides of the Screen. There are Some Elements Here that Hollywood Had Been Doing Successfully for So Many Years that it is Not Surprising Just How Well Done It Is.But it is More than Well Done, it is Over Baked. The First Third of the Movie is the Most Cringe Inducing with its Marital and Extramarital Affairs Dominating the Dated Dialog Delivered by Aging Stars. There are Many Attractions in the Film. No Not the Name Actors.The Sleek, Slender, and Colorful Cinematography. The Snow Storm. The Airplane. All Add to the Charm as Does the Plot Once it Gets Beyond the Sickly and Soapy Beginning. When Things Finally Get Off the Ground it is an Entertaining Picture.Overall, Listing the Cast and Their Contribution or Lack Thereof to the Ultimate Success, both at the Box Office and the Academy, is the Stuff of Lampoon and Legend. Suffice to Say that the Movie was a Hit Despite Itself. The Most Interesting Thing Might Be How it Managed Such a Feat at a Time When Other Movies were So New, Different, Ground Breaking, and In Touch with its Own Place and Time. In 1970 the Silent Majority Still was Managing to be Heard. "},{"Title":"Kind of outdated but thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So it was the start of 70's where special effect guys were still struggling to give out the best.This one is quite enjoyable although special effects were sought of cheesy.It lacks the glamor of big budget with mediocre sound track.Star cast was promising which delivers as expected.Sometimes dialogs feels like you are watching a 50's movie only in color which i suppose due to the fact that book came in 1958. The old stowed away lady provided the much needed comic relief.Only thing that got me was the post marital relationship was taken as too casual.In the end everyone gets along with the ladies and not with their spouses. Go watch this flick you will never get bored. "},{"Title":"Nominated For 10 Academy Awards Including Best Picture","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on the sensational best-seller by Arthur Hailey, Universal's Airport went on to earn an astonishing ten Oscar nominations and became the studios top grossing film up to that time. It was ground zero for the disaster movie genre which dominated box office in the 1970s and spawned three sequels and a host of imitations. Dean Martin and Jacqueline Bisset play a pilot and stewardess who have more to contend with than an affair when a depressed man boards their aircraft armed with an explosive device. How the lives of those on board and at the airport below are affected by the pending disaster makes for compelling melodrama on par with Peyton Place although cynical viewers today might not get what all the fuss was about. An old school Hollywood classic. "},{"Title":"one of the original disaster flicks","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport is a film that kind originated the Disaster movie genre, but compared to modern disaster movies. This compared to them is a totally different animal. As this focuses on characters and believable scenarios. Modern disaster flicks concentrate more on the effects and the actual disaster. which in some ways is a step backwards for the genre.Set in the fictional Lincoln Airport which they are trying to keep open through heavy snowfall. But also have to deal with a suicide bomber and various personnel problems for people involved. The thing that i liked most and would say loved about the film is the Mrs. Ada Quonsett character played by Helen Hayes who is a elderly stowaway who is utterly adorable throughout and made me laugh on more than one occasion. The score of the film is very good, and quite memorable. Which was sadly the last score done by Alfred Newman who scored Charlie Chaplins Modern Times and won a total of 9 Oscars.The film is too melodramatic, and except for some small periods regarding the suicide bomber. these is little to no tension or feeling of danger throughout the film. Also Burt Lancaster and Dean Martin plays there roles far to straight for my liking as they could of improved the film if they took it a little less seriously.Not nearly as good as the brilliant Poseidon Adventure and Towering inferno. But it is a entertaining movie none the less. "},{"Title":"Afternoon filler","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on the Arthur Hailey novel, this was the first of four films in the series of the airborne disaster. Generally the plot involves staff at Lincoln international airport coping with a heavy storm that has crippled the area. Intermitten with a love triangle, pregnancy and a mad bomber, you have all the ingredients of part soap part film. Although very dated when viewed these days, the heavyweight cast packs a punch together with a well written script. Helen Hayes, the stowaway won an Oscar for her role. Dean Martin suits his character of airline pilot taking his plane to safety after a mid air incident, and the delightful sexy Jacqueline Bisset is the perfect stewardess. Takes quite a period to get to the main action, but once there most viewers will be satisfied. The rest of the movie is filled with relationship dialogue mostly and bogs the picture down. Perfect nostalgia movie of the 70's and still fondly remembered, even categorised as perhaps cheesy. See also Airport 75, Airport 77 (AKA Airport 3, Airport 80 The Concorde. "},{"Title":"Most of it has already been said...","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the film for what it was didn't expect the character development of Vertigo or East of Eden. That said, I thought the pilot's having authority in airport administration, plane recovery, and the waiving of safety procedures was a bit unrealistic. Barbara Hale had way too little screen time, and I couldn't figure out why her character put up with Demarest's philandering and general nastiness. Dana Wynter was also under-utilized, and her character's sudden change to nice after revealing that she (also) had a lover was too abrupt. Seberg kept reminding me of Tippi Hedren, though Hitchcock would never have allowed the two-full-cans-of-hairspray helmet or the little-girl dress design. Did Edith Head REALLY design these clothes? I guess even she couldn't overcome the forces of the era's ludicrous styles. The scene changes to cover the sub-plots were well-timed, and the cast did what they could with the dialogue. I thought the camera work was very good and the split screens and insets worked. Entertaining, and a rich supply of campy quotes, especially the pilot's saying to the stewardess that now that she'd gotten him revved up she was making him shift into reverse. Get it? Get it?  "},{"Title":"Airport is a classic","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is a not only a great film, but a classic. It is a classic because people with problems and crisis at airports will always be with us. For these reasons, it is not dated. It is a exciting movie with  class. Many sequels, disaster films and spoofs were produced because of its sucess.(The Airplane spoof is funny depending on your taste. Sick and psychotic things are funny to some people)At any rate, everyone should see the Airport film which started it all. I know many 70's films in which you had to use your brain to appreciate and was not totally mindless blowing up and shootings will seem strange to todays teens.If you like Star Trek see Airport. Airport will remind you of Star Trek Airport has themes of facing up to your responsibilties, courage, and working together to overcome obstacles-- along with suspense and a bomber onboard. "}{"Title":"AIRPORT A CLASSIC","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is a movie that once it begins grabs your interest to the end. I cannot say it is dated because people do not change and neither does crisis onboard airplanes. So it is a classic that we can enjoy today about as much as 1970's audiences did. As for Aiplane, everyone has their own idea of what is funny and what is not. Rape, torture, and child abuse is hilarious to some people, so its depends on your taste. Remember that when someone says Airplane and other movies are funny. But Airport the movie which caused many sequels, other diaster movies  and spoofs to be made,  was the great original that you should rent or buy. See the movie that started it all. "},{"Title":"F-U-N","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can describe this movie in one word, FUN.A cast of stars, adventure, comedy, romance, controversy, drama. An all in one package. And all executed so very well. Helen Hays shines as the naughty older lady. Every expression and gesture from her are priceless.  If you watch this movie on DVD, make sure you watch the widescreen version. The pan and scan version is horrible to say the least. It's the last of the true old Hollywood movie. Excellent entertainment. "},{"Title":"Dated but highly recommended","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first watched this movie about 10 years ago with my grandma, and loved it.This movie centers around a 707 that, after being bombed, is very difficult to steer.  Therefore, it must land on one particular runway.  But this runway is blocked by another airplane that got stuck in the snow, etc, etc, etc.The thing that fascinates me most about this film is the fact that, in 1970, many of the issues the characters faced in their personal lives were still very taboo.  Affairs, unwed pregnancy, divorce.  Not to mention a woman with a very powerful position with a major airline.  I think this film does an excellent job of allowing you to see these situations enough so you sympathize with the people - but so much that they have big blowouts and dramatic confrontations.  All of the situations are dealt with very normally.  Case in point - at the very end of the movie, when Dean Martin is coming off the plane with Jacqueline Bisset, his wife is standing there to greet him.  But as they come out and she slowly realizes they are having an affair, you see only the sadness and shock in her face - rather than her screaming and crying and slapping Dean Martin and choking Jacqueline Bisset, which is probably what would happen if the film was a current one.Also, I am from Minneapolis, and much of this film was shot at Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport.  I have heard that they filmed it here so they could use real snow, but when it came time to film, it wouldn't snow here so they had to use fake stuff anyway.  But it is nice to know that, even though they re-named the airport with a fictional name, it really was filmed in an airport. Of course our airport has a more updated look to it, but I can still easily recognize it from many of the airport scenes.  What's more, the runway that the plane is stuck on in the film - Runway 29 - is a real runway at our airport.  It's nice to know they incorporated many real elements into this film.The acting is also spectacular.  Many people consider the movie boring, but that is only because they played the drama down in some parts to make it more realistic.  I think the parts of Tanya Livingston, Ada Quonsett, and Cindy Bakersfeld were done particularly well.All in all, I believe I will watch this movie over and over again. Although the movie is obviously dated, it is excellent, and will continue to remain a classic - at least in my book. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this any more....","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just watched the widescreen version on DVD.   I really enjoyed watching Dean Martin, Burt Lancaster, Helen Hayes, Lloyd Nolan, Van Hefflin and other major stars in this film, and a very enjoyable storyline lets them practice their craft at their best..The P&S version I'm sure loses a lot due to the various widescreen effects, the cuts and pan shots and how the director filled the screen.I haven't seen this film since it was new in the theaters 30 years ago, but it was immensley enjoyable and I recommend it highly.  "},{"Title":"Airliner in trouble! Stars in peril!!!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, the Epic Disaster Movie, filled with Hollywood stars and full of action! Yes, the 70's gave us many things disco, down sized cars, Watergate, polyester, and the Blockbuster Disaster movie. Irwin Allen was the king of the style with movies like `Towering Inferno' and the like&#133;But this is probably the first of the style, with loads of talent, an interesting premise, lots of action, and some quiet humor tossed in.Most folks seem to remember the leads from this movie, like Burt Lancaster, Jackie Bisset, Dean Martin, George Kennedy, and Helen Hayes. BUT, some of the other players are a joy to watch. Probably one of the Kings of `B' pictures, Whit Bissell, turns up, as does Lloyd Nolan, `Perry Mason' star Barbara Hale, Maureen Stapelton, Van Heflin, Gary Collins, and the first person to ever play Agent 007, James (Jimmy) Bond, Barry Nelson, probably another of the great `Not quite an A-List, but a strong B' actors.A very strong cast, considering the date the movie was made. And yes, the special effects are a little bad, but shoot, most of the budget went to casting, right?Watch for several S.S.T. (super-sonic transport) models on the desks with various airline logos. There is a huge S.S.T. with TWA logos on it in one scene.Imagine the price for that prop on E-bay! By the time this movie was released, the SST concept in the US was pretty much dead. There are several references to long dead airlines, like Eastern and Brannif, too.One last point. Lot's of folks think that `Airport' is the direct parent of the spoof flick, `Airplane!'. Yes, there are some similarities, but it's actually closer to `Airplane II', with the `mad bomber on board' story line. Try and find a movie from the 1950's called `Zero Hour'. THERE is `Airplanes' daddy. Even the main characters have the same names, and several lines of dialogue are lifted straight from `Zero Hour', which makes watching `Airplane!' even funnier when you next watch it(OR, for that matter will make you laugh at things in `Zero Hour', that are serious!)7 out of 10 on my scale. "},{"Title":"Watchable all the way through","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film made me aware of Jaqueline Bisset and how good she was to look at, but also gave us a chance to see Dean Martin in a serious role, which he did very well indeed.  I liked the whole of the film, well put together, although at first it seemed a little amateurish. The best role to play, I thought, was that of the wife waiting at home, the one who decides to go to the Airport to help, as her husband is a hopeless case. She played her part marvellously, trying to get someone to listen to her at the airport with the information she had. She had me in tears, she was such a good actress.  But also after seeing this film I came to the conclusion that Jaqueline Bisset was the best looking classical beauty we have, albeit her legs were a little on the thin side.  "},{"Title":"A multi-charactered action film.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By 1970, the played-out Grand Hotel cliche on film plots was growing thin, but writer-director George Seaton pulled it together nicely in this adaptation of Arthur Hailey's best-seller about chaos at a metropolitan airport. Burt Lancaster, Dean Maritn, George Kennedy, and Jean Seberg head an all-star cast in this rollicking blockbuster.  From melodrama, to action, to romance, this film will NOT leave any movie fan dissatisfied.  The music (by legendary Alfred Newman), cinematography (by Ernest Laszlo), and Seaton's surefootedness makes this a spectacular film.  Also stars Van Heflin, Jacqueline Bisset, Dana Wynter, Maureen Stapleton, Lloyd Nolan, Barbara Hale, and Helen Hayes in her Oscar-winning role as Mrs. Quonsett, the stowaway. "},{"Title":"A Minneapolis Locale Made Movie more for persons living at the time","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a writer, much of the boring early portion might be the result of viewers born twenty years later...and used to slam bang and crash action. NOW........Well I liked it thoroughly and I liked the character buildup especially so I could feel what they were living through. This movie setting was actually filmed at Minneapolis' Twin City International Airport...Previously Known as Wold Chamberlain and I lived twenty-one years in sight of it, just exactly West 20 blocks of it. Since most of the actors have died and most current viewers may not even pay any attention to any of the GREAT ONES I can see why it seems dated to them...When I write, I want the reader to see-touch-taste-feel what I write. Haley's movie, Airport does all this so well it can make you laugh and cry and ache for the characters if you can walk in their shoes for a while.....I never miss an Arnold or a Willis or a Clooney or a Connery or a Jamie Lee Curtis etc. either. Airport is the fore-runner and you can be in at the birthing. A. D. Maanum    "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies, and I'm Damned Proud Of It!!!","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie and the great POSEIDON ADVENTURE movie of 1972 spawned a genre that, unfortunately, ended up making a caricature of itself. A shame, too, because this movie has gotten a bad rap because of it. So you say the movie looks dated because of all the gaudy colors and weird fashions? What do you expect, people, it was the seventies. GET OVER IT!!!! (Sheesh!) Many people have commented on the edge of your seat suspense this movie built up, which it did, about the great character development, and also how it took its time telling the story, which it did (and this is a good thing). Another good thing about this movie, and no one has bothered to mention it that I saw on this website, is it is very informative. It gives you a glimpse into the machinations of running an airport that, until then, one rarely saw. Back when this movie premiered, very few people knew what went on behind the scenes of a busy airport. Probably only people who worked in airports knew that there were office suites in an airport. In that way, this movie was very informative. Credit for that goes to the man who wrote the novel, Arthur Hailey, who always did his homework before writing a novel.I will concede that the novel goes more in depth than the movie, but that's true of every novel/movie. After all, how much information can you give an audience in a two hour movie? I was a little disappointed that they didn't include in this movie the story of Mel Bakersfeld's brother Keith, a burnt out air traffic control worker who, in the end, guided in the troubled Trans Global's Flight Two for its emergency landing. No big deal there, it just would have added more suspense to an already suspense laden movie. My favorite character? Cigar chomping, devil-may-care Joe Patroni, TWA's ace mechanic. This movie made me a fan of George Kennedy. ROLLING Mr. Patroni, she won't take much more! PATRONI Well, by God she's gonna get it anyway! Loved it.I was a little surprised that this movie earned a G rating. There seemed to be an awful lot of mature subject matter in this for a G rated movie, (pregnant stewardesses, adulterous affairs, discussions of abortion, a sensitive issue in the seventies as well as now,even a few hells and damns here and there.) It should have been a PG movie, but that's only a minor gripe. Not enough to take a star away from it.Great movie. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quite a good film","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was amazed when I re-watched this movie recently how good it is. I was particularly impressed with Maureen Stapleton's performance -- she was great as the lady whose husband all of a sudden went bonkers. Van Heflin also did a great job in his small but memorable role. He died not long after this movie was released. Burt Lancaster made an excellent boss of a major aiport.The interesting part about the movie was that the disaster aspects were kind of low-key and not overblown like most other disaster movies. We see the bomb going off, and however they did that particular scene, it was very effective. Everyone should see this movie because the acting was good and the storyline not bad at all. "}{"Title":"The good old days","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was the film that started the disaster trend. It's a film that can proudly hold it's head high and is in the company of other escapism films such as The Poseidon Adventure, The Towering Inferno, Earthquake and Skyjacked. Perhaps the script is a bit lame. Burt Lancaster (in his book) referred to Airport as a piece of junk. But you have to remember the film was made in 1969 for a March 5 1970 release date. There were no computer generated special effects back then. All the action sequences were done real either full scale or miniatures. I had the honor of acquiring a 16mm print of the film, which has since been AWOL for a few years. The real hero of the story is the Boeing 707 (tail number N324F) If you ever get a chance to rent the film or see it on TV, look for the final landing scene. The pilot landing the plane almost does a half donut in the snow. Not bad for a plane weighing in at over 200,000 lbs. "},{"Title":"Tension...not so much...but drama prevails","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To call Airport a disaster film really doesn't seem fair. The action of the film or the disaster doesn't take place until a whopping hour and a half into the film That being said shouldn't deter you from seeing a classic film that garnered no less than 10 Oscar Nominations which I must admit sincerely surprises me. Airport, to me, doesn't seem like Oscar worth material. Although good and somewhat entertaining it doesn't really drive home any intense emotions or surprises or acting feats. It's quite slow moving and although the different events taking place in the airport and the relationships both blossoming and falling apart are interesting enough, it's equivalent to what you would see in a soap on any weekday afternoon. It isn't until you see the events unfolding around a down on his luck passenger who creates an insurance scam that will effectively bomb an airplane with him on it when the real meat and potatoes of the film shows. The incomparable Burt Lancaster leads the cast and also does the best job out of anyone, as Airport General Manager Mel Bakersfeld. Bakersfeld is a workaholic whose home life is in shambles. His overbearing, high maintenance wife (played in a small role by Dana Wynter ), is ready to leave him and he is on the brink of disaster as he scrambles to get a stuck plane off their major runway which turns into a matter of life and death when the bombed plane needs to land on it. Lancaster looks the part of exhausted, stretched to his limits, he plays his role so perfectly. He's the character that you relate to the most and he is by far the most believable. If everyone in the film pulled off a performance like his than it would have been a 10 outta 10 film for sure. On top of everything else he is butting heads with his brother-in-law, and Pilot Capt. Vernon Demerest played by Dean Martin. Now Dean Martin is the king of cool. Don't let me bad mouth the man himself for a second because he is THE MAN but in Airport he didn't quite his his mark. Not the whole film...he had his moments...and his role was quite important to the whole story being the pilot of the Boeing 707. The worst was when they were trying to bring the plane in for their landing...Martin looks absolutely bored, he almost looked like he was being forced to sit there and act. This was one of the most...or should have been one of the most intense, and emotional moments in the film and I couldn't stop looking at his completely bored and flaccid emotions. Jacqueline Bisset on the other hand is much better as Dean Martin's love interest and stewardess Gwen Meighen. She does a good job as a composed and well intentioned woman in every situation. George Kennedy in his much hyped role plays the Airport's crisis handler Joe Patroni. He's brash and bold and does end up saving the day but other than that his role is rather small in the film but it seems like he's always hyped as being the star. Perhaps it's because he was the only returning actor to the following 3 sequels. I suppose I also must mention Helen Hayes who plays elderly stowaway and con-woman Ada Quonsett in her Academy Award winning role (the only Oscar the film took home.) She is good and certainly adds to the humor and at the same time drama of the film but I can't say it was Oscar Worthy. Van Heflin plays down on his luck, mad bomber D. O. Guerrero and he does a terrific job. He looks and acts genuinely terrified, hurt, helpless and hopeless. Finally Barry Nelson plays co-pilot to Dean Martin and I must say does a better job of portraying the fear and reality of the plane crashing than Martin does.Airport is a classic and although usually classified as a disaster film is more of a drama about the different circumstances and events in the airport which happen to lead up to a disastrous event on board a plane set for Rome, Italy. It is slow moving and clocks in at nearly 2 and a half hours but once you made it to the peak of the film at about 1 1/2 hours the rest really picks up speed and keeps you riveted. It's really for fans of classic films, or even fans of aviation but as many reviewers point out the film tends to be unintentionally funny or even campy at times. I don't know if it's 10 million dollar budget was considered low budget for the time but it felt like it shouldn't be as campy as it was at times. Even the best performances were ripe with certain elements of sarcasm or misplaced humor. Nonetheless it's worth seeing for a classic film that garnered much praise and heaps of cash at the box office. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Eventful day at International Airport","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Burt Lancaster is great as the dedicated General Manager of Chicago's Lincoln Airport, directing the handling of an array of trouble-situations. Whether dealing with a suicidal passenger aboard a jumbo jet, or a little old lady (superbly played by Oscar winner Helen Hayes) who is finally stopped from scamming the air lines out of free fares. When given an ultimatum by his wife, Lancaster chooses to remain loyal to his job.A side plot deals with pilot Dean Martin's concerns about the pregnancy of his stewardess girl-friend (played by Jaquelin Bisset). This part of the story line was handled rather progressively by 1970 standards.Maureen Stapleton gives another fine performance as the wife of the down-and-out guy who wanted to blow up the plane he was on in order for her to collect insurance money. She gives true meaning to the words for better or for worse.Airport is the first in a line of many 1970s big budget disaster movies, and in my opinion it's also the best. You're gonna like this picture! "},{"Title":"Airport (1970) Dean Martin, Burt Lancaster, Helen Hayes","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No modern motion picture in Hollywood's history has been subjected to more adoration, ridicule, applause, rejection and all of the other contradictory expressions of public opinion as this movie. For 35 years, I've heard it from both sides of the critics' fence. Outstanding and superb on one side and stupid and ridiculous on the other side. These are the reasons for the axiom to watch the movie yourself and form your own opinion.Nominated for an astonishing ten Academy Awards including Best Picture, Airport was the forerunner of a series of disaster movies that would find their place in the 70's and 80's. There is enough trivia connected with this movie to fill a library.Unlike many of Hollywood's more noticed efforts, the central theme of Airport centers not around its billboard stars, which I have reversed in the banner above, but in the supporting cast around which the theme is created. Rarely has a movie shown such a diversity of cast as this one.Burt Lancaster's over-acting notwithstanding, his portrayal of the embattled airport manager of Lincoln International Airport (O'Hare's alter ego) lends the first emotional crisis of the movie. His influence in the story itself is a series of highs and lows.Dean Martin never tried to make his mark in the world as an actor. The reason he was loved by so many, including myself, was his easy going demeanor and the fact that he had one of most beautiful singing voices of any man alive. The fact that Universal Pictures wanted him in the movie is rather a no-brainer...he was so handsome.Martin and Lancaster provide the star quality, but it is the myriad of supporting actors and actresses that provide the substance Van Heflin as D O Guerrero, the psychotic, delusional and even pathetic man who sets the sequence of events for the last half of the movie.Maureen Stapleton, his long-suffering and equally frightened wife.Dana Wynter, the selfish, hot-tempered wife of Mel Bakersfeld (Lancaster).Barbara Hale, wife of Vernon Demerest (Martin) who tells her brother Mel that she is Vernon's disaster insurance (against marital infidelity) and realizes too late that she was wrong.George Kennedy, the enthusiastic, aggressive maintenance manager who does what the Boeing book said couldn't be done. HIS over-acting was on purpose and it was great.Jacqueline Bisset, Vernon's love interest and the gorgeous stewardess carrying his child. The scene between her and Martin in the cabin before takeoff, when she lets him know she's pregnant is precious. Her beautiful voice and accent could boil lead.And here she comes...(drum roll) Helen Hayes, gifted with the title of First Lady of The American Theatre. And a proper title it is, so much so that Oscar had the chance to walk home with ten people, but he picked her. She is the only performer to win both Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress. As we all know, her performance here was priceless.Producer Ross Hunter bet the bank on this motion picture and won. It grossed a mind-boggling 70 million dollars, unheard of for a movie at that time. Dean Martin got the tithe. Universal Pictures had their coffers stuffed for years. Director and Screenplay Oscar nominee George Seaton was set for life. Alfred Newman's opening credit music is atrocious and exhausting, but once you get past that, Airport Love Theme, played twice during conversations between Martin and Bisset, is no less than beautiful.Airport is a standard, classic masterpiece and always will be and no movie critic will ever convince me otherwise. I formed my opinion on my own. Now dust it off of your shelf, watch it again and form your own. "},{"Title":"The stowaway is a first-class traveler.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is by no means a masterpiece,far from it,but it's entertaining and displays a bevy of actors and actresses ,some of whom are well superior to their cardboard characters (Van Heflin and Burt Lancaster).But the reason why you will stay is Helen Hayes ' shameless old lady.Fortunately she is on the screen from the beginning to the end and it helps cope with some ponderous scenes (Kennedy's tough guy scenes or Bisset's precious pregnancy).The movie is to cinema what music for airports is to Mozart..Well,it's not so bad after all... "},{"Title":"Runway Hits and Misses","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Potboiler novelist Arthur Hailey (he also wrote `Hotel') set the true precedent for Disaster Movies of the 1970s.  The plot involves a busy International airport, a Rome-bound 707, and a mad-bomber.The movie clocks in at about 216 mins. but (personally) plays more like 90 (Director/Screenwriter Seaton did the best he could, and is hereby commended).  The script includes dialogue and action that agreeably vacillates between gripping suspense/melodrama and unintentional comedy.Unfortunately, some of its production values make it rather slow playing when you compare this to recent, and more action packed thrillers modern audiences have grown accustomed to.Producer Jenning's Lang hit a jackpot.  The financial success of the 707 Boeing original spawned a fleet of three 747 sequels, at least two parodies (Airplane!) and countless imitations (`Turbulence' and others). Collectively, the `Airport' fleet share common interests in various aspects of individual production Soap-operatics (marital discord and Capt./Flight Attendant romance being the most common of these), at least one hysterical passenger (here he gets 'slapped' at least twice), one cleric passenger (nun and priest in this one), comedian/Vaudeville passengers (Dean Martin plays the straight-man Captain, but he is also known for his sense of humor, having played opposite Jerry Lewis in previous films), an onboard explosion (or crash) and, for the most part, a suspenseful landing sequence.George Kennedy (as Petroni) appears in all four films; he Captains the plane in '79.  Comedians in successive flights include Martha Raye, Sid Caesar, Jerry Stiller, Charo and J.J. Walker.    Overall, &#145;Airport' would make a better stage play.  Aside from the depressurization sequence, the acting here is more akin to the type of melodramatics better suited for the stage, rather than for the big-screen (thespian veterans Stapleton and Hayes were &#145;supporting actress' nominated, Hayes brought home the Oscar).  The story features some interesting exchanges between actors.  One entertaining and funny scene involves actors Bissett and Hayes in their &#145;white gloves off' interplay (`Never mind what he said! What abour your ticket?').First Sequel Contrary to popular belief, `Airport 1975' was released in 1974, the same year as Universal's `Earthquake' (airport scenes of which were drastically cut, including the tremor's destruction of LAX' futuristic Theme Restaurant).Alfred Newman's music is a little too corny for my palette&#133; bongos and tambourines just don't cut it for me, but his suspenseful &#145;landing sequence' musical build-up, interweaving elements heard during the film's opening &#145;theme,' does the job admirably.  (Two years later, John Williams took the helm and made better use of his own talent, composing 20th Century Fox' `The Poseidon Adventure' and Universal Studios' `Earthquake.').On a 1-10 scale, I gave Airport a 9.  Modern runways have come a long way since 1970... and honey-roasted almond packets have replaced stale nuts served in styrofoam cups.  "},{"Title":"2nd time watching it","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is my second time seeing Airport. I originally made a comment saying the beginging was boring, but when I watched it the second time, I understand why they did it that way. It set the plot twists just right. Please everyone who sees my first comment on Airport, ignore it please. This movie is now one of top 100 favorite movies of all time.10/10 "},{"Title":"The best airplane disaster movie ever.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot of this movie can either be summarized in a few words (It is about a plane with a bomb on board) or explained in intricate detail. There are numerous characters, numerous little dramas that all climax on a stormy day at the airport of Chicago. Reaching from the workaholic airport manager whose marriage is in trouble via the married pilot whose mistress is pregnant to the impoverished desperate construction worker trying to provide for his wife by taking out insurance and blowing his plane to bits, this story covers dozens of detailed characters, and to my great delight, no nameless terrorist number 3s....The movie does not start quickly, as this is no 1990s action movie. It's a thriller-drama, and a rather calm and quiet one. If you expect big explosions every five minutes, watch Die Hard 2. But if you expect a detailed, intricate and most of all realistic view into an airport and an attacked airplane, this is the movie for you. And towards the end it becomes very thrilling, as well. It is old-fashioned in creating a suspense curve that increases gradually, reaches a peak, and then increases even further... All the while staying true to realism.I can only highly recommend this movie. It is a classic - and probably the best airplane disaster movie made to this day.10/10 "},{"Title":"Strange cargo ...","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" AIRPORT is a corny, old-fashioned popcorn epic, which when it was released in 1970 was seen as an example of G-rated, old-fashioned family-oriented entertainment. I suppose in the era of EASY RIDER and MIDNIGHT COWBOY and BOB & CAROL & TED & ALICE and other such taboo busting landmarks, a melodramatic plot involving extramarital affairs and an out-of-wedlock pregnancy did seem almost wholesome by comparison.Yet, plopped down in the middle of this odd mix of disaster movie heroics and soap opera theatrics, AIRPORT is one of the few films ever to not only broach the subject of abortion, but to actually discuss the matter more or less openly. There had been other previous films that dealt with the issue, such as LOVE WITH THE PROPER STRANGER and ALFIE, but I'm not sure if the word itself was ever actually used. It isn't actually spoken in AIRPORT either, but the topic is clearly at hand, even before Roe v. Wade turned an unspeakable act into a constitutional privilege.The remarkable thing is that the film approaches the matter not as a question of a woman's right, but as a moral choice -- whether it is the ethical thing to do, not just the convenient thing to do. Maybe that is one of the reasons the film is considered to be old-fashioned and worthy of a G rating. Like the Arthur Hailey book on which it was based, the film takes what would eventually be called a pro-life stance -- though at the time, it would have been viewed as simple human decency.Despite some effective bits of humor and the unlikely casting of Dean Martin as the heroic lead, an airline pilot, AIRPORT is a serious movie. While the subsequent sequels tended to be outlandish and even downright silly as they desperately tried to one-up this film's special effects disaster stunts, AIRPORT itself is patterned after both Hailey's behind-the-scenes book and the boardroom/bedroom melodramas of the 1950s, like EXECUTIVE SUITE. To the film's credit and detriment, it tries to educate the viewer almost more than to entertain. So much time is spent explaining the ins and outs of running an airport that at times the film seems more like an instructional training film.But, after a long while where it seems to taxi endlessly around the field, the film finally takes off. Once the mad bomber is on board and lives are in jeopardy, all the layering of expository details pays off an exploding plane is simply more interesting than discussions of noise abatement policies and snow plowing techniques. It takes awhile, but the film builds suspense. And with the exception of the ever adorable Helen Hayes' Oscar-winning turn as an ever adorable stowaway/heroine, the actors play their characters straight. And for what it is worth, Dean Martin was a very good, extremely underrated dramatic actor and here gives the film's strongest performance.But it does come back to the other stowaway on board, the unborn child being carried by Jacqueline Bisset's plucky young stewardess. As oddly out of place as the abortion angle seems at first, it is placed in perspective. As a plane full of passengers confront a likely death, suddenly life, even of an unborn child, doesn't seem so trivial or disposable. And it is worth noting that post-Roe, Hollywood began measuring blockbuster movies by how many people a film could kill, rather than how many it could save. Life became trivial and disposable on and off screen. Coincidence? "},{"Title":"Airport part one","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the movie that started it all!-the birth of disaster films of the 70's. This is the Grand Hotel of the skies When you are up in the air at 10,000 feet-the people who live complicated lives always thinks the worst. With this in mind, let us now consider the following**Mel Bakerfield(Burt Lancaster)is not getting along with his wife. His wife has got be the most nagging wife to grace the screen. At the same time, he's having an affair with his assistant(Jean Seberg).**Van Heflin and Jean Stapelton are husband and wife who are low on cash-and He has a plan that will get them out of debt-at the risk of everyone on the plane bound for Rome.**The caption(Dean Martin)is having an affair with one of the stewardesses, he gets her pregnant. There's only one problem-He's married to Barbara Hale of Perry Mason Fame.**There are internal problems as well They got to deal with a Stowaway(Helen Hayes)who has a clever way of getting on a plane without a ticket. She's on the plane to Rome and is seated next to Van Heflin(see film for details). Then There's the Meadowwood suburbs witch happens to be next to Runway 2.2. Every time a plane takes off or lands on 2.2, it causes vibrations to the homes in Meadowwood-and they had it up to here with broken china! And the airport is headed for legal trouble if they continue using 2.2. One problem There's a plane stuck on 2.9niner blocking the runway and Joe Patroni(George Kennedy) is in charge of getting that plane moved.......because The plane to Rome is on it's way back and they need 2.9niner.This film entertains in spite of itself. My only problem with this film is it's G rating from MPAA. Why is the movie rated G? This movie deals with Adultery, divorce and other mature themes and uses of words like hell, damn should have earned it a PG rating. "}{"Title":"Before the sequels, before the parodies...","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...there was 1970's Airport, an all-star soap opera in the sky that started a franchise of campy films and send-ups. It would be hard to say that Airport is the best of the series of Airport movies because in fact, it's the only good one. Based on Arthur Hailey's novel, it's led by a cast that starts with the likes of Burt Lancaster and continues on Dean Martin, Helen Hayes, Jean Seberg, George Kennedy, Maureen Stapleton, Van Heflin, Jacqueline Bisset, Barry Newman, Dana Wynter, Virginia Grey, Jessie Royce Landis, Lloyd Nolan and Barbara Hale. Also, take a look at the seat behind Helen Hayes, and you'll see a blond Marion Ross from Happy Days; she had just gone through a divorce and asked the director to give her something to do as a distraction.On the ground, Burt Lancaster fights a snowstorm and his wife (Wynter); Seberg is his assistant and in love with him; Barbara Hale is his sister, married to the philandering pilot played by Dean Martin, who is cheating on her currently with flight attendant Jacqueline Bisset - she's just found out she's pregnant; Arthur Kennedy is Petroni, who is an expert on planes and in charge of cleaning up the airfields; Helen Hayes is a professional stowaway; Van Heflin is a passenger with $250,000 in flight insurance and a bomb in his briefcase; Maureen Stapleton is his wife, who realizes when a refund check arrives from the airline that her husband is en route to Rome and not Milwaukee; Lloyd Nolan is the customs inspector who spots Heflin and thinks something is strange about him; Barry Newman is Martin's copilot, and Gary Collins also works in the cockpit.There are several outstanding performances. Helen Hayes' hilarious sweet little old lady with the heart of a conniver won her an Oscar a mere 39 years after her first one. Van Heflin, in his last film role, is appropriately seedy, scary and desperate as the would-be bomber, and Maureen Stapleton is wonderful as his wife, in an excellent part. George Kennedy captures the no-nonsense, much respected Petroni well. Dean Martin carries his relaxed style a little too far, not really absorbing the role of a pilot with a plane in crisis. Burt Lancaster is fine in a role that could have been played by any leading man of the time. Seberg, Bisset, Wynter and Hale provide glamor and beauty.For those who remember the old days of flying, Airport is a reminder of friends allowed to accompany one to the plane, paper tickets, smoking on planes and planes taking off as little as an hour late in a snowstorm. Thanks for the memories. "},{"Title":"One Special Night At The Airport","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *Airport SPOILERS* Mel Bakersfeld (Burt Lancaster), head of Lincoln International Airport is going through a tough time in his marriage, and is seriously considering to end it and hook up with his colleague Tanya Livingston (Jean Seberg).In the neanwhile, pilot Vernon Demerest (Dean Martin), Bakersfeld's brother-in-law, is dealing with the fact that his mistress, hostess Gwen Meighen (Jacqueline Bisset) is pregnant... and faces the roughest time of all when a passenger, D.O. Guerrero (Van Heflin) detonates a bomb he had carried on his flight to Rome.'Airport' is the movie that started the disaster craze of the '70s (the one of movies such as 'The Towering Inferno' and 'The Poseidon Adventure'), and is still one of the best, even though a very important character from the original book (and my favourite character), Keith Bakersfeld, Mel's brother, who basically redeemed himself in his own eyes by helping Demerest's flight to safety. is missing.Still, a good movie.Airport 8/10. "},{"Title":"Here's To You Michael Sterns","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The character who makes this movie for me is obnoxious passenger 21-D. The actor isn't even credited. If anyone in Airport should have won an Oscar, it's that guy. He's probably the most fleshed out character. From his complaint about the stale peanuts to his getting slapped by the priest, obnoxious passenger 21-D steals the show. I also liked the Snoopy doll that the guys in the control tower had sitting on their counsel. That was a nice visual touch.Hollywood doesn't make a lot of movies with snow, so that's why I'm giving it an excellent rating. Hollywood should make more movies with snow. "},{"Title":"The First Airport Film,","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The original'Aiport'is an enjoyable and now vintage classic, that tells many stories,there is the beleaguered manger of the terminal, whose marriage is slowly sliding rock bottom, Dean Martin,plays a swinging pilot, George Kennedy, plays the cigar chomping, mechanic Patrioni, who starred in the rest of the franchise,Jaquline Bisset plays a stewardess who has a pregnancy issues,who seeks an abortion,Which was quite an issue at the time for a major motion picture ,to deal with ,Helen Hayes plays the stowaway who steals the film, And often parodied Van Heflin,plays the bomber on board. Of course the Film is very dated but that doesn't stop it continually providing entertainment,Its televised quite a lot on the networks,Do avoid if not in widescreen as the revolutionary for the time split screen sequences,do suffer in 'pan and 'scan opt for the pristine 2201 DVD print instead. "},{"Title":"Airport'S Virtues Compared To More Recent Movies","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie Airport has always been one of my favorites! I've always been an aviation enthusiast ever since I can remember. I, too, take exception to the fact that this movie has been unduly criticized for lack of computer effects and so forth. In fact I very much appreciate the fact that the movie does not include too much profanity nor does it contain too much violence or nudity. The thing that makes me angry about movies that were produced more recently is that Hollywood does not seem to feel that it can produce movies without including profane and vulgar language, nudity and extreme violence. Airport 1975 was spoiled in my opinion by them putting profanity in it. AIrport 1977 featured an overly devious plot along with profanity and Airport 1979--The Concorde was the worst of all with downright vulgar language, lots of immorality and a really devious plot. In fact, a lot of the aviation movies produced today (even as much as I enjoy such movies) I simply refuse to watch because of the profanity, immorality and outright evil and violence portrayed in them--hijackers and terrorists killing people and hurting people, male passengers terrorizing female flight attendants, among others. All in all, considering the technology available back then (1970) and the who's who in Hollywood in Airport, I think Airport will always stand out as one of the best aviation films of all time. "},{"Title":"Excellent genre-launcher","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is an excellent film, and it helped launch a very memorable genre -- the 70s Disaster Film.  Though some might see it as tame (which it is in retrospect, but only because the proverbial envelope had to continually be pushed) or quaint (one contemporary reviewer called it the best film of 1944), I find Airport to be entertaining throughout, with its attention to detail and its glimpse into the inner workings of a metropolitan airport is downright fascinating.  If you enjoy this film, I heartily recommend Arthur Hailey's novel -- while the film is very accurate in certain respects, there are some whole subplots removed, including more on the suburban protesters, and Mel's brother, a suicidal air traffic controller (a plot point which resurfaced in Airport 1975).  This is not some Ooooh And Ahhhh 90s action explosion film -- it requires you to stick with it and learn about the characters before they are put into peril.  Like its brethren among the great Disaster films -- The Poseidon Adventure, The Towering Inferno, and Earthquake -- Airport has stood the test of time admirably and is quality entertainment. "},{"Title":"old-fashioned entertainment","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport (1970) is an unexpectedly entertaining movie, which benefits from a cast of veteran pros (Dean Martin gives perhaps the weakest performance, although even he has his good moments) and a remarkably well-constructed story. Forget all the send-ups and sequels and your own preconceptions just watch it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Would you trust Dean Martin piloting your plane?","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting and enjoyable, but I felt some of the characters (e.g. Dino's wife) were too rough around the edges. When the film finished you felt that not all the storylines were satisfactorily resolved, especially considering how long the flick was! However, everyone played their part well, yep, even Dino.   "},{"Title":"Coffee, tea, or me, & Dean Martin vs. protestors & terrorists; My how time flies...","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film that defined the category.  An almost historical melodrama of life, liberty and the pursuit of freedom when old ladies, manly men, vivacious stewardesses, and grumpy old bombers ruled the skies.A fine script, production and direction from the last great days of Hollywood, at the transtition from movies to marketing events.  The enigma from Airport to Airplane, with progressively lamer sequels in between, shows how the Industry (along with almost everything else in the late 1970's) went polyester.Grab a martini, a blond bubblehead (your choice of gender), warm up the old Quasar cabinet set and prepare for flight! "},{"Title":"Double Xiting!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A film that has it all! With many sub-plots that are superbly connected. Much suspense,love interest,violence and a stand out performance by Van Heflin as D.O.Guererro, the disturbed psycho with the bomb. Maureen Stapleton as his wife is almost catatonic when she learns he's on board with the explosive device. EXCELLENT performances by all. Dean Martin, Burt Lancaster,Helen Hayes and let's not forget the powerful and confident Joe Patroni played by George Kennedy.Every one was just wonderful in their respective roles. One hell of a film!  "}{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An old-fashioned Hollywood Picture, with a bevy of stars.  Airport was the number one money-making film of 1970, and created a cottage industry of disaster films.  It is low on disaster, and high on character development. Today's audiences may find it dull, with its generous amount of dialog; but I relish in the interplay of characters and story lines.  Great cast, first-rate score and good widescreen photography.  See the widescreen version on DVD.  Recommended! "},{"Title":"70's soaps aboard a 707","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Days of Our Lives aboard a 707. Classic disaster melodrama within the confines of an airport and a jet in flight. Somewhat long character development, but when the bomber chooses to act, the viewer can relate to all those aboard the jet. Helen Hayes is wonderful as a savvy freeloading stowaway. George Kennedy is also fun to watch as the tough mechanic dealing with a snow bound jetliner during a blizzard. Somewhat dated by today's standards but still worth watching now and again. After all, this is the movie that started the disaster film craze, that pops up every now and again, even today. "},{"Title":"The first of the great disaster movies !","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just how many Airport films were there?  None could compare with the first.  The rest were just wanna-be's.  And the genre that this one film spawned--  Posiden, Earthquake, Towering Inferno, just to name a few. Burt Lancaster at his polished-but-gritty best, Dean Martin, smooth as ever in a respectable performance.  Mark this one down as The Original Disaster Film.    "},{"Title":"Possibly the best overall movie ever made.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Without any of the special effects trickery so widely used in current movies, Airport takes a great story from Arthur Hailey - actually several great stories intertwined with each other - adds an all-star cast, and tops it off with a performance from Helen Hayes that is perhaps unsurpassed in all movie history. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Cheesy","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Airport a while ago when I was writing an essay about Arthur Hailey and his... ahem... great contributions to literature.  Airport is without a doubt one of the cheesiest disaster films I've ever seen, worse even than the Poseidon Adventure, but this is what makes it enjoyable.  Other reviewers have described it as a soap opera and that's exactly what it is.Essentially, Airport the movie is like an Arthur Hailey novel.  It's not exactly rocket science, it may not be all that great, but it's fun.On the other hand, watching Airport definitely gives you an understanding of why its spoof, Airplane!, was made... the original is almost funnier than the parody.  I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest aviation movies ever.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw Airport in 1971.  I was a young aviator with about 800 hours of flight time.  I had already read the novel which I also thoroughly enjoyed, and I had fallen in love with the musical score and even owned the sound track album.  There has never been a movie which had more potential to disappoint me.  I was ecstatic at the realism displayed in this film.  I have never seen another film so technically accurate.  The portrayal of the airport and aircraft operations were flawless.  I was intently searching for errors.  Although there were some character combinations from the book they were not disappointing and were done very well and fit into the story line and the film format extremely well.  All the actors were fabulous; Dean Martin, Burt Lancaster, Helen Hayes, et al.  I was moved at the entire performance.  I think I have rarely been equally satisfied with a cinematic presentation.  "},{"Title":"The first and the best","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport is the one that started it all. The first disaster movie that allowed many others to follow. Some good...most not. This is far and away the best of the bunch.Sure the characters are cardboard and not three dimensional. Sure it is silly. But it's fun. George Kennedy chews scenery here like a pro. And the two set pieces, the stuck plane and the mad bomber, keep things suspenseful. And the musical score is rousing and exciting.No it isn't Spielberg or Shakespeare. It's just two hours of excitement. What more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"A great starter to a great genre","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The 1970s was essentially the decade of the disaster movie.  It seems fitting that since this one was released in 1970, that it should be the first.  And what a start it is.  This is just such a brilliant film the acting is well above average.  Look out for class crooner Dean Martin as the pilot of the aircraft, and also for the very excellent Helen Hayes as the sweet little old lady who works the system.  I think the balance between what is happening on the ground and what is happening in the air is just right.  I think the thread that holds the plot together is the fact that everyone has a stake up in the ill-fated plane; relatives onboard, etc. This helps to make it more realistic.  The scene where the bomb goes off is excellent, as are the aircraft recovery scenes on the ground with the brilliant George Kennedy.  While the film's relationships are corny and predictable (Martin with Bisset, and Lancaster with Seberg), it would be unfair to write off the whole film.  This is one to watch; and it could have been even better if Dino was to have sung in the film... "},{"Title":"One of the great disaster films of all time","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you thought your home airport was like this, think again. On a snowy night at Lincoln International Airport, things start to go wrong including annoyed residents that have planes flying over their houses, a stuck 707 jet and a bomb-laden 707 in the air. The acting in this film is incredible. Burt Lancaster and Dean Martin turn in wonderful performances. Although he is on-screen for a fairly short time, Van Heflin does a great job of playing an insane bomber.Don't miss this one. If you are trying to get used to disaster movies, start with this one. "},{"Title":"The grand daddy of the disaster movies score 6 (out of 10)","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I was a kid of about 7 or 8, my folks took me for the first time to see a movie.  This was the movie.  Back then I might have said wow!, but when I see the film today...I have to laugh at the soap opera of it all.  Burt Lanchaster commands things on the ground at the airport.  Dean Martin is the captain in the air, who is trying to keep a bomb from going off.  George Kennedy is the loud mouth who commands his men to move the other stranded airplane on the ground before it becomes obsolete.  When he does move the plane, it is rather hilarious watching him maneuver the aircraft at full speed through all that snow...and when Burt tells George Joe shut down!!!....George says I can't hear a thing we're going for broke...so he shoves the throttle forward all the way.  Hilarious.  The only action that occurs is when the bomb goes off...and between Dinno and Jackie Bisset. "}{"Title":"What a disaster ...","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... movie, that is! It's also basically the blueprint for the fantastical Airplane! movie/spoof by the Zuckers (ZAZ)! One of the many disaster movies at that time, this still sticks out, because it's one of the better one, that got made. The premise is clear, the characters set.Of course you have your clichés here, too. But the movie wouldn't have worked without them. Not to mention that other movie/spoof again (Airplane), which owes much to the setting of this movie! If you like your drama, to be catastrophic, don't look any further! Watch this! Just don't expect anything story/plot-wise! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but doesn't fly well today.","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When Airport was released in 1970, it had a suspenseful, and yes, even believable, plot. In our post 9/11 world, however, it just doesn't (pardon the pun) fly well. When Tanya Livingston mentions that D.O. Guerrero was allowed on the downtown bus, even though he insisted on putting the ID tag on himself, you just want to yell, Why wasn't he pulled off the bus? He'd never get away with it now. Even if he'd gotten past that, he would have been nailed at the airport by TSA. OK, that being said, Airport is an entertaining film. Dean Martin, Burt Lancaster, and Van Heflin all give fine performances in their roles. I was most impressed with Lloyd Nolan's performance as Harry Standish, the customs inspector. He conveys perfectly the suspicion that Guerrero is hiding something, and is on to him before anyone else. Obviously, his niece being aboard the plane is part of his concern, but as he says, First you look in their eyes, then the luggage. Great line! Anyway, if you can suspend reality for 137 minutes, you will find Airport entertaining and suspenseful, not to mention an interesting look at air travel circa 1970. If not, you'll sit there and find faults with everything about it. "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining, sheerly enjoyable pieces of junk ever made.","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the most entertaining, sheerly enjoyable pieces of junk ever made. There are so many clichés in Airport that it was inevitable it would be spoofed, (magnificently in Airplane). It's trash, but who cares when it is this well done, (and it knows it's trash which only adds to the fun). It's got a cast to die for but only two real performances. As a little old lady stowaway Helen Hayes steals the entire movie and won an Oscar in the process. Even better is Maureen Stapelton as the wife of the passenger carrying the bomb, (told you it had every cliché in the book). While Hayes hams it magnificently, Stapelton cuts a truly tragic figure. The look of desolation on her face when she realizes what her husband has done is extraordinary, acting of an altogether higher order than a film like this deserves. She gives the film a steely edge that lifts it, however briefly, into an altogether different class. "},{"Title":"It was that easy to board a plane back then?","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After 9/11 off course this seems bizarre, that someone could board an airplane that easy. But as a time capsule of a by-gone era this is off course a good old melodrama that feels like Douglas Sirk. On My DVD there was also an old ad of the movie so one can understand who was the stars at the time. And that was fun! for a European.The add braggs about how many stories that is interwoven. Burt Lancaster!! with all his teeth, I read that this was one movie he regretted, but it might have payed a few bills, and it's nice to see a man who can wear a hat! Dean Martin, now who would fly a plane with a martini filled man? , well actually at the time when this movie was made he still had a career (Outside Las Vegas). Jean Seaberg and Jaqueline Bisset! they must have been around only for name, since they don't make much impression. Helen Heyes! the grand lady of American Theatre, and she won an Oscar! today the role might seem a bit obvious. Van Heflin, once thought as a sympatico in 50's, now, well not so, think this was his last cinema role, He's café scene with Maureen Stapleton is touching. Lloyd Nolan smells a dog! Jesse Royce Landis has a smelling dog,part of the earlier light scenes. The reason I gave this movie an 8, it's all cliché's correct, and they work! "},{"Title":"Airport","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From director George Seaton (the original Miracle on 34th Street), you can't really watch this film without thinking about Airplane! which spoofed moments of it very well. Basically it all takes place in an airport (duh!), and it sees many characters getting on with whatever they do in airports. These include airport manager Mel Bakersfeld (Birdman of Alcatraz's Burt Lancaster), plane pilot Capt. Vernon Demerest (Dean Martin), and constant plane stowaway Ada Quonsett (Oscar winning Helen Hayes). There is a lot of chat for a while, but the disaster movie element really kicks off after the plane of the film has taken off. Mrs. Quonsett is discovered to be a stowaway, but instead of punishing her, they instead get her to help get a man out of his seat. This man is a bomber, carrying an explosive in a briefcase, and just after trying to be convinced to give it to Demerest, the man locks himself in the toilet, and blows himself up. Luckily, the plane stays in the air after a few seconds of cabin pressure, and all they have to do now is land the plane safely. Also starring Jean Seberg as Tanya Livingston, Jacqueline Bisset as Gwen Meighen, Golden Globe nominated George Kennedy as Joe Patroni, Van Heflin as D.O. Guerrero; Golden Globe winning, and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Maureen Stapleton as Inez Guerrero, Barry Nelson as Capt. Anson Harris, Dana Wynter as Cindy Bakersfeld, Lloyd Nolan as Harry Standish, Barbara Hale as Sarah Bakersfeld Demerest and Gary Collins as Cy Jordan. The only good bit of the film is the bomber explosion on the plane, the rest of it is just too chatty for its own good, but I suppose you could try it, but Airplane! is much more entertaining. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing, Best Music for Alfred Newman, Sound, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium for Seaton and Best Picture, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"An eye-opener for those who grew up with Airplane!","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Growing up, I knew Airplane! was funny, but there's an extra appreciation once you've seen the original.  Frankly, given the now-dated plot and look and feel of Airport, watching it as that movie that Airplane! is making fun of is probably the best way to see it.  Dean Martin is laughable as a pilot, though his scenes with Jacqueline Bisset are actually touching (his sensitivity with beautiful women being his strong point).  Helen Hayes steals (and saves) the movie with her performance as Ada Quonsett.  I really just couldn't care about most of the other characters, except in how they related to Ada.  In my mind, Maureen Stapleton comes off worst, wandering, weeping, stumbling and shrieking through scenes.Most strange of all is the moral of the story in the end, the men (well, Burt and Dean, anyway) all make off with women other than their wives.  Is the idea that it takes some great trauma to make you realize who's most important in your life?! "},{"Title":"Basically A Giant Soap Opera","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Befitting its title, the movie revolves largely around the people and events taking place at fictional Lincoln International Airport - a fact which serves to create one of its many problems. The first half (and maybe a little more than that) is nothing more than a soap opera as we discover that pretty much everyone in this movie has marriages that have fallen or are falling apart. We get introduced to the tensions between the Bakersfelds (Burt Lancaster and Dana Wynter), to the extra marital romance between pilot Vern Demerest (Dean Martin) and stewardess Gwen (Jacqueline Bissett) and the only guy who seems happy in his marriage - maintenance man Joe Petrone (George Kennedy) - gets called away from a make out session with his wife to help with the disaster as it unfolds. Then we discover Mrs. Quonset (Helen Hayes) who is discovered as a stowaway and who explains how she manages to pull it off time and time again - a sweet little old lady who has no qualms at all about breaking the law. Of course there's the personal angst of the man who plans to blow the plane up (Van Heflin.) Put bluntly, the first half of the movie is only for those who like a good soap opera. None of their various escapades make any of the characters (except perhaps Petrone) particularly likable, although Hayes does inject some humour with her portrayal as Mrs. Quonset.The second half of the movie really isn't that much better. Although the setting shifts from time to time now to the stricken airliner, the film is still split at least half and half between the plane and the airport. The difference is now that both lack any real excitement. For a plane on which a bomb has just gone off everyone seems remarkably calm and there just isn't any real sense that there's really any danger of this plane not landing safely. At the airport the focus of attention is on clearing Runway 29 so that the big 707 can land. Except there's not a lot of drama there either. How exciting is it, you ask, to watch a bunch of men dig an airplane out of the snow? Not very. How dramatic? A little given the circumstances - until we discover that there's a simple way to get the plane off the runway anyway. Sure it might damage the plane and cost the airline a lot of money but there's a planeload of people who need the runway, folks! Once we discover that it can be easily done we know it's going to be. So, take away any drama - unless you find it dramatic to watch George Kennedy try to ease the plane out of a snowbank, which isn't much different than watching your average Joe try to get a car out of a snowbank.Add on some special effects that are so bad they're funny. In a movie that spent enough money to get a high profile cast of actors you'd think they could have come up with something a bit more realistic than using an obviously plastic toy plane being dragged against a black backdrop with white dots - as stars - to simulate flight. I know this was 1970, but this was the best they could do?Basically, this is not a great disaster flick. It isn't itself a disaster, either. The acting is decent enough, Hayes is funny enough. But it's a truly mediocre film. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Boring Junk-Fest!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This Best Picture nominee from 1970 is unbelievably bland and ridiculous.  Helen Hayes with her pixie-act conned her way into her second Oscar.  Maureen Stapleton (a fine actress) blubbers and moans throughout.  Burt Lancaster should have stayed home.  Jackie Bissett is beautiful as always.  Dean Martin is on snooze control.  George Kennedy is gruff and brash.  Only Van Heflin as the madman scores some points.  A 2 out of 10.  Barbara Hale is competent.  Jean Seberg is confused.  The script is a mess!  Everyone seems to be from different planets and I just don't get the point.  What can you do?  The same year JOE, HUSBANDS, SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE, CATCH-22, THE LANDLORD, and THE GREAT WHITE HOPE were NOT nominated for Best Picture. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end.","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"     If you ever have ever wondered where hacks like Dean Devlin & RolandEmmerich (Independance Day, Godzilla, Pearl Harbour) find their inspiration,look no further than here.     While the rest of Hollywood was setting the stage for the true 'Golden Age' of  cinema characterized by more realistic portrayal of life, and more experimental  filming, this gimmicky, melo-dramatic, over-long B-movie was paving the waynot only for the 'disaster film' fad of the '70's, but for the 'Big Stupid Disaster Film'  fad of the 1990's (Dante's Peak, Hard Rain, Armageddon, Core, the list goeson).    The film resembles a melodrama of the 1950's, but it lacks all of that era's  charm and wit. Like the Devlin/Emmerich garbage today, we are treated to 18subplots, following 27 different people--all because the film can't sustain a main  plot well enough to hold our interest. The split screen effect is annoying after the  2nd time its used, but it just keeps popping up.    Many film historians have pinpointed the release of Star Wars as thebeginning of the decline of modern American cinema, but for my money, thebeginning of the end is right here. "},{"Title":"So many destinations, troubled faces going to so many places &#x85;","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport is somewhat the pioneer of 70's disaster movies and, in spite of being quite unpopular among critics, I think it deserve a lot of praise and recognition if only for this little trivia fact alone. If this movie hadn't been such a gigantic blockbuster hit, it's highly doubtful we ever would have seen the wide variety of later disaster classic like The Towering Inferno, Earthquake, The Poseidon Adventure and not to mention all those nice and charming low-budgeted imitations. Besides that, I also think Airport is a very entertaining, adequately made and suspenseful potpourri of main and sub plots with an impressive cast of characters and a fast pace. Granted, some of the (melodramatic) sub plots should have been cut shorter and the character drawings are quite outdated even for 1970, but nevertheless the film kept me easily fascinated throughout its playtime of 135 minutes. Mel Bakersfield doesn't exactly have the easiest and most thankful job in the world. He's the general manager of the Lincoln Airport in Chicago and the movie illustrates a couple of the (hopefully not daily) issues a man in his position gets confronted with. During the same night Chicago is faced with the heaviest snowstorm in history, Mel also deals with a stranded airplane blocking the most strategic runway, his frustrated wife and her divorce papers, neighborhood committees complaining about the noise, oppressed romantic feelings towards his secretary and his brother-in-law blaming his incompetent. The latter has some problems of his own, however, as he impregnated a stewardess and on his transcontinental flight to Rome there's an atypical 75-year-old stowaway as well as a desperate suicide bomber. So you see, there are plenty of things going on to avoid you from getting bored and it's great to watch a top cast like this (Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin, George Kennedy, Van Heflin, Maureen Stapleton &#x85;) even though most of them only deliver mediocre performances. Lancaster afterwards labeled the film as a huge piece of junk, but that's quite a hypocritical statement to make since he made so much money out of it. The more humane and melodramatic sub plots are not at all too bothersome, but the story of the oh-so-adorable elderly stowaway Mrs. Quonsett could have been pushed more to the background as far as I'm concerned. I also hinted already to the fact that the characters are mostly old-fashioned stereotypes. Especially the male/female relationships are behind the times. The wives and female airport employees are overly humble and often downgraded to attractive pieces of scenery. There are also quite a lot of slap in the face moments that come across as offensive and misplaced. Purely speaking in technical terms, Airport is a very dated movie as well. There's an overuse of primitive split-screen and picture-in-picture sequences and the special effects are extremely underwhelming to say the least. Still, regardless of these little flaws and shortcomings, I consider Airport to be essential viewing in case you're a fan of the turbulent cinematic seventies, and its disaster movie highlights in particular. "}{"Title":"Airport - Performance Review","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Helen Hayes won her second Academy Award for playing the lovable,but sneaky stowaway Ms. Ada Quonsett. Her appearance as simply a little old lady helps her get on planes without causing suspicion, but unfortunately she gets caught at a bad time. The performance is comic relief for the dramatic situation's happening throughout the film, and it works perfectly. It may not be fantastic acting, but I feel that Hayes deserved her Oscar - she's a good (funny) sport, and provides some of the best moments in this film. I honestly would not put her under the category of the worst Oscar winners, because there are so many worse performances to have won. It's funny, however, that Maureen Stapleton was nominated as well for Airport, giving a dramatic performance. Hayes brings the laughs, and Stapleton brings the drama. "},{"Title":"Comes in with a snore, and leaves with an eh","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watching Airport is akin to waiting in line for a free all-expense paid ticket to Las Vegas, waiting about 90 minutes, getting your ticket and getting on the plane to discover you just got scammed into paying for a one way trip to Tulsa.No one can say Airport doesn't take the time to develop its characters &#150; it does that. It takes plenty of time to develop its characters. Strangely enough that's the film's weakness. For the first hour of the film I felt like I was standing in line, waiting on gossiping receptionists to quit talking to each other and invite the audience on board for the ride &#150; something Airport eventually does, but by then (the 60 minute mark? 90 minute mark?) it's too little too late.Airport goes through great pains to set up all of its tangents (emphasis on the word pains), all of its subplots, all of the character's conflicts that will sooner or later collide into a climax for the grand finale. And that climax, granted, is a good watch; however, each tangent and subplot on its own has the intensity and intrigue as that annoying irate passenger obsessively drumming his fingers and sighing loudly as he waits for his flight. During the first two acts I didn't care about anything I saw.As the end credits rolled, I wanted more payoff for my initial investment.Oh sure, there are highlights in that first hour &#150; George Kennedy gave a colorful (if cliché) performance as Joe Patroni, and the mischievous Mrs Quonsett (Helen Hayes) who brings kind of a Hitchcockian impishness in her comic relief &#150; that's it. That's all that saves the film from drowning in the sea of its own downplayed, straight faced, serious (not to mention sterile) performances.You know a film is taking itself too seriously when while watching you say to yourself, A pie from frame right needs to hit Lancaster in the face. I found myself longing for a sight-gag from David Zucker's Airplane! Or maybe just Robert Stack or Lloyd Bridges. Something to spice up the on screen action (or lack thereof).Anyway, Airport admittingly has some good production value even if an Airport interior (and Airplane interior) are not the most visually interesting locations. The film eventually does start moving when the bomber boards the plane. And as the Airport and crew aboard the plane figure out the situation, the film really starts moving.It does become a nice little ride with excitement, suspense, and (gasp) comic relief as the crew attempts to undermine the bomber's plans and get the plane safely on the ground - when the little ol' stowaway helps in the plan to get the bomb out of the bomber's hands - when the love interest and her unborn child are in danger - and as it comes down to the wire for Patroni to clear the runway and the pilots to land a possibly unstable plane.Cliché? Sure. Predictable? Of course. Mainstream for its time? No doubt. To its credit Airport eventually does entertain, even if it fails to deliver a payoff with enough force to justify the first hour. So at least it does something. Kinda. "},{"Title":"You're in for the Ride of Your Life ****","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An all-star cast breathes life into this 1970 Oscar nominated film for best picture.What is going on at the airport?Burt Lancaster is the airport manager and he even can't get everything under control.Pilot Dean Martin loves one of the stewardesses. His cold wife is no help either. We will soon discover that the stewardess is with child.We have the elderly Ada Quonsett, whose late husband knew all the angles, as a geometry teacher. Ada loves planes but not to pay as a passenger. She is a constant stowaway. It is her ability to be a stowaway that shall add so much to the plot.If this isn't enough, Van Heflin is a demented person unable to hold a job. He plots to blow up a plane as a passenger, so that his long-suffering wife, the usually great Maureen Stapleton, will benefit financially. Our stowaway, Ada, will ultimately thwart that plot in a tension filled segment of the film while the plane is flying.Helen Hayes, as Ada, won her 2nd Oscar as best supporting actress. Maureen Stapleton was also nominated in this category for the same film. This win came after her first Oscar, 38 years before, for best actress in The Sin of Madelon Claudet. The weather is no help either as the airport is plagued with a major snowstorm.You'll still enjoy flying after this exciting film. "},{"Title":"Bland melodrama","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has far too many great actors and actresses in it to be as bland as it is. I don't quite understand it myself. This was supposed to have been THE blockbuster film from 1970. It has a strong story, with plenty of moments that should be positively fraught with suspense, but they just aren't! This film misses everything by a mile. The strong story somehow just gets diluted by poorer than usual performances by much of the cast. In my opinion, the only actor in this film who did his job was George Kennedy. I believe the film is also too long and that helps to dilute the drama as well. Overall, a weak film that doesn't reach expectations from such a fine cast. "},{"Title":"Everything you could want in an airplane spoof.","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We can't call this the grandfather of all airplane movies because that honor belongs to The High and the Mighty, released around 1954. But this one is obviously the source of all the sequels, television series, and spoofs that followed its release. Maybe The High and the Mighty was the most original and interesting, but the movement took sixteen years to get off the ground. Maybe because the genre was so pregnant with possibilities.A good many established performers appear in small roles as their careers continued their gentle glide downhill. Loyd Nolan appears as a custom's officer, for instance. His sister's name is Judy Barton. That was the real name of Kim Novak's character in Vertigo. Can't imagine how that happened unless one of the writers thought some of the mojo might rub off. Let's see. The married pilot (Dean Martin) has been having an affair with his flight attendant (Jacqueline Bissett), as any normal pilot would, but she is now pregnant and, boy, is he in a pickle. Burt Lancaster is the airport manager at odds with his social-climbing wife and he's having an affair with his secretary, Jean Seberg, who is thinking of taking a job elsewhere because she can't see where her relationship with Burt Lancaster is headed because, though he's married too, just like Dean Martin, his real love is aviation and he refuses to commit. (That means he won't divorce his wife and marry Seberg.) And then there's Van Heflin, the mad bomber of Global Circumlobotomy Airlines, who wants to blow himself and the airplane up because he and his wife are impoverished and need the insurance money. There are a couple of nuns on the plane too, and a priest who asks earnestly, Anything I can do to help? Now, there's usually a sick kid aboard, too, who needs a kidney transplant or an emergency vasectomy, but if such a kid were a passenger here I missed her. There were a few periods of microsleep.And -- I -- I can't go on. The suspense, the tragedy, the soap bubbles are overwhelming. My eyes are filled with tears, mostly because I managed to get soap in them. I can't even see what I'm typing any longer. And I can't hear either -- that sudden decompression, I suppose. (Sob.) Is this -- is this coming out right? Give it to me straight. I can take it. "},{"Title":"Dramatic Disaster","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A disturbed man boards a plane with a bomb while a winter snow storm grounds flights at a busy airport. This adaptation of the best-selling novel started the cycle of all-star disaster films that peaked with the likes of The Poseidon Adventure and The Towering Inferno, but it is so bad that it makes those films look like masterpieces. The plot is like soap opera on steroids, with all kinds of melodrama unfolding over the period of several hours. Lancaster looks haggard, Kennedy is hammy, and what sane person would get into a plane piloted by Martin? Seberg and Bisset provide the love interest. Heflin, in his final role, comes off best. "},{"Title":"Too contrived to be fun","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport was contrived and poorly executed even for the 1970s, but today in 2003 it looks so creaky and is so horribly acted (over-acted) with such stupid dialogue that it is hard to believe anyone saw anything in it. The special effects are so bad, again even by 1970s standards, as to be laughable. The plot is thinner than watered beer three times over. The outcome can be seen before the plane takes off, and the film shows no understanding of the words suspense or terror or riveting or even exciting. You'd be better off reading a book.  "},{"Title":"Tis' the stuff that spoofs are made of.","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cliche....cliche....cliche.  This movie is bad and boring and began a long line of bad and boring movies.  The best thing about Airport is that it begat Airplane.  It might be worth viewing again just to see the corn that created a classic. "},{"Title":"Eventually, Airport presents a very interesting and intricate story.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie when I watched it recently, and I actually thought that it was a spoof of Airplane, and not the other way around, until I noticed that it was made a decade earlier. Although Airport starts off with nearly 45 minutes of mind-numbing boredom, it builds up a number of separate stories that all eventually come together in a very clever and thrilling way. The movie is probably too long by about an hour, but because of this we were able to really get to know the characters, maybe even more than we might want to. It seems to take forever, but once the movie really gets going, it is a very exciting and entertaining drama.When you watch Airport, it is very clearly a 70's film. It has dated fairly badly, but it is still entertaining if you can sit through it long enough for it to really get started. The runway scenes, those involving the airplane that was stuck in the snow, were particularly well made, and the acting was good, but the movie was a little too talky. It seemed that it told too much of the story through dialogue, which is one of the things that made the first half so boring. Now, I'm not against extensive dialogue, but it has to be right for the movie, and Airport was almost too much of a thriller to be moving that slow for that long. However, despite all of this, don't be put off by the movie's extensive running time or the superficial clunkiness that the movie seems to have, or even the fact that one of the main characters (Burt Lancaster) is one of the ugliest men ever to be shown on the silver screen. Once the film gets around to the bomb on the plane, you start to see how all of these seemingly obscure stories that you have been watching tie together. Airport is a very well thought out and scripted movie, and it is ultimately very satisfying.  "},{"Title":"More of a mini-series than a movie","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In some ways this was the last hurrah for the old Hollywood. Younger talents were setting in motion the forces to make this look dated even before the masterpiece of parody that was Airplane! The new Hollywood was to be leaner, meaner and more cynical (which are not necessarily good things).In Airport there is still an emphasis on glamour and that certain patrician tone such films have. The script is full of its own sense of self-importance with some bombastic dialogue while at the same time pruriently obsessed with the sex lives of the air staff (no doubt still considered part of the glamorous jet set before the days of cheap international flights). It actually has more in common with earlier high gloss soap opera like the V.I.P.s (the Taylor/Burton vehicle) than the grittier more action filled disaster genre it kicked off. This focus, more on character than action, is why I guess many will be disappointed. In a more modern film a bomb on a plane would be milked as much as possible with an inevitably prolonged CGI sequence. Here it is rather anti-climatic. But that is not really the point here. The bomb plot is merely one element in a long melodrama. So the question is, does this movie succeed in its own terms, as a melodrama? I think it is safe to say it has not aged too well. The music does not help the dated feel, with bizarre jazz lounge music being used as the background to Jacqueline Bisset's confession of pregnancy.There is a huge amount of build-up, too much actually, with the script spiralling off into too many directions. There's an awful lot of confrontation scenes some of which are terribly civilised. Perhaps this is how Hollywood genuinely thought the better class of person behaved back then. The lower orders react in a more earthy manner, such as George Kennedy's violent rage over his aircraft.Curiously it is the bomber Van Heflin that comes across as the most well drawn and believable. His wife, though, is hysterically handled. "}{"Title":"Kathy Bates ??","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this excellent movie again after not seeing it for at least 20 years. it was great to see it again though i'm shocked to learn that Dean Martin received 10% of the gross profits. He wouldn't have been missed if he had missed the flight and the movie! I swear that Kathy Bates is the trans global reservationist who speaks to Mr. Guerrero about Flight #002 the Golden Odyssey's evening departure for Rome. I wanted to confirm this, so i checked the credits here as well as her Videography. she appears to be uncredited which i find strange in light of the fact that persons who have smaller parts in the movie than she. although an unknown at the time, how could this have happened? "},{"Title":"Nominated for 10 academy awards, or so they say","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nominated for 10 academy awards, or so I read recently. Hard to believe. Hard to believe the novel was published in 14 different languages (as the trailer claims). I recently watched this movie on DVD and found it as dated as I could possibly imagined, I've always enjoyed the sequels for being campy and awful but the original has been claimed to be actually good. Things were obviously different in 1970 but one can't help but cringe when a custom's officer notices the nervous guy with the bomb in his briefcase and somebody else says don't worry, Italian customs will get him. And then the plan to use the little old lady to take the briefcase away from him, I'm sure you can find that somewhere in the airlines security manuals today. I also found the splitting of the screen in 2 panels silly, and the ones in weird diamond shapes downright stupid. And the character interactions..... infidelity in movies may have sounded daring in those days but today, seeing Burt Lancaster's wife drive to the airport (in what supposedly were snow blocked roads), then tell him she wants a divorce because he's late from work again, and then having him finally free to declare his love for his widow girlfriend, what can you say ?...., the sequels are supposed to be the dumb ones. On the other hand, if you believe Jacqeline Bissett was actually stupid enough to sleep with Dean Martin, you have to assume SHE was the one who drank too much. Anyway, I guess in those days you couldn't help but hearing ......and George Kennedy as Patroni !!! and run to your closest cinema. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have read the book and while I was reading it i thought there should be an adaptation based on it. However, I was amazed how the director and script-writer cut all of the psychological descriptions of the characters which Arthur Hailey diligently wrote about. These same psychological descriptions are the very base of the whole novel. It is the essence. And the characters, built in the movie doesn't coincide with those described in the book. Even the simplest things like Gerero's look which is said he to be very thin, with small moustache is, in the movie, a fat man and, furthermore, looks very calm, despite the book. The actors performance is mediocre and it feels like they don't feel what they play. I know movies cannot duplicate the book, but these things that are missing are very essential and feels more like they have made the movie in a big hurry and for simple commercial purposes, just to get money from it. That's all right, but when a movie has won an Oscar and a whole bunch of others awards it is kind of disappointment and pity for the American film industry. "},{"Title":"Look! ...up in the sky. It's a smutty disaster movie!","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport takes smutty melodrama like The Best of Everything and Valley of the Dolls from the previous decade, adds a disaster, and stirs in a giant helping of disenfranchised whining and resentment. Everybody is so damned irritable in this movie. They all treasure their hair-trigger tempers, and have a beef with the man about something. It's like they can see the bureaucratic nightmare of 2008 coming, based on the shiny, corporate soulessness they're drowning in. All the drama is injected by characters who are plssed-off. Only the bomber is pleasant, quiet, reserved and complaint-free. ?!!? One can understand the forces that created the conflicts and changes of the 60s. But the 70s are a mystery. And this primary document reminds viewers just how grotesque the 70s were. Everything is cut-rate and shabby; people, clothing, hairstyles, rooms, furniture, behavior. It commits every offense in the visible spectrum. Did people eyes work? The 70s were like some aberrant revival of the 50s (which was merely psychologically ugly) except now women pretend they're liberated because although they're still being used sexually by their bosses, they're OK with it. Secretaries would still be content with this arrangement when Irwin Allen later burned a skyscraper. The newly burgeoning corporate scale of the era is exploited to let everyone cheat on their wives. It's also depressing to see a host of slumming actors (who know better) agree to drop their standards.The silly split screen device made me laugh as goofier and goofier shapes begin to show up. "},{"Title":"Pure drama, little disaster","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's all kinds of stories entangled in this film, from cheating husbands and possible abortions to 70 year old stowaway passengers, to the worst snow storm in ages and a blocked runaway, but the biggest story is that a man sick of life has a bomb on the plane in a briefcase and he ultimately goes into the bathroom and ignites the bomb and blows a huge hole in the side of the plane and now the pilot must double back and try to land it...yea it's about as boring as what I just made it sound like.I only liked the film as much as I did because it had that late 60's big screen epic feel to it. Alfred Newmans score and some major players from that era made it enjoyable for me. Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin, George Kennedy, Maureen Stapelton, Van Helfon, Hellen Hayes and Jaquelin Bissett all did wonderful jobs.The movie is much like a soap opera, it is more about character and less about action and excitement, thats one bad thing about adapting a film from a book about action, it should be written as a screenplay and deal more with pleasing the viewer, action films need a good story, but action and thrills should take precedent.The bomb explosion wasn't shown and there was basically no damage done to anyone except the bomber. I do however think this film should be rated PG instead of G.It's OK to watch if you like watered down 60's films, The last 2 AIRPORT movies are probably the most thrilling. 3/10 stars "},{"Title":"She couldn't stand the atmosphere of hate... I don't understand it's classic status.","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport is set at Lincoln International Airport where the worst snow storms in twenty years have caused chaos, a pilot has beached a huge Boeing 707 in a snow drift & is blocking a runway which causes general airport manager Mel Bakersfeld (Burt Lancaster) all sorts of problems. To add to those problems there are local anti noise protesters causing bad publicity, his wife wants a divorce, his mistress wants to transfer to another city & worse is still to come. Depressed unemployed construction worker D. O. Guerrero (Van Heflin) has decided to take out a huge insurance policy out on his life & plans to board a plane to Rome & blow it up over the Atlantic so his broke wife & kids can collect the $250,000 insurance pay-out. But with an entire plane full of people can he be stopped?Written & directed by George Seaton (although the IMDb lists Henry Hathaway as an uncredited co-director who directed the 'Winter Outdoor Scenes') based on the novel Airport by Arthur Hailey (which was apparently a huge success staying at the top of the best sellers list back in 1968 for 30 weeks!) this is the Gnadaddy of all those star studded disaster flicks like The Poseidon Adventure (1972), The Towering Inferno (1974) & Earthquake (1974) although while later examples went for large scale spectacle Airport most certainly doesn't. I have to confess to being really unimpressed by Airport, for a start it's way too long at two hours sixteen minutes & fifty three seconds long & it takes absolutely ages to get where it wants to go & once it's there it doesn't do much anyway. The plane with the bomber on it doesn't even take off until the one hour ten minute mark & the bomb doesn't explode until the hour forty mark, basically for an hour & forty minutes Airport is solid wall to wall talk with too many sub-plots bogging both the pace & the flow of the film down. There are two love triangles, pregnant lovers, wives wanting a divorce, unhappy children, an annoying old lady stowaway, general all round incompetence in various areas, smugglers, noise protesters, the chairmen of the Airport holding meetings, a grounded plane, people having to work over Christmas much to the annoyance of family & a bomber who is barely seen although he has an OK back story even if you just couldn't literally walk onto a plane holding a case of dynamite these days without being stopped or searched. Airport focuses more on the everyday dramas of the main character's rather than the suspense thriller plot & as such spends probably about two hours of it's two & a quarter hour duration on dull sub standard soap opera amateur dramatics which I found a total bore.Another big problem I have with Airport is the bomb scene, while it's abrupt & we are spared any self righteous irritating speech from the bomber I can't believe how little damage that dynamite caused & the way the plane carries on with a huge hole in the side & there's not one bit of turbulence or any wind in the plane as nothing blows around, not even people s hats or ties or anything after the first few seconds & would they all be able to breathe with a huge hole in the side? I don't know but I would expect some consequences of a plane having a huge hole in it's side & still flying along at 500mph. Airport also contains a lot of cool split screen conversations between people, cool eh? In fact a lot of scenes have people talking to each other over phones or radios & what could have been a tense climax is ruin by lots of endless talk between the crew & the ground control as that's how the final approach & landing is conveyed. The effects are alright, the model plane isn't anything special although it's not used much.With a supposed budget of abut $10,000,000 this was a pretty big budget film for it's time, all of the airport scenes were shot at Mineapolis-Saint Paul International Airport in Minnesota. The acting isn't that great from a good cast, Burt Lancaster doesn't seem interested (he apparently later went on record as saying Airport was 'the worst piece of junk ever made'), Dean Martin is a womanising idiot pilot while the annoying Helen Hayes won an Oscar for Airport for Best Actress in Supporting Role & it had another nine Oscar nominations that year including Best Picture but lost out to Patton (1970).Airport in the cold hard light of a 2010 day is a pretty bad film, the unbelievable lack of security is mind boggling & the fact it's more soap opera drama than action adventure means I didn't think much of it at all. Followed by three sequels, Airport 1975 (1974), Airport '77 (1977) & The Concorde ... Airport '79 (1979). "},{"Title":"An OK 1st half, but stupidity sets in...","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 7/27/2007 - 4 out of 10(Dir-George Seaton) An OK 1st half, but stupidity sets in. This is the original disaster movie(at least it's billed as such). It is actually pretty well done until about halfway thru when a stowaway(played by Helen Hayes) is used to get a briefcase full of what they think are explosives from another passenger. Helen received a supporting actress Oscar for this role in what had to be a weak year for this type of role. She's OK, but not extra-ordinary. They do a good job of introducing the characters and the plot to help us understand the issues involved. A Chicago airport with only 2 runways has one shutdown due to a landing plane getting stuck in the snow, on the other runway a plane takes off to Rome and has the prior 2 characters mentioned. The reason the 2nd runway is important comes later in the movie after the bomb explodes and they turn the plane around to get back to Chicago. The pilot, played by Dean Martin(who actually does a pretty good job), doesn't give a lot of reasons for needing the 2nd runway except that it's vital to land a damaged plane. I'll leave the rest of the movie for those who wish to view it for themselves. It's not a bad piece of entertainment, except it gets pretty predictable for the average movie-goer as we get closer to the end and not horrible to get through despite it's reputation for bringing in worse sequels. "},{"Title":"What a piece of JUNK!","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first of the 1970s disaster films.  A midwestern airport in Chicago is contending with a huge blizzard, a psycho with a bomb (Van Heflin), a lovable stowaway (Helen Hayes), a harried airport manager (Burt Lancaster), his obnoxious pilot brother (Dean Martin) and assorted mistresses and wives.A big, glossy BORING soap opera.  The book by Arthur Hailey was a good, entertaining book with complex characters and situations.  All characterization went out the window with the movie, the plots were dumbed down and what's left is cliched characters and truly laughable dialogue.  A talk between Martin and his mistress (Jacqueline Bisset) is astoundingly stupid. This is chockful of actors obviously desperate for a paycheck--Burt Lancaster (looks terrible and doesn't even try to act); Jean Seberg (really tries but the dialogue defeats her and has a HORRIBLE 1970s wardrobe); Dean Martin (appears drunk); Jacqueline Bisset (just stunning, but given nothing to work with); Helen Hayes (looks miserable--somehow she won as Oscar for this).  Only van Heflin, George Kennedy and Maureen Stapleton inject any life into their parts.  Stapleton especially is heart-wrenching in a scene at the end.  She was nominated for an Academy Award too but lost to Hayes (God knows why).  Also the special effects are pretty bad but were probably state of the art in 1970.On the plus side--there IS excellent use of split screens throughout the movie (letter box viewing is essential).A big budget bomb.  Critics HATED this movie--even the actors in it hated it (Lancaster called it a big piece of junk).  However it was a huge hit and nominated for 10 Academy Awards (it won 1).  I really can't recommend this.  Not even good for laughs.  Avoid.   "},{"Title":"Dull as dishwater, disaster epic.","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport has to be one of the most overrated disaster epics I have ever seen. It's success let out a string of sequels, most which sucked mind you, and this wastes one of the biggest casts in the history of a movie. This runs a 137 minutes long, but in reality it feels like three hours, as it all plays out like one boring soap opera, with very little action to be seen, considering it's supposed to be in the Disaster genre. There's no suspense, it's been spoofed many times, most famously in Airplane 1&2 and I didn't really care about any of the characters, thought Burt Lancaster was pretty decent.Bottom line. Airport is one long boring soap opera, with too many talky and boring scenes to fully succeed. I can't believe two actresses won Oscars for this!.4/10 "}]