[{"Title":"How Safe is Your World?","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"49 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Chances are, if you are only casually aware of the world that you live in, your life imitates that of the Finzi-Continis, one of two families depicted in this film. The beginning of de Sica's film follows the state of affairs in Italy shortly after the Fascist government of Mussolini has declared the ordinary tennis clubs off limits for Italian Jews-just the beginning for the Government's separatist stance. The Jews in town react in various ways Giorgio, who is in love with the daughter of the Finzi-Continis, is enraged; his father his philosophical; Giorgio's brother is upset only after being sent to France to study, and later, finding out to his horror about the German concentration camps.  To the Finzi-Continis, though, it doesn't really matter. They're different from the other Jews because wealth and privilege have bred them into a family as proud as it is vulnerable. They hardly seem to know, or even care, about the fact that their rights are slowly being taken away. It seems that years of prestige and social status have put them above the laws of the land.The walled garden of the Finzi-Continis is a symbol for the false security that people retain, unaware that problems on the outside may force them into reality. The garden of the film seems to promise that nothing will change and that everything will remain the same. Interestingly, de Sica films the garden in a way that enforces this theme of false security. He never orients us visually with the rest of the city, so we can never tell how big or how small the garden is.  Have you ever felt uneasy being somewhere not knowing the exact dimensions of your boundary? That's the feeling we get here with shots of the garden that seem to stretch on forever.  The Garden of the Finzi-Continis is a great film for many reasons, one of which is how it forces us to take a proactive stance regarding the world that we live in. There's nothing wrong with feeling secure but it's important to try to take an objective stance with reference to the world that we live in. And you certainly don't want to be on the outside looking in to those who have realized it already.   "},{"Title":"Imperfect, but unforgettable","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"41 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  In this haunting work by Vittoria De Sica an aristocratic Italian-Jewish family, the Finzi-Continis, serve as a symbol of European civilization in the hands of the brown shirts on the eve of World War II.  Seeing it again after thirty years I find myself saddened almost as much by the story of a stillborn, unrequited love as I am by the horror of the cattle cars to come.Dominique Sanda with her large, soft eyes is mesmerizing as the beautiful, enigmatic, but icy Micol Finzi-Contini.  Giorgio (Lino Capolicchio) is her childhood friend, a boy from a middle-class Jewish family, now grown up.  He's in love with her, but her feelings for him are that of a sister.  He is confused by her warmth, and then as he tries to get close, her cool rejection.   												 It has often been expressed metaphorically that Europe in the thirties was raped by fascism.  However in this extremely disturbing film, De Sica is saying that it wasn't a rape, that the aristocracy of Europe (here represented by the Finzi-Continis of Ferrara, and in particular by the young and beautiful Micol) was a willing, even an eager, participant in the bestial conjoining.The Garden of the Finzi-Continis is far from perfect; some would say it is also far from De Sica's best work.  Certainly it comes after his prime.  The editing is a little too severe in places, while some of the scenes are too loosely focused.  Nonetheless this is an enormously powerful film that finds its climax in one of the most disturbing scenes in all of cinema.  There is little point in discussing this film without looking at this scene.  Consequently, for those of you who have not seen the film and do not want to risk having it spoiled for you, you should stop reading now and come back afterwards.Everything in the movie works toward setting up the cabana scene.  We see the dog several times, hinting at a crude, animalistic side to Micol.  And there is the wall that separates the Finzi-Contini's garden of civilization from the brown shirts in the streets, a wall that also separates the rich from other people, particularly from the middle class who support the fascists (as we are told in the opening scene).  We see Micol leading Giorgio by the hand about the estate, but always when he tries to caress her, she pulls away.  Finally she explains to him why she doesn't love him.  She says, lovers want to overwhelm each other...but...we are as alike as two drops of water...how could we overwhelm and want to tear each other...it would be like making love with a brother...  But hearing these words is not enough.  Giorgio goes to the wall one last time, sees a red bicycle there (red and black were the colors of the Nazi party) and knows that Micol is with someone else.  He climbs the wall and finds the dog outside the cabana so that he knows she is within.  In the opening scene she referred to the cabana with the German Hütte, adding that now we'll all have to learn German.  What he sees when he looks through the window fills him with a kind of stupefying horror, as it does us.   Not a word is spoken.  He sees her, he sees who she is with and what the circumstances are.  She sees him, turns on the light so that there can be no mistake and they stare wordlessly at one another.  She projects not shame, but a sense of This is who I am.  I would say I'm sorry, but it wouldn't change anything.  This is what I'm drawn to.What is expressed in this essentially symbolic scene, acted out in sexual terms, is what happened to Europe.  Micol is at once the love he wanted so much, deflowered by an anonymous, but clearly fascist man, and she is also the aristocracy of Europe, polluted by fascism.I wonder if it is just a coincidence that the famous poem by Robert Browning, My Last Duchess, is also set in Ferrara.  In that poem the narrator reveals himself through the unfeeling brutality of his speech and actions to be, although an aristocrat, an incipient fascist.  I also wonder if De Sica is saying that the Jews in some sense contributed to the horror that befell them, and by extension, all of humanity.  We see this expressed in the person of Giorgio's father who continually insists that it's not that bad yet, as step by step they lose their status as citizens, a prelude to the dehumanization that is the precursor of genocide.  Certainly the closing scenes in which the Jews of Italy are seen to be compliant as they are led to the slaughter suggests as much.  I know that the central feeling expressed by Jews after the war and especially in Israel was simply, never again.  Nevertheless, there is a certain sense of the inevitable about this film that I find particularly disturbing.  Passivity in sexual terms, a giving in to one's nature is one thing.  A passivity in political terms is quite another, and yet it is part of the power of this film to show us how they are related in our psyches. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet and elusive...","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  In THE GARDEN OF THE FINZI-CONTINIS -- based on the autobiographical novel by Giorgio Bassani -- legendary Neorealist filmmaker, Vittorio de Sica, dramatizes the human cost of the `racial laws' gradually implemented against the Jews in Fascist Italy during the years 1938-43. The more Bassani's young middle-class Jewish protagonist feels the brunt of Mussolini's anti-Semitic edicts encroaching upon him, the more he feels drawn to the aristocratic Jewish Finzi-Continis' estate -- their Edenic garden -- and to Micòl, the family's beautiful young daughter. Psychologically, this compulsion seems to stem from a deep emotional attachment to a perpetually innocent, untroubled state of childhood, which both Micòl and her garden seem to represent. Throughout the film, there is a marked conflict between childhood and adulthood, between the distant past and the immediate present, between the act of retreating into a world of comfortable illusions and confronting a world of harsh and bitter realities.I found this particular aspect of the story very fascinating, although too tantalizingly obscure and open-ended -- and thus, not quite as illuminating or fulfilling as it might have been were it more clearly explained. (This could the reason why some people find the film -- and its heavily symbolic, impressionistic style -- a little confusing and underwhelming.)For Giorgio -- both the naive hero and wisened author of the story -- Micòl embodies the mystery and allure of the Finzi-Continis, as well as their insularity and their apparent passivity in the face of the escalating Fascist crackdown. She always appears distant and unattainable, with no obvious reasons for her actions, and never really provides a direct, comprehensible explanation for her insistent rejection of Giorgio or for what appears to be a subtle streak of cruelty towards him. Her conversation with him always seems deliberately vague, and her refusal to make any further connection with him has a curious, almost perverse kind of fatalism about it. Again, this is another feature of the film that is certainly intriguing -- and strangely seductive -- but, alas, never quite pays off enough to become fully understandable to either the protagonist or the audience.  When the Fascists finally do arrest the Finzi-Continis and confiscate their estate it comes as something of a surprise. The muted and deliberately spare representation of these characters and their feelings, as evidenced in their unusually restrained behavior, is meant to isolate and heighten the impact of a few devastating strokes of sudden realization and lucidity -- pointed indications that the protective spell of the Finzi-Continis has been finally broken.All in all, well-acted and gorgeously, languidly poetic in its imagery...yet, narrative-wise, the picture seems overly elliptical and ultimately opaque -- and leaves just a few too many rough fragments and loose ends lingering at the end of the story (not quite Proustian irony, maybe?). In spite of this peculiar drawback, the film finishes very effectively, and by the final desolate shots, you are left with an unexpectedly intense feeling of loss and anguish.  It is important to note, however, that the last scene -- in which Giorgio's father meets the Finzi-Continis in a detention center -- is fictitious and does not appear in the novel, and Bassani had a falling out with de Sica about this.  "},{"Title":"A great adaptation from a freat novel","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I first heard a radio adaptation from the Garden of the Finzi Contini and afer that read the book. I thought it would be difficult to make an adaptation to cinema. Indeed, the book is above all psychological (or romantic in the literary meaning of the 19th century)i.e the narrator describing his inner world and his sufferings...However, Vittorio de Sica succeeded in expressing this without using monologue, without making a too slow picture... The music is very good too... the images are wonderful...I must correct some commentaries Malnate, Micol's lover is not a fascist but a communist... There is also a difference with the book  in the book we do not know for sure that Micol and Malnate were lovers, it is an assumption whereas it is an evidence in the film...In spite of this differences, this picture deserves a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"A beautiful, poignant masterpiece.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The Finzi-Continis are a wealthy and privileged Italian family. It is shortly before WWII, a time when the Fascists are slowly taking away the rights and livelihoods of Jews, including the Finzi-Continis.But none of this seems to pass the walls of their magnificent garden, where the children Micol and Alberto often invite their friends.  One of their friends, Georgio, is hopelessly in love with the beautiful Micol.  The way this film evokes such youthful, quixotic yearning, or a woman's growing awareness of physical beauty's power, is splendid.The sadness I felt at the end came from knowing all along what would happen to all of them, rich and not-so-rich, and that they didn't recognize what lay in store for them until it was too late.  The Garden of the Finzi-Continis was Vittorio De Sica's last hurrah, a masterpiece of neorealism, and timeless evocation of a time lost. "},{"Title":"One of the best - the tragedy is its continued timeliness","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" While undeniably not for the shallow or those who expect their movies to lay every detail out for them amid plenty of action, THE GARDEN OF THE FINZI-CONTINIS (a parable on a latter day Eden of doomed innocence?) remains after more than a quarter century one of the most perfect reflections of the gradual process by which the Holocaust could have happened in a Europe which believed itself civilized. The tragic love story allows us into the garden. Only our own action - or blind ignorance - can allow us out.Not a lot need be added to the perceptive comments already examining the details of this beautiful and moving film - but Americans, especially those of my fellow Republicans who are able to objectively look at their own country and leaders, should seriously examine the politicians who use fear and nebulous enemies to gain and hold power in the light of this film. The realization is inescapable that the world of the Finzi-Continis is not that far removed from our own. A question of degree not of kind.The garden is still seductively attractive, the country around it still relatively free, but will we follow the course the Finzi-Continis took or will we come actively out of our garden while there is time? "},{"Title":"Reversed","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" De Sica is celebrated as the man who brought neo-realism to film, one of the three or four philosophies that still vie as motivation for the film enterprise. It is the notion that though film necessarily artificializes, it is possible to start with truth and deliberately enhance it cinematic ally. Because he relied on class struggle, viewers mistakenly associate that with the essence of neo-realism.His early work is much celebrated, but as he aged and added layers and nuance, his relatively simpleminded audience was lost. Here we have a later masterpiece, not generally regarded as such.The basic story is of two Jewish families, the impeding brutality of fellow Italians and different approaches to life and love in the knowing face of doom. At that level, it has some charm and power.But what he has done is to invert all the values and superimpose them on the originals. Its a common technique in writing, and found of course in the novel. We have the obvious a relatively small garden within which the inhabitants blithely create an artificial world while the real world grinds down upon them. The garden is in Europe, but it is also Europe.As I say, That's obvious. Also common (far too common) is the placement of sexual mechanics in political mechanics as if one explains the other while they cause each other. Ho Hum. But there are three other elements, and these I appreciate. While he is reversing things and overlaying them, he casts accordingly. The European fiction was that Jews were dark, earthy people. Hairy, monetary, shrewd, animal. Yet the actors who play the Jews are according to cinematic conventions of Aryans light haired, light skinned, svelte. Their manner is similarly cinematic (and the Nazi/fascist movement was inherently cinematic) completely unconcerned about money and politics and instead concerned about poetry and idleness. Roles reversed we know this for certain when the (Jewish) girl tells her (non-Jewish) suitor he is not her type; too communist and too hairy.There's another, explicit inversion the thing is a movie, but the anchor of reality within it is, well, movies. Three times. Plus our hero goes from Passover at his house where the family is singing something vapid to the Finzi-Continis where they are doing something movie-like looking into a glass to see the future.Third we know this is not straight-on narrative, because the camera has a habit of drifting out of the narrative frame. Kar-Wai is the current master of this and for the same reason.Naturally, underlying it all is that this is not the work of fascists or Nazis, but of Italians and Germans. Not few, but many, essentially all. Because of that one thing, I find this more powerful than Schindler's List. Sure, his people were more demonstrably evil, but so are all his villains in his fakey worlds. It doesn't make it real if he shows real history in the same theatrical way. No, for real evil we have to see how ordinary it is.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"the music during the final credits","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I just watched the DVD and had not seen the movie in many years. I found it every bit as moving as I had remembered from my first viewing. This included the Prayer For the Dead (El Moleh Rachamim) magnificently sung as the final credits rolled. I am not Jewish so I had to do some googling to learn that El Moleh...is indeed a prayer for the dead. What moved me so apart from the singer's mournfully beautiful voice were the names Aushwitz, Maidenek, Treblinka et. al. interpolated into the text. It reminded me of the penultimate paragraph in Andre Schwartz-Bart's extraordinary novel of the Holacaust, The Last Of The Just where the names of the death camps are artfully placed among the repeated words And praised Be The Lord. Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts. "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  `The Garden of the Finzi-Continis' stands out from the scores of films about the Fascist persecution of Jews due, in no small part, to director Vittorio De Sica. His veteran hands crafting an excellent story into a masterpiece.The story focuses on a young Italian-Jew and his interaction and quest for romance with the daughter of a wealthy Jewish aristocrat. The trials of their relationship coming during the growth of Fascism in Italy in the late-1930s. Even the viewer can feel the segregation closing on the two young people and their families.But even the superb drama of the film cannot hold a candle to the awesome cinematography of beautiful scenery that adds vitality to the film. The acting is good, mostly from the supporting cast, but occasional spouts of brilliance come from all directions. Exceptional. 9/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"a garden of no delights for those who ran afoul of the state","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The Italian people probably felt a moral degradation knowing that their government had participated in exterminating Jews during WWII. The Garden of the Finzi-Continis was probably their way of showing that they were atoning for it. It tells of the Jewish Finzi-Contini family in Ferrara in the 1930s. They are a very well off family (with a false sense of security), and many of the people within the family are falling for each other. Unfortunately for them, not even their social status can protect them from the doom that awaits them.Much like in The Bicycle Thief over 20 years earlier, Vittorio De Sica shows the desperate existences of a few people, surrounded by what many incorrectly assumed to be a joyful world. Wonderful. "}{"Title":"Haunting DeSica film","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This was probably Vittorio DeSica's last excellent film before his death in 1974 and it took me about 20 years to view it a second time. I certainly understand it more this time than the first time I viewed it. Story is set in the late 1930's in Ferrara, Italy with the impending war looming on the horizon. The family of the Finzi-Continis are rich and Jewish and live in a huge manor behind locked gates and they love to have friends over for picnics and tennis. One of the friends is Giorgio (Lino Capolicchio) and he is in love with Micol Finzi-Contini (Dominique Sanda) and they have known each other since they both were kids but Micol does not love Giorgio. He's persistent in his affections but Micol lives in an isolated world hidden behind the gates and her demeanor is very cold and malicious. Meanwhile, Giorgio's father (Romolo Valle) seems to be oblivious to what is happening in the world and utters It's not that bad. Mussolini has enacted laws that forbid Jews from going to school, entering the library and other restrictions. One night Giorgio discovers Micol having an affair with his more Fascist friend Bruno (Fabio Testi) and Micol notices him in the window but seems not to care. *****SPOILER ALERT*****While DeSica somewhat abandoned his neo-realism approach later in his career this does have an aura of those wonderful films like The Bicycle Thief and Umberto D. DeSica still wanted to show the world what it was like in Italy during the darker times and even though he had a larger budget and professional actors in his films his attitude never really shifted. This film is primarily about the two lead characters played by Capolicchio and Sanda. Even with war upon them they both seemed to be in their own world. Giorgio became a very angry and heartbroken man and even with soldiers walking around his city he seemed to only care about Micol's rejection of him. But late in the film he did snap out of it and escaped. He didn't allow what happened to him to get the better of him. Unfortunately, Micol and her family waited too long and were rounded up to be sent to camps. There are instances in this film that I thought Micol was awaiting to be taken by the Fascists and Nazi's. It's one of the reasons she slept with Bruno and seemed unperturbed by the events around her. Remember what Giorgio's father told him? He said, In life, in order to understand, to really understand the world, you must die at least once. So it's better to die young, when there's still time left to recover and live again. After viewing this thought provoking film once again, maybe DeSica was showing us that Micol needed to get out of her haven and understand the world about her.  "},{"Title":"A deserved classic","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is a parable (& a wake-up call) to all those who feel sufficiently insulated from global pressures so that they feel immune to the effects to which most other people are subject. The Finzi-Continis are an aristocratic, wealthy, connected Jewish family in Italy in the 1930s-40s. Mussolini's Fascist party followed the lead of Germany's Hitler/Nazis' anti-Semitism and purging of Jews, at first slowly following suit (denying Jews library use was among the earlier, then denying university graduation for Jews, then forbidding marriage between Jews and non-Jews, then denying any possibility of non-Jews working for Jews), etc., etc. They increasingly tightened their anti-Semitic noose.The social position of the Finzi-Continis and their walled garden seemed (at first) to keep these gathering restrictions at bay and inconsequential. E.g., when (early on) Jews were prohibited from using public tennis courts, young Jews flocked to the estate garden of the aristocratic Finzi-Continis, which had tennis courts. At first, they have little concern with the gradually tightening restrictions, the increasing anti-Semitism, and no sense there's a growing tsunami.But restrictions kept tightening much further.I saw the movie at a retired university faculty film series presenting great films. There were a number of hankies daubing eyes at the conclusion.I had problems keeping some of the film's 20-ish male characters distinct from each other (maybe those fluent in Italian wouldn't have that problem) as well as in some of the flashbacks to earlier times. Also the English subtitles sometimes quit the screen before I'd completely read them.BUT, all in all, this is a VERY important, consequential film that I've wanted to see for years.No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were. Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind; and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee........... -- John Donne "},{"Title":"Il giardino dei Finzi Contini","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The Garden of the Finzi-Continis is not just a physical safe space from the pressures and evils of a world about to be plunged into a second world war, but also a metaphysical memory of the mind, a last enduring remnant of the pre-war society where Jews were not third class citizens. De Sica obliges with his camera, never revealing it in its entirety, never connecting the endless towering walls of the estate to the rest of the town, or constraining its limits. It has a mystical quality that doesn't seem to be defined by logical or rational size limits. The lighting is over-exposed to create a dreamy, utopian aura like the characters are prancing about in the Garden of Eden. The camera steals peeks from behind trees and zooms in with a slight shakiness, as if we were voyeuristically intruding on this paradise. And we have a reversal too, that certainly goes against the propaganda of the time and Hitler's wishes - the Jews aren't dishevelled caricatures but tall and beautiful with the blondest of locks. Micol is particularly graceful, and has caught the eye of a fellow Jewish boy, although they might be from different worlds altogether the way that this is portrayed. Their first meeting is, as convention goes, Micol peeking over the great big walls of her estate and conversing with the lowly Giorgio. This motif has been used to indicate distance before - think Romeo and Juliet - but here it is imbued with a greater purpose and sense of injustice because they are after all of the same Jewish descent. They prance about in their mansion as if not aware of this biological fact; flaunting their privilege and wealth - when Jews are barred from the local tennis club, they host their own because they of course have their own courts. And when Giorgio is barred from the local library, he consults their vast book stores. De Sica establishes this all with a keen eye. His camera, long removed from his neorealist days, draws attention to itself and pieces of information that are vital. In a pivotal scene, Giorgio is so lovestruck that he climbs the cabana to spy on her private affairs. He is despondent to find the aftermath of a love affair between Micol and the tall, dark Bruno Malnate, who was presumably too frank in his political views to ever associate with her. And what does Micol do? Not hurriedly move to cover herself, but instead gazes right at Giorgio, as if to force him to confront the truth of her nature, and how it has been violated (but willingly of course, as Mussolini had done) by the fascist gentleman. That pretty idealist version of her is long gone in the past, made murky by the tendrils that would lead to the Holocaust. The garden remains in Giorgio's mind, long after the Jews rights have been taken from them until not even his father can justify it. But it does not unfold like some nightmare that has been fetishsized for maximum horror and impact. When he is told that he cannot stay in the library, he asks why, and the security guard cannot give him an answer, only that he is following orders. And how many soldiers have testified to that claim? On the one hand, we have Schindler's List, and on the other we have this - a slow, systematic purge, that is continually justified until it can no longer be. The children cheer because they will miss school, never mind any real implications. The vile undertone of anti-Semitism lurks throughout, and Finzi-Contini's ignore it and ignore it and ignore it...until they no longer can, and the precedent that De Sica has set is torn down. That 500 year old estate has no bearing. "},{"Title":"Underwhelmed","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Another 70s Oscar BEST FOREIGN PICTURE victor, from the versatile Italian actor/director Vittorio De Sica, in fact this is only my second De Sica's film (after MARRIAGE Italian STYLE 1964, 8/10 and disregarding the medley BOCCACCIO '70 1962, 6/10), thus admittedly a major motivating force to watch this one is the star appeal, namely Sanda and Berger. Sanda, whom I recently discovered from Bertolucci's THE CONFORMIST (1970, 9/10), plays Micòl, the young daughter of the aristocratic Jewish Finzi-Contini family in Ferrara in the late 1930s, is the love interest of Giorgio (Capolicchio), from another Jewish but lower-class family, although they have been childhood sweethearts, Giorgio's courtship has yet come off. Meanwhile Micòl's effeminately indisposed brother Alberto (Berger) brings his burly friend Bruno (Testi) to the family and initially Micòl antagonizes him with her affected pomposity, but the ensuing happenings will dish Giorgio's hope and Micòl eventually turns out to be a token victim of the tumult and a failed attempt to dare the purity of Jewish ethnicity. As a war drama of ordinary people being shoved haphazardly by the humanity-defying heinous torrent of rabidness, the movie (maybe also Bassani's source material) obviously don't want to lay bare the ugly truth with pulverizing segments which one can generally assume would happen during the persecution of those Jews (cautiously the film finishes right before that), everything meanders with tepid temperature and sensuous palette, from jovial time on bicycle to the final illusory tennis court flashbacks (the difference between De Sica and Antonioni is immediate), but at any rate, it is wanting a bang to emanate the revelation which is always up in the air, not even the reveal of Micòl's lover with Sanda's bare-chest audacity and soul-searching stare. Like Visconti, De Sica evinces ethereal and superior beauty from his young cast, say no more to knockouts like Sanda and Berger (who is purely existed for his godsend delicacy and impeccable face), even an ordinary-looking Capolicchio and the future action star Testi, have been sculpted meticulously with soft light and fond close-ups. Valli, on the other hand, is prominent as Giorgio's father, illustrates lucidly as a spokesman for an elder generation frustrated by their fate and also impotent to save their children. As a double winner for an Oscar and a Golden Berlin Bear, it doesn't live up to my expectation, maybe it is a common attribute for Italian melodrama, its across-the-board appeal dwindles as time passes by, Visconti's SENSO (1954, 7/10) is too saccharine for my palate and this one is somewhat rather undemanding under the reigns of a maestro like De Sica. "},{"Title":"A stunner","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A stunner. Vittorio De Sica's late career masterpiece exposes the hopeless plight a lot of Italian Jews faced as the lunatic Mussolini got further and further into bed with Hitler during WWII. The Finzi-Continis, a well-to-do family of intellectuals fail to realize the rising tide of anti-semitism around them as their vast estate becomes more and more a sanctuary for their equally blind friends. Unrequited love and missed chances at romance are dwarfed in importance as the Nazis move in. This is a very unsettling movie as you're well aware of what is going to happen to these people. De Sica (and five or six uncredited scriptwriters) creates a real sense of dread and the film is populated with an excellent cast. Lino Capolicchio is the standout, hopelessly in love with Finzi-Contini débutante Dominique Sanda. As Sanda's infirm brother, Helmut Berger personifies an entire race of people about to be systematically eliminated. Fabio Testi and Romolo Valli (excellent as Capolicchio's grotesquely optimistic father) are in it too. "},{"Title":"The Garden of the Finzi-Continis","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I think I only just remembered that I read about this Italian film in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, because it is an unusual title, but with the high critics rating it was one I definitely looked forward to trying, from director Vittorio De Sica (Bicycle Thieves, Umberto D.). Basically set in the late 1930's, in Ferrara, Italy, a group of young friends are banned from playing tennis at regular clubs, so they do so in grand, walled estate owned by the Finzi- Contini, a wealthy, intellectual and sophisticated Jewish family, the two young Finzi-Contini are brother Alberto (Helmut Berger) and sister Micol (Dominique Sanda). We see a series of flashbacks of Giorgio (Lino Capolicchio), middle class Jewish childhood friend to Micol, and how he used to be looking for him having feelings for her, and the two of them got somewhat closer from being friends to him having special attention from her, he tries at one point to make an advance, but she rejects him. Alberto meanwhile has fragile health, and has a close friendship with darkly handsome Bruno Malnate (Fabio Testi), and Giorgio's Father (Romolo Valli) feels the Finzi-Contini don't seem all that Jewish at all, but the family is perhaps overwhelmed by wealth, privilege and generations to be as proud as vulnerable to the realities of what is going on around them. Giorgio, who is definitely in love with Micol is a frequent visitor in the library at the Finzi-Contini's villa, and Micol does seem to show return feeling, but following a visit to Venice and her uncles she rejects all his affection, and continues an affair with Bruno, Giorgio seems them naked together through a window and is heartbroken, so he gets comfort from his father. By 1943 the Germans have invaded the Soviet Union, and all the young Jewish people who hung around the family estate have been arrested, Alberto dies from his sickness, the Finzi-Continis are finally seized by the Nazi army and taken into isolation, packed into a former classroom and separated from each other, the fate for all the many Jewish people of Ferrara in this space is that they will all be sent to concentration camps, the film ends with the final happy images of Micol, Alberto, Giorgio's brother Ernesto (Raffaele Curi) and Bruno playing tennis, with death music playing in the background. Also starring Camillo Angelini-Rota as Micol's Father - Prof. Ermanno Finzi-Contini, Katina Morisani as Micol's Mother and Inna Alexeievna as Micol's Grandmother. I will be honest and say that most of the pleasant material before the last twenty to thirty minutes were fine, the family and friends bonding is good, but for me the most memorable scenes are the horrific sights of the Jewish people you know are doomed to the fate of the holocaust, but throughout there is great music, good colourful and later faded imagery and all in all a good feeling humanity tested, it is an interesting Second World War drama. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, and it was nominated for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it won the BAFTA for the UN Award, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography. Very good! "},{"Title":"Needing more polish cimematically, but if you read in it, you'll be rewarded","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The film, to me, is about survival of one's identity. Micol identifies with her childhood and could not let go of it in relation to her childhood sweetheart, Georgio, even while her physical desires develop and intrude. The conflict in her mind is exposed by her enticing Georgio but turning cold when he makes the moves on her. She said she could not breath. Similar to what happened to the Jews of Italy, they were drawn in by their identity. For the Italian Jews, they identified with the Italian civilization, thinking they were a part of it. Georgio identifies with Micol. As the Jews were slowly extracted from theirs, they kept on with those early ideas. Same with Georgio, he kept on with pursuing her. Then finally when he saw she had sex with someone completely different from him and her---and she even turns the light on to show him---he snaps out of it. He finally grasps the physial reality of the situation. The process is just as his father says better you die (your relationship with Micol, your identity as being part of her world and visa versa) young and hence you have more time to start from zero. And for the Jews better your notions of being part of the civility of Italian society die early so you have time to rebuild elsewhere.The others in the garden didn't die in time and so became unwilling prisoners, in contrast to their voluntary enprisonment behind the walls of their own estate. Once in prison, Micol finally behaves as a responsible, caring adult, but alas, too late.Prior to that, while in France, Georgio was told of the Nazi horrors and how one man escapes by shedding his identity and saying he has converted to Nazism. Georgio says he won't escape because he had too many ties back in Italy. His identity then was bound to the fantasy of the Jews in the garden, even though his realistic father says they are not his type.Survival of one's identity has been the cause of much suffering when outside, physical, uncontrollable reality intrudes. Unfortunately, the identity we construct in order to feel a sense of belonging which gives us a sense of power, often subtracts from a balanced, caring, and even civilized way. As a result, religious, nationalist conflicts have caused too much suffering to justify the gains offered by these simple-minded (childish?) views. "},{"Title":"Underrated Holocaust film by Vittorio de Sica","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Nostalgia is self destruction. &#x96; Adrienne Rich The Garden of the Finzi-Continis takes place in fascist Italy during the reign of Mussolini. World War 2 is on the horizon and already racial laws are being implemented. Italian Jews have been banned from public schools, marrying non Jews, phone records, libraries, obituaries, using servants and are subject to strict curfews. Gradually the rights of Jews are eradicated, even the wealthiest Jewish families reduced to third class citizens. Slowly a race is made invisible.Against this backdrop is told the story of two Jewish families, the affluent and aristocratic Finzi-Contini family and the middle class Bassani family. The Finzi-Continis live a cloistered existence within the confines of their palatial estate. Surrounded by tall walls and a vast garden, the family lives in a dream world, believing that fascism will leave their lavish lives untouched. Director Vittorio de Sica uses overexposed, bleached images and white clothing to suggest that these wealthy Jews live within an almost idyllic haven. When the family hosts tennis games for friends and family, de Sica shoots them like innocent forest nymphs, frolicking in Eden.Of course, outside the stone walls of the Finzi-Contini estate, trouble brews. The Bassani family adjusts to Mussolini's racist laws with success at first, their father stating that despite their new limitations they can still live a reasonably secure existence. Their daughter will simply have to be home schooled, their maid will have to be smuggled in and their son, Giorgio, will simply have to use the private libraries of friends. No big deal. They can adjust. Right?The widespread complacency is shocking. It's not just a question of non-Jews ignoring these racist laws, but of Jews accepting these laws outright for fear of rocking the boat. The Bassani's submit and the Finzi-Contini's ignore. And even if they wanted to challenge Mussolini's racist segregation policies, how would they go about doing so? During one scene, in which Giorgio is kicked out of a public library, de Sica makes it clear that when the world begins to collapse, it's never anyone's fault. Power is fragmented and everyone is fearfully following orders, obeying rules that somebody else devised. Everything is compartmentalised, sectioned off and objections are funnelled through never-ending mazes. To fight an organised system would take organised dissent on a vast array of fronts. And so Jews and Gentiles submit to the racist laws. The war will be over soon, they hope, and Italy and Germany will soon emerge victorious. Just abide and hope that things change. Right? Big mistake.The second half of the film focuses on the romance between Giorgio Bassani and Micol Finzi-Contini. Despite Micol's wealth and beauty, Giorgio loves her primarily for the sense of tranquillity she represents. He knew her during her childhood, and so begins to see her as an almost nostalgic symbol. She represents a snapshot in time, a personification of Europe before things went bad. Many have complained that Micol is a cipher in the film. That she prowls her estate like a zombie and that she never gives a reason for rejecting Giorgio's advances. But this is the film's very point. Micol is an idealised vision of the world, simultaneously deluding herself and representative of mass denial. She is a ghost, the past, and Giorgio cannot attain her because she has long turned her back to the living world. This romance thus abstracts many of the themes that take place in the film. Firstly, it illustrates the false belief held by both Gentiles and Jews that if they isolate themselves and mind their own business, they may be spared the horrors of this hostile political climate. Secondly, it shows that no amount of wealth, prestige and education can defend you against mindless, irrational bigotry. Finally, it highlights the dangers of Jewish ethnocentricity. To many, Judaism is a cultural fortresses that keeps outsiders out and insiders in (the degree to which Jewish communities are isolated from their host cultures is even reflected at the genetic level). Of course, one should not have to assimilate to avoid persecution, but this ethnocentricity is one reason why Jewish history is one of success and growth followed by persecution and slaughter. A cycle which plays out repeatedly from the Egyptian Exodus to the Holocaust. Beyond this, the the behaviour of all the film's characters echo that of German, Italian and International communities, who, during WW2, were likewise guilty of both dangerous conformity and violent disinterest.9/10 &#x96; Western Holocaust films have colonised our minds with a very American view of the Holocaust. They present us with false iconography, freak show myths which exploit visual touchstones. But the Holocaust was not a horror movie. It unfolded with the banality of everyday life, in bright colours, ordinary day to day activities rarely upset. There was nothing alien about the Holocaust. The world didn't break down or erupt into violence. Instead it stood back with a serene, far more chilling acceptance. Perhaps this is why, today, documentary footage of Hitler relaxing with his family in the Bavarian Alps is far more horrific than any of his loud mouthed speeches.See Lina Wertmüller's Seven Beauties and Lajos Koltai's Fateless. Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"The Remembrance of Things...","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The Garden of the Finzi-Continis is simply an experience not to be missed for any serious foreign film lover. It has a beautiful innocence to it in this tale of the early days of the Finzi-Continis family before WWII. It shows their personal lives and their dreams for love and success, never guessing their future. Then it shows the tragedy and sadness in time lost and how really horrible and wrong war is.It is beautiful, yet somehow a very haunting film with a wistful score, that seems to be longing for things unattainable. It makes you feel like you're watching an era or time gone by that can never be again. And maybe it's not good to be so naive. Because war comes and life never really recovers from it. But we can remember love...This is a masterpiece to watch and remember. "},{"Title":"The Walls Came Crumbling Down","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Much like Louis Malle's similarly themed film from 1987 AU REVOIR, LES ENFANTS, Vittorio daSica's THE GARDEN OF THE FINZI-CONTINI's is a meditative piece on the relatively safe haven of a group of people -- in this case, an entire family of wealthy Jews who enjoy a life of privilege as the horrors of World War II and anti-Semitism rages on. The Finzi-Contini's, however, believe that their position of wealth and their very home will shield them from being touched, and they move on, oblivious to the world outside, in a frozen period of time and space that seems, for a moment, to spare them, until it becomes rather clear that the walls that so protected them are beginning to crumble and that they are headed towards an inevitable train wreck which will destroy all that they know. As their rights and the rights of the Jewish people are stripped away from them, they find themselves suddenly awake into a reality they cannot understand, but must move into. DaSica's movie is a slow-moving lyrical poem which differs from his earlier Neo-Realist work, and captures in its running time this illusionary reality as if all this were a dream that the Finzi-Continis were having. The filtered lens only maximizes the almost enchanted beauty that pours through from the screen and onto the viewers' eyes; indeed, this is nostalgia for a time gone by, a trip down memory lane and a subtle incursion into a denouncement of the horrors of war which never rears its ugly head but whose presence ultimately swallows a family, whole. "}{"Title":"Shallow and unengaging","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" No doubt this film is prettily photographed. And everyone in it is very pretty too, with their gleaming tennis whites and Sunday best dresses. For most of the movie we observe the characters dreamily cycling into one scene in a bit of this garden (in reality an amorphous amalgam of four private estates) and languorously cycling out, quite untroubled by bellicose drum rolls sounding off in other bits of Europe just to the north. As for clearly identifying the chief protagonists and following their fortunes, the poor viewer has a hard time trying to tell these lovely people apart one from the other. In fact, for me the only true moments of any dramatic force in the film occurs in the last scene in the dark toned schoolroom, leagues away from the dazzling sun. Out of the whole film, it is only here that tense emotions truly grip the audience with any convincing force. But this is too little, too late. De Sica has wasted too much filmic time presenting us with bloodless ciphers in his candy floss world for us to give a tinker's cuss for these folks and their final dire outcome. "},{"Title":"In the Garden of the Elite","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Director Vittorio De Sica eschews the neo-realism that defined his earliest work and takes a more poetic approach with this story about a wealthy, privileged family who shut themselves away from the encroaching threat of fascism in the early days of WWII Italy. They ultimately find that their elite status does not protect them from the fascist threat, and the quietly devastating ending shows the family being separated, perhaps forever, as they are rounded up and herded into lines like so much cattle.The ending makes this film memorable, but everything proceeding it struck me as rather lightweight, given the subject matter. This isn't a movie I think back on as a masterpiece, and I think its reputation rests somewhat on the fact that De Sica, a respected master, directed it.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"no one is safe","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" In its own quiet way this Vittorio de Sica gem is as gripping and powerful as such more graphic Holocaust films as Schindler's List and Salo or the 120 Days of Sodom. It deals with a wealthy Italian Jewish family living in a secluded estate in the city of Ferrara. The Finzi-Continis are almost completely assimilated and have little in common with their fellow Jews, but once Mussolini's racial laws begin to take effect they open their gardens to young Jews from the neighborhood. The movie depicts the fatal passivity of people who think they're safe, that monstrous social upheavals won't touch them. Slowly but surely the Jews of Italy have their freedom taken away from them; before they know what's happening they're headed for Auschwitz. The movie leaves the fate of the Finzi-Continis unresolved, but we know from the novel by Giorgio Bassani that none of them survived. This film is beautifully photographed with the visual opulence one has come to expect from Italian cinema, with a haunting score and memorable performances, especially by the ravishing Dominique Sanda, quite possibly the most beautiful woman to ever appear on film. This is a movie everyone should see, since it drives home only too clearly the lesson that freedom can never be taken for granted, that what happened in Nazi Germany or Fascist Italy could happen here too. No one is safe. "},{"Title":"A blurry commentary on the danger of isolationism...","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Maddeningly slow-moving account of an aristocratic Italian family during the onset of World War II who conveniently ignore what is going on in the world beyond their fabled garden of contentment. It's all rather prettily photographed so that a dreamlike spell blurs much of the story and keeps the audience just as isolated from reality as the characters who inhabit THE GARDEN OF THE FINZI-CONTINI.It's a pretentious sort of film that Vittorio deSica has fashioned to illustrate what happened when Europeans isolated themselves from the ruthless turn of events that unfolded once Hitler and Mussolini came into power. Well acted by a competent cast that includes HELMUT BERGER and DOMINIQUE SANDA, it's hard to work up much interest in characters that are treated with such detachment by the screenplay.It moves predictably toward the crushing humiliation of defeat with passive Italians being marched off to suffer their fate in concentration camps, a downbeat ending to an offbeat film.Summing up Will appeal mostly to the art house trade. "},{"Title":"Certainly a very good film, but not the masterpiece everyone has touted it as being (8/10)","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADThere are many, many movies about WWII, both about the battles and about the condition of life for the people involved, especially the situation of the Jews in Europe. When someone makes a movie on this latter subject, it is very difficult for anyone to criticize it. 1998's _Life is Beautiful_ received some criticism, but mainly because it contained comic elements where people felt there should be only tragedy. But if the film is a drama, then it is basically untouchable by critics and viewers. And as for this film itself, it was directed by an old master who had been out of it for a while. Even if the film was terrible, there was no way, when it came out in the early 70s, that anyone was going to call it less than a masterpiece, an instant classic, if you will.Well, this film is in no way terrible. In fact, it is very good. It affected me enough where I did tear up a bit. I was touched at certain points. But I also was acutely aware of some of the film's shortcomings as I watched.First off, the reason why I teared up, i.e., what I did like about the film especially the relationship between Georgio and Micol. I connected with it instantly because I have been through similar circumstances. It is rather painful, let me tell you. I longed for Micol right along side with Georgio, and  felt utterly rejected simultaneously with him. This is the way one should experience a great film. There were two more relationships that were really well developed and deeply felt by me, both involving Georgio Georgio and his father, a very good character played by a marvelous actor, and Georgio and Malnate. The rest of the characters were very sloppily made. Did Alberto Finzi-Contini exist for any other reason than to create that great funeral procession scene? He was barely in the movie at all. I had thought they had forgotten him for a long time, then they finally came back to him, and he was next to death. The Finzi-Contini family was hardly existent. I thought the father was a butler until very near the end of the film. A cheap joke is made about the centegenarian grandmother's inability to hear well (although this character had a very poignant scene at the very end of the film).Possibly the biggest problem of the film is that the scenes dealing with anti-Semitism and the onset of war never really coalesced with the problems surrounding Micol's and Georgio's relationship. The latter theme dominated the film, while the former only appeared in the background. This structure would have been fine, but the background section of the film never seemed to influence much the foreground. Georgio could have just as easily have fallen in love with Micol without the war going on. This is not what puts stress on their relationship. Possibly the main theme that de Sica was trying to get through in the film was that our personal lives do not naturally care about what is happening in society, but society keeps trying to push its way into our personal lives. Unfortunately, it only works to a certain extent. The film was too short for its subject matter. It is only 94 minutes long. If it had been two hours or even two and a half, the two parts would have fit together better and the main theme would have been a lot more potent. One of my very favorite films has the exact same theme _The Unbearable Lightness of Being_, where people attempt to love each other in Czechoslovakia while the Soviets oppress them. It is three hours long, and it works on every level. In _The Garden of the Finzi-Contini_, there is not even time for a proper conclusion. Micol's story is finished, or at least as finished as it needs to be, but what happened to Georgio? His father just informs us that he left. Why can't we see him leave? We don't need an enormous explanation from him, but just a subtle scene, as is the film's style, where he packs and talks to his mother maybe. Surely he hasn't gotten Micol out of his mind that quickly. I realize it was in his best interests to get the heck out of Italy right away, but I can't believe he doesn't at least think for a moment whether or not he should do something on Micol's behalf. I'm fine that he doesn't. I would bet that in the novel, this sort of scene appears. It should have also been in the film. I give the film an 8/10, mostly for the true-to-life pain it caused me concerning the one-sided love. "},{"Title":"Love","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The cast and technical team, led by de Sica created a timeless, moving story of romance set in the context of the mundane and the stupidity of arrogant mobs. The surprise is that a film could accurately convey how this actually happens and do it well. (If only films could change the world.)The frankness with which female sexuality is presented in this film reminds you of Tennessee Williams but the subject of this movie is much more important to us than sexual politics per se. This story deals with institutionalized xenophobia and greed that has characterized western civilization during the last century and which is today the source of human suffering and ecological disaster. De Sica's tale lets us identify with real participants and victims of the fascist Italian pogrom in a way that let's you clearly see that there are people around you who would do this to you and your children if they have the chance.You will enjoy this film for the nostalgia in it's design and the cinematography, settings, costume and locations and for the absence of conceits and cinema effects. Images and montage reveal the story with appropriate music. Because this quality is like a luscious treat, it lures you into a web of understanding of things you didn't expect and when you give yourself up to this experience, you never return, you experience the reward love offers and the cost. "},{"Title":"Very Artistic Expression","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  In the Garden of the Finzi-Continis is a wonderful movie depicting the lives of a wealthy jewish family in Italy during the Holocaust era.  Its tale of the family members is very emotional.  For example, the portrayal of the mixture of the feelings of its more youthful characters is complex and refreshing.  An overall sense of tragedy hangs over the movie in its later scenes, which is also worth noting.  Ultimately, it tells the tale of the Finzi-Continis in a realistc, but unexpectedly artistic and beautiful manner. "},{"Title":"Literary, pretty and melancholy","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Some old films hold up so beautifully, but I found the Garden of the Finzi-Contini's to be among the creaky dated ones. I think it must be a much better novel than movie. The only way to understand the Finzi-Continis and their garden is as literary metaphors. The dying brother?--maybe the death of the world they knew??  The unpredictable, cruel Micol? --The fate of Jews who act as though they are not Jewish--assimilated on the outside, confused and hollow on the inside. She flirts with but rejects a Jewish man who loves her, and has casual sex with an Aryan faschist whom she considers crude--just as the Ferrara Jews seem flirt with and reject their Jewishness and submit to the loss of their civil liberties. The garden?--the carefree innocence lost in the Holocaust. And so on. It's worth seeing for the beautiful young men and women--all burnished gold. The power of the film is provided by the portrayal of Georgio's family, stuggling to understand and accommodate as their rights are taken away one at a time. They are heartbreaking.  "},{"Title":"Background","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" There is a really good review of this movie by another user (his summary is imperfect but unforgettable), so if you can check that out please. If you read it, you will also understand that there is a lot of (background) knowledge/info in this comment. Which begs the question Do you have to know all of this (like the poem that utilizes the same location?) to fully understand and enjoy this movie? Or is it possible to watch it without prior knowledge? It's a difficult question to answer. But as it is, I can only answer that this indeed is unforgettable. It's story core is really heavy and while there are some sub-stories interwoven into this, you always have this feeling of uncertainty running through it. Still the characters are not far from blandness and never fully engage you. The story seems confusing (though it is simple enough, it seems to be more complicated), which takes you a bit off it. (or that could be the case, depending on your concentration on it) There is space for improvement on this, though it does not take anything away from the ending ... "},{"Title":"an excellent view of the coming holocaust in Italy","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I liked this film as it approached the holocaust from a completely DIFFERENT direction. Most outside of Italy have no idea about this country's part in the holocaust, but it was quite different from what occurred in Germany. In Italy, Mussolini was supported by Jews and gentiles alike and it was only AFTER the war began that Mussolini began to implement antisemitic laws in order to please Hitler. How he and the people of Italy adopted this was amazing and rather sudden.The movie begins in 1938 and all seems well for the Jewish families portrayed in the movie. Much of the beginning and middle of the movie concerns Giorgio's unrequited infatuation with Micòl Finzi Contini. Although this makes up the bulk of the movie, it is only the background for the more sinister goings on in the country. You see, as the years unfold, more and more restrictions are placed on the Jews and more and more of their rights are eroded. When this first began, the faith of Giorgio's father in their fascist government is unwavering--Mussolini is STILL his hero. However, as the movie continues, his optimism turns to pessimism until he and the Finzi Contini family are rounded up for deportation to the extermination camps by the film's end. Giorgio, it seems has escaped as have other members of his family. However, the exact fate of EVERYONE in the movie (except for Micol's brother) is left uncertain at the conclusion. I liked this, as life, particularly in the case of the holocaust, is far from certain and it seems to work well. "}{"Title":"Very Artistic Expression","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  In the Garden of the Finzi-Continis is a wonderful movie depicting the lives of a wealthy jewish family in Italy during the Holocaust era.  Its tale of the family members is very emotional.  For example, the portrayal of the mixture of the feelings of its more youthful characters is complex and refreshing.  An overall sense of tragedy hangs over the movie in its later scenes, which is also worth noting.  Ultimately, it tells the tale of the Finzi-Continis in a realistc, but unexpectedly artistic and beautiful manner. "},{"Title":"BORING, PAINFULLY SLOW TO WATCH","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  One of the most celebrated foreign films in history, The Garden of the Finzi-Contini has been re-released so that people who missed it in 1971 can see the film restored as it was originally meant to be viewed -- then ask themselves WHAT WAS ALL THE FUSS ABOUT!!!!!This film recounts the fall of a Jewish family during Mussolini's rise in Italy during World War II. The story follows Giorgio as he tries to surf outside his social class and win over the cute but cold-as-ice Micol. He fails, along with the film.This is NOT a great film. Like many period pieces, it's a stately bore. The plot and character development take forever to build any steam. Just when you begin to care a little about the characters -- the movie ends. Or, more accurately, just stops, dead in in tracks, not a single plotline resolved. Characters just disappear along the way, randomly, with no dramatic impact. It's photography was way too detached from it's subject matter until it's too late. In the end, too frustrating to be entertaining and too boring to be thought-provoking.THE GARDEN OF THE FINZI-CONTINIS holds its audience at arm's length.  As a result, Giorgio's romantic plight, which occupies considerable screen time, has a limited emotional impact.  Since we never really get close to him, aspects of the movie are less compelling than they might otherwise have been.  The film's often-detached perspective allows us to focus more clearly on presentation and issues, but at the expense of caring about the characters.DeSica directed many masterpieces but this film does not qualify as a masterpiece nor does it stand the test of time.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Film I Have Ever Seen","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I can not believe that Vittorio De Sica did this film.  What was he thinking?  This film does not stand the test of time.  The pacing is very SLOW; the plot does not make sense; the Cinematography was terrible - most of the shots are out of focus for effect.  I promise you, after 20 minutes you will fall asleep or get mad at yourself for watching this film. "}]