[{"Title":"For Geraldine Page Fans","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Geraldine Page and a lively script lift this otherwise b-grade film to the status of cult classic. With her unique voice and mannered style of method acting, Page has never disappointed me in any of her many performances. And in this thriller, Theodore Apstein's clever screenplay gives the inimitable Page ample opportunity to portray a woman who, although inwardly venomous, amuses viewers in a stylized, aristocratic sort of way. In a major support role, feisty Ruth Gordon adds spunk. All of which adds up to 101 minutes of viewing fun, despite a grating, fingernails-on-the-blackboard music score, and dubious production values which, toward the film's end, have a black Lincoln turning yellow, then black, then yellow again, and back to black, in the span of 43 seconds. Charming.  "},{"Title":"''What a fraud you are!''","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not-so-grieving widow Claire Marrable is horrified to hear that her supposedly wealthy husband has apparently left her penniless. But, being a practical (and resourceful) type, she hits on a scheme to keep her in the comfort to which she wishes to become accustomed. Relocating to the Arizona desert, she hires elderly housekeepers with no known relatives (but tidy nest eggs) and sends them to their rewards a bit sooner than they planned. And their remains become mulch for the widow's growing garden as each is buried under a quickly flourishing sapling. This later entry in the horror hag sweepstakes features absolutely wonderful performances from Geraldine Page, who has a high old time as the haughty, demented and thoroughly relentless Mrs. Marrable, and Ruth Gordon, as Alice Dimmock, her new housekeeper, who isn't quite what she seems to be. On the sidelines are Rosemary Forsyth, herself a (young) widow with a nephew, Robert Fuller as Miss Gordon's nephew, and Joan Huntington as the scheming wife of Page's nephew. With a cast made up of widows and nephews, how scary can Aunt Alice be? Not very. But it's a delicious black comedy which allows Page and Gordon the opportunity to give the performances of their lives. There's also a neat cameo from Mildred Dunnock (Death Of A Salesman) as the luckless servant who precedes Miss Gordon. One of the best Grand Guignol films ever made! "},{"Title":"Geraldine Page is the poster woman for psycho-biddies everywhere with her chilling performance in `Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice?'","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What's a poor widow to do when her husband dies and leaves her penniless? Move to the Arizona desert, start a pine tree garden, and fertilize it with human mulch?  Well.wouldn't you??  Geraldine Page has quite the green thumb as Mrs. Claire Marrable--the wicked widow with the pine tree fetish--in the chilling thriller Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice?Grand dame Bette Davis once quipped Fasten your seatbelts, it's gonna be a bumpy night!  Bette, you are so right!  If you remember Geraldine Page as the sweet li'l ol' lady from `Trip to Bountiful'.FUGETABOWTIT!  Page does a 180 as she transmogrifies from helpless Southern widow to  cool, calculating murderess with money and murder on the brain--and a means to achieve both. Page hits the bulls-eye with each scene.  All of her nervous ticks are appropriately timed.  She is at her best when putting on airs and verbally sparring with unarmed opponents.  What a stellar performance!  Geraldine, girlfriend, you is flawless!!Many deliciously diabolical scenes abound, like when pesky canine Chloe threatens to dig up the dirt on her murderous past-time, Page as Marrable barks back I have not taken loving and diligent care of my garden to have it wrecked by this vagrant bitch!  Page's character is equally disenchanted with her new next door neighbor, Ms. Vaughn, whom she refers to as crabgrass, never really quelled, only cropping up secretly and victoriously in another spot.  The only one Page can stomach is Ruth Gordon as the inquisitive Aunt Alice--an undercover housekeeper on a mission to get to the root (haha) of all evil and discover the whereabouts of a friend last seen in Page's employ.  But when she's tardy serving up cocktails, an impatient Geraldine rips her a new one `Punctuality is essential to a gracious way of life, which I do not intend to give up on account of you.'  Ruth returns fire `If you wanna live like some Dutchess of Maharati, you better learn how to behave like one!'  Geraldine shakes furiously from head to toe after a fiesty Ruth flat-out inquires How MANY women have you killed?  Try to suppress a snicker as you watch a pint-sized Ruthie scamper away from Page, who smugly stalks her throughout her secluded desert home to the beat of bongos and a psychotic musical score.  Page's wicked laughter is sprinkled spuriously throughout the film to the backdrop of swaying pine trees-how ingenious! Not even Bette Davis cackled with such nefarious mirth as Baby Jane Hudson!Praise be the master of psycho-shrews on film, Robert Aldrich--who directed the cult smash Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?--for producing this special gem, and a hearty kudos to Lee Katzin for his superlative directing skills. This movie will make you bow down and pray to the Church of Geraldine Page. So what are you waiting for?  Rent it tonight.and START PRAYING!! "},{"Title":"Marvelously enjoyable thriller","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although this movie looks a tad dated in certain respects - for instance a stupid subplot could have been eliminated and no one would have missed a thing - it works because of the brilliant playing of Ruth Gordon and - especially - Geraldine Page. I first watched this film at age the age nine when it was released theatrically it was actually more enjoyable than the supposed bigger picture of the double feature! It is very obvious that Geraldine Page relished playing her role of Claire Marrable she's totally awesome, so witchy and natural-like in her acting technique. Ms Marrable is a rather narcissistic woman who goes through an astonishing array of household help. Enter Ruth Gordon, a sly fox who comes to Marrable for a position in her lovely desert home. Once hired, the viewer is in for a tour-de-force game of cat-and-mouse. Played to the hilt, this little sleeper creeper is most enjoyable. "},{"Title":"How does your garden grow? might have been a better title...","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lots of mordant humor and a clever plot twist at the end are sufficient reason for watching WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO AUNT ALICE?, but when a cast includes GERALDINE PAGE, RUTH GORDON and MILDRED DUNNOCK and promises to be a suspenseful film along the lines of BABY JANE and HUSH...HUSH, SWEET CHARLOTTE, you owe it to yourself to watch it.It works not so much because the story (an eerie one, to be sure) is so original, but because the cat-and-mouse aspect of the story which has Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon as adversaries in a household fraught with suspicion (of murder), is what hooks the most interest in this vastly entertaining little shocker.However, it's a quiet one, building its suspense slowly as we come to realize just how manipulative and cunning Page's character is. She's a woman, believing her husband has left her penniless, who moves to Arizona where she will be near her nephew. But she's intent on hiring lonely housekeepers and murdering them to steal their savings. (Not unlike some real-life events depicted in a gruesome TV documentary recently). After disposing of her victims she buries them in her garden and plants another tree to mark the spot. It seems they flourish nicely, hence my suggestion above for a better title.Gordon pretends to apply for a job after the last housekeeper has gone missing and is actually doing some detective work on her own. It's her scenes with Page that make the whole film so satisfying.It's not a great horror film but it does have its moments, thanks mostly to GERALDINE PAGE who does a marvelous job at showing us all the tics and nuances of a very eccentric woman who means to get her way, no matter what she has to do. It's a ruthless, cunning role and Page makes the most of it. "},{"Title":"If you love Geraldine page, you'll revel in this movie.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't really care what the credits say about who directed this movie. The director may have directed everyone else, but Geraldine Page directed herself in this fabulous, campy movie of desperation.  Every single tick, nuance and mannerism which you have enjoyed watching Geraldine do is in this movie.  I have never seen a movie before where the lead actress so blatantly chews up the scenery. She is absolutely magnificent in this thriller sleeper.  Where else can you see an actor act against children and animals and STEAL the scene.  No where except here.  She has a scene in a shed with a dog and SHE comes out on top.  I'm sure the dog resigned from acting after this movie; far too much competition.  You have got to see this movie if you are a fan of Geraldine's.  Her performance is the ONLY thing that makes this movie work and she's up against the timeless Ruth Gordon and a couple of other pretty good actors.  Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Whispering Pines in the Desert","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Claire Marrable has just lost her husband, her fortune, and her rich and refined way of life.  What is a spoiled, wealthy, egotistical woman to do?  Why pack up and move to Arizona to be near your nephew, and begin killing housekeepers/live-in companions for their life savings of course.  Aunt Claire seemingly has a green thumb as she transplants her housekeepers to the ground and plants a pine tree over them.  As we see in the first part of the film, there are at least three pine trees before we see the first woman bashed in the head with a rock and then planted. We then see another housekeeper, Edna Tinsley, killed in similar fashion with a shovel.  Now, five pine trees in the desert.  Enter Mrs. Dimmock, a woman in disguise as a housekeeper out to find out what happened to her long-time friend Edna.  This cat and mouse relationship between Claire and Mrs. Dimmock serves as the basis of the film.  This film was produced by Robert Aldrich, who was responsible for bringing us films like Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? and Hush..Hush, Sweet Charlotte.  Aldrich made films that had older female protagonists popular in the sixties by giving these starring roles to ladies that were a bit aged and considered passe.  Geraldine Page stars in this film as Aunt Claire, and if you had any doubts about her talent as an actress prior to seeing this film, no doubts should have remained afterward.  Page is simply stunning.  She has an aura and charm about her.  She has a wonderfully sadistic and maniacal laugh.  She has an ability to take dialogue which would not work for any one else and make it sound meaningful.  Her portrayal of this wicked, cruel, greedy woman is one of the best I have seen for roles of this ilk.  Aiding Ms. Page is Ruth Gordon.  Ms. Gordon gives a very good performance as Mrs. Dimmock out to find the truth no matter what the cost might be.  Gordon and Page act and interact very well together, and it is their relationship which really makes this film work.  The rest of the cast is okay and the direction is okay, but everything is brought up a notch by the two outstanding performances of these two incredible actresses.  After seeing this film twice in two days, I am still stunned at the magnificent performance given by Geraldine Page.  WOW! "},{"Title":"Creepy....","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Geraldine Page gives a stellar performance as a whacked-out nutzo who delights in making compost out of her housekeepers and then stealing their money.  Alas, along comes Ruth Gordon (at her snoopiest, sneakiest best) to investigate her friend's death, and then the gray hair flies. The scene in which these two senior citizens duke it out makes you see that adrenaline still pumps after age 60 (see Laurence Olivier and Gregory Peck in the climax of The Boys from Brazil if you don't believe me). Ruth Gordon's character reminds me of a sweet yet feisty grandma who wouldn't hesitate to deck you with a right hook if her words didn't get to you. I actually wanted to jump in there and help her kick butt since I liked her character so much.  If you like the kind of film that startles you to attention, check this one out.  It's very much worth a look.    "},{"Title":"A Memorable Performance by Geraldine Page","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a fun little black comedy from television director Lee Katzin. Playing off the title of Whatver Happened to Baby Jane, it is not ruined by its television look and feel because of a particularly memorable performance by Geraldine Page.Page plays an older women who has essentially been driven mad with rage after her husband dies and leaves her only his debts and .the contents of his briefcase. She moves to the desert and lives very comfortably by dispatching a series of live-in housekeepers who have turned over their life savings to her. Katzin tells the story mostly from the POV of Page's character so that after a while the audience is actually identifying with her.Ruth Gordon is essentially wasted in a very straight role. Rosemary Forsyth and Robert Fuller make an appealing couple but are very minor to story.Page is absolutely brilliant and plays the ironic twist at the end of the film beautifully (recently reprised in The Upside of Anger). At the same time that she is found out, she finds out that her husband actually made a provision for her to live comfortably after his death. She plays this final scene in such a way that we understand that discovering he actually loved her is far more important to her than getting away with murder. "},{"Title":"Two Old Pros Hoist a Potboiler Several Notches","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Really just another attempt to squeeze some juice out of the aging-diva-as-murderous-nut-job genre, this one gets quite a sizable lift from two memorable actresses. Ruth Gordon doing her patented, deceptively off-center, crazy-like-a-fox character, and making the most of it. She's delightful.And the extraordinary Geraldine Page giving conviction and ultimately a scary poignancy to the role of the murderess. Her last scene could have been so easily overplayed by another actress, but she gives it an unsettling aura of truth. Page never had quite the film career one would have hoped for, but here she gives you a taste of what she was capable of, for those who never got to see one of her legendary stage performances.Worth a look for those interested in the genre and in the two star performances. Gordon had won her Oscar for Rosemary's Baby the year before, and Page would ultimately win one for The Trip to Bountiful. "}{"Title":"Method Melodramatics","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Grand Guignol/Grande Dame sub-genre of suspense in its decadent phase (though that might sound redundant). Lacking the cinematic iconography of waning Hollywood movie queens like Joan Crawford or Bette Davis, Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon (and Mildred Dunnock, in a featured part) compensate for it with Method histrionics -- and a thrilling confrontation scene to boot -- rising above the stale directing and prosaic mise-en-scenes. Indeed, Page's manic looniness largely carries the contrived but entertaining script (based on The Forbidden Garden by Ursula Curtiss), nicely matched by the perpetually plucky Gordon, both wearing bad fright wigs. A respectable entry in the pantheon of menopausal malevolence and, certainly, the type of film they don't make any more. The movie pretty much just runs out of steam, however, unfortunately lacking a satisfactory end, its hair-raising climax coming too early. Gerald Fried's score is expressive and stirring, and certainly a plus. "},{"Title":"'Help Wanted Live-in Housekeeper, Very Short-Term'","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This might have been an ad that Mrs. Marrable ran in the local papers. But prospective applicants would have been better off applying for work as stable hands! This was an independent film. Although it wasn't one of ABC's television movies, it quickly became a favorite on the the 'Movie of the Week' line-up because of its suspense factor. It still creeps me out to this day. Nobody can play disturbed female characters like Geraldine Page! She even starred in an episode of Rod Serling's 'Night Gallery'.The irony of the film is her finding out that she didn't have to go through all that trouble to keep living comfortably. Turns out that her late husband's stamp collection - that she used to bribe the next door neighbor's son - was a lot more valuable than she thought. I absolutely loved this movie! "},{"Title":"You've had such rotten luck with your housekeepers Aunt Claire.","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Claire Marrable (Geraldine Page) is shocked to learn that her late husband has left her with nothing but debts. How is she to live in the style she's grown accustomed? To solve her problem, she comes up with a fiendish plot. What if she were to hire a servant/companion with a small life savings, dupe her out of the money, and then kill her? Well, that's exactly what Claire does. She disposes of the bodies under pine trees growing in her garden. All is going well for Claire until Alice Dimmock (Ruth Gordon) shows up at her door looking for a job. Claire doesn't realize it but the nosey Alice is no ordinary employee. Can Alice discover Claire's secret before another pine tree is planted? What a wonderful movie! In short, What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice? is a deliciously twisted tale of greed and murder filled with plenty of suspense, real atmosphere, rock solid acting, witty writing, and some of the darkest humor put on film. It's a real winner from start to finish. And while I'm sure I could go on and on praising the film, it's the acting that sets it apart from similar movies. To call Geraldine Page's performance brilliant would be a gross understatement. The gleeful menace in her voice and on her face as she goes about psychologically torturing (and killing) those see sees as beneath her is amazing to watch. And if her presence wasn't enough, along comes Ruth Gordon. She's feisty, fun, and every bit the equal of Page in her role as the titular Aunt Alice. Watching these two spar when all the film's secrets have been revealed is one of those moments I won't soon forget. These are the screen moments that keep me searching out new movies.Nobody asked, but if I had to come up with one flaw, I suppose it would be the supporting cast. None of the other actors does anything to stand out. But how could they? Compared with Page and Gordon . . . well, there's really no comparison.Finally, from the outside some 40 years after the movie was made, I'd bet the actors had a blast making What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice? I can just imagine Page and Gordon having a good long laugh after shooting some of their scenes together. Then again, maybe it's just me. All I know is that I had a great time watching them work together. An 8/10 seems about right to me. "},{"Title":"Bizarre thriller","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice (1969) is another in the line of crazy old lady movies that became popular with Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? in 1962. That film was directed by Robert Aldrich; here he is the producer, and turned over directing to Lee Katzen, known more for his TV work. This film has the look of a TV movie somewhat; the editing, the style, etc. The story is strange a nutty widow (Geraldine Page) left penniless by her husband embarks on a way to make money hire elderly female companions to work for her. Of course, the women have tidy savings, and so she kills them to get the cash, then buries them under a newly planted tree in her garden. Enter Ruth Gordon, who is suspicious when one of her dear friends goes missing after working for the widow. She goes undercover as a maid and is hired by Page. Stangely enough, Page takes to Gordon's character, and although she bullies and belittles her like she does her other companions, it is clear she respects her in an odd way. The story gets complicated; of course Ruth Gordon knows she has killed her friend, and the two have it out in a fairly violent scene. Ruth Gordon is charming and spunky here, fresh off her Oscar-winning role in Rosemary's Baby. But is it Geraldine Page who is the real star of this B-film. She elevates the bizarre script with her wonderful acting; playing her character with all the venom she can muster, but hidden beneath a layer of ladylike charm. This odd little film is worth checking out, especially if you are a fan of Page or Gordon. "},{"Title":"Trying to get good help","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Poor Geraldine Page has been left penniless by her late husband who left her the house and a huge stamp collection. The love went out of that marriage years ago and her being left with nothing, but debts has really put a crimp in her plans to live good in her sunset years.Then she hits on a plan to hire housekeepers with some assets and kill them for same. She succeeds with Mildred Dunnock, but that also leaves Dunnock's friend, Ruth Gordon with a mystery to find out What Ever Happened To Aunt Alice?Though there are a number of supporting roles Whatever Happened To Aunt Alice is a two woman show with Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon dividing up the scenery equally so they could chow down. But this kind of black comedy really calls for it. If your taste runs to black comedy this is your kind of film. And I do love the fact that it turns out in the end Page is not quite so penniless after all. Good thing because she'll need a good lawyer. "},{"Title":"Good help IS hard to find...","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Light years better than you'd expect given that this was released amongst the glut of horror films featuring faded leading ladies. Ruth Gordon is hired on as Geraldine Page's maid in an attempt to locate a missing friend. She's very quickly on to the macabre shenanigans of her new employer. Suffice to say, Page has an inordinately beautiful garden (for someone living in the desert of Tucson)! Director Lee Katzin creates a really creepy movie, utilizing two great actresses, cinematography by Joseph Biroc and a perfectly malevolent music score by Gerald Fried. The acting is excellent, with Page really running wild. Gordon, surprising in a purely dramatic turn, is every inch her equal. The supporting cast is fine and includes Robert Fuller, Mildred Dunnock and Rosemary Forsyth as one of Page's few curious neighbors. Produced by Robert Aldrich, this is a terrific companion piece to his earlier WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE & HUSH, HUSH SWEET CHARLOTTE. "},{"Title":"Nice Little Film","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film was better than I expected. Just a delightful film. The acting was top notch. Aunt Claire was a demented, unhappy lady that was left with very little after her husband passed on. Perhaps the most unlikely demographic for a serial killer.. The rules were changed. Along came Aunt Alice. Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon as Aunt Claire and Aunt Alice respectfully, had a chess match for most of the film that was simply brilliant. In the style of Hitchcock this film flowed from start to finish. The intensity through out this film was constant. Twists upon twists, made for an energetic, entertaining film , that one had to pay close attention. The side characters were OK for the most part; Make no mistake , Page and Gordon were the whole film. There was a wonderful dog in this film that truly was an important cog. Overall, a very good film but housekeepers might want to watch their backs. "},{"Title":"A fun late 60's evil hag horror outing","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Shrewd, resourceful and formidable old battleaxe Claire Marrable (superbly played to the icy hilt by Geraldine Page) loses both her husband and her affluent lifestyle. Ms. Marrable moves to Arizona, starts a pine tree garden, and begins bumping off her elderly housekeepers for their life savings so she can continue living high on the hog. Ms. Marrable meets her match in her new housekeeper Alice Dimmock (a terrific performance by the wondrous Ruth Gordon), a cheery, smart and resilient little firecracker who suspects that something is amiss. Director Lee H. Katzin and screenwriter Theodore Apstein expertly create a deliciously sinister atmosphere, relate the engrossing story at a steady pace, and top everything off with a wickedly funny sense of pitch-black humor. This movie further benefits from fine acting from an excellent cast Page really sinks her teeth into her juicy evil old bat role, Gordon projects her usual winningly spunky charm as the endearingly feisty Ms. Dimmock, plus there are sturdy supporting contributions from Rosemary Forsyth as sweet young widow neighbor Harriet Vaughn, Robert Fuller as the dashing Mike Darrah, Mildred Dunnock as the timid Edna Tinsley, Joan Huntington as Ms. Marrable's bitchy niece Julia Lawson, and Peter Brandon as Julia's conniving stockbroker husband George. The very ending offers one doozy of a marvelously ironic surprise plot twist while the arid desert setting adds to the overall creepy tone. Joseph Biroc's lush, vibrant cinematography makes neat occasional elegant use of fades and dissolves. Gerald Fried's moody, shivery, string-laden score likewise hits the spooky spot. Best of all, it's a total treat to watch Page and Gordon bounce off each other as they engage in a deadly game of wit and wills. A hugely enjoyable fright feature. "},{"Title":"Simple But Wonderful Thriller.","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What Ever Happened To Aunt Alice? is a fairly unknown, but amazing and amusing little thriller from the late 1960s that still holds up very well to this day. The story revolves around Claire Marrable (Geraldine Page), an older affluent widow who lives in a luxurious Tucson home located in the middle of the desert. After her husband's death, she discovers that he didn't leave her nearly as much as she thought he would have. So, Claire begins to hire housekeepers with no known or remaining family, and kills them to appropriate all of their savings for herself - but not before burying them in her beloved garden and promptly planting pine trees over the graves. After a close friend, Edna (Mildred Dunnock) goes to work for Ms. Marrable and mysteriously vanishes, Alice Dimmock (Ruth Gordon) signs up for the job to investigate, and ends up working for Ms. Marrable herself in an attempt to uncover what is going on at her remote desert estate.I was pleasantly surprised with how great this film was, and how it still, nearly forty years later, holds up well and is just as effective. Based upon a novel called The Forbidden Garden, What Ever Happened To Aunt Alice? is a consistent and entertaining movie that is sadly little-know and/or long forgotten in modern days, which is really too bad because this is an excellent film. Produced by Robert Aldrich (who also produced What Ever Happened To Baby Jane), it's pretty easy to see where the derivative title originated. The film's storyline is wonderfully original, I haven't seen a movie like this ever. The only minor complaint I have with the story is the unnecessary love-subplot between Alice's nephew and Ms. Marrable's new neighbor. The problem with it is that it brings nothing new to the story - if all of those scenes had been removed, the film would have worked just as perfectly, and it wouldn't have slowed it down. Fortunately there isn't a whole lot of time spent developing this subplot, but even if there had been, the rest of the film is so good that it would be easily forgivable.The film has some really nice imagery and a great atmosphere as well, with an Arizona desert backdrop, and a lot of late '60s/early '70s set pieces and costumes. The entire movie had a really great feel to it. The score is frantic but effective as well, somewhat reminiscent of Bernard Herrman's work in Psycho. The acting in this film is just about as good as it gets. Legendary actress Geraldine Page plays the diabolical Claire, and is completely flawless in her role. Everything about her character is perfected in her performance - her mannerisms, facial expressions, delivery - and, we can't forget about her eerie cackling. Ruth Gordon, fresh from winning an Oscar for her role in Rosemary's Baby, plays the secondary protagonist - her character is empathetic and nice, but determined to find out what Claire has been doing to her housekeepers. She is also wonderful in her role. The rest of the cast is also good, but most of them aren't the big-name stars that these two leading ladies were. The film's ending is short but fitting, and while I felt it may have been lacking a bit, it's also forgivable when you take into consideration the rest of the film's quality.Overall, What Ever Happened To Aunt Alice? is an excellent late '60s horror/thriller that is definitely worth seeing. It's a little dated, but it holds up very well. The shock factor is nearly diminished for modern audiences, but this film is nonetheless very spooky and very enjoyable - it surprises me that more people haven't heard of this film. I have a feeling this movie is going to become a new favorite of mine. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Watch Out for Miss Geraldine Page!","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Geraldine Page is left nothing of value by the passing of her husband and she has to fend for herself. Fast forward, she goes to live near her only blood kin, a nephew in Arizona. We see her at night in her garden digging a hole with her new companion/nursemaid. She is planting a new pine tree and then all of a sudden she hits her friend over the head. In the morning, there is a new pine tree planted firmly in the ground, in line with the others. Enter Mildred Dunnock, her new companion. There seems to be a pattern here.I, and other Geraldine Page fans, have already died and gone to heaven, as we are shown Miss Page's dark side and another tour-de-force performance. If all you know of Miss Page is The Trip to Bountiful, Sweet Bird of Youth, and Summer and Smoke, then you're in for a treat. There's even a twist in the ending that keen observers will know is coming, even from the beginning. (By the way, if you didn't know, she would provide the voice of Madame Medusa in Disney's The Rescuers.)Ruth Gordon shows up applying for the position and gives Miss Page a run for her money, who is also a joy to watch. Also starring Rosemary Forsyth, this is one offbeat tale that shouldn't be missed. If you're a fan of Baby Jane and Sweet Charlotte, then move over for Geraldine Page. Better yet, stay out of her way! "}{"Title":"A wonderful film that's still holds up!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing the unedited for TV version of this film thats finally available again on video, I must say I was impressed! All around I enjoyed the experience, great music, acting, filming and direction! I thought the acting was great from all of the leads, especially Page! The way she is so in to her role is really scary and memorable! I'm suprised that she didn't get any acclaim from this, or the people involved in it's production! I think it was the timing. Back in the late 60's and early 70's, this kind of film might have been considered a bit passe for the tastes of a fickle public after yet another feel good movie.( consider Who slew Auntie Roo or What's the matter with Helen) As often the case with great films a few smart and canny folks champion them when they are young, and then they lie dormant until a new generation discovers them again. It's a bit tragic somehow, but you always hope that these people get the acclaim they deserve in their time instead of years later!  "},{"Title":"Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice?","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A genteel and curiously bitchy widow kills her housekeepers one after another for their savings, until one of them tends to reveal her secret.Diverting little shocker, generally thrilling with occasional patches of mordant humour, both perfectly sustained and balanced by slick direction and leading performances to match.    "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a blast.  Geraldine Page is appropriately over the top in this thriller.  Ruth Gordon doesn't get to let loose as much as I would have liked, but they do have a showdown which is a joy to behold.  The movie would have you believe housekeepers make terrific fertilizer for pine trees, in the Arizona desert, no less!  I loved every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Good help is HARD to find...","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night, and my, was it stirring.  I dreamt about it.  From the moment it started, I was HOOKED.  The opening scenes as the credits rolled were of Geraldine's character, Clara Marrable planting a tree in her desert garden.  It's quite obvious that she's meticulous when it comes to the care of her garden...  This movie was very intriguing as a result of Clara's sharp wit,and even sharper tongue.  (To tell you the truth, the only reason I stuck with the movie was because this woman had such a bada*s attitude!  She probably should have been a Marine or somethin'...)  I estimated that this movie was filmed during the mid-sixties, based on the clothing which was worn.  Even then, for a woman (especially one of her stature) to be as assertive during that time was rather unusual to me.  Clara's character was very masculine, with all the delicate, matronly, little touches that make her every bit the upstanding societal pillar of a lady she pretended to be. Don't get me wrong, this movie was a little bit weird.  As it starts, it's hard to understand where it's all going, and how long you're going to have to sit there and wait for something to happen...  Luckily, something's always on the brink of happening, so you shan't get too bored.  And really, if you want to learn how to be a shrewd individual, you'd better sit down and watch this movie, and be sure to take a few pertinent notes  Geraldine has the act DOWN. Her portrayal of this cold-hearted Mrs. Marrable is really what makes this movie the sleeper that it is.  I mean, everyone pretty much assumes *Technicolor* productions from the sixties are gonna have fabulous psychedelic qualities to them like, Man, is that tree really GREEN or what?  Lest we forget the half-baked acting (A'la Valley of the Dolls)...  To a degree, this movie is no different.  Clara's demonic attitude, social grace, and charm keep you on your toes as you really don't know what she's going to do next.  Don't be fooled by the packaging, or the era from which it came.  This is a pretty decent flick if you like suspense-thrillers...   "},{"Title":"Great Action-Packed Thriller","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was recently at a friend's home and he screened  the last 1200' of this feature. Having always been a  fan of Geraldine Page, I wanted to see the odd reel. If the whole movie had been available I would have  loved to watch it from beginning to end again. This  is one thrilling and suspense filled conclusion, and the movie deserves an award for the color, camera work and the writing. Geraldine, though no longer with us, probably got a  crown in heaven for her role in this forgotten  thriller. "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!!!!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a favorite of mine. I haven't seen it in years and would love to own it in my video collection but have not been able to find it anywhere ( I loved Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon. What actresses they are! I especially loved the scene where Ruth Gordon's character is trying to call for help and catches the wrath of Geraldine Page's character!! It's been so long since I've seen it I can't even remember the names of the characters. The scenes showing the pine trees blowing in the wind are creeeeeeepy! Does anyone else love it as much as me? "},{"Title":"War of the Hags","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was really crazy about this film when I was a kid, and it would show up on t.v. late at night sometimes, I still don't know why. I even sought out the book by Ursula Curtiss that it's based on. For some reason a movie about a hateful old woman who badgers and then kills her housekeepers, takes all their money and buries them in the backyard, and laughs about it, really spoke to me as a kid.I saw this again recently and was reminded that overall it is, basically, a low-budget 70's t.v. movie. It's slow and sometimes tedious. There's no gore or swearing and the action is minimal. It's depressing and even kind of sad, and the Arizona location shots, while beautiful, leave you feeling dry and dusty inside. The acting is acceptable enough, the subplots are peculiar (what's up with the one lady with all the make-up wanting to start dramas everywhere?), the whole logic behind the plot is debatable, could this have really happened? But there are really only two reasons to keep returning to this movie Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon! Geraldine as Claire Marrable is beyond over the top as a woman who has lost everything she held dear (her money, basically) and devises a grisly way to continue living the good life. It's a tricky situation for a movie--Claire is the one we're going to follow through the whole movie, yet she's a thoroughly despicable character, at least on paper. And yet, the way Ms. Page plays her, there's a hint of vulnerability underneath the captivating madness, and her bullying ways. This is a woman who never had anything to begin with, and so she has nothing to lose by being evil, cruel and even homicidal. It's hard not to feel for her when she's being read her husband's will or in the final scenes, where she still refuses to give in. On the other hand, if you have a somewhat black heart, it's hard not to appreciate the obvious joy that Claire feels every time she succeeds in committing another murder. Who hasn't occasionally wanted to silence an annoying neighborhood animal? Claire is a living ego, selfish, childish, irrational and pitiless, and she's the film's hero. It's dark territory to explore and this movie dives right in without timidity.Then there's Ruth Gordon as Alice Dimmock, the only one who could possibly be a foil to Claire. Ruth is...well, just Ruth! If you've seen her in any of her other films you know what to expect--a feisty, dominant little old lady who doesn't take crap from anyone. She's always fun, of course, and she has some great moments here. It's unfortunate that her role is so brief and never takes off, but the few moments when Ruth gets to be Ruth, are amazing and satisfying.Overall, this is a dark, nasty little movie very typical of a lot of late 60's/early 70's films--cynical, morally ambiguous, ugly to look at and think about and without an easy conclusion of affairs. Not something to race out and see but a decent ride to go on if you happen to be in a dark and quiet mood, and have the time for a movie about old ladies fighting each other... "},{"Title":"Blown Away By Geraldine","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I stumbled upon this site after NOT seeing Geraldine Page on the IMDb 100 Famous Actresses of the Golden Era. I got a little upset and then I realized she was really AFTER the golden era...she had a few in there...Anyway...I just wanted to say how blown away I was when I saw Geraldine in this movie. This woman did not seem like she was acting. I was swept away. I was so amazed by her that I googled her and stumbled upon (once again) a YouTube video of her when she finally won an Oscar...She was so surprised and didn't have her shoes on...it took her a while to get them on!! She didn't win for this movie--not even nominated--but she should have. Superb actress. Watch it just for the amazing Geraldine. "},{"Title":"A neat story but way too many plot holes to be taken very seriously,","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice? is certainly a guilty pleasure in the tradition of such films as What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?, Who Slew Auntie Roo? and Hush, Hush, Sweet Charlotte. All three were old lady thrillers--an odd genre in the 1960s and early 70s that featured old women doing VERY bad things. And, as I said, they are all guilty pleasures--films that were never meant to be deep and intellectual--just kitschy entertainment.The film begins with Clare Marrable (Geraldine Page) bashing her servant over the head and burying her in her yard. Considering she lives in the middle of the Arizona desert, it's not surprising she's not been caught. You soon learn that nasty Clare has made a habit of this sort of thing--she kills off her servants and steals their savings. While you cannot get rich that way, Clare deals in volume--and obviously she is out to add to her growing collection of bodies in the yard. The next one, it seems, is Mrs. Dimmock (Ruth Gordon)--though you aren't terribly sure who is actually hunting who.The film has quite a bit going for it. Geraldine Page's performance is ridiculously florid and over-the-top---and her scene stealing actually adds to the fun. The plot is also really cool. However, the film also has TONS of plot holes--tons. They are especially apparent during the huge (and very violent) confrontation scene between Page and Gordon---and the scene was VERY awkward and ridiculous. Overall, while certainly not a great film, it is VERY entertaining...in a low-brow sort of way. "},{"Title":"Another in the Loony Diva Series","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's cat and mouse with two of the New York stage's premier divas. Clare (Fitzgerald) lures lonely housekeepers to her small desert estate where she bludgeons them, turning their remains into tree food for her precious garden. Trouble is she hires Aunt Alice (Gordon) thinking she's another easy prey, except she's not.Producer-director Bob Aldrich, one of Hollywood's most underrated filmmakers, struck something of a gold mine by recycling aging divas into a series of Grand Guingolds, as in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane (1962) et. al. This entry comes near the tail end of the series, and is fairly suspenseful, as Fitzgerald mugs it up as a sadistic loony barely able to contain her homicidal glee. On the other hand, Gordon deadpans it as the diminutive impostor eager to get to the bottom of the strange goings on. Together, they're the whole show, except for a number of moody wind-blown tree shots reminding us of what's underneath. There's a tenuous romance thrown in to relieve the macabre, I suppose.One thing for sure, the movie didn't cost much to produce. There're basically just two settings-- the desert plot with the two houses, and the interiors where most of the action takes place. So, you need to be a fan of aging divas conspiring against each other, because there's not much else to look at. All in all, it's a showcase, especially for Fitzgerald who looks like she's not just emoting but having fun, as well. "}{"Title":"Don't Mess with Ms. Page's Garden","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a riot! Geraldine Page plays a widow left destitute by her husband, who lives off the savings of maids she hires and then kills. Along comes Ruth Gordon, posing as a maid but actually investigating the disappearance of her lady companion, and we, the audience, get to sit back and watch her salt-of-the-earth demeanor bounce off of Page's histrionic diva.Is it even possible to be bored by a Page performance? This script is far beneath her, she knows it, and decides to go for it, playing the role as about off-the-wall as you could get without descending into straight camp. She and Gordon are so talented, and so compulsively watchable, that you actually care what happens in this second-rate rip-off of other macabre crazy women films like What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? and Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte. Robert Aldrich, the director of both of those films, serves as producer on this one, so maybe it's not exactly ripping off if you're stealing from yourself.And it's a got a groovy score by Gerald Fried (random trivia he would be nominated for a Best Original Score Oscar in 1975 for the documentary Birds Do It, Bees Do It') that makes one wonder what he was smoking when he composed it. It sounds like something from a movie about Spanish bullfighters.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Stamp Out Housekeepers","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After the funeral of her husband, money-hungry Geraldine Page (as Clare Marrable) is left with a rusty dagger, stamp album, butterfly collection and some worthless oil holdings. The middle-aged widow moves to Arizona and begins to hire housekeepers - like mild-mannered Mildred Dunnock (as Edna Tinsley) and secretive Ruth Gordon (as Alice Dimmock), planning to kill them while stealing their savings. Page intends to bury the ladies under pine trees, but Ms. Gordon has other plans. Despite Page's pointed need for privacy, curious Rosemary Forsyth (as Harriet Vaughn) and nephew Michael Barbera (as Jim Vaughn) move into the cottage next door. All this attracts handsome Robert Fuller (as Mike Darrah). Nice watching Page, Gordon and the dog Chloe battle it out; however, a different line-up of casualties would have made it even nicer.****** What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice? (7/23/69) Lee H. Katzin ~ Geraldine Page, Ruth Gordon, Rosemary Forsyth, Robert Fuller "},{"Title":"Marrable The Terrible","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In 1962, director Robert Aldrich delivered, to an unprepared world, the amazing spectacle of aged Bette Davis and Joan Crawford going at each other and chewing up the scenery in What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? Two years later, Aldrich followed up with Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte, with Davis, Agnes Moorehead and Olivia de Havilland engaged in similar nasty hijinks. And in 1969, Aldrich handed the directing reins (producing only this time) to Lee H. Katzin, for what may be viewed as the third in a loose trilogy of films dealing with geriatric battleaxes (or aging gargoyles, as my buddy Rob prefers to call them) having at each other with no quarter given. In What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice?, Geraldine Page plays Claire Marrable, who moves to Tucson after her husband dies and leaves her penniless. What's a poor aging biddy to do...except knock off a succession of equally aged housekeeper-companions, steal their cash and plant their remains in the garden? But Claire may have met her match with her next job applicant, Alice Dimmock, played by the forever feisty Ruth Gordon.... As regards those killings, they are almost completely bloodless, and any comparisons that may have been made to 1944's Arsenic and Old Lace may be fair ones. But this is hardly a comedy (well, maybe a very black one), and it really is something to see Page and Gordon ripping into each other like two frenzied berserkers. The film makes excellent use of its desert locale, and Gerald Fried's bizarro score keeps the tension ratcheted fairly high throughout. The picture concludes rather realistically, albeit tamely, I feel; how much more satisfying would it have been to see Claire really go up against the vicious tramp dog, Chloe? No telling WHO would've prevailed in that bitch fight! "},{"Title":"From the Crazy Old Ladies Craze of the 60s...","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The fabulous Geraldine Page stars as Claire Marrable, rich wife who soon finds herself widowed. Only trouble is, her husband dies and leaves her nothing but his stamp collection. Using her meager savings, she moves to Arizona to live near her nephew and his gold-digging slut of a wife. But Claire hits upon a scheme to hire elderly housekeepers, bilk them out of their own savings, and then kill them and use them to fertilize pine trees in her magnificent desert garden. Ruth Gordon shows up as Claire's newest housekeeper, and may find out what Claire is up to sooner than she'd like. Throw in a saintly neighbor and a hunky race car designer, and you've got a hoot of a film. It's nowhere near as fun and brilliant as Whatever Happened to Baby Jane, but What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice is certainly worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was about eight or nine, about thirty years ago, on morning television. Oddly, I still remember it quite well; it is one movie no one would be liable to forget, if only for the deranged character of Mrs. Marrable, and the pesky Aunt Alice, who is out to uncover the murky truth about her mistress.While the basic plot and characterization are dark, the movie deflected from the darkness, with comedic situations (such as Aunt Alice serving cocktails, or Chloe the dog digging at Mrs. Marrable's fine pine trees, or the Mexican gardener quipping Oh, Mrs. Marrable! I tawt eet was somtheeng bad, and an adolescent boy smoking his first stick). Ironies also abound.You can be assured though, that you will not get the shock of your life, or that you will spend a sleepless night out of fright. Nope. As a matter of fact, I, as a child of eight or nine, had a jolly good time; I had to laugh at times. It was entertaining. Never mind the TV feel of the movie, or the undefinable color quality that seems to typify other movies of the period. Don't think too much of the improbable plot. Never mind if it passes the litmus test of critics.I assure you that for the acting of Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon, and the throughly wicked Mrs. Marrable, plus your desire to be entertained, the movie is worth watching. After a bit of browsing, I am not very surprised that Ms. Page (1985) and Ms. Gordon (1968) were both Academy Award winners. Such excellent actresses! What you waiting for? Have a jolly good time! Get out and borrow the movie! RRCS "},{"Title":"It Takes Courage Too Kill","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a solid macabre film about the ultimate way to make a living by killing. Geraldine Page is creepy as the woman who is left poor by her husband's death but manages to get by by killing housekeepers and stealing their life savings. Ruth Gordon plays the housekeeper who gets wise as she is looking for a friend of hers who was the prior maid.While Gerald Fried did some good music, his original music in this one sometimes distracts from the movie, particularly some of the string sequences. Fried did good music on TV in Mannix, and Emergency. Speaking of Emergency, Robert Fuller plays Mike Darrah whose Aunt Alice (Ruth Gordon) is the current maid. Fuller was later a star on Emergency.There are some indications of abuse of a dog in the PRE-PETA era film.The film is clever but suffers when you compare it with some of the other films done in this genre. Hush Hush Sweet Charlotte and Whatever Happened to Baby Jane are more powerful than this one. Still the film has some good points because of all the talent in the cast.Peter Bonerz is in support and he would later go on to The Bob Newhart Show and lots of other television shows. Rosemary Forsyth is in support too. This movie makes the police look like they are way behind until the end of the movie when they have finally put the plot together. The film is a mild diversion. "},{"Title":"Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice? Pure Fun for the Rest of Us ***1/2","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A definite film of the macabre again proving that there was no one like Geraldine Page for these neurotic, vicious parts.In this one, Ruth Gordon takes a job as a maid in Page's home under false pretenses. It seems that Gordon had a disagreement with her long time domestic, played by Mildred Dunnock. In a huff, Dunnock walked out and went to work for Page.Seems that Page has quite a history. Once she finds out that her maids have no family, she does them in quite neatly.Throughout the film you constantly are hearing Page yelling Mrs. Dimmock to maid Gordon, as she begins to suspect that Gordon is no usual maid.The film takes place in the desert of Arizona which seems to place a peculiar and effective aura to the film.The ending is an absolute knockout. "},{"Title":"What (Almost) Every Actress Wound Up Doing!","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Oh, how the 1960s audiences loved to see older women camping it up in the horror genre. Though this entry focuses more on character actresses rather than former glamour gals or traditional leading ladies and also isn't quite as outright scary as some others, it's still an enjoyable entry in the genre. Page plays the widow of an allegedly wealthy husband. She's practically giddy at the thought of inheriting his money when she's informed that all she will get is one briefcase full of junk! Cut to a little while later and she's living in Tucson, AZ near her nephew and has been going through live-in companions like nobody's business. It seems she screens them to make sure they have no family, hires them, acquires their money and then kills them, using their remains to nurture the pine trees in her front yard! Unfortunately for her, the latest lady-for-hire is scrappy Gordon, who may have an ulterior motive and who might not be so easy to dispose of as the others. Page and Gordon coexist amid a feeling of mild tension until Gordon starts to get close to the truth and Page starts to understand that Gordon isn't exactly what she seemed to be. Page, an acclaimed stage actress who didn't work in a tremendous number of films (though she did eventually win an Oscar) has a total field day here. She's fascinating to watch as she manipulates, commandeers and punctuates various moments with her demonic little cackle. She flits and fusses around, frequently using her hair as almost another character and is never boring. Gordon is the polar opposite. She underplays, yet remains equally watchable. Her entirely unique methods of movement, speech and gesture make her every bit as captivating. Together they toy with the scenery, nibbling off little bits of it and occasionally chomping off a big bite. Fans of either actress cannot afford to miss them here. There's a subplot involving Gordon's nephew, the hunky Fuller, which is mostly a real snooze. He's romancing Page's neighbor, a virtually somnambulistic Forsyth, when he's able to evade the man-hungry Huntington, Page's sexy niece-in-law. Brandon plays Page's nephew, who's every bit as lusty as Huntington. The interludes with these other characters, while visually appealing thanks to the era's clothing and hair, detract from the far meatier and more compelling story involving Page and Gordon. Dunnock appears briefly, but effectively, as one of Page's victims. Composer Gerald Fried uses some cues that are perilously close to the ones he used during his tenure on Star Trek, which lends an amusingly odd air to things. There is little to no gore present, but plenty of unsettling mayhem and more than one surprise along the way, though not all of them are pleasant. Robert Aldrich, who had directed two previous films of this type, only produced this one. "},{"Title":"Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice REALLY is more terrifying than what happened to Baby Jane!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The original ads for this movie read, Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice? was more terrifying than what happened to Baby Jane, and to my way of thinking, they weren't far off. The brilliant Geraldine Page heads the cast of this ultra-stylish shocker as Mrs. Marrable, a not-so grieving widow whose husband left her only a stamp album. Unable(and unwilling) to cope with poverty, Mrs. Marrable solves the problem of living up to her station by inviting a succession of women into her home to work as housekeepers, and later murders them for their private incomes. Mrs. Marrable's plan works quite well until she makes the mistake of eliminating Miss Tinsley(Mildred Dunnock) whose suspicious friend, Mrs. Dimmock(the delightful Ruth Gordon), promptly arrives at the Marrable residence to apply for  a position as the next housekeeper and potential victim. It's a spine-tingling tale of suspense with some dark humor and unforgettable performances by Page and Gordon. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A deranged widow maintains her lavish lifestyle by murdering her housekeepers, then appropriating their savings.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"     This is a good, fun follow-up/spin-off of WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE?, produced by that classic film's director, Robert Aldrich. This film doesn't get quite as much mention as that one, but thanks to the flawless performances by veteran leading ladies Page and Gordon, it certainly should. Page(Oscar winner for the 1985 film TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL) should have won an Oscar for this film as well. These BABY JANE/HUSH HUSH SWEET CHARLOTTE films are intended to be darkly comical horror flicks, but it's hard to laugh at a great actress like Geraldine Page, especially when she's so thoroughly into the role that she almost becomes the character she's playing, in this case a cunning, cold-blooded murderess. Co-star Ruth Gordon(of HAROLD AND MAUDE fame) is also good as the amateur sleuth who uncovers her employer's dastardly deeds, but the film is dominated by Page's fearless, all-out performance that could very well be her best. If you liked BABY JANE, then AUNT ALICE is a must-see! The movie, long out-of-print, has finally been rereleased to video and DVD by the great cult/horror label Anchor Bay in a beautiful, absolutely flawless collector's edition at a frighteningly affordable price. There's just no reason to miss this fantastic flick. Those who have seen the film on commercial TV should note that most television prints have cut 5-10 minutes of footage so the film can run in a two hour time slot. So, what are we waiting for? Get the original video or DVD today! "}{"Title":"Hags in overdrive!","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the most fun and ingenious temporary trends in horror cinema history undoubtedly were the horror hag movies from approximately the mid-sixties until the early seventies. These were bizarre drama/shock flicks starring elderly and most respectable dames in demented roles, such as insane murderers or mad-raving battle-axes. Director/producer Robert Aldrich should be considered the founding father of this trend and, even though there were several obscure but incredibly entertaining imitations (see below for more than just a handful of recommendations), his Whatever happened to Baby Jane and Hush Hush, Sweet Charlotte are still the only ones that stand as classic efforts nowadays. Aldrich was also responsible for Whatever happened to Aunt Alice, albeit as a producer instead of a director, and perhaps that's the sole reason why it isn't a classic as well. Or perhaps not at all, because Aunt Alice is totally different than Baby Jane and Sweet Charlotte even though certain sources refer to it as the closing part of the trilogy. Geraldine Page amazes as Mrs. Claire Marrable, a totally bonkers widow whose industrialist husband left her nothing but financial debts and a lousy old stamp collection. Since she doesn't want to give up her luxurious and fancy life-style, she decides to slay a series of poor old housekeepers for their savings. Not a very profitable business, if you ask me, because how rich can you possibly get from the money of a bunch of grannies that have to clean houses to survive? But anyway, Mrs. Marrable buries the bodies under pine trees in her Arizona desert garden and gets away with it. That is, until Mrs. aunt Alice Dimmock applies for the vacant housekeeper position. Dimmock (the equally impressive Ruth Gordon) has a hidden agenda, as she undercover wants to find out what happened to her friend Edna Tinsley who mysteriously vanished after working for Mr. Marrable. The big difference with the other Aldrich hag-classics (and simultaneously the main default of this particular film) is that everything solely depends on the dazzling performances of the leading ladies, whereas the other two also feature a sinister atmosphere, dark house settings and black & white cinematography, convoluted plot twists and macabre set pieces. The script doesn't contain any real surprises (except a reasonably good one at the very end) and L.H. Katzin's direction lacks confidence and vision. In spite of some noteworthy sequences, the film honestly isn't that great and only worth seeing for Page and Gordon.As promised, here are some recommendations in case you're interested &#x96; and you really should be &#x96; in seeing more horror hag movies. Following the immense success of Whatever happened to Baby Jane and Hush Hush Sweet Charlotte, the lead actresses obviously became typecast a number of times. Bette Davis appeared in Hammer's The Nanny, while Joan Crawford went much further over-the-top in delicious camp flicks like Strait-Jacket and Berserk. Hammer Studios also produced the shamefully underrated Die! Die, My Darling starring an amazing Tallulah Bankhead. Shelley Winters also became a famous hag thanks to the double feature Whoever Slew Auntie Roo? and What's the Matter with Helen. Last but not least I also warmly recommend a couple of uniquely eccentric titles like The Beast in the Cellar, Frightmare, Homebodies and You'll Like my Mother. Happy hunting! "},{"Title":"Lots of Camp. Very Little Story.","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice is is poorly written, sloppily directed and badly edited. Still, it is watchable because of the bravura performances by the three seasoned actresses who managed to show up to work and give this their all. Geraldine Page is constantly over-the-top as the spoiled and ruthless headmastress - and sole resident - of her own house. Left penniless after her husband's death - she decides to increase her income by hiring servants, stealing their cash and burying them in her yard. Ruth Gordon and Mildred Dunnock both give excellent performances as two of her unlucky hirees. There are several other side-stories which serve absolutely no purpose other than to employ a few terrible actors - I'm looking at YOU, Joan Huntington! This could and should have been much better, but unfortunately it is not. Mainly for fans of bad movies with high camp performances, if you like What Ever Happened To Baby Jane and Mommie Dearest, this one will be right up your alley. "},{"Title":"Boy, did they butcher the book!","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Few weeks ago I got hold to a copy of Ursula Curtiss' novel The forbidden garden. Although not without its' flaws, it was a very enjoyable read - the plot premise was interesting, and how Curtiss plays with different narrative points of view was fascinating Part of the novel is told through the eyes of a ruthless murderer, part is told through the eyes of a more or less uninvolved observer. The role of a third protagonist is unclear to both of them, and both draw very different conclusions. While reading, I thought that the book would make an interesting movie, though hard to make. Then I found out that they did make a movie out of it - WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO AUNT ALICE?, from Robert Aldrich's studio. Apart from the campy title, which is a not-very-subtle reference to Aldrich's WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE, I thought the movie must be great with all the acting talent involved (Geraldine Page, Ruth Gordon, a young Rosemary Forsyth). But boy, was I wrong! Boy, did they butcher the book! And what a waste of talent it was... but let's start at the beginning. As I told before, the main protagonist of the book is a ruthless murderer - I'm not spoiling anything here, because it's told on the very first page of the book and during the first 5 minutes of the film The serial killer actually is a seemingly frail, elderly lady of about 70 who nobody would ever suspect of such things. That's actually one of the main points that make the plot interesting. She hires a housekeeper-companion, a 50something, practical woman who is not what she seems to be. Let's switch to the movie Geraldine Page, 45 when the movie was made and made to look only very slightly older, plays the murderer - she's very healthy-looking throughout the movie and not at all frail. The housekeeper, on the other hand, is played by petite, frail 70ish Ruth Gordon. Damn, what were they thinking???? Does that make any sense at all? It turns the interesting plot line upside down and makes it uninspired instead of fascinating. Both actresses give tour de force performances, but they are so blatantly miscast that they can't save the film. If they simply had switched roles, maybe the whole thing would look different. But no, it's just very bad, trashy old lady's horror, a cheap copy of BABY JANE. Rosemary Forsyth has a very thankless role as the girl next door, the observer in the book, who is for no obvious reason given a tragic past (her husband died recently) and who gets a very dull romantic subplot of her own (which was there in the book, but covered no more than 3 pages) with wooden Robert Fuller, whose minor role in the book is in turn expanded. What was interesting in the book (the different perspective of the girl next door) was left out completely in the film. Then there's her nephew, who is portrayed as a difficult child and plays a key role in the novel - here, he is given minimized screen time and the usual annoying brat treatment. The only characters that seem to come right from the book are the old lady's nephew and his wife, especially Joan Huntington is genius as a bitchy socialite. But that's cold comfort. The film manages to make a decent showdown, but the ending is less than satisfactory - again, for no logical reason changed, since in the book the punchline was the appearance of a most unusual angel of vengeance, while the film gives us a very conventional solution with an uninspired, run-of-the-mill ironical turn. Adding to the underwhelming experience are the overall cheap look and a grating, fingernails-on-the-blackboard musical score. And what's that with all the senseless name changing? (Not very comprehensible is, for example, why young Harriet Crewe gets to keep her rather old-fashioned first name, but her last name is changed to Vaughn???) "},{"Title":"Sicko.","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've begun to regret that Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? was ever made. Two over-the-hill stars and some cheap sets and a lot of psychological horror must have made a fortune otherwise there wouldn't be so many rip offs.I missed the first 15 minutes or so but don't think it matters much. This is pretty sick. It's my own opinion, and I'm pretty perverted myself -- debauched even -- if you ask my so-called friends and my shrink, Dr. Wilbur C. Veruckt. I promise you, Bill, you've seen the last of my checks. And don't think I don't know what's hanging in your closet.Is there anything more depressing than seeing two ladies who might, most generously, be defined as middle aged trying to kill each other by bopping each other over the head with pocketbooks and telephones? No. There is nothing more depressing.Geraldine Page, stage star, I gather has buried the body of her housemaid in the garden to provide fertilizer. An old friend of the housemaid, Ruth Gordon, applies for the position without revealing her identity. This is a big mistake on Gordon's part, a fatal one as it turns out.The next door neighbor is Rosemary Forsythe, pretty but too tall for me. We're talking women's basketball here. She and her son get somehow involved in the fertilizer business because they've adopted a dog who is attracted to Page's garden, drawn presumably by the scent of cadaverine and the prospect of bones. A loose blond roams the periphery of the story and has nothing to do with it. A deep-voiced young man is around too, exhibiting a talent that belongs on the small screen.The musical score is made up of electronically enhanced orchestral sounds that are dissonant, scratchy, distracting, and frankly irritating. The setting is a rather nice Spanish-style house in the Sonoran desert on the outskirts of Tucson, now probably swallowed up in urban sprawl, but no use is made of the location.If you enjoy seeing some snotty ill-groomed chatelaine sitting in a wheelchair flinging insults at her humble housemaid and nurse in what she, the mistress, seems to regard as high-falutin' speech, then this is your movie. Women are much better than men at humiliating and degrading others. Men have a tendency to simply backhand those they dislike. I kept waiting for Page to come up with some really lethal insult -- Hence, horrible villain, or I'll spurn thine eyes like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head, Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire, and stew'd'in brine, smarting in lingering pickle. It might have fit the character but the lines never appeared. The writer must have been a dull and muddy-mettled rascal. "},{"Title":"comments about what ever happened to aunt Alice","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice? was a very good thriller! I mean if you like thrillers. Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon were excellent actresses in this film. Story about a woman who kills people who cross her....like her maids for instance. She started off liking her second housekeeper Mrs Dimmick, even thought she would make a good companion as well as a good housekeeper, but soon found out that Mrs Dimmick was crossing her by trying to find out information about the former maid. You see, the former maid, Mrs Tinsel, used to work for Mrs Dimmick and she was upset with her and left and moved and started working for Mrs Marable. Mrs Dimmick worried and wanted Mrs Tinsel to come back went to find her. Mrs Tinsel had written her a letter so she went there to Mrs Marables house and saw that her former housekeeper was no where to be found. Mrs Dimmick asked Mrs Marable about Mrs Tinsel and said where is she??? Made Mrs Marable hot!!! Until she did away with poor Mrs Dimmick. Smart as Mrs Marable was, she was caught! A real honest-to- goodness thriller!! An 9 indeed! "},{"Title":"Sorry, but I don't really care what happened to Aunt Alice...","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I went into this film with fairly high expectations given all that I'd heard about it, but the simple fact is that What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice did little for me. Given the fact that the title is an obvious rip-off of Robert Altman's 1962 film What Ever Happened to Baby Jane, I was expecting this to be more of a comedy, but despite the fact that it's extremely camp; there's not a great deal of 'fun' to be had with it. There were a lot of horror films released during the sixties that featured a strong female lead, and while many of them (Altman's film and Lady in a Cage spring to mind instantly) were very good, this one is surprisingly lacking. The plot follows a woman who loses her fortune after the death of her husband. She decides to start taking in housekeepers and then dispatching them in order to steal their savings and rectify her financial situation, but after ridding herself of her latest housekeeper; she doesn't realise that the new applicant, an Alice Dimmock, was a friend of the old housekeeper and has taken the job with the intention of investigating the mysterious disappearance.Director Lee H. Katzin doesn't do a very good job of creating atmosphere, and the film feels like it should be really be a comedy. The plot is very thin, and despite attempts to bulk it out with a number of sub-plots, the film still feels like it needs a little more impact than it has. The film relies on its female leads; Geraldine Paige and Ruth Gordon, too much and despite the fact that both give nice performances, neither one has enough to completely carry the film. The decision to film it in colour was a bad one as well - it gives the film a really cheap feel and I don't doubt that it would have been a hell of a lot better in black and white! The story flows quite slowly overall, and this is something of a nuisance as the attempts to build interest with plots involving a dog and a few other things don't provide enough of a distraction when the film starts to drag. It's all pretty tame until the part towards the end when the two leads finally have their battle...but even that is disappointing and while the twist at the end may please some, I was left rather unfulfilled. Overall, What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice was a huge disappointment for me and therefore I don't recommend it! "},{"Title":"Page's acting saves this film","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It takes quite some effort to get used to the grainy visuals and the (initially) confusing storytelling of this movie, but Geraldine Page's performance eventually puts it across it's (the performance, not the movie, unfortunately) scary, uncompromising and totally convincing. Some suspenseful scenes here, but nothing terribly memorable.... (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Scariest thing about this is the poster!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Calire Marrable (Geraldine Page) is left with nothing after her husband dies.  She then proceeds to take in women as housekeepers, has them invest their savings in the stock market, kills them, plants them in her garden and lives off their winnings (or something like that).  Alice Dimmock (Ruth Gordon) comes to work for her...but she's really looking to find out what happened to her friend who Marrable had killed before...A Baby Jane rip off. It's not terrible but it's not scary.  It moves slow and the script is kind of vague.  Page is great, really chewing the scenery, but she (and that silly laugh of hers) get real annoying after a while.  Gordon (a great actress) is given nothing to do!  Just once I wanted to see her break loose but the script wouldn't allow it.  The killings are tame and bloodless and Page's character is so incredibly unlikable you could care less by the end.  There's also a HUGE plot loophole at the end and a really silly twist ending.So, it's (sort of) worth seeing for Page but nothing else.  This can be missed. "},{"Title":"It has no idea what tone to aim for, and the brackish color gives it a cheap feel...","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Housekeepers turn up missing after going to work for financially-strapped Arizona widow Geraldine Page; Ruth Gordon, a companion to one of the missing ladies, applies for the position in order to do some snooping. Pairing permanently-loony Page with feisty Gordon might've resulted in a darkly comic masterpiece of suspense--but Alice isn't it. Without giving too much away, I can only say that Gordon is given the shaft in such a way that I think the screenwriter was as crazy as Page. The film sets up a decent premise, but the tone seems off from the start is this supposed to be a no-holds-barred thriller or is meant to be a little campy? I just found it ugly, and the desert locales aren't well captured (maybe it was the brackish color?). Page isn't really in character here (not that there's much of one), she's just relying on shtick. As for Gordon, she comes on loaded for bear, but the filmmakers have no idea what to do with her and the viewer's expectations are dashed. Any hopes of screen fireworks from these dueling divas fizzles out due to the crude, basic writing. It's a star-pairing which proves to be a wasted affair. ** from **** "}]