[{"Title":"Historical moment at the Oscars and Tonight Show","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"192 out of 198 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  When the preview of Z was shown at the Oscars, it received a standing ovation. I didn't know why until I saw the movie. The Oscar forced it to be shown in the United States. At the time, the US backed the military government in Greece. The totalitarian government represented a stand against communism. This movie depicts the true story of a beloved olympic athlete who became a doctor and began speaking out against his Greek government. For that, he was murdered. This is about a brave investigator who begins to search for the origin of the orders to have the doctor killed.It leads to the downfall of a country. Mikis Theordorakis wrote the music from house arrest in Greece and it was smuggled out to be placed on the film. Yves Montand played the lead role and was blacklisted from getting a US Visa for his participation until some strings were pulled and he was allowed a 24 hour visa, to be extended each 24 hours in order to allow him to film On A Clear Day You Can See Forever. At the end of filming,that night he made a surprise appearance on Johnny Carson's Tonight Show. He told the story about Z and commented that he was in the care and custody of US Immigration and the FBI. The camera panned right and a dark suited man slid quickly behind the curtain. He apologized for his abruptness, but his visa expired at midnight and he had to get to the airport. When I saw these things, I was shocked my government would take a movie so seriously. When it showed up in an obscure movie theater in Houston, I had to go. I was the only person buying a ticket just after noon that day. Upon entering the theater, a dark suited man was sitting in the lobby. I walked into theater and then stuck my head back out to see what the only other individual in the theater was doing. He was stepping away from the ticket booth. I watched as he walked the short distance to my car, took out a notebook and wrote in it while looking at my license plate. This is how it happened. It was 1969. J. Edgar Hoover had stated publicly that no truly loyal American would pay money to see such a movie. It was unpatriotic. Newspaper articles that spring reported it.Watch this movie and consider the importance entertainment can have on government, media, and yourself.  "},{"Title":"One of the few, however great, films concerning a dark period of Greek history","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"76 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  The film '' Z '' is based upon the same-titled book written by  Vassilikos and referring to a real-life event the assassination of one of the most honorable Greek politicians ( his real name was Grigoris Lambrakis ), who sacrificed his life in the name of peace and human dignity. Costas Gavras did his best to present the prevailing atmosphere and the political situation in Greece ( although Greece is at no point straightly mentioned, but implied ) during May of the year 1963, which is the year when the real events took place. Choosing an adventurous, thrilling or hilarious style according to the facts and scenes presenting at each part of the story, he made an '' all time interesting and provocative '' film. Great acting was also put in by everybody and particularly by Jean-Louis Trintignant, who was great as the Examining Magistrate. As long as the script is concerned, the plot builds up very satisfactorily and carefully, thus not leaving any holes. Great respect should also be paid to Mikis Theodorakis who wrote the original score for the movie, helping it gain the marvelous rythm it retained right until the very end of it. As a concluding remark I would like to mention that anybody who's interested in late Greek history ( from post World War II era to date ) should watch it carefully. The whole result is very rewarding.   "},{"Title":"The most important political film in Greece","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"72 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" First and foremost, it is a true story. It's the story of the assassination of Grigoris Lambrakis, that eventually led to the military junta. Every time I see it, it gives me the chills. Since Z was released while the junta was still in power, it was banned in Greece for several years. After the fall of the military junta, Z was worshiped, although we saw it on TV much later in order to avoid stirring passions. In terms of the plot, if you're not Greek, it's quite possible you might be left with many unanswered questions, but, in general, it is an accurate description of Greece during that era. While Vassilikos' novel (written in 1966) has driven him to exile from 1967, Theodorakis was still in Greece under surveillance and managed to write his excellent score secretly. Costa-Gavras gives us a top-class fast paced direction which hasn't aged even today, although I'm sure the Oscar was as much a political decision as a purely artistic one. What is truly spot-on is the casting. Both Montand and Trintignant excel, but even minor roles like Vago and Yago are portrayed in an extremely realistic way. My small objection would be Irene Papas staying near-silent throughout the movie. Although her talent allows her to pull it off with class, I really didn't understand why she was not supposed to talk. "},{"Title":"stunning political drama","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"67 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Having seen this at the Art Theatre in Akron, Ohio, upon its first American release, this film was a forcefully stunning, face slapping wake up call to keep a vigilant eye on most politicians because they are controlled only by the constraints we present and confine them with. Grown men left the theater with tears pouring down their cheeks not only because of the great performances and story, but because these were the Nixon years, and the film made us realize we were only a pen stroke away from the horror of losing freedom and democracy here in the United States. No country is safe, and it could be argued in areas of Florida today that, even though we preserved our nation and eliminated Nixon, it was a Pyrhic victory, a temporary victory, and our democracy and how it is supposed to ethically work was left disheveled and browbeaten in the end, anyway. One thing is for certain; the rats are in the cupboard now. And this film hits all the right buttons; great music, acting, an avant garde documentary style of filming that was sensational in its time and still is good today, but so many people have copied it, it seems to lack originality since we are so accepting now of something that was novel at the time...but this is the real thing that started it all. A film that should be in everyone's home and shown to every civic class in America. "},{"Title":"A great film.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the best political/muck-wracking films ever made, it set the stage for the great US political films of the 70's. Costa-Garvas at his finest, it's filled with detailed performances and camera work, a memorable score, and breathtaking content. If only they made films like this now, I'd be a happy camper. By the way, it was the first foreign film (French) to be nominated for Best Picture. That should tell you something....... "},{"Title":"A powerful film I waited a long time to see.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I have to start by getting slightly off topic.  I've wanted to see this film for thirty years.  Not because I've read or heard anything about it, but entirely because of the trailer I saw when it was first released, back when I was 14.  Although I now remember more the feelings the trailer inspired than the trailer itself, it still reminds me how awful trailers almost always are.  The trailer for Z was some the most intense, exciting few seconds of film I had ever seen, and I wanted to see more.  A brilliant ultra-short film production.  And it did it without revealing and spoiling the movie's story.  So when I finally did see Z I was able to enjoy something fresh and new.It wasn't what I expected, but turned out to be one of the best political thrillers I've ever seen.  You don't really have to know Greek history to see it, in part because the movie never explicitly mentions Greece.  Better to do it the other way around, by getting swept up in the gritty often tawdry intrigues you will be learning Greek history without realizing it.  Or if you are into conspiracies and cover-ups in general you'll learn how they really aren't the brilliantly crafted master-plans of distant omnipotent figures that most movies show, but are usually the creation of dull mediocrities, full of flaws, stupidities, and ham-fisted improvisations.  That they often succeed is more because of brute force than any innate cleverness.  This is a powerful and effective movie, which is almost certainly due to its being based closely on reality and the passions that inspired it's making, and from it not being a recycled and denatured Hollywood product.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Greece under military rule","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"45 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I would like to give a little history of Greece from WWII to the time when Z happens. The Greek people had successfully expelled the Nazis when English forces invaded the country and put the Nazi collaborators in power. The US army took over the effort in 1947, rounding up thousands of people and putting them in reeducation camps. By 1949, the civil war was over, with Greece under military rule.Then, the story portrayed in Z. Dr. Gregorios Lambrakis was beginning to speak for the people, when the junta gunned him down. In Z, we get to see the investigation into the murder, exposing how the generals orchestrated it. They never say that the movie happens in Greece (although it clearly does), and more than simply a look at the CIA-installed regime that was ruling Greece from 1967 to 1974, it's a reminder of all totalitarian governments in the world. Z will very likely chill you. "},{"Title":"A few interesting facts and misconceptions about the film.and the true story that it is based upon.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is not a review.All that is need to be written about this masterpiece of a film has already been written.However there are 1-2 things worth mentioning that might interest some folks that are not from Greece Jean Louis Trintignant's character The Examining Magistrate was in reality Christos Sargetakis who became the president of Greece for 5 years(1985-1990).The film ends with the rise of the military dictatorship and it is suggested that the upposition didn't really capitalise on Lambrakis' assassination.That's not what happened in reality.In reality the Lambrakis assassination caused the resignation of prime minister Karamanlis(the right wing P.M of Greece at that time) and the triumph of the upposition(something like the democrats in the U.S,the G.Papandreou party,NOT Lambrakis' left wing party) in the elections of 1963 with a whooping 54% which becomes even bigger when taking into account the situation in Greece at that time,with right-wing police controlling everything and manipulating the citizens.Of course the film was made after the democratic-elected government had fallen and junta had taken over.(in fact the democratic government had fallen 2 years*in 1965* before the junta took over and we had a false semi-democratic government that consisted right wing members of parliament and defected members of the G.Papandreou party)So in reality the Lambrakis assassination DID make a difference in Greece,if only for 2 years(1963-1965) while on the film nothing changed.I guess with the ultimate rise of the junta that was reigning at the time the film was made it was proper to make the film bleaker than the true events. "},{"Title":"conspiracy, tension and","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is a great Costa-Gavras' masterpiece about a political confusion caused by a murder of a politic. Costa-Gravas again shows his talent in this interesting film that is full of conspiracy, tension and confusion. The plot is complex but you can follow it and, once you do it, you enjoy the film a lot. There's this dark atmosphere in the whole length of the movie that gives it a nice and enchanting look. I think the best way to watch Z is in total silence, with your eyes glued to the screen and your mind turned towards the frames and all the great actions and dialogues.My rate 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Possibly, the mother of all political thrillers","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" In this film, we find ourselves in a big city in a nameless country, whose political system is royal democracy. However in effect it is under a military regime. At that time, a pacifist politician-doctor-athlete arrives to deliver a speech about disarmament. This does not please the military, who devise a plot to do away with him. The politician is killed and his murder is covered up as an accident. The rest of the film is about the efforts of the Examining Magistrate and a newspaper photographer to uncover the truth.For those who are up to date with Greek history, the country is Greece, the city is Thessaloniki and the politician is Grigoris Lambrakis. But that is of small importance, since this is a story which could have (and possibly has) happened anywhere at any time in history.About the film the cinematography is excellent, even by today's standards. The acting and direction are both top class. But what impressed me the most was the film's editing. After the slow first 15-20 minutes or so, the film picks up a pace which is tight and lightning fast. The dialogue is concise and to the point - the film's last lines, spoken by the Narrator and found in the quotes section of IMDb, never fail to bring tears to my eyes. Finally, the film offers what I consider to be the best film score of all time (but I may be a bit biased on this, since the score is by Mikis Theodorakis, my personal favourite).This kind of documentary-style film making has been done plenty of times since, especially in political thrillers. But this is what sparked everything up. Watch this film. You'll be rewarded.My rating 10/10 "}{"Title":"The films of Costa-Gavras Z","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z (1969) was a controversial film that documents the events in Greece that led to the exile of many people (including the director). A conservative government was trying to maintain political power (and receive more favors from the United States). They held elections but one candidate had charisma and with his left wing leanings was marked for erasure. But the government just couldn't do it publicly, so they out sourced the job to a bunch of right wing thugs. They do the job but the people wanted justice. So a public investigator was hired to look into a possible conspiracy. Even though his politics were pretty far right, he wanted to do his job and discovers a conspiracy that goes all the way to the top. The government officials persuaded him to drop the case, His morals wont allow him to do so. The indictments are handed out. But before any legal action can be taken place, a lot of the people involved either disappear or have nasty accidents. A military cabal was formed and there would be no more talk about free elections. The name of the dead politician would forever be remembered by the letter 'Z.This is an awesome film. I was completely blown away by it. Oliver Stone must have liked it to because he loosely based J.F.K. on this movie. The conspiracies are eerily similar as well. I loved the way this film was structured. Costa-Gavras was a director who would change the way movies were made forever.Highest recommendation possible. "},{"Title":"Essential viewing","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Every so often a film comes along whose cinematic quality is less important than the statement it makes about civilisation. 'Z' is such a film.Chilling in its execution and its denouement, the film is a powerful anti-totalitarian tract, showing the powerlessness of the forces of truth against an establishment which holds all the cards (but which nonetheless displays appalling incompetence in playing them). That the government in question is right-wing is not important - like Orwell's 1984, this film opposes totalitarianism of all kinds.The script, direction and performances are good enough, but this is not a film you see for entertainment. It should be shown to every government official in every country in the world, to remind them of the corrupting influence of absolute power (and, incidentally, it ought to be shown to every journalist to remind them what investigative journalism is supposed to be about).11 out of 10, were it possible. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie over 20 years ago and it has remain in my thoughts and in my soul. It is what I call a KEEPER, a film that I want to see again and again. There are very few movies that can compare to Z, one that comes close is Fail Safe from the same time period.Watch this movie and LEARN!Eternity "},{"Title":"The most polarizing political film ever made.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Without a great deal of background into the confusing politics in Greece over the past decades, it is sufficient to know that this country is the cradle of democracy. It is the origin of the word itself. Watch this film with that one thought in mind. Z will influence your views on politics and the importance of preserving democracy and participating in government for the rest of your life.What occurs in Z has happened before, is happening now, and will happen again in different countries to varying degrees. An individual's awareness of this fact is vitally important, just as participating in government is vitally important.There are movies that come along every once in a great while that should be seen by everyone. They should be, perhaps, a mandatory part of one's high school civics curriculum. Z is one of those films.The Internet Movie Database has a list of the 250 most popular movies of all time. The list is a mixed bag. Some movies are there because tons of people saw them and - like popular novels - they had a story line that was fun and engrossing (the Godfather movies, Star Wars, Indiana Jones); other films are on the list because they changed filmmaking itself (Citizen Kane, Hitchcock, Star Wars); and finally there are movies that change our hearts forever. Saving Private Ryan, To Kill a Mockingbird, Schindler's List.Z should be there. If only more people had seen it. "},{"Title":"Recently released on digitally remastered DVD, it is a film for our times.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Winner of two Academy Awards, the story is told in a timeless time as a nameless country slides into a police state where lies are rewarded, truth is punished and good people are hurt.The visuals are so compelling one wants to slow everything down and simply watch them unfold, unsettling for a movie with subtitled French. There is no slack time when the dialogue is so crucial and the images are so perfect. In spite of this challenge, the characters become people you believe in, hope for, despise, resent.Excellent DVD extras, especially thoughtful for a film 35 years old how the originals were digitally improved, with many examples; scene selection; interesting and insightful commentary track; and pertinent, informative conversation between the director of the film and the author of the novel on which it was based.Most importantly, for those who wish to hear, this film has an important story to tell us in our times, particularly when you realize, as the titles most specifically spell out, that any similarities between this story and actual people and events is intentional. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" A great film. As a Greek, I am a bit ashamed I hadn' t seen it until now. I think all Greeks (at least) should see it, just to discover their recent history that is so little known and told in Greece nowadays, and to realise that values such as peace and democracy (and truth) are worth at least fighting for. Coming back to the film, I was really amazed to see a '60s film with so good picture, I really think it is an example of how such films should be made!About the performances, I would like to concentrate in these of Yves Montand, which I found very realistic, and this of Irene Papas, whose role contain just about 10 words, but her performance is excellent, it's like she's speaking with her eyes.Now, about the film being slow, I didn't find it slow at all. But I guess that depends at the mood of each one, because a friend of mine slept after the first quarter, woke up a bit later and saw the rest of it with great interest(she is, however, keen on sleeping during a movie!)Surely a 10/10 movie "},{"Title":"Sensational! The epitome of cinematic excellence!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Z is a masterpiece! It is delightful, thrilling and beautifully adapted to film. The cinema is marvelous, the message is deliciously electrifying and the ending is absolutely superlative! Z is the best political thriller I've seen, matched only by Missing (also directed by Costa-Gavras).The acting is flawless. Yves Montand, of course, plays his role immaculately. But Irene Papas as Helene performs extraordinarily, especially considering how small a speaking role she has. Jean-Louis Trintignant is a delight as the magistrate; Jacques Perrin is pristine as the photojournalist; Renato Salvatori, Marcel Bozzuffi, and Pierre Dux are absolutely perfect for their villainous roles.Combined with truly remarkable cinematography and an unforgettable soundtrack, this makes Z everything a movie should be.Also strongly recommended Missing (1982), Costa-Gavras; Amilie (2001), Jean-Pierre Jeunet (aka, Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain); Dr. Strangelove (1964), Stanley Kubrick  "},{"Title":"It Happened There","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Any resemblance to actual events, to persons living or dead, is not the result of chance. It is DELIBERATE. With that caption (albeit in French) in the opening credits the stage is set for Z. Made in 1969, the film is based on the novel about the May 22, 1963 assassination of Greek politician Gregoris Lambrakis. Yet it is far from your average history based and instead becomes a thriller. It is also, perhaps more importantly, a look at the misuse of government power in a democratic society and those willing to expose it.The film features what can be called a perfect cast. Jean-Louis Trintignant is the Examining Magistrate, the government official who is supposed to sign off on the police's version of events but discovers the truth is much different. Then there's the officials involved including Pierre Dux as chief of police and Julien Guiomar as his deputy who both give fine performances as men in power who become increasingly desperate to close the case. There are those directly involved in the assassination such as Renato Salvatori and Marcel Bozzuffi who convincingly play ordinary people who political beliefs and the power of public officials lead them to commit the assassination. Last but not least are Yves Montand as the Deputy (aka Gregoris Lambrakis) and Irene Papas as his wife, both of whom use their rather limited screen time to great effect. There really didn't seem to be a single miscast part which is an incredible rarity and something that makes the film even better.This brings us to the production values of Z. While the film was shot in on the opposite side of the Mediterranean in Algiers though it makes for a fine substitute for the Greek locations where the events actually took place which is helped even more by the use of things like a Greek typewriter in scenes with the Examining Magistrate for example. Perhaps as a consequence of that there seems to be very few sets in the film which helps even more to give a sense of verisimilitude to the entire film. The film also replays the assassination several times after showing it to the viewer in its entirety to show how points of view and ulterior motives can affect views of an event (something echoed by Oliver Stone in his 1991 film JFK). The film's editing allows the action of the film's first half to be a bit more drawn out as it paints a portrait of the events leading up to the rally where the assassination takes place yet allowing for it to have the pace of a thriller when the investigation of the Examining Magistrate begins, allowing for flashbacks from different witnesses. The result of all this is a film that seems very realistic, slowly paced at times and yet tightly paced when it needs to be.Then there is the script of course. The script written by Jorge Semprún and director Costa-Gavras, is a casebook example of how a real-life vent should be transposed to the silver screen as it condenses a significant amount of time down to two hours without confusing the viewer or being tedious. The script also pulls no punches with its views of the right wing government of Greece at the time (though the country is unnamed in the film) starting with appears at first to be a lecture about agricultural policy that leads into a rant about the government's wanting to destroy the mildew of the mind i.e. everything to the left of it politically. From there the script shows how officials how officials allowed the assassination to happen and how they then tried to hide their involvement as quickly as possible. The script shows even those not involved, under pressure or by being complacent, try to stall the investigations of the man charged with finding the truth (the Examining Magistrate). Considering when the film came out and the events in the years preceding it is hard to see why it was so successful here in the U.S. and why it continues to have strong resonance today (especially considering that the assassinations of Lambrakis and JFK were a mere six months apart). The script is above all a demonstration of misuse of government power, the lengths it will go to cover its own tracks and those who are willing to expose it.Z is many things. It is a true story told like a thriller that shows how a historical event would be put on the screen. It is a fine film that is well acted by a perfect cast all of whom are backed by good production values, fine editing and a script that pulls no punches. Above all though I believer it is a warning. To whom is it a warning? To those who say that something like this can't happen in a democratic society because in 1963 it happened there. "},{"Title":"Still incredibly relevant after all these years.","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I screen movies every Wednesday night at a local cultural center. Having seen it twenty years ago and remembering next to nothing of it (I was way too young and distracted), I opted to wait until screening Z to see it again, along with the rest of the audience. Our collective response was that of buzzing astonishment.Politically, Z is a sobering lesson in history and human nature. Cinematically, Z is mean and lean, with not a single ounce of excess fat. Brilliantly using the editing room as a weapon, Z is that rarest of birds, a defiant thriller raising its' fist in triumph at dictatorship, for the story will now be known to the world. Truth, and only truth, will always vex the tyrant.Based on the 1963 coup of Greece by the political right wing, Z offers a clinical look at a democracy's tragedy unfolding before our eyes, at first in real-time as a confusing jumble of characters and events, then as a forensic process that builds a coherent jigsaw puzzle of events to an ultimately shocking double ending, leaving you firmly grasped by the throat even days after it's over.Important is a label that should not be thrown around freely when talking about film, yet Z, made forty seven years ago, is a real cry from a dark past, as timely now as it was then, as history may be in the process of repeating itself. "},{"Title":"One needs continually to be reminded that Democracy is fragile...","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" ...and even if evil is overcome, we must always be on guard-Governments are always looking for  new ways to domesticate and enslave us, even as they fail-do not ever become complacent.This film personifies the feelings of the expanding desire for freedom that permeated the late  1960s-early 1970s-not just political freedom, but personal freedom, cultural freedom-the freedom  NOT to get assigned to the dreary role of ConsumerNuclear Family variety that was prevalent at  the time-at least here in the USAª. It is curious that from this film, one sees that peace and Nuclear non-proliferation were big issues in  Europe at the time,1963, while here in the states we were blissfully unaware of any such issues to  a large degree-...just meat and potatoes, and a new car every year, and getting junior and Sis off to college to a  good career, thank you-all which was starting to unravel here in the US by the time this film came  out-1969; The dedication of the principals in the film make it very engaging to view, without it feeling dated in  any way;Add to that the generally excellent job WELLSPRING (nee FoxLorber) has done with this new,  restored DVD release, and you have a very excellent piece of filmaking, and an enjoyable viewing  experience watching History as it took place. "}{"Title":"Setting the pace....","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Z set the pace for the modern politic film as we know it. Based of the best-selling book of all time, (written by Vassilis Vasilikos on 1966) it is the true account of what happened in my hometown of Thessaloniki, back in 1963.  Later films, (such as JFK or All the Presidents' Men) followed its footsteps.  What is more exciting, is that the film does not try to show the main character as a saint. (He had extra-marital affairs and this shows in the picture).A few comments that might helpJean-Louis Trintignant played the part of magistrate Christos Sartzetakis. Sartzeakis (who became a hero becausre of his participation in the inquiry) later became President of the Greek Republic between 1985-1990 (albeit not a very popular one).Manuel (performed by Charles Denner) became a cult figure of Greek history. He was known as Tiger, because right after the assasination, he jumped on the motorbike of Lambrakis' assasins and was responsible for their arrest. Without Tiger, Z would not probably exist as a movie. He died a couple of months ago.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Political Thriller and a Cry of Freedom","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" In an unspecified country, a left-wing candidate (played by Yves Montand) struggles to give a speech at a rally. The authorities, right-wing supporters, come up with lots of restrictions to prevent the rally from happening; but through some ingenuity, he succeeds and gives a rousing speech. And as he comes out of the hall he's murdered.An inquest begins and one of the most fascinating thrillers in the history of cinema comes to life. This is Costa-Gavras' masterpiece a vibrant cry in favor of freedom and an indictment of totalitarianism.Inspired by Vasilis Vasilikos' novel, Costa-Gavras, with the help of co-screenwriter Jorge Semprún, shows the workings of a country about to turn into a police state. It shows how the police and the army can easily curtail civil liberties and how difficult and ultimately pointless it is to find the truth in a totalitarian state.One of the fascinating aspects of this movie is how the story shows both sides on the one hand, we have the Generals controlling the police, organizing secret groups to beat up peaceful protesters and disrupt rallies, withholding information, intimidating witnesses and protecting murderers. On the other hand, we have a small group of people, civilians mostly, trying to bring the criminals to justice. In this group we find the magistrate in charge of the investigation, played by a brilliant Jean-Louis Trintignant. It's ironic to see him play a scrupulous man considering that only a year later he'd be playing a loyal fascist in Bertolucci's Il Conformista.Trintignant just steals the show in his heroic but restrained role. His character starts ambiguously is he just another member of the corrupt state or is he truly committed to finding the truth? I think even he wonders as he's originally cautious about using the word 'murder' or 'assassination' in his report; the Generals want the case to be filed as an accident. But fighting against his own superiors the magistrate starts intimating Generals and policemen and threatens to bring down th whole totalitarian mechanism. Until the gut-wrenching finale.Besides the powerful story and great performances, two other great things going for this movie are Mikis Theodorakis' score, one of the best I've ever heard, and which he scored while imprisoned (it had to be smuggled out of Greece); and Françoise Bonnot's editing, which shows the events back-and-forth and from several points of view, sometimes even altered.Z is not an easy movie to watch. For anyone who believes in freedom, this movie is a vicious punch on the stomach. Many times I found myself shuddering as I saw injustice after injustice going unpunished. We don't want to believe in the world of Z, but what the movie shows us, is that this world is a lot closer to us than we dare think. "},{"Title":"Angry film that should not be ignored","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z is that sort of film that defies classification. The best label I can come up for it is political-crime-action-satire. Think ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN on Mediterrainean steroids, or Frank Capra in need of Prozac. It's key ability is to grab you by the balls and throw you into a world where you're not sure which elected official to trust, or who is getting paid off by whom.The story is disturbingly based on real incidents that took place in Greece in the early to mid 60s. A prominent senator and deputy of a Nuclear Disarmament committee is hit by a truck immediately after giving a major speech. The film makes it clear who the good and bad guys after from the very first scenes A corrupt, fascistic government versus a liberal organization deemed unpatriotic. It's also very clear to the audience from the get-go that the deputy was killed deliberately. The suspense lies in whether there will be justice for the dead, and his grieving wife.Z's jarring proto-reality TV editing can make viewing a pain, but also gives it a harshness and documentary quality that benefits the story. The film's two hindrances are the abrupt ending (which attempts to compress years of developments into a few minutes), and the seething anger which permeates nearly every frame. Yes, the gross injustice in the film is blood curdling stuff, but the filmmakers have a tendency to romanticize the nobility of protesters, political dissidents, and even tabloid reporting. The ruling opposition are caricatures at best, hypocritical monsters at worst. The most human (and most interesting) character is the lead magistrate appointed to investigate the accident, whose view of the world noticeably evolves over the course of the film.But ultimately this is a film about ideas rather than humans, as it should be. The same rage that weakens it gives it its best strengths. Z is a film to remind us that our trust in political power should not be taken for granted (as it usually is in the United States), and that ideals scarcely translate from the drawing room to the real world. This message, along with an entertaining thriller plot and Mikis Theodorakis' brilliant score, makes Z a film that ought to be seen. "},{"Title":"Z Hits a Nerve, and Hits It With a Sledgehammer","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" You don't need to know the language to understand the meaning. People who know me have heard me say that.I just finished watching Z on DVD today. My comment is purely of a cinematic nature.I have heard about Z winning the Academy Award for foreign language film in its nomination year. I found it to be a strange title for a movie. I didn't even know what story the film had to tell. For years, I wanted to rent the film and had not. Well, through my online movie rental, I put Z in queue and finally received it. Now that I have seen it, I think this is the best political thriller I have seen.Every ordinary person who believes in an ideal so deeply would know what this film represents. It's not about the police, or the leftist leader, or the judge investigating, or the subordinates doing their duties. It's about the concept of willing something upon society into reality, and if there are those whose thinking is in direct conflict of that will, then those people must be squashed. And when things go wrong, then suddenly everyone goes on the defensive.There is a man who is dead, and he shouldn't be, now who's responsible? And there is an authority figure determined to find out the truth about why the man is dead.Cinematically, Z carries out this concept and story perfectly! I can't tell you how excited I was to see where this story was going.And when I find out that the military regime government wins out anyway, I felt shocked. The government trampled on EVERYBODY! This was a political thriller of the highest quality.Even though it took me years to finally make the effort to watch Z, it was not too late to experience a film that was such a frontal assault on me the viewer, and I'm grateful for it.For a movie almost 38 years old, Z has relevance, power and craftsmanship that stands the test of time. And now that I've seen it, I'm glad to have made the effort to find it. "},{"Title":"A Typewriter Clickety-Clack Crescendo","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z comes with impressive 1969 pedigrees. Submitted by Algeria for Academy Award consideration for Best Foreign Language Film, it both was nominated for and collected that Oscar. It received nomination the same year for Best Picture, and while Midnight Cowboy was victorious instead, Z was the winner among the New York Film Critics and the National Society of Film Critics. It earned another Foreign Language Film award at the Golden Globes.All this is richly deserved.Set--though never explicitly--in Greece, the movie opens with an attempt at dissident but peaceful assembly, for a speech by a leader of the political opposition. The story is based on actual events involving parliamentary deputy Grigoris Lambrakis, at Thessaloniki in the spring of 1963. Yves Montand plays the scheduled speaker, either Lambrakis or a close fictional model thereof. Ultra-nationalist officialdom discourages the meeting via the placement of petty logistical impediments. A criminal act ensues. The same officialdom selects as investigator a magistrate of impeccable establishment credentials, to sweep the unpleasantness under the rug. Jean-Louis Trintigant plays this stern, no-nonsense part memorably.A huge caveat is that you need to rent the subtitled version, not the dubbed one. The reason is to be better riveted by the typewriter clickety-clack and accompanying score, as the investigation and movie reach a crescendo. The subtitled version arrives with an electric and musical adrenaline rush. The dubbed version instead mutes it.Jacques Perrin is an ongoing presence in the movie as a photojournalist. The three actors from Montand's entourage infuse their characters with an idealistic political earnestness, almost as if (forgive the sixties analogy)they've been borrowed from upper-echelon Eugene McCarthy campaign staff. Were I more conversant with French-language movies, better able to sort out the rest of the cast, I'd heap additional praise. It's a strong ensemble performance. "},{"Title":"Lithe and Fierce... like a tiger.","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is a very edge-of-the-seat political thriller. The cast is superb, especially Trintignant as the quiet, but dogged investigating magistrate. Supporting cast is up to the task, with Irene Pappas as the assassinated minister's wife and Jacques Perrin as the photojournalist standing out.The music track is outstanding, keeping one's heart pumping as the assassination conspiracy unravels. Script is very good and should be heard in its native French so that you don't miss a nuance.This is one of my favorite foreign language flicks. I've viewed it again and again. It holds up well, even nearly forty years later. This is fine art. It's lithe and fierce... like a tiger. "},{"Title":"Great movie, holds up well after thirty years.","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Saw this in the early seventies and was riveted by it.  Thought I'd see how I felt about it now that I'm over 50.  I was delighted to find that I enjoyed it as much as I did then.  A must-see for those interested in political thrillers.  "},{"Title":"Plays out like an intriguing documentary","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Starts out a bit slowly; but, if you stick around, you'll likely become spellbound by the story's unfolding. This film made me wonder just how many situations like this -- however minor -- occur in our world on a regular basis. This certainly is a film with a message; yet, no one tries to hide the fact, as is evident at the very beginning where you might think you are reading a disclaimer. Good work! "},{"Title":"A minus (rental)","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" The minus is only because for a « Greek » movie, having Algeria for location and cast hasn't the flavor of the real Greece ! But Gavras hasn't the choice either because at the time, it was still the dictatorship there and at least, Theodorakis' score helps to feel this culture.In all cases, this movie is just amazing. In our dark time in which democracy is stomped, this committed production is just a needy breath of air. For one time, political power isn't told as courageous, bold, historic but rather as corrupted, authoritarian. In short, the movie doesn't depict them as how they would like to appear but rather as how they really are. It's also a excellent lesson in constitutional law as it illustrates the meaning of the separation of powers  a real democracy is where each power is independent. Thus here, you can conclude it isn't one as the administration is vehement to tell the judiciary what it must does. At last, it's a extraordinary story about courage and conviction. A bit like « Schindler's list », this movie demonstrates that the psychopathic state relies on individual and as soon as one says « no », he can become the little grain of stand that blocks the machine. Here, Trintignant is a young judge who stays truth to his function and it's all the more funny and powerful that he's highly clever  he doesn't look up much but he knows exactly what to do to put the culprits in his web !In conclusion, this movie is just an oasis in film history and it should inspire newcomers to do the same instead of serving propaganda ! "},{"Title":"Fascinating, fast-paced deconstruction of an 'incident'.","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" After 'Mad City', which I don't remember being all too great, 'Z' is the second film by Costa-Gravas that I've seen, and it's absolutely worth watching. The viewer is in on the fact that the accident is really an assassination from the get-go, but the investigation by the relentless judge is nonetheless quite riveting, as are scenes that include tense pursuits, personal dramas of those involved and some scenes that have a certain amount of humour in them, such as the military officers that try to leave the courts, each of them fumbling at the same - locked - door.Maybe in the end things are happening all too fast, and maybe the screen time for Montand is too little, but the whole story is told and it is a film about an intricate murder case and the responsible parties, and not necessarily about one political figure - even though his 'name' ís the title of the film.8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"an important film by Costa-Gravas","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Do read the review of lhwilliams on this site, as he had a personal experience involving this film that is thoroughly believable given the times and fascinating as well.Z deals with the real-life assassination of Greek politician Grigoris Lambrakis, an athlete turned doctor turned politician who believed in peace and humanity and lost his life as a result.Costas Gavras takes us to 1963, and though Greece isn't mentioned, we are in Greece and shows us the events surrounding the death of Lambrakis -- what led up to it, and what followed it.Yves Montand and Irene Pappas took roles in this -- Montand's role is not large, as he's the murdered man. And as you'll read from lhwilliams, making this film caused him plenty of problems. Costa-Gravas himself said that Irene Pappas really couldn't be touched as she didn't care, and she wanted to be in the film. Jean-Louis Trintignant was brilliant as the Examining Magistrate, who doesn't give away his decision on whether or not to carry on with the case. He's under a great deal of pressure not to prosecute the police, who stood by and let the violence happen. You really don't know what he's going to do until the last minute. The commentary at the end of the film is sad indeed, as we see that there was just no fighting the power of the state.The murder did make a difference, at least briefly, as far as the government of Greece.A very impressive film, with some marvelous acting, that has an important message. "},{"Title":"Best Film Editing Ever/Possibly Best Political Film Ever","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I re-watched this one recently, and (as usual) I was blown away by it. Once you start watching Z it is difficult to stop. There is a what's going to happen next?! feeling that grabs hold of you close to the film's beginning and does not let up until the very end. Which is strange, in a way, because you already know what it going to happen. Z is a lot like watching a Greek tragedy---Antigone or Oedipus Rex. Or Hamlet.So, how does Z manage to stay fresh even after multiple viewings? That was the question I asked myself as I sat down to watch it again. And because I was paying attention this time, I realized that the editing in this movie is godly! Anyone who thinks that actors (or special effects or music) make the movie, should watch Z. This is no fictionalized documentary. This is poetry done in black and white that uses the visual language of documentary for additional visceral impact. And the film really is visceral. By its end, you feel that you have just watched your own country's political crisis, no matter where you are from. "},{"Title":"A powerful thriller with real-life consequences.","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Costa-Gavras's 1969 film Z, written by Jorge Semprun off a novel from Vasilis Vasilikos, is two important things. First, it's a scathing indictment of government inadequacy and police corruption, based on real events but socially relevant still in our current culture. Second, it's the evolution of the political thriller, a genre that has long been one of great adoration for me. The film details the assassination of Greek pacifist Gregoris Lambrakis (though the film takes fictional liberties and never directly names the majority of it's characters) and takes place in Europe, but coming at the end of a decade that saw the assassinations of John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King and Malcolm X, along with America being in the midst of the Vietnam War, it's themes of political mistrust and revolution are ones that were easily translated overseas.Political thrillers had been done before, including one of my personal favorite films The Manchurian Candidate, but Gavras was one of the first to take the genre, depict real events and turn the camera on the world at large and force it to take a look at itself. With a stunning mix of cinematic action sequences that had my heart racing and real-life consequences, Z set the bar for it's field to be judged by and it still remains at the very peak. The way that Gavras stages the whole thing is brilliant, constructing the pieces of this intricate plot like a symphony, making sure that he gets a note on each character while keeping the focus on the task at large. He knows where he is going to end up, but he also is fully aware of what important paths he must take in order to get there. It's an elaborate staging and one that could have easily overwhelmed it's director, but Gavras hits his marks with an unbelievable precision and authenticity that never gets too far ahead of it's viewer or leaves them cold.Everything is immaculately constructed and fully engaging. He makes sure that all of the parts are functioning properly, while simultaneously building to his ultimate goal. The first act is loaded with intensity, an uncomfortable feeling of paranoia and looming tragedy, as everyone prepares themselves for the rally to be led by Yves Montand's Lambrakis-proxy. There's a chilled, eerie feeling in the air, with several scenes of haunting, quiet tension all culminating in the rally itself which explodes with violent riots and protest, all while the police stand by and do nothing. The primary focus of the film then becomes a study of deconstructing the events that took place and figuring out who was responsible, through their actions and inaction. It's an endlessly intriguing web of trying to bring down the corrupt police and politicians, led with stern bluntness by the great Jean-Louis Trintignant, as the investigator who strives to bring the perpetrators to justice. The audience already knows what happened, so the film becomes this exploration of how it happened.Gavras wisely elects to focus on the case at hand, letting the political and societal ramifications unfold within the viewer themselves, instead of making the film become a left-wing preach of condemning the right. He doesn't focus himself on the politics of Montand's central character, but instead the corruption and indifference that plagues the government and military forces. It's a commentary and attack on the refusal to act by the people who we trust to be the ones to protect us and keep justice alive. With it's real-life themes and events, Gavras presents a biting attack on these men of power, but even without that he is able to make it an easily accessible and wildly compelling thriller. The mark of the best political thriller is one that succeeds even without it's politics. Gavras gives his audience the best of both worlds here, all building to a stunning conclusion that is bold, innovative and uncompromising in it's refusal to give us a happy ending. "},{"Title":"One of the best political thrillers","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This has got to be one of the best political thrillers ever, a true gem worthy of recommendation. The plot revolves around the somewhat unplanned killing of a slightly left wing anti-war party head at a political rally by thugs. Some say it was just an accident, others are convinced that it was a wide reaching conspiracy set in place to remove a person uncomfortable for the ruling regime. The film follows the investigation and the unraveling of the events that led up to this event. What I really like about this film is the realism and relative neutrality. Unlike so many Hollywood films, this does not depict either side as overly heroic or evil or in fact over dramatize everything. Things are shown from an observational standpoint, rather than an emotional one. Even though it is evident which side the filmmakers are on, I really liked how the motives for the other side were explained as well and not in a slapdash manner but quite honestly. The plot line is not something as far fetched as something from most Hollywood films but very down to earth and realistic. The actors do their jobs well, playing their parts realistically and what I like most- not overacting or over dramatizing their roles. The film follows several joined plot lines and thereby there are quite a few characters to follow. Costa Gavras's direction is very good. I like how he keeps the camera at a distance, allowing you to see the whole thing and get a good overview of the events that are happening (instead of trying to make it realistic and shocking by shaking the camera). The musical score by Mikis Theodorakis is very nice and quite subtle, instead of going for the full-orchestra approach. It doesn't show up too often but when its there, it serves its purpose well. An overall great film, really worth watching. "},{"Title":"intelligent and fast-paced","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Not only does this film tell a gripping true story full of compelling characters, but it makes use of an imaginative form of visual storytelling. Creative camera movements, edits, and transitions dazzle the viewer. And yet, every cinematic trick serves to call attention not to itself, but to the story. And the story, well-written and well-acted, is involving and completely believable. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film is made even more powerful by the knowledge that it really happened.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  A leader of a left wing party is fatally injured at a rally. The right wing national police want to call it an accident, but an impartial, incorruptible investigator keeps finding new evidence. An overly arrogant administration doesn't seem to think there is a need to really try very hard in its cover-up and pretty soon the sparks start to fly. All of this eventually leads to one of the most chilling conclusions in the history of cinema.In order to truly appreciate this film, you don't really need to know anything about the Greek military junta of the 1960s, you just need to know that it happened very much in the way shown in this film. In particular, you have to know that the ending is not fiction.Even without this knowledge, this is a very interesting and well done political thriller. It is meant to resemble a fairly straightforward documentary, but the clever pacing, occasional montage, and liberal use of continuous cuts from one scene to the next demonstrates that there is a great deal more complexity than meets the eye. Some of the opening sequences and a substantial portion of the middle of the film seem a bit clumsy, but this eventually gives way to a wonderfully drawn out crescendo that leads up to that powerful ending. "},{"Title":"He is Alive!","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z is one of top crop of the truly incisive, daring and most cinematically successful conspiracy/political thrillers. It is this because of its attention, lucidly surprisingly given its often non-linear structure, to its plot filled with many strands and possible loose ends, and because its director Costa-Gavras injects the story (told deliberately on true events, apparently from recent Greek history) with a taut, exciting and efficient post-modern aesthetic. There is very little time to breathe; one wonders if we might cry at the end not simply because hope seems to be all but lost but because of its breathless attitude and pacing. There's life here, and it's being crushed bit by bit.And, contrary to some criticism, it is not just some piece for liberals or socialist scum as one IMDb reviewer wrote (half) jokingly. On the contrary the story- an investigation into the assassination of a prominent figure of peace, the Deputy as he's called played by Yves Montand, and how a prosecutor (Perier) and a photo-journalist are the only halfway decent and/or objective ones to sort out the bottom-to-top corruption- is essentially about speaking truth to power in an unjust society. What power, perhaps, is part of the conundrum in this case. Even the top brass attorney general doesn't buy the ultimate sum of the facts tallied by the prosecutor at the end, bringing to the bittersweet (more-so on bitter) end of the tale.Gavras' film is loaded with dialog and inquiry, scenes of tense intimidation and harrowing and jerky inquiry, and the usual set-pieces of action and suspense for a work like this that relies on sometimes documentary approach. The latter of these isn't too frequent, but two prominent sequences (a nasty fight in the back of a pivotal pick-up truck, and a chase by car after a witness) are extraordinary in frenetic energy, cinematography and (strange and cool) music score. The acting is also spot on, from the poker-faced prosecutor to the stalwart General to the dedicated photo-journalist with sneaky tendencies (we don't know for sure if he's legit at first sneaking on on Deputy's grieving widow), and all these fellows in between like a simple non-partisan soccer fan witness, not to mention the deputy's widow herself.Everything just about clicks in Z, and most frightening of all, there's still a feeling of relevancy nearly 40 years later. It's not simply the conspiracy-plot stuff, as we've seen that either in crazier modes (Winter Kills) or in more ambitious Hollywood skewering and prodding (JFK). It's the direct-hit of how everything seems to seem fishy, from the government to the military to the police to just the common grocer or barber, and all having to do with one political siding or another or some gleaming on to power. It's in part a big product of its period- aside from being a true story cleverly without direct names and spoken in French instead of Greek it must have been really potent during the rallies and riots in America and elsewhere in Europe- and in part just purely amazing film-making that dazzles with its story and doesn't let up in keeping us attentive to the horrors at hand. "},{"Title":"A Dynamite Political Thriller","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This feisty political thriller from director Costa-Gavras should feel eerily prescient to American audiences of today, whose government is trying to convince them that anyone critical of our country's military actions is an unpatriotic subversive.Z was filmed in Algeria with a largely French cast, but it's clearly about Greece and the enforced police state its people lived under from the end of WWII into the 1960s. This film made me feel incredibly ignorant about Greek history, and somewhat naive as well for not realizing that a country that I've always thought to be a cradle for democracy could have so recently harbored a totalitarian regime. The action of the film centers around the assassination of a Greek official who is leading a ground swell of support for a democratic, peaceful government, and the subsequent investigation of his death that leads to the indictment of the military leaders behind it. Costa-Gavras sets a breathless pace, and the screenplay doesn't so much follow one central storyline as it does many strands of different stories that converge at one single point. The style of the movie mimics the restless sense of injustice and anger that pervades its narrative; the camera never seems content to sit in one place for too long, and it chases after one character only to become distracted and take off after another one. But the film is never confusing or convoluted. It's a firecracker of a movie that manages to both enrage and entertain.Grade A "},{"Title":"how much of truth . what a dynamic plot","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I was very surprised about this film. I've seen it on TV in 2005. This Film was worth an Oscar decoration.The actors believed on what the story was about. Their excellent play and the subliminal expression created an ambitious entertainment.Sometimes the ideological winners seemed to be too much the intellectual side,overreaching the proletarian approach, supporting the Regime.Nevertheless this film is very actual in its message.All the time it is obvious, that this is a french film. All the legendary actors, e.g. Yves Montand and Jean-Louis Trintignant, were at their acme of narrating. "},{"Title":"Memorable Film In Newly Restored DVD Edition","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Although it is seldom seen today, in 1970 Constantin Costa-Gavras' Z picked up both the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Picture and an Academy Award as Best Foreign Film. In the wake of the John and Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King assassinations of the 1960s and fueled by the later Watergate scandal, the film had tremendous resonance with American audiences, becoming one of the highest grossing foreign language films ever released in that market.Based on the novel by Vassilis Vassilikos, which was itself based on the 1966 Lambrakis Affair in Greece, Z is at once a political thriller and satire. Set in an unnamed nation, it presents a politician who is strongly critical of American and Russian nuclear build up and his nation's participation in it. Denounced by the status quo as a communist, he is met with civic obstruction when he arrives to give a speech and afterward is struck down and killed by a speeding truck in the streets. A drunk driving accident, according to local officials. An assassination, according to his entourage.Although the film has a somewhat slow and uncertain build, once fully underway it becomes a rapid-fire series of sharply edited scenes in which the sloppy assassination plot is unraveled by a dispassionate magistrate sent to conduct an investigation--an investigation plagued by assaults on witnesses and civic cover-up. But in such a corrupt society, can the full truth ever be known? Director Costa-Gavras walks a very fine line here, presenting the characters as archetypes but endowing them yet endowing with enough human emotion to engage our interests and sympathies. And the cast is remarkable, with Yves Montond, Irene Papas, and Jean-Louis Trintignant particularly notable. The script is at once chilling and covertly comic, jeering at officialdom around the corners of its more serious business, and the overall look of the film--particularly in the violent crowd scenes--is truly memorable.The film has been restored to a pristine condition in its original widescreen and the DVD offers a number of language subtitles (including English) in easy-to-read yellow script. Bonus features are slight, but include the original trailer, samples of restoration work, and an extremely interesting conversation between novelist Vassilikos and director Costa-Gavras. Consta-Gravas also offers an audio-commentary--in French, which will be frustrating for those who (like me) do not speak the language.Although some viewers may not even notice the satirical tone of the film, and while some will be put off by its distinctly liberal slant, I think most viewers--including those who don't normally care for foreign film--will find Z a fascinating ride, particularly if they enjoyed the likes of JFK or THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE. Time may have dimmed the origins of the piece, but sadly the subject of governmental corruption and the mendacity of powerbrokers remains as timely as ever.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"Courageous","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSCosta-Gavras finest film without question; here his militantly political stance comes across cleanly and without sanctimony.  I am not an enthusiastic fan of all his work, and was somewhat disappointed with Missing.  'Z', on the other hand, is fueled by a totally convincing paranoia which both engulfs the viewer and, cruelly, engenders a kind of desperate hope that everything will be all right in the end, which it is not.  Unlike in Missing, where Jack Lemmon's final speech seems designed to appease the outraged viewer (and mollify the director himself?), Z's finale is devastatingly dispassioned; the forces of tyranny have carried the day as justice, truth and socialist transformation are vanquished.  In this sense, Z is essentially an act of witness; one of Costa Gavras considerable strengths is his ability, or willingness, to show his heroes lose, to show justice frustrated, to suggest that when the odds are stacked against one, one tends to fail.  So many films, even some good ones (such as The Milagro Beanfield War, which the IMDb amusingly classifies under 'fantasy') show us the little man or woman battling apparently insurmountable odds and winning, and there is a place, I think, for these feel good films.  But it takes a great deal more courage to make a film like Z... One of the 40 greatest films ever made. "},{"Title":"Be Patient and You Might be Impressed","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  When this movie opened it didn't catch my interest right away.  It seemed like a seminar on plants until on the screen appeared the apparent warning  Any similarity to actual persons or events is deliberate.  It takes a little to get going, but after a certain point this movie never ceases to stop and is constantly moving forward.  It might be the only movie where everyone plays an equal part and no one takes up the screen any longer than the rest.  Looking back it really is a fascinating study and it could have been edited together in many different ways that were equally as interesting.  This film really didn't blow me away though until the summation at the end.  In my opinion that's what made it great without it the ending would have been acceptable, but not spectacular. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is a great movie. I have watched this movie a few times and have enjoyed it on each viewing. it tells the story of the return of a progressive politician to a totalitarian state with a corrupt police force. His return is to deliver a speech in the lead up to general elections. The movie shows the steps which the government and the police will go to try and firstly stop him from delivering a speech and secondly from trying to silence him permanently.The main reason I like this movie is because the characters are so well developed and original. There are no clichés in this movie when it comes to any of the characters. Even somewhat minor characters have strange little personality traits, which distinguish them from the run of the mill supporting cast. For example, the witness who decides to come forward to the police turns out to be quite a complex character when one discovers his motivations are coming forward.The only person that seems a bit wasted in this movie is Irene Papas , who virtually says nothing through the whole movie. Indeed she does little more than make a succession of intense facial expressions throughout the movie. Despite the heavy themes that this movie is seeking to explore, there is also quite a lot of humour. I particularly liked the scenes which showed the desperate attempts by a succession of police officers attempting to escape the media through a locked door. "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is a truly exceptional and special movie, in about every way imaginable.The style, the story, the acting, the directing approach by Costa-Gavras and way of storytelling. It's all what makes this movie a great watch and perhaps also atypical for a French production, of its time.The overall style of the movie is what you could describe as a typical '70's style. The same goes for its approach and way of storytelling. The thing that we now consider to be a typical '70's style is a style that already started first out in the late '60's, which this movie is also a part of. It's a political movie, which might sound very boring to some but trust me, this is a far from boring movie. It's far too fast going and captivating for that. The entire movie also feels so extremely realistic, that it made me wonder if it got based on true events, which actually turned out to be the case. It's based on a Greek incident, were a democratic politician got attacked and murdered, by right-wing extremists, after giving an anti-war speech. The same thing happens in this movie and is what the entire movie is centered around.The movie doesn't necessarily have one main character, which was an interesting and unusual choice, that however worked out very well for the movie, as it turned out. Instead of just following one character, it follows a whole bunch of them, each involved with the incident. The one is trying to investigate, the other is trying to cover it up, while another is trying to avoid getting caught and another and simply suffering from the consequences of the incident. It shows the events leading up to the incident and afterward, from many different angles, which gives the movie of course a lot of depth and multiple layers and is also part of the reason why this movie gets such a great and intriguing one to watch.Something that is also really worth mentioning and helps to make the movie, is its musical score by Mikis Theodorakis!An absolute must-see, at the very least for every movie lover!9/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"There's A Reason Why It Was Nominated For Best Picture......","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I am not sure why I decided to watch Costa-Gavras's Z, but I am extremely glad I did. When I saw the film I did not realize it was based on a true story. I just enjoyed the movie. But then I heard the back story, and began to appreciate the movie even more.It's about a left-wing politician, who's murdered by the opposing government because they don't like what he stands for. The investigation that follows is the real heart of the movie. Slowly the murder begins to unravel, into something that make's Watergate look small.Even if you don't know the back story, this is still a heck of a movie. Once it starts, it never stops. I mean that in the best way possible. You're drawn into a world of lies and conspiracy, and not once do you come up for air. If you like a good thriller, this is for you. This film has been almost forgotten, after decades since it's original release. But it shouldn't be, Z is an amazing movie, and everyone who likes a good movie will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"All-time best of its genre","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This novelistic reconstruction of a real incident in post-WWII Greece was Costa-Gavras' s greatest achievement. The military plot to kill the doctor (Yves Montand in one of his best film roles) is laid out precisely, mostly during an investigation by a brave young prosecutor (Jean-LouisTrintignant) who, despite personal right-wing leanings, carefully and cleverly exposes the central role of the police and the military in Z's assassination. Irene Papas, the only Greek actor in the film, plays the doctor's wife, and there's a very long scene in her hotel room after she knows that her husband is dead in which Papas displays the wife's intense emotions mostly without a word being spoken. Papas was a marvelous actress but this may have been her finest moment on the screen.Other key roles are taken by Jacques Perrin as a photographic journalist investigating the killing, Charles Denner as a close associate of the doctor's and several of France's leading character actors as policemen, generals and thugs. There's scarcely a false note in the entire production. While Z was greeted as left-wing propaganda by some critics, the novel on which it was based was subsequently vindicated as an honest version of a difficult period in Greek history. It's an interesting side note that the real-life prosecutor on whom Trintignant's character was based was subsequently chosen as Greece's president following a period of years in which a military junta ruled.These events took place at a critical point in the Cold War after the initiation of the Truman Doctrine when the U.S. was supporting the anti-Communists and the real Z and his supporters were agitating against U.S. intervention. Passions of the period conditioned the critical response to the Costa-Gavras film, diminishing it in the eyes of some, elevating it in the eyes of others. Now that those passions have cooled, it's possible to appreciate the greatness of this movie without considering the political leanings of any of the participants. Of its type, Z has no equal. "},{"Title":"Right up to date","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this film a long time ago, but had a chance to record it earlier and watched it today. I was stunned. It was almost like I had been watching Egypt on CNN and changed channels to MSNBC. I felt I hadn't missed a beat. This was almost documentary in style. It was real. The bad guys were bad. Some were naturally bad and some were forced to be bad. Just as in Egypt, the government had goon squads. This was a free country where people are allowed to gather and protest, except that for all sorts of improbable reasons, no one would rent them a hall for their meeting. The police, just as in Cairo, stood gathered about but did next to nothing, especially when the goon squads arrived. The chief of police somehow failed to get the warning that an attempt was to be made upon the life of the doctor who was presiding. It's amazing how much this story parallels the uprising in Egypt today. Unfortunately I imagine we'll always have democratic dictators ruling democratic countries with iron fists. "},{"Title":"Influential political thriller","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Before Oliver Stone there was Costa Gavras, another left leaning director who made his name directing politically charged thrillers. Released in 1969, Z is based on the 1963 murder of opposition party deputy leader Gregorios Lambrakis, an event which led to the military overthrowing the democracy in Greece.With its unusual structure, flashbacks, editing tricks, freeze frames and countless sequences dwelling on paper trails, telephone calls, cover-ups, oral and written reports, legal data etc, the film would have a huge effect on Hollywood's 70s political thrillers (All the President's Men, Parallax View, The Day of The Jackal, Marathon Man etc). Today, some will rightfully view Gavras' style and narrative structure as being a bit tame, but back then, this was dynamite.8/10 - Gavras would go on to make many better films, but none as influential as Z. The film's first act may confuse some, but those willing to trawl through the deluge of information will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"Best Political Intrigue -resonates with 2014 concerns","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" You can get the synopsis and summary, and a lot of good reviews here in IMDb... For someone unfamiliar with Z - this is perhaps the best political intrigue film ever done. Taut, fast moving, exciting... It is a period piece in that it celebrates the height of the image of the investigative photographer as a romantic figure, with a serious role to play. Trintignant portrays the honorable civil servant as an even more unlikely hero in the present- respecting the law and enforcing it in the face of intimidation.As far as its relevance in 2014 Don't get hung up on the fact that it mirrors real life events from the 60's. Think about the concerns today about who has the power, what personal information is available to governments - even the US - and government-contracted - intelligence experts. Consider, too, how public opinion is manipulated. Finally consider how much of this process is conducted out of sight of the press or public. Chilling. "},{"Title":"Z is a landmark and masterpiece of political thrillers","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z is a powerful,intense,realistic and compelling political thriller which tells the real story of assassination of an leftist political leader,the conspiracy behind his assassination, its investigation and at the end aftermath of the events.in fact i am not aware with the history of the Greece much,but i like political thriller very much,but this movie was very different from others in many ways.instead of being based on real story and without any dramatic twists ,the movie was thoroughly entertaining. the first one hour of the movie doesn't reveal too much,you have to wait until second half to get some real action when investigation begins and then movie became really interesting.the movie was filmed in a very stylish way without loosing its realistic feel. the best achievement of the movie was its editing,the very fine and shortly edited scene to jump to flashback for short time leaves great effect on audience.scenes in which character revealing important past events the scene jumped to the that event very finely that audience doesn't feel any change and also with the sound of the character as narrator all this things give a very stylish feel to the movie and bind the audience deeply inside the story of movie.another great thing was cinematography,the long duration shots are not shooted from a one place for long time but they always move the camera around the characters without editing,giving audience a very detailed and close view of that event.the very fine and small details are also get captured which makes audience more relative to the event. this type of film technique are not used by Hollywood and Asian cinemas,only martin Scorsese use this type of cinematography and editing.script was also very balanced,very realistic and gives description of true events but also doesn't lack intensity and interest as they also added some funny characters and some thrilling scenes of chasing.the pace of the movie throughout was same but not cold and doesn't felt us bored.you can watch this movie even you are unknown with the history and importance of events that happened in movies because this movie will totally be a new experience for you because of its stylish presentation. "}{"Title":"Everybody Knows","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" At one point in this impressive and daring masterpiece of Costa-Gavras (just last night I finally saw with Z my very first film from this director but I have already on DVD his Missing and his Betrayed. I will watch them as soon as possible), better said almost at the very end of this impressive masterpiece of Costa-Gavras (of course the masterpiece thing was said correctly) we have like a partial victory. One of the characters, of the ones we were with during the entire film, feels the partial victory (they're all indicted, even the general. The judge didn't back down) and overreacts, thinking that from that moment everything was going to change, it's a real revolution, the government will fall and extremists will be wiped out. Election will be a landslide. The issue here is that this character really doesn't overreacts since he just witnessed that justice really exists, that there is still the enough courage in some people to say the truth. Before going on in order to write that after all this character's reaction will be seen as an overreaction or as a moment in which this character saw the world as a place out of the perfect fairy tale I will write a couple of more things. First, who is that mentioned character? Well he is one of the closest persons of the doctor (a deputy played by Yves Montand) and that means he is part of the opposition, that means he will be part of the pacifist meeting that will be the place of a tragedy, of acts of violence. This character I'm writing about is not, on the contrary of what you may be thinking fellow reader, a character that appears a lot in the film. Z is a film that creates lots of possibilities for subplots, for instance we have one character that is a journalist (and that is played in a really superb way by Jacques Perrin) and is a classic situation this guy is covering the pacifist meeting because of his colleague, he is there sort of wanting to be in other place (more specific to be covering a big play), not really caring about the stuff that's going on (there are many persons there that are not quite supporting the doctor and his people) but he will witness in flesh and blood the abuse, the power of those that just follow orders, of those that see as the enemy the people like the doctor. Like I said, this is like a classic situation so of course this journalist will be more interested, he will want to know the truth behind the accident that by the end of the night leaved the doctor at a hospital with a not very positive diagnostic. What I loved about this is that this journalist goes on with his typical story but we see him not as much as we may have thought we were going to, there is not unnecessary storytelling. And the film is rich of minor but nevertheless very important characters that deliver truly impressive moments (the acting is truly top-notch), take the doctor's wife (I loved that scene with her not listening at all the things the guilty ones tell her just for commitment as well as the use of flashbacks), the mentioned journalist, the witness that loves football and that wants to see his face on the paper or the man who did the very last stage of the big job, all of them are nothing less than fascinating to watch. The film takes just the perfect and no more time for all of its, fascinating, characters. Jean-Louis Trintignant plays the examining magistrate. He is like the main character of the film, the sort of neutral one just doing his job as good as possible. But we will have the point where the magistrate will be seen as part of the opposition, for the fairest reasons, I mean is still the magistrate doing his job as good as possible but nevertheless starting to be more than just a little menace for the ones with real power, for the ones that ban things. The magistrate is the representation of courage, it should, it should be seen as a normal thing but due to the certain circumstances what the magistrate do is seen as a real act of bravery and of course is an act to celebrate, is the beginning of the end for some that of course deserves that end, it's all ready, everybody knows the good guys won, only better things will come but...An important piece of film you really must see. 10 out of 10... IL EST VIVANT "},{"Title":"Must-See","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z I'm amazed this film is not as popular as it should be! It was NOMINATED FOR 5 Oscars!!! I watched it on TV the other day, and I was like wow, this movie is good, why have I never heard of it? So then I looked it up and found out about the Oscars, and I was not surprised. Everyone should see this film! It is about corruption in politics, and it says everything that most films that focus on Military dictatorships, etc., as a subject should say. The ending is brilliant (I won't spoil it for you). There's a certain energy to the film that is relentless &#150; it starts off strong, and stays that way throughout, never letting go. It's an old film, but more thrilling that any of these modern thrillers coming out these days. I will have to see more films by the director &#150; he is very talented, and I see that he was also very influential as a filmmaker during the art-house golden age. But this film is less an art-house piece, and more like an amazing mainstream film! "},{"Title":"Dense and fast moving political thriller","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z is a story of the assassination, the investigation and repercussions of a politician in 1963. It is based on the book of the same name, and though it doesn't mention Greece or Gregoris Lambrakis, refers to real life events.Z is a really dense film in that a lot of action, emotion, dialog, ideology and intrigue are presented in a rapid pace so that the viewer is constantly bombarded by the whole effect of the film.The style of filming certainly seems to fit the type of film and its story very well and I found it quite interesting visually. The acting is passable, and the director has managed to handle the large numbers of characters well so that it doesn't get confusing.Overall, this was an interesting film and one worth watching. I don't regret seeing it at all, though it isn't one that I am likely to watch repeatedly. "},{"Title":"Political thriller par excellence","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" My standard for movies is pretty simple. If I walk out of the film and say to myself I wish I could make a movie like that. There are several films that have had that effect on me, Lone Star, Harold and Maude. This was the first film I saw that made me admire the craft of film. It is so engaging that non-French speakers won't even notice that they are reading subtitles. Costa-Gravas made a big impact by killing off one of the major stars early in the film. My one regret is that I no longer have the vinyl LP of the soundtrack for this. The music adds to the suspense. The march sequence when the conspirators are charged is particularly moving. "},{"Title":"Captivating, especially for lovers of Modern Greek History","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Z talks about the last hours of Gregory Lambrakis, the  politician of the EDA leftist party during the '60s. After the 4-year civil war between the nationalists and the communists, the politics in Greece undergo a massive anti-communist movement. Lambrakis considered to be one of the few politician talking about peace and dissarmement of the country, motiving large number of people to support his movement. However, the the controlled police force and the growing parastate will not allow him to continue talk his truth for long. During a party convention in Thessaloniki, Lambrakis being assasinated by a couple of extremists in a way that even movie directors cant imagine of....... "},{"Title":"A truly unforgettable film","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this in the theater when it first came out and I was a young teenager. Scenes from the film are still with me; it is one of the most moving and dramatic films I have seen, and probably had some influence on my political philosophy as I grew up.Z is a highly-intense film, not for lightweight entertainment, but is one I highly recommend.  As I understand it, the film is based on a true incident during the Greek revolution of the Generals.  As a film must be, it is clearly slanted (in this case, toward the liberal side).  Who is to say what is truth at this point?  Z will cause you to think about the questions raised and is also an exciting suspense and action film. "},{"Title":"Pulsating, compelling and moral thriller","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the all-time greats, without a doubt. Just as the regime of the colonels in Greece, which is the real-life foundation of the story, was the precursor to impudent right-wing government cover-ups, so this film is the precursor of films like The Parallax View and All the President's Men. While Montand has the stature to play the assassinated political leader, Perrin the puppydog energy to ineffectually crack the conspiracy open, and Trintignant the cool to see justice effected, what really sets the film apart is Costa-Gavras's re-telling of the central incident through flashbacks, his canvassing of different versions given by witnesses, and above all the incessantly building pace. "},{"Title":"Inside the jaws of totalitarism","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Travel in a country where extremist militias and police become confused, where the freedom of opponents and the respect of the words democracy, justice, is only an appearance.. Let's see how such a dictatorship can commit crimes with complete impunity.One of the best films of Costa-Gavras, enhanced by the charisma of Yves Montand and Jean-Louis Trintignant and the performance of Jacques Perrin, and from the entire cast. "},{"Title":"Correction","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  Z, like Battle of Algiers and Medium Cool is not a documentary.  Z is a realistic re-creation, but is performed by actors playing roles; i.e. Yves Montand, Irene Papas in Z, Jean Martin in Battle of Algiers, Verna Bloom in Medium Cool.  Other than that Z is an excellent movie by an excellent filmaker. "},{"Title":"Defiant, and still powerful","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" The credits of Z end with an anti-disclaimer Any resemblance to real persons or events is DELIBERATE. So, though the characters in the movie speak French and live in an unnamed Mediterranean country, it's only a slightly fictionalized account of something that really happened in 1963 Greece. Conservative generals orchestrate the assassination of a popular liberal politician (Yves Montand), then do everything they can to stop the truth of the conspiracy from coming to light.Jean-Louis Trintignant plays the judge investigating the incident. He's a youngish guy, maybe a little inexperienced, but steadily gaining in confidence and determination to uncover the conspiracy. Marcel Bozzuffi gives a memorably vicious performance as one of the hoodlums who assassinates the Deputy. Z isn't really about its characters as individual people, though--more about how they operate in the context of the political systems surrounding them.Most of Z is filmed in engaging political-thriller style, with some tense action sequences and a driving, rhythmic score. But the ending is especially powerful because it reverses everything that happened so far, relating the worst possible outcome in a detached, journalistic tone. Yet a world of anger and defiance underlies these final moments.Certainly, it was a brave act to make Z in the late 1960s, and several of the film's crew were exiled from Greece when they made it. In some ways, the movie is very much of its era it must have resonated with Americans who had seen several assassinations in the 1960s and with French people who had lived through the riots of May 1968.But what interests me is that a surprisingly high number, 10 percent, of IMDb users have given Z just one star. If a movie has a lot of 1-star ratings yet is generally considered well-made (like Z), this suggests that it is controversial, that it still frightens people, that its message is too hard to take. But despite all those 1-star ratings, Z won't just shut up and go away. As long as corrupt governments exist, this movie's message will remain alive. After all...that's what Z means. "}{"Title":"Exceptional","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Following the murder of a prominent leftist, an investigator tries to uncover the truth while government officials attempt to cover up their roles.The film presents a thinly fictionalized account of the events surrounding the assassination of democratic Greek politician Grigoris Lambrakis in 1963. With its satirical view of Greek politics, its dark sense of humor, and its downbeat ending, the film captures the outrage about the military dictatorship that ruled Greece at the time of its making.Ebert spoke passionately about the film, saying, It will make you weep and will make you angry. It will tear your guts out. And that is really what makes the film great. It spoke of the darker things going on in the late 1960s. A time of love and protest, yes, but also a time where political upheaval sometimes came with a violent price. "},{"Title":"Costa-Gavras' Blistering Political Thriller Still Packs a Wallop!","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Almost 5 decades later, 'Z', Costa-Gavras' glimpse into the machinations of political violence, intolerance, willful ignorance, and systemic oppression has lost none of its urgent relevance. It continues to remain a one-of-a-kind political thriller, where the 'political' takes precedence over the 'thriller' but still never loses its grip on the audience.Based on tumultuous, barely-disguised events (the opening caption brazenly trumpets Any resemblance to real events, to persons living or dead, is not accidental. It is DELIBERATE) involving the murder of leftist politician Grigoris Lambrakis in early 1960s Greece, Z galvanized audiences worldwide. The story here however, unfolds in an unnamed country where the power is in the hands of a military dictatorship. The government though officially a democracy, has become infected by fascist ideals. The government secretly uses right-wing hooligans to stir up trouble and eliminate 'enemies of the state'. This has led to the so-called political slippery slope whose end point can be anything from fascism to a dictatorship. A pacifist firebrand, Zei (Yves Montand), arrives from abroad to lead a peace rally, provoking a riot and an assassination. In the aftermath of this unrest, a young judge (Jean-Louis Trintignant) is appointed by the state to hear the assassins' case, with the assumption that he'll buckle under pressure from the regime (especially the General played by Pierre Dux who clearly played a role in the assassination), to make Zei's death look like an accident. Instead, the judge is unexpectedly resolute about finding out the truth and slowly amasses evidence that proves otherwise. The flames are further fanned by an enterprising journalist (played by Jacques Perrin) who knows a good story and is able to identify many of the accomplices. Z is disquieting not only because the events actually happened, but because we sense they could happen again, closer to home. Using the investigation as the film's narrative backbone, Costa-Gavras takes us through the dizzying - at times infuriating, at times almost surreal - process of ferreting out the truth in a politically charged cover-up that, despite its historical specificity, is a powerful celluloid indictment of the general abuse of power that comes under any form of fascism. A treatise on politics that's also a tightly woven pulp thriller, with lissome, restless camera-work, staccato editing and a zither-driven score, Z makes political intelligence seem swankier than a tuxedo. Z is a thrilling, compelling run through with vivid supporting characters and narrative twists and turns that have the dramatic punch of fiction even when based on real events. In its slick cinematic urgency and its outrage, Z still has the power to shake you up. "},{"Title":"intense crowd scenes and compelling political drama","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" The country is under the control of a right-wing militaristic government. Deputy (Yves Montand) leads a peace rally to end militarism, nuclear weapons and foreign alliances. The rally is opposed by an angry mob while the police stands by. Another deputy is brutally attacked by a gang of pro-military thugs after being mistaken for the leader. The leader is later mortally wounded by the same thugs. The police and the military attempt to hide the evidence and slam the opposition. A magistrate is brought in to investigate the case. He's misled and pressured by the powerful. The thugs try to hide. Nevertheless the magistrate doggedly follow the evidence.The start is a little slow as it paints the picture of the country. Then fifteen minutes in, the movie hits like a club to the head. The government thugs are seething with anger. The thugs are played to the sleaziest ugliest depths. That crowd is filled with a threatening sense of dread that is all too real. The whole incident crashes and boils uncontrollably. The investigation afterwards is compelling. There are some ups and downs. The style does have some slower moments. However it also has great insightful moments. Those moments are all the more compelling coming during that turbulent year. "},{"Title":"Essential","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is a film that's both great and important. Never have I given any picture a full 10 stars before. Not to Godard films, not to Bergman's although they're undeniably genius/ Z is something else - it's not only dramatic, it's so true. Politics bore me but this picture is extremely moving. Watch this film, you may learn something very relevant to your life from it. This picture alone is worth the entire works of some mediocre filmmakers of today. It's lost none of it's relevance or bitter irony since the 60's. Z was my first Costa - Gavras experience. I shall certainly seek out more of his films after such a wonderful introduction. Might check more Greek films in general, too. "},{"Title":"Realistic, first-rate political assassination and government cover-up thriller","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Multiple Oscar winner, this is a fantastic political action drama about the efforts of a muck-raking journalist and a seemingly weak bureaucrat to get at the truth behind a major political assassination; major precursor of films like The Parallax View and All the President's Men, showing the far-reaching consequences of a government cover-up. This is one of the best known French (though it was made in Algeria by a Greek director) films of the late 60s, and the first foreign language film ever nominated for a best picture Oscar the same year it was made, which exposed a much larger audience to the Greek military junta at the time, when it otherwise might have gone relatively unnoticed by a world so focused on the Vietnam War and the impact it was having domestically in the U.S. and politically around the globe. "},{"Title":"Well-Intentioned","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this when it was first released in the US and wanted to see how much I remembered (not much!). My reaction this time positive but tempered. It's politically correct and perhaps the most valuable thing about it is its youthful energy and idealism. It's very much of its time. My favorite element is the music which is pop and contemporary but also very Greek. Also, the character played by Trintignant-- obviously central to the film-- keeps us wondering which side he's on. That's welcome because everyone else is good or bad, i.e., boring. One of the 2 main villains is a gay pederast. I don't mind gay villains now and then, but was startled by the gratuitously mean way it was handled. Political correctness has changed a bit. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest political films of our time","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I won't add anything regarding the films story as loads of other reviewers have done a better job than I could.All I will say is this film to me is designed like a funnel From the start you have intense threads of action and discussion/consequences that slowly gather together and compress until the film is focused, charging towards the finish.Acting is fantastic - this film has a nervous energy and authenticity that is hard to match.When you watch it you realize you are not only seeing a great film, but also reliving an important slice of history. "},{"Title":"Infuriating political masterpiece ...","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z opens with an amazing statement from the writers Jorge Semprun and Costa-Gavras any similarity with real events, dead or living persons, is not fortuitous, it is deliberate. Indeed, more than a gauzy fictionalized dramatization of the events that surrounded the assassination of a political activist in Greece in 1963, Z is a powerful denunciation. Though most of us are not familiar with these events, it hardly matters because the film is beyond any geopolitical consideration, although the military officers' opening speech leaves a bizarre taste. And since only justice can be the measure of a good society, it's appropriate that the film's main protagonist is a magistrate. Jean-Louis Trintignant, behind his horn-rimmed glasses and zombie-like strictness, incarnates a legitimate form of authority, because only a zealous judge can carry the hopes of a population eager to see one of his most admirable heroes be avenged, Yves Montand, a physician, an ex-athlete and the major opponent to the country's right-wing military-dominated government. The ill-fated deputy is killed twice first by a club hit on his head after a chaotic meeting, the second time by the corrupted system that concluded to a hazardous accident. Meaning 'he lives' in ancient Greek, Z becomes the protest slogan following his death, as his spirit, courage and hopes for the country still inhabited the hearts of his supporters. And served by a dizzying editing, the film deconstruct the conspiracy lying behind the murder. Preventing the meeting from being held, bribing some thugs to razz the supporters, the heads of state all conveniently attend an opera event while the assassination takes place, as a perfect alibi. In the the middle of a populous fizz, the Deputy is surprised by the arrival of an azure delivery-truck zigzagging as driven by a 'drunken' man, Yago (Renato Salvtaori), while Vago gives the lethal shot. Marcel Bozuffi, the brutal hit-man from The French Connection, incarnates, through his cunning grin, the system's evil craziness. And on their sides, his bosses, from the General (Pierre Dux) to the Chief of Security (Julien Giuomar), and the tacit complicity of a smooth-talking François Périer as the Public Prosecutor, spare no efforts to silence the witnesses, and raze the traces of conspiracy. But the magistrate can also count a young photojournalist, played by Jacques Perrin, who seizes the opportunity to get through the infuriating procedural maze. Z carries the mark of a great political thriller, with a score from Mikis Theodorakis that brilliantly conveys the quest for democratic light in the tyrannic haze. But each country has a Z, a shameful secret of state. The sight of Montand holding his head after being hit is the ultimate representation of disbelief and a desperate pray for the nightmare to end. But the nightmare only begins through the cat-and-mouse chase while the road to truth is paved by hints, false declarations or too conveniently similar statements. Yet unless the conspiracy is proved, the magistrate still refers to it as an 'accident', which makes even more significant the pivotal slip of tongue when he inadvertently refers to the act as a 'murder', entering at this point a very dangerous zone. We know we're coming close to a happy ending, and it's almost a blessing not to be familiar with the real events, because it makes the conclusion even more impacting.The irony of Z is to be much more cinematically efficient for foreigners, hence the film's universal acclaim, Golden Palm, Oscar for Best Foreign picture, nomination for Best Picture, most acclaimed French movie. No one can expect the ending, after the whole climactic sequence with the grizzly officers finally being interrogated in an almost zany way. Their triumph, the way they razed all the efforts, is as upsetting as the previous five minutes were zesty and enthralling. When Irene Papas, the Deputy's widow, is told about the victory but she looks at the sea, wondering if it isn't too good to be true, somewhat, her face betrays the look of a real Greek woman who knows what happened, and when the image of the young journalist freezes, the following monologue is the last smack in our faces before the score fills our heats with puzzlement and anger. Still, beyond the shock, we can relate to it, because as foreigners, Z reveals our own country's ugly side, like JFK did to Americans with the Kennedy's assassination, except that Z is a gutsy as if JFK was made in the 60's. Theodorakis was imprisoned at Z release; that tells you how the film was still impregnated by the cruel reality it denounces.Z is about the zero level of governments, political practice at its most abject, at its most cynical, where it's better to blame the Americans, the systems in -isms, where the leaders have control on the slightest elements and treat education like plantation, oozing the most disgusting signs of fascism&#x85;. where the general, magnificently played by Pierre Dux, shouts that he can't compare himself to Dreyfus because Dreyfus was guilty, a line so amoral it's better to take it with laughs.Z is the dazing and dazzling recollection of such notions taken for granted as freedom, truth and justice, disguised in a thrilling political jigsaw puzzle; Z is a rally cry full of hopes and anger, Z is probably the only iconic title of movie history, speaking so many universal verities behind a simple letter.It is also the most significant political film ever made. "},{"Title":"'Z'eal!","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" If there's a genre 'Political Thriller', this movie has to be at the top of the list. It's a well-written and brilliantly directed film that brought the events that happened in a right-wing regimen in Greece(which is implied). A sincere judge unfolds the mystery of an assassinated Leftist by painstakingly gathering the details of the accident with the help of a budding reporter. I am surprised the movie didn't win the 'Best Adapted Screenplay', if not the 'Best Picture', which it totally deserves. And a kudos to the quintessential editing.I am neither a student of Politics nor History, but i know an awesome movie when i watch one. This is that 'One'. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" One of my favorite movies ever made . i am no left winger, although I do not agree with what the military junta as depicted in the film, I understand this is a sad reaction to the tragic results of the Greek civil war decades before when the Soviet backed communists committed terrible atrocities. see Eleni 1985 with john Malkovich, in my view the communists are responsible at least in part for the dictatorship or dictatorship like government in Greece at the time.the only problem with the movie I guess is that it is one-sided , but I can forgive this because it's so entertaining! the last time I rented the DVD it was a restored version and it looked great. "}{"Title":"z (1969)","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" An important film in terms of technical ability, storytelling, and it's message. Z deals with the assassination of a political figure, and an alleged cover-up that may run deep into crevices of the government and establishment. Z manages to tell a complex story, but keeps us engaged with the characters by building upon them as the plot unfolds. One fascinating technique, has silent flashes from character's pasts. This helps paint a canvas outside the realm of the film, without being distracting filler. For such a talky film, it manages to keep a well timed pace using it's beautiful musical score and the perfect editing. Riveting. "},{"Title":"A Seminal One for Cinephiles","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Costa-Gavras's 1969 exemplary political thriller Z released at the close of a decade of mushrooming cultural transformation and unbridled mistrust, flawlessly describing a global atmosphere of fear at a time when America was at its weakest, our national defense apparently violated by the repeated concussive jolts of our own murders of progressive leaders. Rooted in real-life happenings, the film vibrantly envisions and unearths the plotting behind the 1963 assassination of a Greek social democrat and pacifist. It made the reality of political murder cinematically existent, as no Hollywood film by that time would risk.Not even John Frankenheimer's classic The Manchurian Candidate was a box-office success. It took a Greek with a WWII Resistance-fighting father who was imprisoned upon being labeled a Communist, and as well as a mastery of cinematic technique (which was not allowed to study in the U.S. due to his father's Communist stigma), to modernize the political thriller in ways both profitable and imperative.Keeping the practice of the politically conversant films of Francesco Rosi, which concentrated topical policy into multifaceted, absorbing cinematic mythology, Costa-Gavras would continue to enhance the political thriller toward a fashionable form. His work paralleled Gillo Pontecorvo's, whose political renderings were also approachable as action adventures. This style was different from such solemn earlier film movements as Italian neorealism and Russian formalism in that it allowed socially alert, politically provoked artists to follow personal causes, dirtied with the exhilaration of the era's New Wave aesthetic.With this material, Costa-Gavras contributes to tackling the predicament of his native soil. Since WWII, internal strife between Communists, conservative leadership, military and royalty had kept Greece in chaos, which comprised Lambrakis's assassination and a martial takeover. In Z, Costa-Gavras reacts to the dictatorship, although from afar, with this French-speaking production that used but one Greek, Irene Papas as Lambrakis's wife, emblematically addressing the Lambrakis murder and ensuing overthrow, and supporting the reinstatement of democracy, which eventually occurred. The vital, exciting score by Mikis Theodorakis, who was under house arrest in Greece yet rebelliously allowed Costa-Gavras to use his music, characterizes the film's mutinous life-force. Costa-Gavras elucidated all that real-life crisis while effecting his talent with revitalized intent.This ingeniously edited Edgar-winning dramatic thriller is not a treatise specifying the dogmatic disparities that made Lambrakis a martyr of the conservatives grabbing control. Really, Costa-Gavras and screenwriter Jorge Semprún use Lambrakis's assassination to sound the bell on a dishonest and vicious commandeering of control. Their approach is genuine and heartfelt instead of party-line, attracting leftist agreement while providing a down-to-earth grasp of the ethics behind backbiting. The Dr. Strangelove-esque beginning finds the colonels suffering a fellow right-winger's comparison of liberalism to mildew, and establishes the staccato Costa-Gavras pattern. To stage how civil liberties are in unvarnished danger, Costa-Gavras and Semprún cunningly, without derision, esetablish the crime scene a Lambrakis-like spokesman, played by Montand, resists the obstructions that local authorities elicit to holding an undersized rally.This anxious night has noirish boundaries, with Montand's valiant assistant, shy bureaucrats, executive military officers, the rally planners, and a ragtag crew of rent-a-thugs with anti-Communist backing. When the rally is compelled into a less obliging hall, the chance for disaster increases. Anarchy explodes out of this pressure, and Costa-Gavras, with cinematographer Raoul Coutard, interpret the catastrophe with profundity and fluency. The precision is virtually dreamlike, seeming as inescapable as divination and as recognizable as history, immediately legendary. When later repeated in slow motion, the scene remembers the experience of recycling an unreal fact.Society's collapse is inherent in scenes of the assassins' heart-pounding getaway and the establishment's callous cover-ups. Z is a howdunit rather than a who. Its absorption derives from brusque battle with the unstable actions of political enemies. It has animal impact when a henchman (the unforgettable Frog Two from The French Connection) brawls with an organizer on the back of his truck. Proficient at the workings of the thriller, Costa-Gavras hones our social awareness with both political precision about the trauma of fascist subjugation, established through the scared military and the distrustful organizers, and journalistic frankness, characterized by the reporter who observes the assassination and records his own inquiry. Since Z is as thrilling as it is informative, the movie illustrates the influence of political activism beleaguered by pig-headed conservative coercion.By meeting that shocked era's bewilderment regarding political deception, Costa-Gavras creates a near-perfect parable for the dangers of political uprising. The assassination and investigation are told through curtly ordered mystery, tension, surprise, and jurisprudence.Jean-Louis Trintignant's probing magistrate, the fair-minded prosecutor, offers a stable, clear-headed ballast to Costa-Gavras's aggressive, histrionic action sequences the staccato mosaic of police rundowns that quickly produce scenes of military grillings where Trintignant declares an axiom shortly to become an image of ground-breaking, recuperative impartiality. It's an important feature of Costa-Gavras's technique to embed ideas in us of community honesty by concurrently notifying and amusing us.Concluding with a stimulating, unconventional reckoning of fascist tighten-ups on liberty of demonstration and fine arts, Costa-Gavras twists his depiction with a scary afterthought that summarizes the continuing political fight. He sidestepss hippie buoyancy and predicts modern skepticism with a simple thriller tool a caution. Z contains the aftershock of that cultural transferal from illumination to mistrust in all of its astutely conceived conventions from familiar genres. Costa-Gavras communicates the worry and alarm of political conspiracy that troubled the democratic and anti-war movements of the 60s, and continually does. "},{"Title":"A Frantic Thriller and one of the most important films ever made","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This political thriller based on a real event and on the famous book written by Vassili Vassilikos is one of the most important films ever made. Source of inspiration for the complex and thought provoking JFK (1991), the film directed by Costa Gavras is a detailed and enigmatic look into the murder of the Congressman Grigoris Lambakis, occurred in 1963 (the names of the real personalities involved in the case were changed and in most of the parts no names are presented, only their functions). The Congressman (Z in the book) is played by Yves Montand as a powerful figure in Greek opposition, trying to place things in order, fighting an authoritarian government that represses any kind of protests and political ideologies against them. And it was in this dangerous scenery that Z suffered an attempt against his life that led to his death. An complicated investigation of what happened in that day took place - Generals; prosecutors; a neutral judge (Jean-Louis Trintignant); the friends and family of the Congressman; possible suspects; the Comunists; the people who support the government - all of them involved in a labyrinth of lies, crimes and unethical issues exploding into a so-called democratic country.Z is a powerful masterpiece that reveals that movies can be more than just simple entertainment; it urges the viewers to pay attention to the story showing that everyone who lives is involved with politics, wanting to be or not involved with it because it makes part of our lives, it is important and that we must put our faces in the line, protesting against injustices and against the lack of morality in our governments wherever it needed. The writer of the book in which the film was based and the filmmaker already took that chance when presenting Z as a controversial work, that broke barriers in showing the truth on the screen and in the printed media. Z was released in 1969 in many countries but only in 1979 that Brazil could see this film, banned by the Military Regime for its content. And even 10 years later the film made a huge success here.In this confusing situation Z, even dead, lives! The rest of Greece doesn't. They're all dead, blind with their mediocrity and fooled by the government that knows how to handle with provocateurs, making all of them to fight against the opposition while they plan a coup d'etat to take control just in case the Communists take control of the power. Most of these rebel characters are just like zombies, with an unique and dreadful behavior, literally always going for the head of those like Z, with their cubs, sucking Z life away, destroying those who use politics to change their miserable lives. With everything going on its favorable side Z is not a easy film that you can watch one time and say I understood everything that happened. The great script couldn't cover up many things that Vassilis book covered (e.g. the reasons behind the characters for doing what they do is presented in a poetical way, you have the chance to really know who they were while in the film characters come and go, and you need to watch the film repeatedly to figure out who's who). My suggestion is that you watch the film and read the book, you decide which goes first, but to totally understand the plot you must see both medias, it makes the experience more enjoyable and less difficult. The events are told over and over again, it's repetitive but always interesting. A whole investigation with numerous characters and incredible situations. Great acting by Montand, Trintignant, Jacques Perrin (one of the producers of the film, he plays the seductive photojournalist), Irène Papas, Charles Denner, Bernard Fresson, Renato Salvatori and Marcel Bozzuffi. Winner of 2 Oscars (Foreign Film and Best Editing) and another awards around the world Z is a must see film. Thrilling, provocative, tense, nervous, hypnotic, frantic, a work that won't let you breathe. 10/10 "},{"Title":"It still happens often","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" This is a bit old film, produced by Algeria and France, and based on the novel of the writer Vassilis Vassilikos. The director Costa Gavras, always interested on historical and political issues for his films (État de siège 1972, Missing 1982, Betrayed 1988 and Music Box 1989) took the novel for the plot of this film to describe somewhat how the dictatorship evolved in Greece of 60s. The authorities of the country did not want to disrupt the game of democracy, i.e. not to prohibit public manifestations, press freedom and others, but in a subtle, and also vulgar and brutal way, they used hooligans to beat and kill those communist elements, who were protesting against the government or the status of the country. At the end these officials of the democracy made all their misdeeds lying, bribing and hiding the reality of the facts. The deputy of the opposition (Yves Montand) was killed in that way. The attorney (Jean Louis Trintignant) investigating the case noticed the incoherence and simplicity of the information given by the officials, and for this reason the authorities tried unsuccessfully to bribe the attorney. This did not work, and the government finally was compelled to adopt extreme measures abolishing the democratic freedom. Good film to reflect whether this is happening again. The acting was excellent from the part of Trintignant, Montand, Renato Salvatori, Marcel Bozzufi and Jacques Perrin, but Irene Papas was really weak, she hardly spoke in the film. "},{"Title":"Make war on corruption and liberalism and on indiscriminate liberty.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" For all those who do not realize that the US government loves dictators as long as they are anti-communist (leaves Fidel out), and as long as they do what they are told (sorry Saddam), this true life depiction is a must-see.It doesn't say Greece, but it is, under the rule of The Colonels.The Government tried to keep the film out of the US, but it was nominated for several Oscars and, while Midnight Cowboy took away the Best Picture and Best Director honors, it won the Oscar, the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film, and the critics picked it as Best Film and named Costa-Gavras Best Director.Scenes in the streets were like the fascists that invaded the vote counting in South Florida in 2000. Student protesters were beaten by angry mobs supporting the military junta.On 22 May 1963, after delivering the keynote speech at an anti-war meeting in Thessaloniki, two far-right extremists (Yago & Vago in the film) driving a kamikazi, struck Grigoris Lambrakis with a club over the head in plain view of the police and a large number of people. He suffered brain injuries and died in the hospital five days later, on 27 May. This was depicted in the film and Grigoris Lambrakis, simply called The Deputy in the film, was played by Yves Montand.The result was the eventual downfall of the junta. It was the Magistrate played brilliantly by Jean-Louis Trintignant (Best Actor at Cannes) that uncovered the plot to kill Lambrakis.They say it can't happen here, and maybe no one was murdered, but people were imprisoned without access to lawyers and courts during the eight year rule of Bush. We need to be aware of what happens when the power is in the hands of the Government, and not the people.The film featured the fantastic music of Mikis Theodorakis (Zorba the Greek, Serpico). "},{"Title":"Not a Review of the Movie, Rather a Communist Polemic","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" From 1947 to 1949 the United States supported Greece in its fight for freedom from a Communist insurgency. This reviewer characterizes that as a Civil War. It was not civil (most civil wars are not), but it was fought against foreign Communists supporting a Communist Geek minority in an attempt to seize control of the country.I haven't seen the movie and would prefer an actual review of the movie rather than the reviewers whine. Nothing in the review reprises the plot, discusses the actors, the writing, or the music. Much more information is needed. If the reviewer wants to blog about politics, there are many boards at other internet sites available where he will be free to spout his pro-communist diatribes to his heart's content. Please provide information about the movie and opinions about the quality. "},{"Title":"Z Chronology of Events and its implications for Greece","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Z is a real-time proof of one man's fight against corruption; as well as a movie director's commitment and dedication in making this movie. It is considered as one of the best political dramas ever made. I had to share this sincewe need to be aware of what really happened during those trying times.Lambrakis a beloved Greek olympic athlete (1952) became a doctor and began speaking out against his Greek government. During May,1963, Lambrakis,who was by then a left-wing member of Parliament (Greece) was attacked and struck on the head by right-wing extremists after giving an anti-war speech in Thessaloniki. Earlier Lambrakis had called for Greece to disarm and withdraw from NATO which was dominated by US and British inerests.He died of brain injuries from the attack on May 27, 1963. Following Lambrakis's assassination, a military junta of right-wing generals seized control of the Greek government in 1967.They were backed by the US Govt since the junta was anti-communism. The letter Z, meaning He is alive in ancient Greek... became a common piece of protest graffiti in Greek cities, in memory of Lambrakis and his democratic ideals... but was later banned by this military govt.The book was written in 1965 but the author was then exiled by the junta govt once they came to power. The movie was made by Costa Gavras in 1969 while the military govt was in power. The movie was banned in Greece for 5 years, the actors were in house arrest, music director recorded the music while in house arrest, lead actors were banned visas and different nominations were cancelled.In the film, the Examining Magistrate is Christos Sartzetakis. Once the military govt came into power, he was discharged of his duties, twice arrested, and imprisoned for almost a year, tortured, until he was released on 19 November 1971 because of mounting international pressure.The Greek army led junta govt fell in 1974, after Cyprus was invaded by Turkey and democracy returned to Greece. Justice prevailed and Christos Sartzetakis' status was restored. He rose later to be the chief justice of the Greek supreme court, and in 1985, with no political affiliations, became the 4th president of the Republic of Greece.1n 1969 The American Film and Motion Pictures Academy gave a standing ovation to this movie by Costa Gavras. During then, US itself was going through the Nixon years. The Academy nominated Z for 10 Oscars and for the first time ever a foreign language movie was nominated as the best picture. This ultimately forced the US Govt of Richard Nixon to allow screening of the movie in US. "},{"Title":"Omega Man","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" Despite a truly atrocious print badly dubbed into English and one that broke down four times during the screening, returning each time minus several frames the power of the film-making shines through. I'm not a political animal and don't make a point of seeking out political films but I am a great admirer of Yves Montand and although I was aware he was on screen for only around 20 minutes I went anyway and it's probably fair to say that I went to see Montand and stayed to watch a social comment masquerading as a thriller in which every major role was well played with special mention for Jean-Louis Trintignant and a virtually unrecognizable (if you've only seen him in Cinema Paradiso or Les Choristes) Jacques Perier. I'd definitely buy this on DVD should one be made available. "},{"Title":"exceptionally well-handled flick about ultra-right abuses","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I liked this movie because it made me think--and that happens too infrequently in movies. In the 1950s and 1960s, there was a fundamental battle for the hearts and minds of Western European nations--either the country should shift to the right politically and align itself with America or it should plot a more nationalistic course and try to remain neutral (and assuming that the Soviets posed very little actual threat). While I feel that the neutral position was too idealistic to work (it makes the assumption that American and Soviet societies are roughly equivalent), the movie shows the absolute horrors perpetrated by some right-wing governments (in this case, Greece) in order to thwart communism. The trampling of human rights and the complicity of the government in an assassination of a political rival is scary and well portrayed in this movie. About the only short-coming in the movie is that occasionally the cinematography is a bit choppy and grainy.By the way, if you are looking for a movie happy ending where everything works out for good, this is probably NOT the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's just because I am long-haired socialistic scum, but I liked this film","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I think it is only honest to say that I was not quite sure what to make of this film in the beginning, because the first half of the film (or maybe a bit more) is quite slow. This has a lot to do with the decade the film was made in (the 60's) but it has also a lot to do with the story, because everything that is shown in this film (except maybe the scenes involving the Deputy's wife and the flashbacks she has of her husband) are needed get an ending as powerful as the one we are presented with in the end.After the slow first half, the film gradually gets better and in the end the film is topped by it's brilliant ending, which makes the whole film a worthwhile experience. Also it is a chronicle of the overthrow of the democratic government in Greece. While this is not clearly and directly mentioned in the film itself, there are some clues. In the beginning of the film, there is a note from the people who made the film that any resemblances to true persons and / or events were made on purpose and not by accident. In what follows we see several signs on the wall saying &#145;HELLAS' (Greek for Greece) and in the end on the typewriter we can see Greek symbols on the typewriter (not on the keys, but on the turning ball putting the letters on the paper). I was told that there were pictures of Greek royalty in the film but I must have missed that. This means that this is not only a good film on how politics work, but it is also a historic piece of film concerning the overthrow of the government in Greece in the 60's (the same decade as the film was made in).In the end there are three things I'd like to point out. First of all I am a socialist by upbringing and I have long hair, so anyone with a Nationalistic attitude can just blow my opinion away by saying I'm long-haired socialist scum. Second of all, opinions vary and although the first half of the film wasn't too good, I am glad I sat through the whole movie, because in the end I was rewarded for doing so. Thirdly and lastly I want to mention that I watched this film in it's dubbed German version and therefore cannot make any statements about the acting in this film. I can only say that the fact that the film was dubbed did not bother me (as it does sometimes).7,5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"More of a documentary than a movie","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is good but only for those who have some background of the story. The director does nothing to fill us in on the political situation in Greece and we are left in the dark as to what role each character plays. But for those who do know about the Lambrakis case, it is engaging and fast-paced.  As for the other 99.99% of the world, hit the Greek history books before you see this movie; don't expect the director to fill you in.  "},{"Title":"not so great","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this movie many years ago. I thought it if not great, at least memorable. I watched it again recently. It is not that good. Yes there are all the directorial, dare I say it, tricks. In the end, we are supposed to feel about this because of assertions about truth, justice and what we are all supposed to believe in. For those looking for well done propaganda, this is the movie for you. Less slick, but a better done movie with the same theme is The Night of the Generals. This is the granddaddy of them all. There is of course Off Limits and most contemporaneous, Green Zone. For me the best of this genre, honest man against a corrupt or at least ambiguous world, is The Dancer Upstairs. "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged well, once revolutionary, now almost silly","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"17 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, History","Review":"  I watched this film again, not having seen it since it first came outduring the heady days of back then. My friend, who had not seen itbefore, asked me if it was an 'absurdist comedy' after the firsttwenty minutes. Sadly, the old warhorse has no kick left in it. Andthe bad filmmaking shows through glaringly--everything is talk talktalk slapped on top of clumsy cinematography. I can't believe thatthose who vote this a 'ten' have actually re-looked at it in the pastdecade. This is one of those films that just ends up on classiclists. Tedious and clumsy to the point of silliness. Not Z but zzzz. "}]