[{"Title":"Atypical Hitchcock","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"52 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like so many Hollywood talents, Hitchcock was stereotyped. Also like so many Hollywood talents, whenever he tried to escape stereotyping, he would get criticized. That certainly was the case with TOPAZ. Although not as humorous, nor as romantic, nor even as exciting as the director's best films, the movie is nonetheless an intelligent and intriguing spy drama, one that compares more to a motion picture like DAY OF THE JACKYL than usual Hitchcock fare.His other spy dramas, like NORTH BY NORTHWEST, may be more fun, but none of them are as realistic. In fact, very few spy films have the authenticity as TOPAZ. The story is based on fact. In 1962, a Russian top-level KGB defector informed the U.S. that some very high-level French diplomats, in a group called Sapphire, were selling secrets to the Soviet Union. TIME Magazine printed this story in April 26, 1968, and did so using the same source that Leon Uris did the U.S. sympathizing (and exiled) former Chief of French Intelligence, Philippe Thyraud de Vosjoli. Incidentally, a viewer needs to know the chronology and key events surrounding the 1962 Cuban Missile Crises as background, or else the film will be confusing. I suspect many critics condemn it because it's easier for them to dismiss the film rather than confront their own ignorance.Not that this movie is without weaknesses. Hitchcock was no realist, and the grim world of films like THE SPY WHO CAME IN FROM THE COLD is probably the type of ambiance it should have presented, but doesn't. However, I definitely join the camp of those who consider it underrated. I read writers on Hitchcock who unthinkingly rank TOPAZ with his worst stuff, and yet many of us prefer it over THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY, MR. AND MRS. SMITH, and other Hitchcock works that don't get castigated as nearly as much. I can't help but suspect they receive less criticism because they are more typical Hitchcock. This film is atypical Hitchcock, so readjust your expectations accordingly. "},{"Title":"Interesting but unsatisfying","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Topaz is one of Hitchcock's least satisfying films, yet the same time it's one of his most interesting ones, as well. Usually people don't remember it, maybe because there are no famous Hitchcock stars. Either the director didn't get any, or he didn't want them, because the audiences should tightly concentrate on the complex plot.The film clearly divides into three parts. The one in the middle, which takes place in Cuba, is the best of them. It involves the films most memorable scene, the beautifully photographed murder. Weakest part is the last one, where you might get confused with the messy intrigues.There are too many characters in the movie, which leaves many of them just bystanders, for example the worried wife (Dany Robin), who doesn't do really anything. The films brightest spot is Karin Dor, who gives an excellent performance as the beautiful Juanita. Too bad that her screen time is quite short. And the ending climax shines with its absence the film ends like bumping into a wall. "},{"Title":"An underrated Cold War thriller","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Based on Leon Uris' novel of the same name about the tense days of the Cuban missile crisis, Alfred Hitchcock's `Topaz' is an underrated cold-war thriller  - - underrated by English-speaking audiences and critics probably because the chief protagonist is a Frenchman!  The first half of the movie is especially exciting, starting as it does with the defection (very realistically filmed) of a top Soviet official to the U.S, who hints at the existence of Soviet missiles in Cuba..  Frederick Stafford very adequately plays Andre Deveraux, the French trade official with Cuban connections whose help is requested by the Americans.  Karin Dor is excellent as his beautiful Cuban paramour.  Hitchcock's initial portrayal of Castro's Cuba is that of a rather benign place, but quickly changes to a frightening place later in the movie when the director clearly delineates the full brutality of his terrible regime.  Deveraux's allies in Cuba are tortured and killed.  The last third of the film, set in France, is not as exciting.  The movie takes it own time exposing the members of the Topaz spy ring.  The transition of the action from Cuba to France is abrupt and is another weakness of this flick.  Maybe, `Topaz' should have been filmed in 2 parts, one about the Cuban missile crisis and another about French fellow-travellers!  This is, perhaps, the only movie in which Hitchcock seems to show some sympathy towards those who get murdered, as evidenced by the final scene, which shows the ironical contrast between the superficial newspaper headline about the Cuban missile crisis ending and the grim fates of the unsung secret agents who helped end it.  `Topaz' is one of the best cold-war movies ever made. Critics should re-evaluate it.  But it is only a good Hitchcock movie, not his best. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sequences in an unsung Hitchcock film","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" While Leon Uris' book is a good read, Hitchcock's adaptation of the book for cinema captures much of the book's selling points. The killing of Juanita by Rico Parra is central to book and the film. The book has a sensual scene where Juanita distracts Parra to allow Andre to escape before she is killed. In the film, Hitchcock dispenses with the sexual distraction to go directly to the killing. The killing of Juanita captured by the overhead camera, shows the purple gown spreading in the floor as blood would have spread. No blood is shown&#151;only the gown. What a brilliant shot from Hitchcock and cameraman Jack Hildyard! The second remarkable facet of the movie is the performance of Phillip Noiret as a French bureaucrat and spy. The lunch sequence (a typical Hitchcock food event) may look simple but the montage of shots capturing Noiret's apparent interest in the food than the conversation is truly engaging. Noiret is a fine actor. So is Michel Piccoli. The two of them outshine Frederick Stafford and John Forsythe.The third most fascinating shot is post-torture interrogation of Mrs Mendoza&#151;the whispered response from a posture that reminds one of Michelangelo's Pieta&#151;with her dead husband replacing the dead Christ.Hitchcock's perseverance with marriage continues. Andre blandly tells his daughter of his wife She left me. I did not leave her after a tryst with his lover in Havana. The Michel Piccoli character says of Andre's wife Andre, his wife and I were very close. She married him. We know later that Andre's wife was cheating on him as she recognizes the Piccoli character's phone number at his secret love nest.The defection sequence in Copenhagen might look clumsy&#151;but Hitchcock's style is everywhere&#151;faces in mirrors, close up of a porcelain figure about to be dropped with no music in the background, etc. What was most amusing was the criticism of the American espionage agents We would have done it better and the exchange of words by the defector in Washington, D.C. Andre's outburst to his bosses on the outcome of French intervention in the defection would lead to the defector's assassination is equally poignant had the film ended with the French spy defecting to Russia (one of the alternate endings).Finally, Hitchcock's use of the newspaper headlines during key scenes in the background was interesting The Pieta shot had the newspaper shot in the background and the newspaper left behind on a bench in Paris is the final shot. The alternate endings&#151;the duel and the departure of the spies to two cold-warring countries would not have served well as well the suicide of the spy suggested by the gunshot in his house. "},{"Title":"The French Connection","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One aspect of Topaz that should be kept in mind is that while American and British critics were belittling Hitchcock as a mere entertainer, the French New Wave critics, led by Francois Truffaut, were lionizing him and Truffaut even published a book-long interview with Hitchcock published in 1967.Hitchcock hadn't worked in years and was desperately trying to get another movie going when Universal showed him the book Topaz -- about spies in the French government, with a French protagonist and climactic scenes in Paris.   I think that Hitchcock may have -- unwisely -- decided to do Topaz so he could do a French picture.There are some great individual scenes in Topaz -- the opening defection in Copenhagen, the suspenseful mission to get secrets from the Cubans in Harlem's Hotel Theresa (Hitchcock in Harlem?!); the hero's dangerous mission into Cuba and the death of his key contact there.But Hitchcock really didn't like making Topaz, he was bored and ill and resentful (Universal had killed a project called Frenzy -- not to be confused with the 1972 film he made of that name -- and Hitchcock was bitter about it.)  So we end up with a very half-hearted Hitchcock movie with a few good scenes, no real stars, THREE failed endings (all available to see on the DVD), and an attempt to make nice with my French friends. "},{"Title":"Truly Hitchcockian despite its weaknesses","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, I'd only come across the weak ending version. Despite of that, it's a truly Hitchcockian film. The memorable scenes are pure and exclusively visual the intriguing start, the stealing of the documents, the death of Juanita, the torturing of the cuban spies, the discovery of the body at Jarre's apartment, the meal of the french officers...Hitchcock used to take technical challenges in every one of his films, I assume that here he committed to deliver the most complicated information concerning the plot without using dialogue, and he succeed.There's a lot of subtle humor and some clever twists. The cuban officers are just great, absolutely surreal. I loved the atmosphere in that hotel room, with people doing paperwork, smoking cigars and drinking, and the detail of the hamburger wrapped in the document. I think the very broad differences in tone between the three main sections of the film affects the pace and the appreciation of the story as a whole.It's amazing how Hitchcock managed to survive in it in the light of the multitude of trouble this film went through.Watching the video version edited in Norway had its extra. Amazingly, all subtitles were delayed a good five, six minutes throughout the entire film, so you actually had text during the silent scenes and incongruities such as love words during killings.  "},{"Title":"Doing A Favor For An Ally","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Topaz was the third from the last of the great Alfred Hitchcock's films and in those last few films Hitch eschewed using big American box office names. No doubt he'd come to the conclusion that his was the biggest box office name on the credits.But if the leading and many of the supporting players were not known to American audiences they were certainly known to French audiences. Dany Robin, Frederick Stafford, Phillippe Noiret, Michel Subor, Michel Piccoli all have had substantial careers in the French cinema.Topaz is certainly an international thriller with the action going from Copenhagen, to Harlem, to Cuba, and finally Paris. Only Cuba was not shot on actual location for obvious reasons.The film is based on a spy novel surrounding the Cuban Missile Crisis. A Russian defector whose defection with his family is very nicely shot in Copenhagen hints at some major problems coming our way in the Pearl of the Antillies. Our biggest problem though is that because of the ill-fated Bay of Pigs invasion, we've got no real intelligence on the ground in Cuba. What to do?Well if you're John Forsythe there's been a reason you've been cultivating the French for years. He goes to Frederick Stafford of French intelligence and asks him to find out what's happening in Cuba.History in 1962 bares witness to what was happening in Cuba at that time, but also Stafford is concerned the Russians have a spy real high up in the French government, code name, Topaz. There's a romantic angle here to, so very French. Stafford makes use of his mistress, a Cuban girl played by Karin Dor who wife Dany Robin has reasons to be suspicious of. Then again she's not sitting home waiting for the grass to grow under her feet. She's having a fling with Michel Piccoli who is a friend of her husband.International Geopolitics and romantic affairs are all tied together in this novel which Hitchcock serves up with his usual touch.What a sad end both the leads in this film had. Frederick Stafford was killed in a plane crash in 1979 and Dany Robin and her husband died in an apartment house fire in 1995. Truly a cursed film.Besides those mentioned look for good performances by John Vernon as a Castro aide and wannabe and from Roscoe Lee Browne who's an operator for French Intelligence in Harlem. I kid you not.It's not one of Alfred Hitchcock's best films, but Topaz is entertaining enough and Hitchcock fans won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Serviceable, workmanlike spy thriller that will never end up in anyone's Top 10 Hitchcock films list","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Topaz is at its best when Alfred Hitchcock lets the camera tell the story there are several small but brilliant moments in this film. But while his direction is still masterful, his pacing certainly isn't - the film often feels talky and plodding. The abrupt ending is another problem - one of the alternative endings, the airport one, sounds much better (unfortunately I haven't had the chance to see it yet). Frederick Stafford is no Cary Grant or even Rod Taylor, but he does the job; so do the rest of the actors, with Phillipe Noiret a standout in a brief role and Karin Dor adding a touch of sensuality to the proceedings. On the whole, Topaz is not even among Hitchcock's Top 10 pictures, but his fans will still have fun spotting his touches here and there. His cameo - a wheelchair-bound man who suddenly gets up and starts walking (!) - is just one of them. (**1/2)EDIT I finally did see the airport ending it is undeniably better than the present one, but still a bit too abrupt. "},{"Title":"not bad, not essential","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen most of Hitchcock's films, most of them many times, and I've seen all his later films.I like Topaz.  It has its problems.  First off, although it may seem unimportant to some, Hitchcock has long relied on Bernard Hermann for some great soundtracks.  Not only was Bernard not contributing to this film, but the music is inappropriate, light hearted, and almost comedic.  It helps to destroy whatever atmosphere has been built up.(SPOILERS)Although the most beautiful scene is the one where the woman is shot, there are plenty of Hitchcock moments in here.  Perhaps the best scene takes place in a porcelin statuette shop.   There are plenty of overloaded psychological images in here, such as women walking away with their backs turned, etc.  The scene where the defectors are approaching the plane has some of that Hitchcock aura about it.  If the soundtrack were more weighty, it might help complete the mood.  For example, the wry thriller To Catch a Thief is helped along with an incredibly weighty soundtrack.  If this scene had some of that music ...  but I repeat myself.As others have explained, the movie has four parts, one involving the defection, another involving some intrigue in NYC and Wash DC, a third part set in Cuba, and a fourth set in Paris.The first part is a moderate success.  This is familiar terrain for Hitchcock and he does not fail.  The defection and delivery of the Russian agent and his family has all of the suspense and excitement one would expect of a moderately successful Hitchcock film.The film begins to drag in the Washington DC and NYC segments.  The casting of Vernon as the Cuban revolutionary is unsatisfactory.  He doesn't project a Cuban persona.  Hitchcock should have gone for the jugular, and cast a real hispanic person in this role and tried to deliver the aura.  Instead, he used a white bread character, and it just doesn't come off, despite Vernon's excellent attempt.  The black actor who photographs the documents - he does an excellent job and the film would have benefitted with more of him about.  He manages to tread the line between ruthless/frightening and light-hearted/likable.  I wouldn't know whether to trust him or to run from him.Things get interesting again during the Cuban segment, but something always seems to drag them down.  Maybe it's Vernon's character.  There is clearly a play at the James Bond character taking shape here, with the other actor, except this is a slightly more complicated, and morally compromised character, which makes it more interesting.The last segment of the film, in Paris, has the greatest potential to open up on a new work.  I would have liked to have seen more about these characters.  For once, we get some red-blooded characters, motivation, complication, emotion, desire, fear, intrigue, double-crossing, etc.   This should have been the heart of the film  two men making a play for the same woman, where all three had fought together during the war, and now they play for opposite sides, with a love triangle thrown in.  The French characters are good, believable, but this segment of the movie moves along and ends too quickly to ever amount to anything beyond a tease.So, I like this film, but it's many grades below other Hitchcock films, no question.  On the other hand, I think it's a little bit better than Torn Curtain.   I shouldn't say that - Torn Curtain has some great scenes, probably better than Topaz, but I think Topaz had the makings for a better film - it's just not realized.	They're very similar.  Torn Curtain is more successful, but Topaz has a real plot, whereas Torn Curtain is pretty much a glorified chase scene. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful film from maestro  Hitchcock  with a confusing plot  , thriller ,  intrigue  ,  twists and turns","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Good but no great Hitch film that maintains suspense level , including constant shift of scenarios keeps spectators on their toes . A French intelligence agent named Andre Deveraux (Frederick Stafford) befriends American official called Michael Nordstrom (John Forsythe) and both of whom become involved in the Cold War politics to dig out info , first with uncovering the events leading up to the 1962 Cuban Missle Crisis, and then back to France to discover a secret conspiracy . Andre travels to La Habana to obtain evidences of the Missiles , there meets his lover named Juanita Cordoba (Karin Dor who wears marvelous gowns by Edith Head and dubbed her own voice in the German Version) who is secretly embroiled with a local underground resistance whilst also being entangled in another way with Parra (John Vernon) . Meanwhile, an ex-KGB official defector flees to USA where he is interviewed and tells him about Topaz, the codename for a group of French officials in high circles who work for the Soviet Union , as the protagonists attempt to break up an international Russian spy ring (Philippe Noiret , Michel Piccoli) infiltrated in French government .This suspenseful Hitchcock film contains cloak-and-dagger intrigue , whirlwind plot , thrills , twists and results to be pretty entertaining . Hitchcock takes you behind the actual headlines to expose the most explosive spy scandal of the century, though this was reportedly one of his most unhappy directing jobs , being Alfred's biggest failure , as it cost approximately $4,000,000 to make and received only $1,000,000 at the box office. According to Donald Spoto's book The Art of Alfred Hitchcock Fifty Years Of His Motion Pictures, Universal Pictures executives forced this project on Alfred Hitchcock. Overlong film as a running at 143 minutes, this is Alfred Hitchcock's longest film . The first draft of the script was hired Leon Uris to adapt his own novel , but Uris didn't care for Hitchcock's eccentric sense of humor, nor did he appreciate the director's habit of monopolizing all of his time as they worked through a script. Hitchcock was disappointed that Uris seemed to ignore his requests to humanize the story's villains , in his opinion the novel painted them as cardboard monsters , with only a partial draft completed, Uris left the film. Alfred declared it unshootable at the last minute and called in Samuel A. Taylor , writer of Vertigo , to rewrite it from scratch , as some scenes were written just hours before they were shot. According to Alfred Hitchcock, this was another of his experimental movies ; in addition to the dialogue, the plot is revealed through the use of colors, predominantly red, yellow and white , he admits that this did not work out. Good support cast mostly formed by European actors who give nice interpretations such as  Dany Robin as Nicole Devereaux , Vernon as Rico Parra , gorgeous Karin Dor as Juanita Cordoba , Michel Piccoli a Jacques Granville , Philippe Noiret as Henri Jarre , Claude Jade as Michèle Picard and Roscoe Lee Browne as Philippe Dubois . Of course , habitual Director Cameo , as Alfred Hitchcock appears about 30 minutes in at the airport getting out of a wheelchair . Emotive and sensitive score by Maurice Jarre , Jean Michel Jarre's father ; knowing that he had no ear for music, Alfred Hitchcock didn't even bother listening to Maurice Jarre's completed score for the film, slotting it onto the images without a quibble . Colorful and bright cinematography by excellent cameraman Jack Hildyard who photographed 'Bridge on the river Kai' and David Lean's usual . Appropriate production design by Henry Bumstead , Hitch's ordinary . This is a medium-to-rare Hitchcock picture in which was shot three versions with completely different endings , all are included in the Laserdisc , video , DVD and BluRays reissues.. "}{"Title":"Not a great movie, but it has some fair moments.","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not the best one Hitchcock has ever made I totally agree, but it does have some very good scenes. For example the opening scenes are filled with action. And I don't mean the Rambo-kills-all-evil-guys kind of action, but the ways in which the scenes are shot and thereafter edited, the camera angles, this subtle creation of 'suspense' Alfred Hitchcock is so well known for. I also remember the scene in which Juanita is killed, where again the camera angle is chosen splendidly so that her beautiful dress fills the screen. This is one of the most aesthetic killings I've ever seen. So the superior talent of the unquestionable master surely is present some times. So if one learns to value these moments and neglects the terribly eclectic plot (Hitchcock was forced to extremely cut down the movie), it's not so bad a movie after all. "},{"Title":"Excellent and definitely underrated movie","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of Hitchcock's last movies, TOPAZ is actually an excellent movie. Sure, it's not Psycho or Rope, but it's a classic in its own right. Too many people who think 007 when they hear spy movie have probably seen this movie and been turned off by its realism and lack of explosions.The acting is somewhat wooden, but it's not terribly noticeable until after the movie, when you have time to think about it. And the ending is incredibly abrupt, but so was the ending to Vertigo, and no one complains about that. Hitchcock's work here is fabulous. The murder scene is absolutely incredible (the purple dress), one of Hitchcock's finest moments ever (up there with the Spellbound milk-drinking and the Rear Window climax). Another excellent moment, as previously mentioned, is the wordless bribing of secretary Uribe in the beginning of the movie. The opening scene of defection and the torture scene are also very good.The plot is very good as well. Unlike Torn Curtain, which falls into nothing but repetitive scenes and events, Topaz's plot is coherent and engaging. It features several great twists and turns, and although many characters do have underdeveloped parts, that seems almost necessary to keep the movie under 3 hours. It's not a Hitchcock classic, but it is certainly an excellent movie, and it deserves to receive much more credit than it does.9/10 "},{"Title":"Disjointed plot, mediocre acting, too long & un-Hitchcock like.","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I could just about enjoy Torn Curtain (Hitchcock's other espionage thriller) but Topaz is really poor. Other poorer Hitchcock movies at least have the customary Hitchcock Director's feel to them even if the plot is thin. But Topaz just doesn't feel like the true Hitchcock product.The plot is too long and disjointed. Split into three parts there is little to link each of them except th fact that some of the actors happen to migrate from one to the next.The actors are virtually unknown and are not great to watch. I found myself unable to 'fall in love' with any of the female cast or 'admire' the male leads.This is a film that I am glad to have watched only to continue my travels through the Hitchcock portfolio. On its own it is nothing to dedicate 2hrs+ of your life towards.At least it appears as if those dreadful outdated backdrop artist scenes have either gone or been very much improved (the dockside scene in Marnie & museum frontage in Torn Curtain were well past their 'sell-by' date). "},{"Title":"One of the Weakest Hitchcock's Films","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1962, the highly ranked Russian intelligence officer Boris Kusenov (Per-Axel Arosenius) defects to the United States of America with his wife and his daughter under the protection of CIA agent Michael Nordstrom (John Forsythe). In Washington, Boris discloses the Russian movement in Cuba, and Nordstrom asks the French agent and his friend Andre Devereaux (Frederick Stafford) to get further documents from the Cuban leader Rico Parra (John Vernon) using his anti-American corrupt secretary Luis Uribe (Don Randolph). Then Devereaux travels to Cuba to get additional evidences of the Cuban Missiles with his mistress Juanita de Cordoba (Karin Dor). When Devereaux returns, he receives orders from the French government to return to France to explain his participation in Cuba. However Nordstrom schedules a meeting of Devereaux with Boris and the ex-KGB official tells him about Topaz, the codename for a group of French officials in high circles who work for the Soviet Union. Further, he tells that the French NATO representative Henri Jarre (Philippe Noiret) is the second in the chain of command of the spy ring Topaz, leaking classified information to the soviets, and the head of spies in known only by the codename of Columbine. Devereaux realizes that he can not reveal the truth before finding who the traitor is. The dated Topaz is one of the weakest Hitchcock's films. The story, based on a true event (the Cuban Missile Crisis), is too shallow and long. Nicole is a key character but is not well-developed. Further, it is naive the explanation of friendship between Andre Devereaux and Michael Nordstrom to make the first to get entwined in the situation with Cubans and his government. This time, the cameo of Alfred Hitchcock is in the airport in New York, when he arrives in a wheelchair and walks under the United Air Lines to Planes plate while Nicole and Andre are welcoming Michele and her husband François Picard. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Topázio (Topaz) "},{"Title":"Underrated Hitchcock","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree completely with the previous reviewer that Topaz, while not in the same ballpark as Hitchcock's best is still an underrated film that's gotten too much of a bum rap.  I appreciate the fact that it's willing to take a look at the Castro regime for exactly what it has been and always will be.  The tense scene where we watch Roscoe Lee Browne from a distance, with no dialogue and only the sound of street noises, bribe a Cuban official to get important material, ranks with Hitchcock's best.  And Karin Dor is both radiantly sexy and courageous as a Cuban resistance leader.  The ending is a bit abrupt and weak though, and I probably would have preferred one of the two alternate endings featured in the laser disc supplement. "},{"Title":"Topaz","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's Topaz was unpopular and quickly forgotten about, largely because he dared to do something that most filmmakers avoided make a realistic movie about espionage. Topaz has none of the glamour or excitement of the James Bond pictures nor does it even have much of a happy ending. The master spy Davereaux (Frederick Stafford) uses and gratuitously sacrifices the lives of his underlings to uncover information that merely serves to confirm other spy information that the Americans have already gathered. Davereaux appears to find his job particularly distasteful, but at the same time he goes ahead with his mission with a stoicism that could easily be confused for coldness. If you consider Davereaux's demeanour at the end of the picture and the flashback to all the casualties that he leaves behind, you'll see what I mean.So Topaz is an austere and dark film. The brief torture scene has to be one of the most brutal moments ever depicted in any of Hitchcock's films, which for all their suspense usually spare the audience the horror of having to see uncompromising, graphic violence (Psycho and Frenzy, of course, are important exceptions). Lastly Topaz is also a surprisingly realistic film, in that the spies do not lead happy, glamorous lives, but are forced to perform very distasteful tasks that would drive a normal, decent person to despair. "},{"Title":"Fairly fascinating spy story","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Topaz (1969) is the 51st Alfred Hitchcock movie.In the year 1962 there's the cold war going on.The story takes you to Denmark, NYC, Washington DC, Paris and Cuba when it was ran by a man named Fidel Castro.Remember? Topaz is based on the novel by Leon Uris.This is not Hitchcock's best work but it's not bad either.He couldn't make a bad movie.Hitchcock at worst would be a masterpiece to some directors of our time.One thing this movie was criticized about was that it didn't have any big stars there.That may be a little problem, but just a little.There still are some great actors performing their parts.The most known name would be the now 90 year old John Forsythe.Also the late Roscoe Lee Browne is in the movie.Frederick Stafford is there.Michel Subor, Michel Piccoli, Philippe Noiret and so on.There are many French actors in this movie and people were probably expecting Cary Grant or Jimmy Stewart.Nevertheless this is a good movie.Not the best of Hitch but for a man with so many masterpieces under his belt you couldn't expect him hit the jackpot every time. "},{"Title":"A MUST-SEE UNDERATED HITCHCOCK.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You must see this movie even if you have before.  You must see the DVD version, offering the widescreen version and about a half hour of deleted footage that had no right being deleted in the first place.  Many important scenes and dialogue were cut for the video release, and haven't been put back in until recently. This is an very underated Hitchcock movie.  It contains all the suspense that Hitchcock enjoyed.  There are NO STARS in this movie.  I can see why it failed at the box office because it's lack of star power.  Although the actors are just as good as any superstar.  Actually I believe it to be more REAL to see lesser known actors and actually masterful on Hitchcock's part.  It's the story of the Cold War, during the days of the Cuban Missle Crisis and the secret spy ring -- Topaz. Great performances and masterful direction.  ****/*****.  Avoid Maltin's documentary of the movie on the DVD! -- What an arrogant critic. "},{"Title":"An underrated Hitchcock film","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Topaz is directed by Alfred Hitchcock, is based on the novel by Leon Uris and stars John Forsythe, Frederick Stafford, Roscoe Lee Browne and Karin Dor.Topaz is one of Hitchcocks last films and seems to have been unfairly dismissed as not one of Hichcock's best. It is a very good film, a thrilling spy story which works better not having a famous cast, you get the impression these are real people caught up in all of this.C.I.A agent Michael Nordstrom(John Forsythe)sends one of his friends a French agent called Devereaux(Fredrick Stafford)to Cuba to investigate something called Topaz.The mission becomes very dangerous and Juanita de Cordoba (Karin Dor)the Cuban woman Devereaux loves and who assists him in gathering information is tragically murdered.Filled with plenty of suspense,thrills and betrayal this is a gripping film filled with excellent performances. "},{"Title":"Frederick Stafford","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have to put a 10 in, cause I loved it, and I loved that Mr. Hitchcock went for unknowns and foreign performers.What I can't fathom is what led so many contemporaries to say that Stafford wasn't anything but Amazing, a French intelligence officer friends with a CIA man, who have a working friendship/exchange going on.He is a man of conscience, and when he sees what Castro has planned despite his nations neutrality on the subject is moved by conscience.AND the fact that he knew what he was risking did it anyway, and It was an amazingly believable and compelling story.I just don't get fickle critics. "}{"Title":"Semi-Precious","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As most reviewers have noted, there are some nice moments and there are also moments as exciting as watching grass grow. I think the basic flaw of the movie is too many characters combined with a very confusing, talkie script. I've watched this several times and come away scratching my head each time. The character of Juanita, along with the actress who played her, brought a nice touch of class to the film. In fact for me, she is the only charter I found interesting, and cared enough about. The opening is good, and several other scenes sprinkled throughout let us know that Hitchcock is still alive and well but this really was a miss fire of a movie, but still far better than what is cranked out today. "},{"Title":"One of the best, and most accurate, cold war movies of it's time...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A wonderful alternative scenario to the Cuban Missile crisis... and although I wasn't even born until years later, as a student of history, one wonders if Hitcock (as Tom Clancey of the 80s and 90s) didn't know more than he was supposed to... A very difficult plot to follow, but then, so is any real plot involving espionage, murder, and politics of the early 1960s and Cuban, American, and European politics of that time. "},{"Title":"A movie that needs to be revaluated ...","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading some of the negative comments about Topaz, I have wondered if I saw the same movie.  For reasons unknown to me, this precious film has been underrated.  This is a very good Cold War thriller and critics should revaluate it.  I recommend Topaz to Hitchcock's fans.  They won't be deceived.  I have seen it several times and still is one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I regret to see that this movie has not received the recognition it deserves.  Topaz is one of the best movies I have seen and sincerely believe it has been ignored by critics and the press in general.  I invite everyone to see Topaz.  It has suspense, a fantastic cast and an intriguing plot. It deserves a try, rent it today! "},{"Title":"Leon Iris Spy Thriller Given The Sir Alfred Touch","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had never seen this particular Hitchcock until now. After seeing it, I think it is not only under rated but it ought to get a lot more respect than it has previously. This is a film that will grow more respect as more people see it.John Forsythe is the name actor in this, working with him earlier in Hitches dark comedy, The Trouble With Harry. In this film, Forsythe has no jokes. He is a top American Intelligence official. A lot of unknowns in 1969 played in this, some would get more fame later. Roscoe Lee Brown who just recently passed away has a key role in this film.The reason this film is under rated I feel, is the lack of appreciation of Alfred going back to some of his earliest talent when he made this film. That was the talent he learned from mentor Fritz Lang, how to tell a story visually. In this film, there are several sequences where Sir Alfred does this with a deft masters touch. This film is better to me than the star powered Torn Curtain spy thriller he did previous to it.There are times where the story is a little predictable. Leon Iris novel about the true incidents involving the intelligence operations exposing the Russian Missiles in Cuba is the reason for this. You can't change documented history. It has some brilliant backdrops & messages within the film.Early on the quality of the photography shows up. Even deft subtle touches like Forsythe standing in front of a portrait of JFK stand out. If you really want to see this well, get the TCM version from the boxed set. Not only is the film digitally re mastered, but it has extras including 2 alternate endings tried for the film & Leonard Maltin's commentary on the film. It is interesting that Maltin observes the fascinating use of no sound for suspense employed by Sir Alfred in this movie, but he is not smart enough to realize where Hitchcock got it from.Hitch was definitely still a great film maker in 1969. Audiences at the time might have still been worried about Russian's and the realism Hitchcock puts into this film is great. "},{"Title":"Stodgy, Dated, French Spy Mixed Up In Cuban-American Hostilities Cold War Thriller","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" André Devereaux is a French intelligence agent persuaded by an American associate to acquire some secret documents help by a Cuban military leader. He succeeds, but at great cost to his personal life and his career, and there is a double-agent lurking in his past ...Topaz is a rare thing - a dull Hitchcock film. Even he made the occasional dud (Waltzes From Vienna, Under Capricorn) and this spy thriller is all talk and not nearly enough action. The story, based on a book by Leon Uris, is good enough, with plenty of intrigue and counter-espionage, and the Cuban Missile Crisis backdrop was sensational at that time. But there are too many characters, none of which are either sympathetic or scary enough and endless scenes where they simply wade through piles of plot exposition. There's a good early sequence with Browne as the French-Caribbean agent trying to photograph the sneaky military pact documents, and Vernon is good as one of Castro's bully-boy lackeys, but lead Stafford is hard to like (he cheats on his wife and uses his family to do his dirty work) and doesn't really achieve much. The tone is uneven and atmosphere scarce; photography, editing and score don't really contribute much - contrast this with something like Psycho, where they are absolutely paramount. This is a lesser companion piece to Hitch's preceding Cold War thriller, Torn Curtain, and he followed it with one of his very best movies - the disturbing, hair-raising and hilarious Frenzy. I wish this movie had even one-tenth of the suspense or humour of that one. In the sixties - and only the sixties - the big movie studios really had no idea what to make; Topaz is one of many films which evidence this. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's lesser films","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the 1960's the escalation of the cold war as a result of the Cuban Missile Crisis led to a boom in spy films on the big screen. James Bond was the big franchise of course but there were many others. Alfred Hitchcock decided to get on this particular bandwagon himself with Topaz and its predecessor Torn Curtain. Unfortunately, these two films were the least inspired efforts of his latter career. The problems were that they lacked the psychological edginess that typified his best work, their more traditional thrills just weren't consistently inspired enough to ensure that the films remained compelling from start to finish.Like many other spy films, Topaz has a globe-trotting plot. It starts in Copenhagen, hops over to Washington, heads up to New York, flies into Cuba and then rounds things off in Paris. There's certainly not anything wrong with any of this, it's just a shame that the story is so uninspired and bland. The answer to the central mystery about the meaning of 'Topaz' itself isn't ultimately proved to be very interesting; while the ending has a very under-whelming feeling to it overall. In truth it really felt like Hitch himself was going through the motions with this one, basically taking us from A to B with the minimum fuss. That's okay, it's efficient but it isn't too much fun and you kind of forget it all too easily. "},{"Title":"All wives talk","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a review of the 2 hour, 16 minute version. After a Russian defector provides them with a lead, American and French intelligence agents have to find out the secret of Operation Topaz. I haven't read the novel, so I can't rate this as an adaptation. The script is a letdown... when I tell you that this is a Cold War spy-thriller complete with gadgets(and just try not to smirk when you see the size of a remote control back then), you'll think it's much more exciting than it is. In reality, it's kinda chatty(granted, the dialog can be really good and clever), the climax is weak and the pacing is uneven. With that said, Hitchcock does work his magic, and this is filmed and edited very nicely(in spite of obeying some traditions of storytelling). The suspense and tension are masterful; the pay-off is reasonable. At its best, this is gripping. Basically everyone delivers a great performance; I don't know any of these actors, and would say that two of them look far too alike and are easy to confuse for one another. Also, not everyone supposed to be Cuban actually looks it. At all. Juanita is stunning and hot. Other female characters, especially the younger ones, are made to look curious and naive. It's cool that they actually clearly went here, to Denmark, Copenhagen, to shoot the beginning. There is a little bloody violence and disturbing content in this. The DVD comes with a half hour long documentary with Leonard Maltin(that I will review on its own page here on the site), three(well, two) alternative endings(they're decent), storyboards, production photographs and the trailer(possibly the least memorable for any picture by Alfred, R.I.P.). I recommend this to big fans. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Three MacGuffins Are Not Better Than One","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watching Topaz the first time, I was amazed Alfred Hitchcock could produce such a dead-fish movie. Watching it again, I found myself enjoying the 1960s ambiance and gear-shifting plot, along with a few of the performances, enough to gain a healthy appreciation for what's good in this Hitchcock version of the globetrotting spy story.It's still not THAT good.It's 1962, and just as the real-life drama of the Cuban Missle Crisis unfolds, Soviet spy master Boris Kusenov (Per-Axel Arosenius) defects to the United States with his family. He knows things the U.S. intelligence man Michael Nordstrom (John Forsythe) wants to know, about both Cuba and a ring of mysterious Frenchmen known as Topaz who are passing secrets to the U.S.S.R. To get at the bottom of both, he enlists a trusted friend in French intelligence, Andre Devereaux (Frederick Stafford).Forsythe is the biggest American name in the cast, and the only one with prior experience with Hitchcock, but he's really just M to Stafford's James Bond, whose Devereaux proves a surprisingly amiable gopher for Uncle Sam.At one point, Nordstrom pulls Devereaux from a dinner with his family for an on-the-spot spy mission in Harlem involving gun-toting Cuban revolutionaries.You understand, this can't have anything to do with us, Nordstrom tells Devereaux after the latter agrees to this escapade. If anything goes wrong, it's your operation. I know, Devereaux replies.Stafford makes the character even harder to grasp by playing him so woodenly, his casting by Hitchcock in such a central role being a major weakness of the film.The best performances in this film are Roscoe Lee Browne as a Harlem florist Devereaux enlists for the above-mentioned mission; Arosenius as the defector, with a clipped way about him as he plays for the maximum advantage (I gave you no understanding he sneers as Nordstrom presses for info); John Vernon, implausibly cast as one of Comrade Fidel's loyal lieutenants but pulling it off with the help of some sinister eyeliner and deadpan humor; and Karin Dor as a Cuban beauty with secret ties.I can spend a whole evening just staring at the freckle on Dor's lower lip, and you get the feeling Devereaux can, too, in some swoony romantic scenes that show the director of To Catch A Thief still could shoot a love scene. It's the suspense sequences that need work; they move very slowly. The opening defection alone takes 15 minutes. It's very easy to tune out of Topaz at any time, and come back in five minutes without having missed anything.Hitchcock was big on something he called MacGuffins, items of value to the character that serve to trigger their motivations but offer no real substance to the viewer. Here I counted no less than three an aide-memoire between the Cuban and Soviet governments, the missiles themselves, and Topaz. Each gets their own separate section of the film, but the plots do not mesh and the MacGuffins feel weaker, even the real-life one involving those Cuban missiles. There's no reason why information about the missiles can realistically help uncover Topaz, but we are meant to think it somehow can, so the story can move forward.Not one of Hitchcock's best, or even a good one, Topaz still entertains with the odd shot, the funny line, or just the evocative Henry Bumstead set designs. Zipping from Moscow to Copenhagen to Washington to Harlem to Havana and finally Paris makes for a diverting trip, just not a compelling one. "},{"Title":"Inside the cold-war.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry that I missed the thrills that others have proclaimed about this movie. I found it interesting; but easy to confuse the whole agenda; lacking action and a half an hour too long. Just my opinion. A highly ranked Soviet official, who claims knowledge of Russian missiles in Cuba, defects to shelter in America. And a French agent with Cuban connections is asked to help the U.S. expose a spy ring.The acting is calm and wooden. Passion is obviously missing in this tense drama. The cast includes Frederick Stafford, John Forsythe, Karin Dor and Dany Robin. Directed by Alfred Hitchcock, this by no means compares with his better known movies. "}{"Title":"Somewhat overlooked","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While Topaz might not be in the top tier of Hitchcock's films, it is nonetheless a very engrossing espionage thriller. The aura of the Cold War intrigue in the various locales of America, Europe, and Cuba provides a very satisfying international flavor to the picture. The cast, although not star-studded, is more than competent. I felt myself transfixed on every development in the plot and felt that I enjoyed a two worthwhile hours of entertainment. 8/10. "},{"Title":"An import of molasses","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was doing my own little Hitchcock festival with 6-8 DVDs from my local video store. This was the last one chronologically and the last one I watched. I read Leonard Maltin's three star review and some of the reviews from this site and decided to view it with an open mind.  It didn't help.This film is just awful. It's not just second-rate Hitch that is still better than anything anybody else could do. Many, many directors have made better films than this. And it's not an intended departure from the thriller genre for a `Spy That Came in From the Cold' type film It can't hold a candle to that. It has the memorable shot of Karin Dor's death and that's about it in two and half hours. Maltin calls it a `European Film' that Americans aren't used to. I've seen many European films that were much better than this. Importing European actors, (and mating them with a truckload of television's `usual suspects'), does not make this a European film.It just meanders along slowly, the plot taking not such much twists as changes of venue. Characters and settings move in and out without leaving much of an impression. Actually, the film is three films in one- the Washington-New York one that is promising but ends before it can deliver anything , the Cuban one which is the best of the three without being truly memorable and the Paris one, which is a total snooze. There are three alternative endings- a duel, a suicide and two guys waiving at each other at an airport. None of them are any good at all.  I don't expect Hitchcock to keep remaking `The 39 Steps' over and over again but this is not so much of a departure as an abdication. He wasn't trying to do something new. It was just an assignment that he quickly tired of and I did, too.   "},{"Title":"Far from Hitchcock's best","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a matter of fact, I'd be more than likely to call this Hitchcock's most notable failure.  It's not a bad film, but it is just not on the level you'd expect even Sir Alfred's lesser films to be.  Part of this may be Hitchcock's own worries over the film; according to The Dark Side of Genius, Hitchcock was admittedly not interested in the film; he felt as if he was in way over his head.  I can't help but feel that hands-off approach influenced the outcome of the film as we see it today. Watch for the great Roscoe Lee Browne (a true American treasure of an actor) in a small role.  Too bad we couldn't have him featured throughout the film more; a great oppurtunity was lost there.** out of four; 4/10.  See it once just for Browne's performance. "},{"Title":"Boring is the first word that comes to mind. Why? the second.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I cannot help it. I appreciate the effort of trying to portray the Cuba crisis in a realistic way without one central character playing the super hero. Yes, I do appreciate it, and I liked having French people be the main heroes. I can appreciate all that, but I still found the film absolutely boring, boring beyond compare.There are moments when something like suspense or excitement can be felt, but there is no suspense running through the whole movie, nothing holding the audience's interest for the entire story.Similarly, there is one great, beautiful shot in the middle of the movie, but the rest of the thing is filmed in a bleak, normal style... If this is intended, if the realistic look is intended, then why add this one gorgeous shot at all? It doesn't fit in there at all, and strengthens my impression of Topaz being 'nothing'. An attempt at best. An attempt at making a realistic thriller about spies involved in the Cuba Crisis, a beyond the scenes showing several nationalities work together or against each other... An attempt that failed in every aspect It didn't find a visual style; the main character could as well have been a cardboard cut-out for all the impression he makes; the script has never heard of the word climax.In fact, I half-missed the ending, because I was just making some sort of comment to a friend next to mine, and suddenly the film was over. I don't normally talk in important scenes, let alone during endings. I usually pick scenes that seem not-so-important to me, if I really do have something to point out, or ask, and cannot hold back... I guess that says it all I didn't feel that the end was approaching. The film was just suddenly over, ending in a very, very unspectacular way. Everything it gave me was this emptiness.It's too bad. This could certainly have been better. There were things that were somewhat interesting, like the resistance fighters in Cuba, whose inventive methods kept me entertained for a brief while. But like I said, the movie as a whole is just boring, even if episodes or instances strike me as nice. What a waste. "},{"Title":"lesser known Hitchcock","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Russian KGB official Boris Kusenov defects with his family to the States. He is arrogant and gives some partial info to the CIA about Cuba. CIA agent Mike Nordstrom gets his French intelligence agent friend André Devereaux to investigate the Russians' involvement in Cuba. Meanwhile the defector discloses a French spy ring codename Topaz.The defection works great. It is an exciting start to the movie. But I feel that there are a lot of static stationary scenes. It doesn't have enough movement to denote the needed action. On the plus side, there are other things here like the jealous wife of the French agent, and the spy craft minutia. But mostly it's a little bit slow.The fact that the main protagonist agent is French may be a hindrance to this movie. This is not a Bond movie. But it's also not morally ambiguous. Director Alfred Hitchcock has made something in between. It's a French Bond without much of the action. And the ending just fizzles out. It is a fairly average spy movie with some interest Hitchcock-style scenes. "},{"Title":"A low point for Hitchcock?","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the few poor films of the great mans long career. It's fine for dyed in the wool film buffs to point out the few good scenes in this film, but though TOPAZ has it's merits they are neither obvious or relevant to the average movie fan. In a career as long as Hitchcocks the wonder is that he did not make more poor films and it's to his eternal credit that he maintained his high standards throughout his career. But this movie was without doubt his nadir and lacked most of the charactoristics that made his previous films so unique. The story was indeed interesting but the pacing of the film was so sluggish and the direction so lack lustre that suspense was rarely apparent and then never maintained, but simply melted away like smoke as the actors, who seemed rather bored embarked on another long bout of dialogue. As for the ending, well one might ask what ending? Again dedicated movie buffs will appreciate the downbeat ending, but the reaction of the average viewer, for whom the movie was intended, is virtually without exception one of complete disbelief. The ending of this film was quite frankly amazing but for all the wrong reasons. Still, Hitchcock was not washed up yet and shortly after this movie he made Frenzy, not one of his best of course but far better than Topaz. Incidentally the French star of Topaz was killed in a plane crash some years after working on the film, while that other great character actor John Vernon died about two years ago after acting in some fine films over the years. "},{"Title":"Good Film But Abrupt Ending","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Topaz is good movie with steady taut pace and well planned out scenes. The start is slow and takes sometime to get to the main plot but gives continuity and credibility to the story . Once the story gains momentum it moves at steady but not boring pace. Some of the shots are brilliant and go on to show genius of Hitchcock. I believe the problem is in the second part of movie, when action takes place in France. The screenplay gets slack, the editing is jarring and ending is abrupt and unsatisfactory. I watched the movie on DVD and saw all the three endings.All seemed inadequate. Overall I enjoyed the movie and was riveted till last 15 min or so. I believe it should be seen at least once. "},{"Title":"A good Cold War movie","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't Hitchcock at his best, but it is an interesting movie about a French agent and how he is caught up in the Cuban Missile Crisis.The sequence involving the defection of the KGB official was very tense. All the scenes with Karin Dor are great.  Dany robin was also good although she needed more screen time.  Roscoe Lee Browne's small role is entertaining, and John Forsythe is an interesting American contact for the film's star, Stafford.  He isn't suave like Cary Grant or as universally likeable as Jimmy Stewart, but that's not what his role calls for. Overall, he was good as the French agent.Compared to Hitchcock's previous effort, Torn Curtain, Topaz is a much better spy movie.  It is interesting to note the final scene - in which the audience is reminded of the deaths that had to occur before a solution was reached.  It is almost sympathetic toward the agents, and officials on all sides, traitors or not.This movie is worth watching to see a dramatization of the Cold War.  I was surprised at the end when I found out about Nicole's relation to Topaz.  A good movie. "},{"Title":"Not that bad but a disappointment from the master of suspense","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Topaz I don't think is Alfred Hitchcock's- my favourite director- weakest film, Jamaica Inn still gets my vote for that. But it is one of his most disappointing. I cannot say though that it is an irredeemable film, because it isn't and I have yet to see a Hitchcock film to be so. It is a well made film, the sets are attractive and atmospheric enough and the camera work and editing in Juanita's murder scene was brilliant. The murder was also Topaz's most memorable scene for me, mainly because of how stunningly aesthetic it was. The brief torture scene was suspenseful and shocking also, and Hitchcock's cameo was very entertaining. There are a couple of good performances. Karin Dor was the most impressive, she was deserving of more to do but she was intensely sensual and seemed to genuinely care about her situation. Roscoe Lee Brown's is very colourfully characterised also. John Forsythe was quite good also, and Phillippe Noiret is engaging. On the other hand, the film's pacing is plodding, and while there are some nice touches- the murder scene- and an entertaining cameo Hitchcock didn't seem to have his heart in it as much of it seemed rather flat.There are too many characters, and a lot of them are thinly sketched, and nobody else really shines in their roles with Frederick Stafford especially stone-faced and wooden throughout. John Vernon tries hard and has some nice deadpan humour but was severely underused for his villain to be any more of a threat. Dany Robin doesn't have anything to do and doesn't register as a result. The script is too talky and confused, and the storytelling suffers from too much going on to hide a rather thin structure for a film that is too long in the first place, a lack of excitement or nail-biting danger and three alternative endings that manage to be drawn-out and abrupt. It is also rather convoluted, and while Cuba was quite colourfully done atmosphere wise, everything else seemed drab and bland in comparison. Even Maurice Jarre's(responsible for the classic scores of Lawrence of Arabia and Doctor Zhivago) score was a disappointment, there are moments but at the same time too much of it seemed inappropriate and would be more fitting in a different film. Unlike the two scores mentioned, it was also not very memorable, or at least not to me, of all the scores for Hitchcock's films only Torn Curtain's fares worse with me. Overall, I don't think it is as bad as some people have said both in the IMDb reviews, on various message boards and from critics but at the same time I can understand the disappointment. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Forgotten Hitchcock Thriller.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock directed this cold war thriller that stars John Forsythe as American agent Michael Nordstrom, who is sent to interview a high-ranking Russian official who has defected to the U.S. with some vital information that a ring of French spies codenamed Topaz has been stealing and selling top secret NATO information to the Russians. Alarmed, Michael calls in his French friend and colleague to get to the bottom of this, and expose the spy ring, to minimize the National Security damage that has been done. Forgettable film has an unoriginal plot and uninspired direction by Sir Alfred. Not a bad film really, but entirely unmemorable. "}{"Title":"very weak Hitchcock","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" While this bland cold war thriller is watchable, it represents the least interesting of Hitchcock's '60s films, which steadily declined from the 1960 high point Psycho. It is a rather odd film for Hitchcock; not only does it lack the star power he generally uses, but it lacks engaging characters, with only Roscoe Lee Brown offering any real personality in a small role. The story is pretty dry, and Hitchcock was always better at elevating fantasy than finding the compelling in the matter of fact (Martin Ritt, whose Spy Who Came in from the Cold is the ultimate cold war spy movie, could have done more with this).While there are some suspenseful moments, and the occasional striking image (as when a woman's dress billows out like a pool of blood), overall the movie just doesn't have much to it. If I'd been watching Hitchcock's output in the '60s I would have considered him finished with this movie. Fortunately Alf's fortunes rose in the '70s. "},{"Title":"Now what could Dean Wormer do as a Cuban agent?","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Clearly one of Alfred Hitchcock's more experimental movies, Topaz focuses on Frenchman Andre Devereaux (Frederick Stafford) getting involved in espionage right before the Cuban Missile Crisis. The plot is actually somewhat convoluted. Something that nowadays makes us cringe is the casting of white people as Hispanics. An example is John Vernon - that's right, crotchety old Dean Wormer! - as Cuban agent Rico Parra. I have to admit that the only other cast members whom I recognized were Philippe Noiret and John Forsythe...unless you also count the footage of Fidel Castro speaking. All in all, sort of confusing, but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"...what went wrong?","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the period after Psycho, Hitchcock seemed to lurch from one very different film to the next. Almost mirroring his early British period in which he experimented with a variety of genres, his later period sees him leave familiar territory and, almost losing his way, try out a variety of movies with varying degrees of success.I hate to be the millionth person to say it but Topaz is by far the worst effort in this last batch. I tried  desperately to like it. Having read tonnes of reviews slating it to the hills I felt sure it would be an underrated masterpiece and while I have seen worse films in general, Hitch misfires all the way through this one.From the mumbled, wooden performances to the complex plot and rushed ending this film is a mystery - how did it ever get made in the first place? There isn't even any typical Hitchcock touches in the rather flat direction.See this if you're a fan of the great man and want to see as many films of his as possible, but don't hold your breath for too long. Topaz is a huge disappointment - the only good thing is that Hitch was back on form for his next project. "},{"Title":"utterly disappointing......","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have a lot to say about 'Topaz'.  It was towards the end of Hitchcock's career, and I imagine he was running out of steam.  Bottom line is that the movie is surprisingly boring.  The characters are dull as well.  I believe that there is all of one good scene in the movie.  What surprised me the most however, especially since Hitchcock directed it, what that the acting was horrible.  Perhaps he couldn't cast James Stewarts and Cary Grants, but there must have been someone that could act.  I don't know.  All I can say is that is you only watch one Hitchcock movie in your life, please don't make it this one.  Watch Notorious or Rear Window instead.  5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Dark Side of International Diplomaty","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Since I've seen the director's cut, I accept the Best-Rating. It's really an underrated Hitchcock - especially the 17 Minutes (footage) which where deleted for the first Release. Ironic, when the lovely Claude Jade (who was so brilliant in all her Truffaut-Movies and who here plays the agent's worried daughter) arrives at La Guardia at laughs when she says O, the cubans. I love the cubans. They are so wild. Yes, little Michèle, New York is marvellous. Some minutes later Roscoe Lee Browne meets the wild cubans. Why that phrase by Michèle was cut? It's cynic like the end, when Piccoli laughs and goes to Moscov, Stafford smiles Anyway, Honey, that's the end of 'Topaz'. Cause it's like Hitchcock's cynic look to the 007-genre - whithout heros! Betrayal everywhere. Universal has cut the Blue-Screen-Scene, when Stafford and Claude Jade driving to Granville's Party. Claude Jade ask Mother will be there. You will speak to her?. Stafford Of cause I'll speak to her. She left me. I didn't left her. (Stafford says that after his affair with Karin Dor). At the Party Claude Jade tells Dany Robin He's in terrible trouble. Robin There's nothing I can do.  When the trouble begins, and Claude Jade is worried about her husband (Michel Subor) and she has found the death body of Jarré (whow Philippe Noiret!), she cries in the arms of her mother - Then Robin makes a Betrayal and find's the loyality (to her daughter Michèle and her son-in-law, not to André!).It's a good drama about the relations between individual people and the Cold War. The Dark Side of International Diplomaty. Excellent Cast (Stafford is the Right to play that role!, internationally acclaimed french stars Robin, Jade, Subor, Piccoli and Noiret, great Karin Dor and John Vernon, charming Roscoe Lee Browne) In my opinion one of the best Hitchcock's. "},{"Title":"Lead-footed Hitchcock, taking backward steps...","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Leon Uris' fact-based novel about Cold War espionage in 1962 becomes globe-trotting yet lumbering non-thriller from Alfred Hitchcock. A high-ranking Russian official hopes to defect from his country while vacationing with his family in Denmark; the U.S. Embassy helps him out, mainly to get the facts about Russia's involvement with Cuba. When that doesn't pan out, a French agent is brought in to spy, but does his wife know he's romantically involved with the widow of a prominent Cuban leader? Melodramatic nonsense--looking like 1962 and technically feeling like 1962! With all the excitement in the world of the late '60s (on and off the screen), leave it to Hitchcock to plant cameras in sandwiches and have a secret darkroom lurking behind the pantry door! The actors are mostly colorless, except for magnetic John Vernon playing a representative of Fidel Castro (and dressed like him as well!); when Vernon is persuaded by a spy disguised as a reporter to stand out on his New York hotel balcony and wave to the black Americans, one assumes Hitchcock is satirizing the Castro mystique. But later, when footage of the real Castro is interspersed with the movie action, it makes for a dislocating experience. Opening the film with apparent stock footage of a Russian parade was an even worse idea, with credits superimposed over the gloppy colors which are nearly impossible to read. A few mildly exciting sequences (such as the chase in Copenhagen) and camera tricks can't camouflage the fact this is middle-drawer spy stuff, with the violent implications failing to supersede the grim talk and relationships at hand. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I knew Alfred wasn't perfect!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Every director has at least one bad movie or at least not as exciting as his other films. I was very much looking forward to Topaz, I saw a trailer for it and it looked like high suspense and ground breaking effects. Boy, was I wrong. I hate to admit it, I fast forwarded most of the movie because I nearly fell asleep more than a few times. This was a very dull and slow moving flick that I would really not recommend. Especially to those fragile viewers, because this could tarnish your view on Hitchcock forever. Not his best, probably his worst, I would really recommend to skip Topaz.4/10 "},{"Title":"Bit of a let-down","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have most of Hitchcock's films on DVD and purchased this one in the hope of a good suspense. I pay tribute to the picture quality which is technicolor and very good but the plot is far too complicated for my small brain and I prefer films which distill strong suspense ( like Rear Window or Marnie ) but with simpler plots. Also, there weren't any of my favourite actors in the film, only unknown ones - this does reduce quite considerably the interest of the film. I know Piccoli and Noiret from French Cinema ( but what on earth are they doing in a Hitchcock film - it just doesn't ring true ! ) I prefer English or American actors and actresses in these films.  Also the end of the film is pretty pathetic and, according to the DVD, wasn't even the ending Hitckcock wanted himself. The avantage of the DVD is that we get to see the 3 different endings imagined up for the film. The whole thing is over long and could have been condensed to 90 minutes. On the Spies theme I far prefer the film 'Torn Curtain ( which really had me biting my nails ) and also which had a much more interesting music score. I just can't see why they make some of these Espionage films so complicated - one almost has a brain haemorrage trying to understand who is who and who is on what side !!! "},{"Title":"Even the great Hitch made a few turkeys.","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The worst script I've ever seen in a Hitchcock film. The acting is mediocre at best. Most of the characters behave like robots on anti- depressants. Plot suffers from an overdose of predictability. Story based on stereotypes that would make even the hokiest hack writer blush. About as subtle as an elephant in heat. Probably financed by the John Birch Society. Great footage of NY in the 60s. Cinematography pretty good. Good for a laugh - although I don't think that was the intended reaction. It is hard to believe that Hitch would have bothered with such a project. There is not a speck of thrill in this dull thriller that numbs the sensibility of even the most hardcore Hitchcock fan. "},{"Title":"If there were ever such a thing as a bad Hitchcock movie this would be it","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the time that we are very young we are taught as a universal truth that Alfred Hitchcock was a cinematic genius that no one could ever match and that even at his worst Hitchcock was still better than anyone else. Well, for the most part, yeah, Hitchcock was very good at what he did and he generally made entertaining movies. But even a genius can make mistakes, even the best can screw up, even the greats turn left when they should have turned right, you get the idea. In this case, Topaz is one of those few Hitchcock films that deserves the label of bad film. And no the old 2nd rate Hitchcock is still better than anyone else cannot hide the fact that this is simply a bad film.Based on a novel by Leon Uris which was based on the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, the film follows a French agent, played by the late Frederick Stafford, as he is roped into doing some dirty work for Uncle Sam by an American intelligence man played by John Forsythe (who played one of Hitchcock's less endearing leading men in The Trouble With Harry which is still better than this). Politics, espionage and unhappy romances ensue. Unfortunately, there's no glue holding the film together.Clearly Hitchcock's heart was not in this one, just another assignment made by an old school filmmaker trying to keep working in a changing Hollywood industry, and even Hitchcock himself admitted this film was a turkey. A few well executed shots (such as a stylish death scene in Cuba) cannot make up for the over-length and lack of pacing. After The Birds Hitchcock seemed to lose some of his cinematic swagger and never quite re-achieved the greatness he had in earlier films. Some have compared this unfavorably to his previous Cold War thriller, Torn Curtain, both of which were said to have very troubled productions, from uncompleted scripts to insufficient music, etc. I honestly don't know which is worse; at least Torn Curtain had Paul Newman and Julie Andrews. Some familiar and welcome faces pop here, such as John Vernon as, of all things, a Fidel Castro lookalike and Roscoe Lee Brown (both of whom have sadly passed away), but most of the cast are less familiar to the average viewer, though apparently they were very big stars in Europe, especially France. The late Frederick Stafford (who died tragically in a plane crash) comes across as little more than a poor man's James Bond, as another reviewer put it, lacking the charisma of Sean Connery (leading man of Marnie) or even other Hitchcock leading men like Cary Grant, James Stewart, or Rod Taylor of The Birds and for the most part, the characters just aren't that interesting, regardless of whether or not they're being played by movie stars.For the die hard Hitchcock buff only. "}{"Title":"It is certainly not Hitchcock's best but it is not bad either.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A French intelligence agent becomes embroiled in the Cold War politics first with uncovering the events leading up to the 1962 Cuban Missle Crisis, and then back to France to break up an international Russian spy ring. A high ranking Russian official defects to the United States, where he is interviewed by US agent Michael Nordstrom. The defector reveals that a French spy ring codenamed Topaz has been passing NATO secrets to the Russians. Michael calls in his French friend and counterpart Andre Devereaux to expose the spies. It's not a Hitchcock classic, but it is certainly an excellent movie, and it deserves to receive much more credit than it does. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock didn't change it for the better !","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all I'd love to see the original 150 minutes version of Hitchcock's spy flick Topaz. By original version I mean the one version before the disastrous test screenings which let to several crucial changes. While watching I just couldn't stop but feeling something was missing. Then I saw a documentary about this picture and it came clear to me. Here glimpses of deleted material provided hints that Topaz used to be stronger and more congruent than it is now. Nevertheless I have to add it doesn't look like this original version had the greatness to become a classic.It seems to me like Hitchcock at several moments lost his movie on his quest for compromise between his idea and the preferences of the audience. The result leaves many question-marks. Topaz doesn't run as smooth as former Hitchcocks. Referring to the documentation for Topaz the audience wanted it shorter. Possibly it was too long, but I'd say it's difficult to leave scenes out without losing too important info... as happened here ! Further more from what I've seen from the deleted material I can understand why the audience didn't enjoy the original ending but it was still way better and clearer than the current one. Summing up Topaz (1969) based on a novel was meant to be different. I doubt it could have been a classic but it could have become a far better film. This official version is no complete let-down but considering that it was directed by Hitchcock it is disappointing. In my opinion all too important pieces are missing and the changed ending doesn't work. It could have been so much more ! "},{"Title":"Meta-flawed Hitchcock.","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When you talk about TOPAZ, I think that first and foremost, the most fair thing to do is to take it out of it's context as a Hitchcock film. Film criticism generally consists by far too much loose opinions, and this has led to an ignorant popular belief that Topaz was Hitchcock loosing touch or a film made by the senile Hitchcock. It seems that Hitchcock couldn't make any kind of film he wanted, since his name held him captive as the master of suspense - with demands and expectations from the thick crowd. Now, I won't deny that Topaz is flawed. But it is an interesting, nearly fascinating film, nonetheless. More importantly, the flaws are quite complex and makes no real sense. Let me try to explain further.Leonard Maltin claimed that the most difficult part of Topaz was it's lack of stars. I think that the lack of stars is completely unessential. On the contrary, the idea of a more natural hitch film freed from stars is a nice one in my mind. It's possible that the absence of an Ingrid Bergman made matters worse to the general public, but all in all it's not a problem.The problem lies in three things The Plot. The Intrigue. The Editing. These three things, usually perfected with ease by Hitch, aren't properly working as they should in Topaz. First it's the story, the very idea of the film. It's puzzling in it's vagueness. Stafford's eligible French spy goes to Cuba to infiltrate Russian commie business. The mission succeeds, upon which a Russian leek in France is detected. The leek is tracked down. The end.What?! There is no consistent story element that is anywhere near interesting in the film. Naturally, most Cold War-thrillers are bound to feel aged nowadays, but even when the Cold War was upon us this must have been a really thin plot. Now, if that wasn't enough, the intrigue is planned out with genuine dumb wit. First, we are led to believe that the story is about an espionage episode during the Cuban Missile Crisis. Diffusely we accept this plot and are gradually sucked into it with Hitch's talent to tell a story. Halfway through though, Cuba is abandoned for the trust-nobody-dramatics in France. The mood is suspenseful, but one must say that the story is genuinely uninteresting and more importantly out of cope with the pace of the film, which just started to get interesting. Another problem is that the first half of the film have some great characters As we are led to believe that the film is about this spy operation in Cuba, we are also led to believe that John Vernon is our antagonist as well as Karin Dor is our heroine next to Stafford. These are great characters, but they are executed and dismissed the moment Stafford returns home. Instead we get a bunch of French suits, of which Philippe Noiret turns out to be the real villain. On Cuba, the film has a dramatic, flamboyant tone with colorful characters - in France, the color scheme is gray. It's simply a letdown.It's no secret that Hitch had to re-cut Topaz, due to a catastrophe test screening. When you see some of the edited material, including the two endings where at least one (the duel between Stafford and Noiret) is a far better one than the bleak ending in the finished film. The biggest mistake in the editing process though is the reduction of the relations between the characters. Dany Robin's affair with Noiret makes no sense, but if you know how deep the story of Robin/Noiret/Stafford goes it's suddenly A LOT more interesting. The same goes for Stafford contra Noiret, who are longtime friends which doesn't come out clearly in the finished film. In this context, Vernon plays out as a great on-the-side-villain and Noiret's character is given a lot of strength.Unfortunately, these crucial elements are basically abandoned in the finished film, leaving a strange and very unfocused film. Now, this comment deals with the flaws and not the upsides. In short, Topaz is a well-made film with good actors and a lot of typical, visual Hitch-stuff. It is completely impossible to make a bad film with those ingredients. But Topaz is definitely spoiled. "},{"Title":"Costume Jewelry","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's 1962, and the United States suspects the Russians are getting too cozy with the Cubans. French agent Frederick Stafford (as Andre Devereaux) is recruited, by the Americans, to find out what's going on between the Socialist allies - and, as it turns out, the Soviets are secretly installing offensive nuclear missiles in Cuba. Go figure. Which country knows what, and how much they know, leads the film's characters to a spy ring called Topaz. Surprising romantic entanglements move the plot along.The sexual affairs, storyline, and location footage are only 50% plausible; the multiple choice endings are on even shakier ground. The Airport seems to be the current authorized (by Universal) ending, but none of the three work because there is no climatic pursuit, or conversation about the revelatory love affair involving the Topaz leader. Still, this is a marvelously directed and nicely performed film. Director Alfred Hitchcock knows how to shoot light bulbs, staircases, and Karin Dor in a purple dress.******* Topaz (12/17/69) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Frederick Stafford, Dany Robin, Michel Subor, Michel Piccoli "},{"Title":"Clumsy but OK, a slight improvement over the previous film","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As interviewed by Truffaut, Hitchcock said he was not interested in political films. Then he made Torn Curtain and Topaz, unsuccessful cold war thrillers with awkward, childish anticommunist messages.Although not as bad as Torn Curtain, Topaz is still one of Hitchcock's least memorable films. It was filmed in various locations around the world, but seems fairly uninteresting. The cast is varied, having no real stars. Main character, played by Frederick Stafford, comes from the George Lazenby-Jean-Claude van Damme school of acting. At least he doesn't seem to have strained his facial muscles by moving them. In addition to the weak main character, there are many unfocused supporting characters John Forsythe (belonging to the Frederick Stafford school of acting), Dany Robin (as the wife, almost as naive as Julie Andrews in Torn Curtain), Per-Axel Arosenius (in a dull role, simply annoying) as well as Michel Piccoli and Philippe Noiret, who are good in their disappointingly marginal roles. Karin Dor and John Vernon are very good in their roles.There's some suspense in the film, once again unlike Torn Curtain. There doesn't seem to be much coherence in the story; characters come and go and the shift from one continent to the other is abrupt. Maurice Jarre's score is also incoherent.There are too many musical elements the rousing march at the beginning, the electronically enhanced suspense music and the love themes are not connected to one another. Still, it's not as bad as John Addison's music for Torn Curtain.True to Hitchcock's tradition of having at least one memorable shot in each film, in Topaz it is the magnificent murder scene between two lovers, made as if it were a love scene, with sexual implications. I won't reveal more, but it's a great scene.Hitchcock was in trouble with this film from the start he didn't have the story completed when he was beginning to shoot, he didn't have a satisfying ending (he shot three endings) and when the film was completed, he had to cut 17 minutes from it in order to receive distribution for the film in Britain by Rank. All this contributed naturally to the incoherent nature of the film, and despite these troubles, Topaz is surprisingly good. What's more interesting, the edited 17 minutes will apparently be restored on the new video release of the film.  "},{"Title":"A Real Misfire","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading a few of the other comments, I wonder if I saw the same movie. Other than a few effective visuals, Topaz is one of the dullest spy movies I've ever seen. The acting is uniformly wooden, the male lead (Frederick Stafford) has no charisma, and the ending is too abrupt. A real misfire from Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Interesting Cold War movie from Leon Uris' novel","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a pretty odd Hitchcock film because the territory is pretty unfamiliar to his audiences. This and the prior film, THE TORN CURTAIN are both about the battle between Communism and Democracy instead of the usual individual stories about murder.This movie is a background story about how the Cuban Missile Crisis came to the attention of the US government. The story is set in France and their government is inundated with Communists and Communist spies posing as defenders of the Republic. The focus of all this is a lone brave agent that stumbles upon the story but he finds due to infiltration, his own countrymen either don't care or won't allow themselves to believe that their country is so compromised. Ultimately, this brave man is forced to take another approach, as he understands that world peace might be at stake if something doesn't happen and fast! This film is a highly entertaining but cerebral look at the Cold War that would be of interest to most anyone but a die-hard nationalistic French person. They wouldn't find this movie interesting in the least--especially due to Uris' assertion that the French were in bed with the Russians, so to speak (say it isn't so!). I've also read the novel and the film adaptation is excellent. "},{"Title":"What a strange cast!","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock had already worked with French actorsPierre Fresnay in the man who knew too much ,1st version Brigitte Auber and Charles Vanel in  to catch a thief or Louis Jourdan in  the Paradine case.But in Topaz ,French actors outnumber the others.And it is a very strange gathering Dany Robin was a romantic female lead of the two previous decades ;Michel Subor was an earnest intellectual thespian ;Michel Piccoli and Philippe Noiret were two sixties favorites;and Claude Jade was François Truffaut's protégée ,which may help her or not become part of the cast.Add the poor man's James Bond F.Stafford( OSS 117 in France) and you realize that it was impossible to get a high standard Hitch.In the Hitchcock/Truffaut book, the French director reveals that AH had to cut some scenes which made the audience laugh (a duel between Piccoli and Stafford);that he did not know,for the first time in his life,how to end his film;that he (and it's obvious) imitated Costa-Gavras's Z ending .Topaz ,unlike  torn curtain ,an underrated spy thriller,is probably AH's latter days' worst movie. "},{"Title":"Stop protecting Hitchcock--even he knew it was bad","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not much reason to go on and on about this one. It has viewers willing to put on blinders in an effort to protect the legacy of Hitchcock, but even the best filmmakers have their mediocrities. This is one of Hitch's mistakes and he knew it going in. He was a commercial filmmaker who was suffering like many of the other old timers (Zinnemann, Stevens, Hawks, etc.) with the late 60's filmic collapse of the old order. He needed work and Uris' best-selling novel was his way back in. Unfortunately it wasn't his cup of tea and it shows. The film is directly almost mechanically, with a TV movie look to it, and a score from the always second-rate Maurice Jarre that is as dull as the direction. A very, very talky movie with a cast that is nearly uniform in its lack of charisma. Then there is the miscasting of John Vernon as a Cuban leader (being made-up to resemble Castro). Perhaps if Hitch had a John F. Kennedy character played by Gilbert Roland it might have been a funny ethnic joke, but it's really the sad old tale of ignoring actors that fit the race or nationality of the part in order to give the job to a white actor (about the same time as this we got Jack Palance as Castro and Omar Sharif as Che Guevara in Che!) Anyway, it's a three-part story with a few effective moments cancelled out by the plodding nature of the whole enterprise. During the end of the second phase of the film, the Cuban section, it appears we're seeing something build up, but then that ends like the finish of a TV episode and we're off to the last, incredibly talky and dull section in Paris... where the film finds its finish at the airport with characters talking and talking. This is NOT the way Hitchcock ends his films it's neither comic or action-packed. Consider the climactic airport scene in Bullitt that came out the year previous to this film action and suspense combined wonderfully---and directed by an otherwise secondary filmmaker named Peter Yates. Thankfully Hitch moved on to Frenzy a few years later and regained some luster lost by the combined failures of Marnie, Torn Curtain and this debacle. "},{"Title":"Cuban Secrets","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Set in the weeks leading up to the Cuban Missile Crisis, this Hitchcock thriller details the attempts of the CIA and France's intelligence agency to work out what Cuba is planning to do with their reported missiles. With a basis in real life events, 'Topaz' sounds interesting enough, however, the film was apparently a very troubled production full of scene rewrites, and this uneasiness is very visible. Calling the plot 'muddled' would be an understatement as the screenplay awkwardly tries to weave in espionage intrigue (what does the codeword 'topaz' mean?) with all the tension regarding Cuba. The most disappointing aspect of the film is, however, the characters and performances. There is not a single likable character who is engaging or interesting to follow around. Hitchcock reportedly disliked how two dimensional the antagonists in the source novel by Leon Uris were, and to his credit, John Vernon comes off relatively well as a Fidel Castro type, oozing danger yet never a caricature of evil, however, the fact Vernon is far more fascinating than protagonists Frederick Stafford and John Forsythe never feels right. The film is not, however, quite as worthless as some of its dissenters claim. There are several tense moments throughout, with a clear highlight being an exciting sequence in which the French try to get hold of a red briefcase full of secret documents; the opening defection is also nail-bitingly intense - but these solid bits are few and far between as the film relies far too heavily on dialogue for a movie where the characters are secondary to their actions. "}{"Title":"Espionage and subterfuge underline the better of Hitchcock's two Cold War films","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" TOPAZ, based on a novel of the same name by Leon Uris, was Hitchcock's second (and final) foray into the Cold War, and is about a French agent who gets caught in between the Americans and the Russians. By this point in his career, Hitchcock was quite content to plagiarize himself, as a lot of elements in TOPAZ can be found in his other (better) films, but I did find this to be a slight improvement over his previous effort, TORN CURTAIN. Without the star power behind this as was in TORN CURTAIN, TOPAZ's story, as labyrinthine and convoluted as it is, is brought to the foreground. As always, Hitch's use of camera-work and editing to create suspense is as evident here as it is throughout most of his other work. The sequence which stood out the most to me was a prolonged, mostly silent scene in which a Martinique agent gains access to a hotel where he will get some documents important to the plot, all while his French contact watches from the other side of the street. There was also a just-before-death confession reminiscent of one in THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH, and an exquisitely filmed death scene in which a woman's purple dress fills most of the screen. Still, the plot this time was a bit unwieldy. As there weren't any stars in the film, there wasn't as much focus in the story as I would have liked. At first you think it will be about some Russian defectors, later American NATO agents, and then it settles on a French NATO agent who works on behalf of the Americans to get some information on Russian activities in Cuba. Although it will probably benefit from watching it a few more times, on first viewing it was a lot of take in and keep track of. Still, the complicatedness of it all allowed for some interesting double and triple-dealings. From an acting standpoint, I thought that most of the performances were rather wooden. Considering that this is perhaps the most talkative Hitchcock movie I've seen so far, it was a little difficult to watch in that regard. Still, it wasn't all bad. John Forsythe (THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY) had a supporting role as an American NATO agent, and he did fine. And even though badly miscast, John Vernon did alright for himself as Cuban Rico Parra. Switching composers again, Maurice Jarre provided the score, and while not in the same league as Bernard Herrmann (after all, who is?), his cues and main theme set the tone of the film quite nicely with some occasionally quirky touches. The title sequence, set over a Russian parade, also had a stirring martial quality that perfectly set the mood for the tense opening scene. Overall, I would say that TOPAZ has more immediate entertainment value than did TORN CURTAIN, although the plot is more complicated and the acting isn't as good. Still, TOPAZ is as eloquently produced as anything Hitchcock laid his hands on and provides enough thrills to balance out the long running time. "},{"Title":"Decent spy thriller, but different Hitchcock","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am fond of old, Cold War spy movies and I try to watch/re-watch them bit by bit. True, they have multiple similar type of characters and solutions, particularly with the entrance of James Bond movies, but in the event of smooth plot and pleasant performances, you will not have blah feelings. I can't remember I have seen Topaz before, but, on the alike many other viewers here, I was not put off by the name of Alfred Hitchcock; as I knew the plot briefly, I did not expect any thrilling suspension in the style of Psycho.Nevertheless, I liked the movie in general, particularly direction and cinematography; as for the cast, there were no excelling performances, Frederick Stafford as André Devereaux was not very charismatic, and the French actors made conversations in English even if talking to themselves (a feature seldom visible in recent movies where dubbing or subtitles are used in scenes concerned). The plot was okay as well, especially the places I have visited, but decades later, and if we consider that the Cuban-Western crisis is not totally over until now... The events were nicely round-up, twists were explained at some point, and general logic was maintained throughout the movie. And last but not least Topaz is a color movie, enabling to enjoy beautiful landscapes and city space. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not one of Hitchcock's best","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock's attempt to do a movie of Uris's cold war spy novel is entertaining, as all Hitchcock's films are, but I would wager that he agonized over this one. He was very good in the scenes where the politicians/intelligence agents are meeting over 'who knows what about whom, and what does it mean, and who is going to leak what to whom, and how will this affect everyone, and let's do whatever it takes to find out.' Hitchcock is always a genius in the one-on-one close-ups whereby body language so betrays the hidden dark secrets, but I am not so sure about the scenes that are supposed to explain to a movie audience just who is an enemy of whom, and who is out to stab whom in the back (if you know what I mean). Personally, I think Cubby Broccoli does a better job of these kinds of spy stories in the James Bond series.The Hitchcock action sort of stops and starts in jerky movements, like a car with a faulty engine. Copenhagen, to Washington, to Cuba, to Paris, back to Washington. Getting on planes, getting off planes. From unhappy wives to anxious daughters to an ambitious son-in-law (his loyalty was to whom? And what exactly was his purpose in the film?) From enigmatic mistresses to servants who are agents (for whom? and why?) The only explanation Cuba is a prison. Huh? In the early days Castro was a saint! To me, the best scene in the movie is that of getting the defector and his family out of Copenhagen. That was pure Hitchcock. Hitchcock never gave attention to the blatant kissy, kissy stuff in his movies like he did in this one. The romance was almost also implied, which made it even more magic. Those particular scenes in this one felt like A) filler or B) everyone in Hollywood is doing it; we should also do it.This movie was to me one of the weakest of the Hitchcock events. It is painful to compare it to North by Northwest, Rear Window, Witness for the Prosecution, Dial M...,' etc, etc, etc. The morale of this experience is, stay true to yourself and your craft, no matter what. "},{"Title":"Engaging but soapy","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I personally found Topaz engaging and interesting. But I found myself wondering why the lead character was written to have a wife and very blatantly a lover in a different country. It didn't make him less likable and that in itself is interesting. For some reason, the lead male character is sympathetic despite his blatant disregard for his wife's feelings. It is obvious a man wrote this story. A woman would have found the infidelity of the lead character appalling. That aside, Topaz is interesting to watch even if it becomes a bit like a soap with the dramatic interpersonal relations and the emotions so closely shot on the character's faces. The movie is well done and well acted but very complicated. Lot's of on location shots make the atmosphere good but at times it seems a bit over dramatic. Still, Hitchcock fans will probably enjoy this. The ending seems a bit odd but the DVD has 3 different endings so you can pick your own out of the three. "},{"Title":"More for Fans of Hitch...","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I give this a 'Seven' instead of a 'Six' only because I'm a huge fan of Hitchcock, and the film has possibly the greatest death scene/shot in movie history (the death of Juanita). The other reviewer hit the nail on the head when he/she wrote that most people are used to 'faster' or more 'suspenseful' Hitchcock, and truth be told, I believe that is how he should be remembered (I mean, is there anyone else who came close?!!). However, 'Vertigo', which many claim is his masterpiece, doesn't really fall into the staple Hitch canon, although it does produce its own kind of suspense because we don't know what's going to happen with Scottie and Judy/Madeleine.The production values are high of course, being a studio export. And, if you didn't know Hitchcock directed the film - and then watched it, you would know soon enough. Why, the flower shop scene or the bribing of Uribe - are classic Hitchcock tactics.Overall, this story is not that suspenseful despite the incredibly dire historical context. Things get a little more interesting with scenes like when Parra's lieutenant recognizes Devereaux in the Castro speech crowd - but it's Devereaux's Cuban contacts that suffer for his probing, not him. In light of this, a felt the film generated a good degree of pathos for freedom fighters the world over - especially when Mrs. Mendoza is holding her dead? husband in her arms, just before she gives up Juanita to Parra.And for what it's worth, I think Hitchcock's cameo is one of the best he ever had - hilarious! "},{"Title":"Easily Underestimated","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As cold war films go, this is unheralded and certainly far better than the more recent film that covered the same subject, the Cuban Missile Crisis.A Frenchman is co-opted to do some spying work for the Americans in Cuba and, in what is largely an unheralded cast, you are absolutely gripped as he works to uncover exactly what is going on with a Russians inflitrating the French secret service at the same time.The casting of the Cuban characters really did impress, as they were very Castro-esque.Not a usual Hitchcock thriller, but very well done all the same. "},{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's worst","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This takes place in 1962 right before the Cuban Missle Crisis. French intelligence agent Andre Devereaux (Frederick Stafford), who's working for the US, gets involved with finding out what the Russians are doing in Cuba. There's more to it but you'll be so bored you won't care.Hard to believe Hitchcock did this. The story and characters are uninvolving (and unlikable), it moves far too slowly and it goes on at least half an hour too long. This is the kind of movie Hitch did so beautifully in the 1940s (like Notorious or Foreign Correspondent) but it's pretty obvious his heart wasn't in this one. Also he said he was trying to use color to tell the story--he later admitted it didn't work. The most surprising thing about this is how badly it's directed! It's very flatly done. With the exception of one shooting it looks like something any hack director could have filmed.Acting is pretty bad. Stafford has his moments as Devereaux and Roscoe Lee Browne and Karin Dor are very good in small roles--but that's it. Everybody else seems drained and walk through this stone-faced just reciting their lines. And seeing John Vernon as a Cuban is actually pretty hysterical! Hitcock himself called this a complete disaster. It was also an understandable critical and commercial failure. For Hitchcock completists only. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Topaz was one of Hitchcock's last films and along with The Paradine Case one of his worst.  Some people think that this movie was better than some of his later films like Family Plot, Marnie, and Torn Curtain.  Well, I say no way! Although John Forsythe, Frederick Stafford, and Karin Dor are in it, there's not much to this movie that is memorable.  If you're a Hitchcock fan, you'll want to see it.  However, the less said about it, the better. "},{"Title":"Coconuts and Commies","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There will not be, under any conditions, an intervention in Cuba by the United States Armed Forces. - President Kennedy (4 days before US invasion of Cuba) Alfred Hitchcock's Topaz is a spy thriller revolving around Soviet double agents, much espionage and the Cuban missile crisis. It's a poor film, most notable for several wordless sequences and its relation to the politics of Hitchcock's other films.Hitchcock is typically labelled an apolitical director, but he directed a number of propaganda reels early in his career, as well as fare like Saboteur and Foreign Correspondent, which rebuked the US media for not intervening during WW2 (at the time, Jewish owned papers in the US were scared of advocating intervention). Between 1934 and 1938 he then made at least six movies which commented directly on the then current political landscape (The Man Who Knew Too Much, The 39 Steps, Secret Agent, Sabotage, The Lady Vanishes). Biographies of the director (Donald Spoto) tend to brush such things off as Hitch exploiting contemporary British fears as an entertainment gimmick, which is true in some respects, but remember that Hitchcock actually willingly signed up to the Royal Engineers Corp in 1917, and many of his early interviews find him expressing a sense of guilt at having abandoned England for Hollywood (and turning his back on the then burgeoning war). Hitchcock's Sabotage would itself deal with the growing threat of anarchists and the fascists behind them, and Lady Vanishes went so far as to reprimand the British government for its appeasement policies toward Germany. Indeed, Hitchcock was given the reigns of Lifeboat precisely because he promised to deliver a pro-Ally propaganda piece. Intended as a microcosm of WW2, and with cooperation from the Untied States War Office, the film actually irked government officials because it was too nuanced and painted a Nazi officer in a somewhat human light. Bosley Crowther of the New York Times accused the film of selling out democratic ideals and elevating Nazi supermen whilst the War Office moaned that it was a picture which the Nazi propagandists themselves would like to promote. In reality, the film was simply more nuanced a form of flag-waving &#x96; Hitchcock's lines between good and evil are often ambiguous - than the era was familiar with. While the democracies were completely disorganised, Hitchcock later said of the film, all Germans were clearly headed in the same direction. So here was a statement telling the democracies to put their differences aside temporarily and to gather their forces to concentrate on the common enemy. In other words, the film, which featured bickering allies and a cool as a cucumber Nazi, was a sort of rallying cry; put aside your differences and work together to kill. Hitch would then work with Sidney Bernstein on two propaganda shorts overseas, Bon Voyage and Adventure Malgache, both designed to bolster French spirits.So in some ways Topaz relates to Hitchcock's earlier war-time thrillers. The plot, which sees Allied agents attempting to uncover Russian operatives operating out of Castro's Cuba, spends much of its time inadvertently whipping up anti-Cuban, anti-Castro and anti-communist fears. The Russians have Cuba locked up, characters opine, the film forever in fear of commie infiltrations and nukes raining down upon Florida. Of course, historically, the truth was almost the complete opposite. In 1962, when Topaz takes place, it was the US who had Cuba on lock-down, it was the US who was the existential threat and it was the US who hastened Cuba's alignment with the Soviet Union. When Castro kicked out Cuba's US puppet leader (Batista), took power, made the decision to nationalise Cuba's industries, pass agrarian acts and turn ownership of land over to his populace, this was deemed unacceptable by the US, who quickly set about conducting terrorist attacks and assassinations (almost 700 assassination attempts on Castro), whilst the CIA began sabotaging local factories, engaging in urban terrorism and attempting to incite insurrections anyway it could (even air dropping fake counter-revolutionary protesters). Indeed, the US actually invaded Cuba several times prior to the Bay of Pigs. The message was clear Cuba would not be allowed free determination.The irony is, whilst the US populace publicly supported Castro, viewed him as a revolutionary, the US government was engaged in a secret war which even today few history books fully acknowledge. A further irony is that it was the US sanctions, economic threats, embargoes (on oil and banking) and incessant bombing runs on Cuban sugar mills, refineries, farms and cane fields (hundreds of pounds of bombs and napalm dropped a day) which hastened Cuba's alignments with the Soviet Union, with whom it signed trade agreements to stay alive. In response the US then ordered oil campaniles Esso, Texaco and British Shell to refuse to process the Soviet oil which Cuba now imported, and amended its trade acts to cut off imports from Cuba. Cuba's economy ruined and energy supplies cut off, Castro was then forced to nationalise Texaco, Esso and Shell refineries. The US then used this as a pretext to bomb refineries, roads, sink ships &#x96; unconscionably, the UN rubber stamps these operations - and set about on a decades long attempt to strangulate the country. No surprise that the US Secretary of State and CIA director during this period, the Dulles brothers, were stockholders, legal advisers and Presidents of the United Fruit Company, whose land was purchased by Castro and turned over to Cubans. All the while, the US was fine-tuning Operation Northwoods, a plot to fake acts of terrorism on US soil and against US citizens in order to whip up support, and cook up a pretext, for invading Cuba.5/10 &#x96; A misfire. Still, with no moral centre, no clearly define heroes/bad guys, and characters who struggle to reconcile personal integrity with political beliefs, Topaz is murkier than most Hitchcock thrillers. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but then this is Hitchock","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Firstly let me make it clear I'm an avid Hitchcock fan.Secondly this film is flawed, but then it's hard to name a Hithcock film that isn't. He was an artist but often produced some very clumsy scenes as well as outstanding and innovative ones.The ending of this film is abrupt especially after the lengthy talky scenes of the final (French) part of the film (which had some great scenes especially with Philippe Noiret & Michel Piccoli). Abrupt - this is Hitchcock being clumsy again (Needed a bit more time spent on in to polish it up, that's all), but probable - so not unsatisfying.The 2nd part stands out, most notably in the exceptionally filmed murder scene; Hithcock is at his best when he's being arty - beautiful (Full honours to Karin Dor!).The opening defection scene is pure Hitchcock.The score, often fine, is inappropriate at times (Either by being there at all, or too light a mood).I think this film has been sadly underrated. It may lack the action modern films seem to require but it is a good counter balance to the OTT espionage films like Bond (Which I have to admit I also enjoy, Roger Moore aside). "}{"Title":"One of Hitchcock's worst turkeys","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't care who made it, TOPAZ is a dreadful film. The acting is terrible - John Forsythe and Frederick Stafford make Greg Morris and Peter Lupus in MISSION IMPOSSIBLE look like Olivier and Gielgud. John Vernon looks exactly like one of those stock Latin American revolutionaries that the IMF force overthrew every week. As a thriller, it simply does not thrill. The dialogue is execrable - the dubbing worse. The only interesting bits are when - mercifully - hardly anybody speaks. The blurb on the 2005 DVD describes TOPAZ as a 'riveting' and 'spellbinding espionage thriller.' By the end, 'the danger and the suspense builds to a heart-pounding conclusion in this lavish, globe-trotting thriller.' Ask for your money back - but you won't get it. I think Hitchcock is greatly over-rated he made some great films, yes, but some terrible turkeys as well. If you want a great espionage film, try THE IPCRESS FILE, THE SPY WHO CAME IN FROM THE COLD, THE GOOD SHEPHERD, or the TV series of TINKER TAILOR SOLDIER SPY and SMILEY'S PEOPLE... "},{"Title":"Bad.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have to say that. Despite all my respect for sir. Alfred Hitchcock, calling this film average or even below average would be a lie. It has a good premise, actually. But it fails terribly in actually make things happen based on that. The entire conflict part of the film(approx between 40-90 min) is based in pointless plot turns which never lead to a really satisfying resolution. And trust me this 'flaw' repeat itself over and over again in the entire act. It's like the writer of that script was trying to finish it as fast as he could for whatever reason(the only explanation for such lazy and bad solved situations in the film). Actually, this 'flaw' happens about 5 times I'm the first hour of the film. Tiring? Yes. And still a entire hour to watch. Just bad. A few below average performances are equally notable. To balance this web of cons, it obviously has something good(talking about Hitchcock).The score wasn't actually bad. Neither the cinematography and, as i already mentioned, the good premise. But, nothing special to save that film. 4.7/10 "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's bloated Cold War outing","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a reason you don't hear much about Alfred Hitchcock's 1969 Cold War opus, TOPAZ, and that's simply because it's not that great a movie. Oh, it has some great moments in it &#x96; come to think of it, what Hitchcock film doesn't? &#x96; but the director is unable to sustain that greatness for the movie's duration, which means there are long passages where nothing much in the way of anything happens.The overly-complex storyline has way too many supporting characters and the film has a way of setting up one group of characters and situating them before dropping their storyline suddenly and moving on to someone else. That makes it very difficult to get emotionally involved in the proceedings, because all the time you're expecting the principles to disappear and for the story to move elsewhere.It starts off well, for instance, with the defection of a top Russian official. Hitch is on top form, extracting every drop of suspense in detailing his escape. But then those characters disappear to be eventually replaced by Parisian spy Andre Devereaux, played by Frederick Stafford. Stafford is slightly stiff and definitely unmemorable as a Hitchcock leading man; he lacks the easy charm and charisma of a Grant or Stewart and the film suffers as a result. There are still some great moments &#x96; the scene in which a man attempts to photograph some secret documents is a 'how to' guide in building suspense &#x96; but by the time the action shifted to Cuba, back to America and then to France for the long-winded climax, I'm afraid to say I just didn't care much anymore.It all feels like an attempt to emulate the globe-trotting hijinks of James Bond, especially when Stafford takes time out to romance exotic beauty Karin Dor. But it lacks the excitement and danger that made those films so popular during this era. Hitchcock's approach is too clinical when he needs to involve the feelings of his characters more, and the lack of any major sympathetic roles is another blow. Roscoe Lee Browne bagged by far my favourite role in the entire movie, yet he's in it for far too short a time. Similarly, the great John Vernon is on hand as a larger-than-life Cuban leader, but his villain is underutilised and just seems to disappear from the story as it goes on.At over two hours and twenty minutes in length, TOPAZ is by far Hitch's longest movie. But it's too long. Half an hour could easily have been excised from that running time to tighten things up and improve the pacing a little, but as it stands there's just too much of nothing going on here for it to be worth more than a cursory watch. "},{"Title":"Age is cruel with some films","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After the cold war in East Germany in Torn Curtain, Hitchcock had to deal with the big bad wolf, the USSR. And he did in this film, though it concerns more Washington and France, but only a little bit Cuba and practically not at all the USSR, directly at least since the bad guy is the USSR. We are in October 1962. A top KGB official defects to the USA and reveals a few things, but little, about Cuba. He confirms at least something is happening in Cuba. Hitchcock finds it funny to insist on the incompetence and impotence of the Americans, and particularly the CIA. That's the first remark from the KGB fleeing official. But it is shown in length. They are obliged to go through a French secret agent in Washington to get the information they want, including the pictures of his mission to Cuba for surveillance of the Russian deliveries. And it is funny how the French commercial attaché of the French embassy is going to use his connection with another French agent from the French West Indies to approach the necessary person in the Cuban delegation to the United Nations General Assembly to get a copy of the agreement between the USSR and Cuba. And he will then go to Cuba himself to get the hard photographic data he needs. What is surprising is not the fact that some French secret service people helped the USA at a time when they could not get what they wanted, in 1962 when the world was on the brink of a nuclear war. What is funny is that this film comes four years after the decision by General de Gaulle to kick NATO out of France, and one year after the famous 1968 events and in fact the year when General de Gaulle resigned from power in the spring of 1969. The film was made in 1969. The film was released in the USA only on December 19, 1969 and mostly in 1970 for Europe. It shows how without the French the missile crisis in Cuba would not have been solved by John F. Kennedy, a recollection that goes against the strong campaign against General de Gaulle and France in 1969 due to the strong opposition General de Gaulle took against the Vietnam war in 1967 and 1968, including his famous speech in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, shortly before Nixon sent US troops into that country. But the film has another interest in the title and what it means a spying ring directly in the French government at top level of specialists and technical executives, just under ministerial positions. That ring called Topaz was spying in the French government and NATO for the USSR. The film shows how the poor commercial attaché is mixed in the doings of that ring without knowing at first and then knowing and trying to expose the ring and the men, but expose them within the very power structure of France, which is the way things are done in France keep everything within the family circle and let's wash our dirty laundry in private. They even let the top rung of that ring leave for the Soviet Union when the whole business is finished and the commercial attaché is sent back to Washington from where he had been called back. There Hitchcock is becoming in a way funny, scary too, but definitely funny. The French and their little love affairs, and their little private luncheons and dinners, the French and their republican aristocratic dealings and etiquette, and of curse their cute eighteenth and nineteenth century houses and mansions in Paris, these places you hardly see behind their majestic facades. And Hitchcock even uses well-known French actors from the 1968-1969 period and makes them speak English with a very elaborate English French accent, far away from the French accent we all associate with camembert, red wine and bread baguette, but that has all to do with fluent English spoken by bilingual French individuals. Maurice Chevalier's out. It's that humor that is funny, both strange and ah ah. But with time I am afraid it has aged and is more nostalgic, for those who can remember, than really active today. Though Cuba is still there and still standing in its revolutionary shoes, though pretty worn out and being renovated as fast as possible, in these days when all the ex-Maoist and ex-Soviet guerrilla or open warfare movements like the Tamil Tigers, the FARCs and the Nepali Maoists are moving out of the violent terrorist picture and eventually back into the political and economic vaster democratic picture, and Russia is definitely still trying to put the Soviet boots back on and rebuild their past glory and power. The great change is that China is the potential first economic power in the world and that they have decided to associate quite a few people with them in that new role. We might finally reach a real multi-polar world twenty years after the fall of the Iron Curtain and of the dual-divide across the big global cake.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"French spies and Russian defectors meet Americans to little effect","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was made after the Cuban missile crisis and after the death of JFK. The world moved on as a result. Kennedy's killing in some senses blanked the details of the crisis that appears to have precipitated his assassination. Uris did a great job of telling the background and his book, on which the film is based, remains a solid work. Hitchcock's film is utterly pointless. The acting, withe the exception of John Vernon is wooden and at times so empty it is impossible to take the film seriously. I am not a fan of Hitchcock. I think all his films suffer from his plugging away at the suspense element and as a result, they lose credibility. I sat through Topaz with the same dull ache, hoping it would soon be over, that I sat with in all his last movies. And when this film was released we already had James Bond and a million other movie spies cashing in on the Cold War. This film is so bad it will haunt me forever. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is extremely boring but that's not the worst. It just doesn't make sense what the characters does. These professional spies are making completely idiotic choices. One example you can't make me believe that the American intelligence doesn't have anyone who can pose as someone from another nation when they need it; in stead they get another nation's intelligence involved in a highly confidential matter! And they even suspect leaks in French intelligence. And why did the Cuban couple bother to pose as being on a picnic when they run at first sight of trouble? And everything in this film is like that, it doesn't make any sense. The world it describes is completely unbelievable and so is every character in it. This is not just an awful Hitchcock movie, it's a very bad movie period (one star for the murder scene and because Copenhagen was in it). "},{"Title":"Whose on first?","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you are into thrillers and especially espionage and spy versus spy versus spy then maybe this picture is designed for you...or maybe not. Personally I was disappointed. I thought the presence of John Forsythe, John Vernon and Frederick Stafford and the film being directed by Alfred Hitchcock would lead to a blockbuster film but it just did not appeal to me.First of all, Hitchcock tried to keep us guessing who were the good spies and who were the bad spies. After the first hour of the film I just did not care anymore. Not that I found the film was confusing, no, I just found the story boring and the acting less than suspenseful. After several scenes where the interaction of both the male and female stars are exchanging information related to Russia's military involvement and support of Cuba against the United States it began to remind me of the famous Abbott and Costello comedy skit, Whose On First? I mean come on man, if Hitchcock had the last say on editing (which I assume he did because the films length was an extended 2 hours and 23 minutes) than maybe he should have positioned who were the good spies and who were the bad spies a lot earlier and cut the films length by at least 20-30 minutes. As for Hitchcock's trademark cinematography style of shooting wide angle overhead shots these were also below par for a Hitchcock directed film. As two examples, the early scene where U.S. agent Michael Nordstrom played by John Forsythe is leading the defection of a Russian diplomat and his wife and daughter on to a plane that is headed to the U.S. and also in a latter scene when French diplomat Andre Devereaux played by Frederick Stafford is running up an endless apartment stairwell to see if his son-in-law has been hurt was not the classic and suspenseful scenes that we have become accustomed to in Hitchcock films. As the film Topaz was one of Hitchcock's last few films I think it just shows that what worked for Hitchcock in the past two decades for his superb use of his cameras, cinematography, sound, as well as with his noted ability to generate continued suspense was clearly missing in Topaz as was Hitchcock's magic mojo also absent.The films ending was pretty flat and boring as well. I give Topaz a passable 5 out of 5 and maybe that is even a bit too generous. "},{"Title":"Defective defection","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the extras of the Topaz DVD, Leonard Maltin gives a brilliant analysis of the movie and its place in Alfred Hitchcock's body of work. He gives solid reasons why Topaz doesn't work as well as Hitchcock's best movies, but he doesn't come right out and state the biggest problem with Topaz &#x96; it's boring.The story starts in Copenhagen, jumps to Washington and New York, takes a side trip to Cuba and eventually ends up in Paris. Set in 1962, a Russian diplomat, Boris Kusenov, defects to the west. CIA agent Mike Nordstrom (John Forsythe) learns that Russian missiles are to be placed in Cuba. However Kusenov, won't divulge secrets directly to the Americans, instead he tells them who can provide the information. The trail leads to a contact in Cuba. As the CIA can't approach this person directly, they ask French agent André Devereaux (Frederick Stafford) to get the information.The whole weight of the story then shifts to Devereaux, his family, and his mistress in Cuba. After some unconvincing activity in Cuba, Devereaux learns that there is a traitor in the French Government and returns to Paris to expose him. Sound complicated? It is. With so much going on you would think you would be riveted to your seat, unfortunately, the opposite is the case.Topaz is one of the four movies made during what is generally considered Hitchcock's decline after Marnie. However, his last two films, Frenzy and Family Plot were actually a return to form despite the lack of big stars. That leaves Torn Curtain and Topaz as more of a dip in his career rather than a continuous decline. Torn Curtain had major stars who had little screen chemistry together, and was dull, while Topaz, more than any other film, went against Hitchcock's formula for success. Unusual for him, he started with an unfinished script, there are no well-known stars, and those it does have seem to have undergone charisma bypasses. More tellingly, there is no humour; the light touch that helped make films like Rear Window, Spellbound and even Psycho so distinctive is absent in Topaz. And where is that urbane, cultivated villain with more charm than the hero à la Claude Raines in Notorious, James Mason in North by Northwest or even William Devane in Family Plot? The villains on show in Topaz are very serious dudes indeed and have no appeal at all.There is also a lot of obvious studio and rear projection work. Some excuse this as Hitchcock stylisation, but I don't think so. Hitchcock used a lot of rear projection in his films, which worked fine in the not quite real worlds he created when they also included sequences such as the dream in Spellbound, the tower scenes in Vertigo and the Mount Rushmore sequence in North by Northwest. But Topaz has none of that artistry &#x96; the rear projection just looks fake and lazy.Hitchcock's films make everyone a bit of a cinema buff. Even young people know his name and have usually seen a number of his movies. He seems as well known today as Tarantino and Spielberg even though he made his last movie in 1976. In fact, he is way ahead of them both in as much as he is the subject of two recent films &#x96; Hitchcock and The Girl. Although Topaz has a couple of clever sequences, for the most part it doesn't work. However, far from marking a serious decline, Hitchcock put it behind him and finished his career on a reasonably high note. "},{"Title":"Boring film, with ONE GREAT MOMENT!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  TOPAZ (1969) has to be Alfred Hitchcock's most boring film.  There si so much plot, talk, and so on.  It doesn't feel like the work of a director who really made us look at a movie.  However, in the middle of this muddled spy movie there is one GREAT shot.  A woman in a red dress is killed while standing alone with a man on a black and white checkered floor.  The camera catches this from above.  She falls downwards, and the fluffy red material spreads in all directions.  You just see the three abstract colors.  It looks almost like animation. Hitchcock was a lover of abstract art (His favorite painter was the minimalist artist Paul Klee)  It shows in this one shot. "},{"Title":"It sort of fizzles out","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a Hitchcock film that Got Away as it is one of his films that few people seem to be aware of. It starts off OK with a Russian Official, along with his wife and daughter, attempting to defect to the Americans in Copenhagen. The Russian Defector tells the Americans that there is a French Spy ring codenamed TOPAZ who are passing NATO secrets to the Russians. He also states that the Russians are shipping materials into Cuba although he doesn't know what these materials are. John Forsythe who plays a CIA man then tells his friend in the French Secret Service who is played by Frederick Stafford. Stafford agrees to go to Cuba to find out what is going on. After his return he then attempts to track down the French spy ring. All this is taking place in 1962. As previously stated, the film starts off OK then chugs along, briefly coming back to life with a long scene in a New York Hotel which is full of Cubans. Finally, however, the film kinda stalls and by the end has sort of fizzled out. An interesting Hitchcock film, but not a memorable one. "}{"Title":"Give this Hitch movie a miss","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" (32%) What to say about this film without bad-mouthing one of the greatest film makers of all time? Let me be kind and say that is very much of its time, though if one had any interest in the Cuban missile crisis before watching, then their appetite will be greatly diminished after, not by what one learns but through witnessing one of the least exciting, plodding films old Hitch ever put to film. The script (biggest culprit for films problems) is bland beyond belief and is a total wonder why it ever got picked up in the first place (slim pickings?) with its total lack of any real tension, uninspired dialogue, uninteresting characters or memorable scenes, couple that with some quite poor acting at times and some slightly sloppy editing. It's just so not what we love about the master's best work and probably would now be almost forgotten about if made by another, less well known or less respected director. "},{"Title":"Crummy Hitch","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the opening bland title sequence you knew this was going to be a Hitch that was not much like his others. By that I mean, it stinks!!It's great that Hitch rebounded with the minor but sweet Family Plot after his most brutal Frenzy so that this would not be his last film. It's always obvious when Al had no real interest or feel for the story, when he was just punching the clock. Topaz is the ultimate of this. Leonard Maltin trying to special plead on the DVD is the only interesting thing about this film. Give it up, Lenny, this is a dog. I'd rather watch Coleman Fransis's Red Zone Cuba again. It's funny though, most of Hitch's films were good, right up to the end. The Birds was his last great film. "},{"Title":"Topaz","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I didn't think that I would ever see another bad film from the Master of Suspense, director Sir Alfred Hitchcock, the only one I had seen prior to this one was his failure period adventure Jamaica Inn. Basically high ranking Russian official Boris Kusenov (Per-Axel Arosenius), his wife (Sonja Kolthoff) and daughter Tamara (Tina Hedström) desert to America, and the leader is interviewed by US agent Michael Nordstrom (John Forsythe). Kusenov reveals that NATO secrets are being passed to the Russians by a French spy ring codenamed Topaz, and to expose the spies Michael calls in his French friend Andre Devereaux (Frederick Stafford). That's really all I can say about the plot, apart from that the events that happen in the film that stand out are the murder of Juanita De Cordoba (You Only Live Twice's Karin Dor), a man that is apparently important is found dead on the top of a car, a man in the plot is shot in the arm, and the good guys win in the end. That's it! Also starring Dany Robin as Nicole Devereaux, Roscoe Lee Browne as Philippe Dubois, John Vernon as Rico Parra, Michel Piccoli as Jacques Granville, Philippe Noiret as Henri Jarre, Claude Jade as Michèle Picard, and Hitchcock's cameo is the man at the airport pushed in the wheelchair, who stops, gets up, shakes a man's hand, and walks away. The cast with pretty much no famous names or faces (apart from Dor who I recognised) is rather pointless, the direction by Hitchcock is often, and he himself wasn't happy doing the film in the first place, and almost nothing happens at all, I only give it two extra stars for the events I mentioned, apart from that it is one of the most boring films ever, a pretty terrible spy thriller. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Pedestrian Cuban crisis thriller that can't compete with Bond","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Whereas Topaz opens promisingly enough with a trademark dialogue-less chase sequence, it quickly becomes clear that Hitchcock is feeling the heat of the burgeoning Bond franchise. Built in his usual fashion, from highly controlled takes, the film lacks a fluidity and charisma. This might not have been a problem in the previous decade now, with the French New Wave well diffused in the vernacular of modern film-making and the emergence of a new way of making action films, notably the exciting, exotic 007 spy franchise, Topaz is revealed as a cumbersome novel adaptation.I thought that the film is notably well-shot much of the time and that the acting is very good, when not clearly intervened with. John Forsythe, John Vernon and Karin Dor - herself a former 'Bond girl' - are very good; I was surprised at the principal, Andre, played mutedly by Frederck Stafford. There are any number of loose ends and unsatisfactory developments the fidelity vs duty subplot hangs open at the close. I was left thinking that there might simply have been more time to deal with them if we didn't have to endure considerable longeurs as Hitchcock lingers trying to make a point that a modern audience would be right on top of. A marked downturn in form. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Cuba Bading","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I confess it's getting a little boring to keep reiterating my opinion that Hitchcock is vastly overrated. I've now found a Hitchcock film with no discernible traces - at least to me - of the Hitchcock 'touch', assuming there is such a thing. This title is nothing so much as our old friend the semi-documentary in which a given historical period is revisited and actors re-create the actions of real people whilst other real people and/or real events are name-checked. In this case it is the Cuban Missile Crisis that is under the microscope and the film was originally released within a decade of the real thing so that the target audience would still have retained vivid memories of the real thing. I found the DVD in a Thrift Shop at a giveaway price but even then I would have declined had I not noticed on the case the names of two very fine French actors, Philippe Noiret and Michel Piccoli, which was sufficient to arouse my interest. It turned out to be a fairly straightforward recreation of a tense period with a beautiful actress, the aforesaid French duo and three alternate endings. Watchable. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst Hitchcock Movie made","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Quite possibly the worst Hitchcock Movie made.This movie would sux the chrome off a trailer hitch!Man the plot drug, the dialogue drug, the scene transisitions were bad, the story continuity was missing.A big disappointment from the Master of suspense.Rated NO REELS!Pass on this piece of cinematic tripe! "},{"Title":"Propaganda","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love Hitchcock, almost everything he has done. Often clever, rarely just propaganda. But Topaz breaks this code most evidently and is pure propaganda nonsense for the Americans. It is also rubbish. Maybe he was instructed to make it by the studios and their governmental corporate bosses with a gun to his head. Maybe that's why his cameo in this film is one of himself being driven in a wheel chair like some ill-minded cripple. Best cinematic moment is watching Juanita de Cordoba's dress spread out like blood across a checkered floor.Watch almost any other of his movies. Watch 'Saboteur', its far more current on recent American history. Long live Hitchcock and free-minded creativity. Long live the revolution. Any revolution. "}]