[{"Title":"We were following Taylor's trajectory, so whatever happened to us must have happened to him.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"74 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath was the best Planet of the Apes film bar none. Everything was bigger and better this time around bigger sets, more gorillas, the whole of New York instead of a mere Statue of Liberty, and, best of all, faceless, telepathic mutants than can kill with the mind. Yes, I was once ten years old.Watched again with many years of hindsight, it's clear that, while entertaining, Beneath was produced without anything approaching artistry. The ultimate in sequels, it tries to tell the same story twice as big, but with only half the success. Until Battle came along and picked the flesh off Apes' rotting carcass this was the worst sequel because it did nothing new with the format. Even the working title - Planet of the Apes Revisited - betrays the lack of thought and the desire for finance that went into this one.A virtually identical plotline rattles along at a fair pace, meaning all subtlety is jettisoned. The allegories are also confused by not really being allegories at all. Look at the metaphor for anti-war protestors by casting chimps as ... er, anti-war protestors. A look at how man often judges another man on the colour of his skin is alluded to ... er, by having an ape judging a man on the colour of his skin. (On this note, perversely for a film that purports liberal satire, the only one of the mutants to demonstrate real cruelty was Don Pedro Colley, the sole black character in the film. And despite its worthiness, I don't think I've ever seen another film where a man's credit is given as Negro). However, I did have to smile at the chimp that punningly complains about gorilla brutality.The decreased budget (a sensible studio idea to cut the finance of the sequels to a hit movie) shows with some of the ape extras having decidedly ropy masks in the crowd scenes. The opening of the picture also recaps the first, cannily highlighting the glaring difference between Roddy McDowall's and David Watson's performances as Cornelius. Watson, standing in for an absent McDowall, does reasonably well but really doesn't look anything like him, even under latex. Note too how all the ape masks give the actors lisps, something I never noticed before. Never mind apes, anyone would think James Franciscus had landed on the planet of the Pertwees. There's also some abysmal back projection work when Franciscus is wrestling on top of the horsedrawn carriage. The mutants are pretty good, though their prayers to The Holy Fallout are a little silly. Why do they wear human masks anyway? Where do they make them? I dunno, I don't make the rules up, do I?Of course, the main problem is the pointless game of one-upmanship it plays with its source. There's no longer any element of surprise that this is Earth, so the ruined monuments, nice as they are, no longer have any great effect. It misses the point, also the Statue of Liberty is not just a relic, but a symbol. New York Subway is just where people caught trains. And as impressive as the effects are, if not directed well &#150; which they aren't, particularly &#150; then it becomes fatuous.It's weird how all four sequels were made within a year of each other, yet at least two of them tried something new. Beneath came two years after the original yet has a rehashed in it for the money feel all the way through, right down to its abrupt, slightly unsatisfactory climax. Yet despite the many, many faults I've levelled at it, Beneath the Planet of the Apes is still a very enjoyable film. Not in the sense of the first, which genuinely had something to say, but in the guise of pulp SF then this sequel is well worth seeing. In fact, despite the slating I've given it, I still awarded it 6/10.  "},{"Title":"What Might Have Been.....","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"49 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath is a film that epitomizes the best and worst that a sequel to a masterpiece, as Planet Of The Apes was, could be. For me, it is the most watchable of the sequels only because it's the only one that stays in the familiar territory established by the first film.   But oh that ending....I really can not understand why the heck Richard Zanuck allowed Charlton Heston to talk him into going with that downer ending that has already been referred to by others.   The only reason why Heston pushed it wasn't because it made for good cinema but because he wanted to singlehandedly see to it that he never have to do another Apes sequel again.   It's a pity that Heston never realized that the best sequel story one could have explored was what happened to Taylor and Nova afterwards, and could have made for some equally compelling drama as the first film did.  To me, the main appeal of the first film wasn't the Ape society, it was the character of Taylor and his fascinating odyssey from misanthrope to defender of the species, only to see his earlier feelings borne out in the shock ending.   The question that should have been addressed next in a sequel was, what would Taylor do now that he realized he was on Earth?   What other things were there to discover on the planet?  (Heck, you could have easily made a sequel movie without the apes returning, as far as I'm concerned!) Alas, because of the plot device imposed by this film (and Heston's inability to realize what a good thing he might have had going for himself), the rest of the series had to veer off into what was for me, a more uninteresting story line focusing on the Apes and their inevitable rise to power. Plot holes and depressing ending notwithstanding, Beneath is still worth watching to see the traces of what could have been a great film that are there.  The mutant storyline and their dwellings underneath the remains of New York still has an irresistible viewing quality to it.  I do not recommend watching it in tandem with its magnificent predecessor though, because that's only going to make you more angry about the ending of this film.  "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Great! But boy! It Sucks to be Brent!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Major Spoilers!!!) Beneath... has to rank as one of the meanest movies ever made in its treatment to its main character. Consider this...Brent wakes up to his space ship's crash landing, realizing it's 3955(?)what happened to 3978?, so everyone he ever knew except Skipper is dead...then skipper dies too! He finds out that (gulp) apes rule, then gets shot for his discovery (same as Taylor). Is rewarded with white, stinging vet powder plentifully poured on his (still bleeding) gunshot wound, by Zira. Gets captured and sentenced to ape target practice; en route he gets an ape boot shoved into his larynx while said ape tries to pull his arm off. Escapes while apes on horseback fire their guns at him. Goes underground and realizes where he's at. Painful!...and the movie is only into its first 45 minutes. What else can happen to the poor guy? Well...as his mental stability starts heading toward the brink of insanity, he does some depressing sight-seeing, watches helplessly as mind control forces him to near drown Nova, then face telepathic inquisitors who proceed to scare the crap out of him with a whoosh of fire, fry his ear drums with high pitch sound waves, thought-project agonizing, searing pain that contorts his whole body and again, he watches helplessly as he's forced to near suffocate (poor) Nova with a brutal passionless loo-oong kiss. Then!... he's required to sit still during mass (for some people, this is very painful) and realizes that everyone else in attendance is a replicant of Gray's Anatomy. He then catches up with friend Taylor (finally)...and Taylor proceeds to beat the crap out of him too, by kicking him in the face and chest, strangling him, shoving his back into cell bars with long sharp spikes sticking out, mercilessly stepping on his face, strangling him some more and delivering some shattering right hooks to the jaw (all under mind control, of course). After the fight, instead of friendly gossip, they realize they're about 100 yards away from an active bomb, not just any old bomb, but THE Doomsday Bomb. And they're trapped inside a locked cell. And an army of Militia Apes are attacking!  Finally... escape! but Nova ain't coming. Back to the church, Brent witnesses Taylor (after spending the whole movie trying to locate him) get fatally shot, knows he's now alone and goes on a one man kamikaze assault with his one puny rifle against 100 gorilla sub machine guns. And if that ain't enough, THEN he runs out of ammo! And he doesn't even get the satisfaction of seeing Taylor's final efforts. What happens to him is what you'd want to see happen to the worst of villains, but not to the heroic character. After all this, it would have been better to stay in bed.That aside, Planet of the Apes WAS a tough act to follow. Beneath the Planet of the Apes cinematography does border on spectacle and alot of credit should go to director Ted Post for getting alot more out of the half baked premise and limitations he was trapped in. Many still frames and action sequences from the film are just as epic-like, colorful and bizarre that is on par with (and in many instances, exceeds) the original; but the editing in the original surpasses the sequel!(not Ted's fault). Still...Beneath's camera angles are far superior than any of the sequels that followed. Composer Leornard Rosenman created a very eerie, foreboding music score that touches on some semblance to Jerry Goldsmith's music from the original, while taking it into a different direction that effectively captures the mood of the film that works perfectly. It's unavoidable that both Planet and Beneath... have a flavor of their own considering all obstacles, so it's appropriate that the both scores follow suit in different scales; they're both brilliant.Charlton Heston can't be blamed for his lack of enthusiasm, considering what he was presented with. If a more fuller and better continuation of the story was better fleshed out...who knows (after all, look at his lone survivor interpretation from The Omega Man, not far removed from his position at the end of Planet...). But a more diversified storyline was necessary that needed splitting the story between Taylor and the Apes which changed the flow of what followed previously...because the first movie was presented subjectively through the eyes of Taylor. The addition of the new elements that carried the narrative forward was not going to be consistent with director Franklin Schaffner's original subjective approach to the first Apes that made it so successful. So it's very appropriate that James Franciscus' 'Brent' is allowed to discover Ape City because the Apes are one of the main reason people would want to return to the story anyway. The other reason is Taylor! (and Nova).  And that is the main problem. Because, NO sequel was ever planned for Planet of the Apes! If a storyline was preplanned then this may have paralleled author Pierre Boulle's excellent 'Bridge on the River Kwai' more closely if additional characters were already evident, like the way the story in 'Kwai' continued after William Holden escapes from the prison camp (as Heston did from Ape City) while the events flipped back and forth between Holden's increasing dilemma and that of Alec Guiness' misguided actions. Sadly, (because it's only 1967 before sequels were recognized as obvious cash cows) 'Planet...' didn't have the luxury of foresight of the epic possibilities that could have logically continued the story forward in the same care and quality. Thus we're left with a more emphasis on action orientation, less on character growth and a more speedy presentation that's intended to camouflage the story's inadequacy.It's almost easy to say that Beneath... is better appreciated on its own merit, as an almost separate entity from Planet... because of its radical introduction to science fiction elements new to the story. But it's not that easy! Comparison is unavoidable!On the many plus sides are  James Gregory's scene stealing 'General Ursus' that propels the conflict between ape and man (especially his rousing call-to-arms speech); Maurice Evans' 'Dr.Zaius' who steals scenes right back; the buried underground scenes, the Ape Army on the move, Cornelius and Zira's home; Brent and Nova's underground odyssey; the steam bath; more (if brief) views of Ape City and the cages; General Ursus' helmet symbolically backed by the many more militant gorillas; and the under rated James Franciscus who took upon himself to further flesh out more of his character's heroic attributes. And ANY scene with Taylor! that is all too brief.One thing is near certain Beneath... is never boring in its breakneck pace in storytelling. but it could have been better if there weren't so many 'egos' involved in the decision-making process of delivering a quality continuation of the Apes saga. Just think of the possibility if Nova was able to retain her pregnancy scene cut from the first film, the bomb wasn't doomsday, and she survives the end of the second film.Still kind of fun entertainment!6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Much better than I had expected","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As an avid fan of the original Planet of the Apes, I had always avoided the sequels (though unfortunately not the remake), thinking they'd be so cheesy that they would harm the greatness of the original. I finally got around to the first sequel, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, and, frankly, I'm surprised at how good it is. I'm a big fan of corny '70s sci-fi anyway, and Beneath is certainly cheaper and goofier than the original. But its themes and ideas are surprisingly intelligent, and it creates suspense and excitement very well. It also expands the mythology of its universe, which is always a positive to geeks like myself. I'd say the only big faults are the much smaller budget, which causes the ape makeup to appear much less convincing than it originally was, and the casting of a Charlton Heston impersonator to play the lead. The story is that James Franciscus is another astronaut looking for Heston and his crew. And since he eventually does find Heston, I don't understand why they wanted someone who looked so much like their original star. "},{"Title":"Far Beneath the original Apes Film","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This first sequel to the '68 science fiction hit has all the markings of something rushed into production. There was no time to craft a story which explores the truly interesting possibilities of astronaut Taylor's continuing odyssey on a future world turned upside down. The story could have and should have concentrated on the evolving struggle between the ruling class of apes and the backward humans. Instead, the filmmakers created a new threat for this film, a secret society of human mutants living underground. They show up in the 2nd half of this feature and, in prolonged scenes, show off their telepathic powers in torturing the heroes. The heroes, in this case, are another astronaut (Franciscus) who followed Taylor's trajectory to this other planet and Taylor himself (Heston, reprising his role briefly). Wow, what an original concept - another astronaut, who, in an accelerated version of the first film's events, also finds Ape City, encounters two sympathetic chimps, gets captured and escapes. Are we watching some kind of a repeat? The quick pace of this picture is probably its best aspect; this stresses action. However, the pace is so fast that some crucial points in geography are sacrificed getting to the Forbidden Zone from Ape City is just a short walk in a tunnel for some, while others have to trudge for days overhead. In a slight nod to the satirical aspects of the original film, we do get to see religion being mocked (the original satirized the social & political anchors of a community). But, it's not a very subtle jab. The mutants profess to be more intelligent than either the heroes or the apes, which they seem to prove with their advanced mind powers, but they spend most of their time worshiping a nuclear bomb, chanting silly songs - they really picked a strange form of idolatry, but maybe they're simply crazed. This movie throws together a lot of science fiction concepts but the resulting brew is rather bland. It's a decent action piece, not much more.Franciscus shows he is no Heston; he overacts in most of his scenes, as if he had no clue on how to depict a man realizing where he's actually landed, but then again, he wasn't the skipper on this 2nd ship (the lead officer dies soon after they crash-land); we're not watching a leader but a follower try to carry the picture. I was struck by how Heston towered over him in their brutal fight scene. McDowall is also missing; his role of Cornelius is played by actor Watson. Evans & Gregory are pretty good as the ape leaders but whoever stuck them in ape suits for the sauna scene should have thought about it a few more minutes. This movie ends everything on a grotesquely conclusive note, but they managed to find a way to continue the story in Escape From the Planet of the Apes. "},{"Title":"nihilistic weirdness is surprisingly effective","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first film is awesome. But the 2nd one was always my favorite. It has strange desert locations, weird underground subway tunnels, odd melted cityscapes, telepathic mutants who worship a doomsday bomb. It has more of Linda Harrison of the fabled fur bikini. It has both Chuck Heston and James Franciscus beating the crap out of each other! It has naked apes in steam-baths! I was always shocked by the nihilistic and super-violent ending when I saw this film as a child and a recent re-viewing shows it to still be a disturbingly grim bout of gun play. The director, Ted Post, also directed the 2nd of the Dirty Harry films and he shows a Peckinpah-like ability to put the sting back in Death.What is amusing today is watching the film conclude with James Franciscus pinned to a wall with bullet holes stitched across his chest and Chuck Heston clutching his bloody fingers to the button thus leading to the complete destruction of the entire planet...and then an old MPAA rating pops up immediately telling you you have just watched a G-Rated film! "},{"Title":"Again the Apes along with an underground civilization of mutated human beings living in subway system","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Good and frantic science-fiction movie with a first rate James Franciscus and special intervention of Charlton Heston who literally disappears in the beginning and re-appears on the ending . This known story is the second and best of the primates sequels ; it starts when Brent (James Franciscus) through the same time warp crashes on the far planet and meets the gorgeous native Nova (Linda Harrison). At the start they trek across the desert , after that he learns the culture where simians rule over humans and they are divided in three lineage  gorilla , chimpanzee and orangutan . Later on, he discovers humanity has gone awry and now is slave and reduced to beasts . Man is treated as animal of burden and regarded as scum . A couple of chimps named Cornelius (David Watson replacing Roddy McDowall) and Zira(Kim Hunter) think otherwise and even agree Brent escape , following the same traces as Taylor (Charlton Heston) . Meanwhile, an expedition commanded by militaristic General Ursus (James Gregory) and Dr. Zaius(Maurice Evans) sets out the forbidden zone where live human mutants (Victor Buono, Jeff Corey , among them) who survived a nuclear explosion several years before . Brent and Nova find an underground civilization in the ruins of bomb-blasted N.Y.C. until a downbeat and bleak final with the mutants worshipping a nuclear missile .This is a nice sci-fi flick plenty of metaphysical significance with thoughtful reflexion about origin of human being and nuclear catastrophe , though also packs action, adventures, intrigue and entertainment. In spite of time and being mostly a replay of the original movie , energy remains still and turns out to be an enjoyable following full of fantasy and suspense . Exciting writing credits by Paul Dehn and Mort Abrahams from Pierre Boulle novel . One of the important attributes of this work, is the magnificent , spectacular production design with excellent sets by Walter Scott and great visual effects by means of matte paintings by L.B. Abbot . Glimmer and luminous cinematography by Milton Krasner. Phenomenal make-up by John Chambers, a first-rate expert, such as proved in 'Blade runner, Ssss, Island of Dr Moreau' among others . Sensational musical score by a top-notch Leonard Rosenman though imitating sounds from the great Jerry Goldsmith .The picture is lavishly produced by usual Arthur P. Jacobs , producer of whole saga, and well directed by Ted Post , realizing a similar work to Franklyn J Schaffner , utilizing a great visual sense.It's followed by three inferior sequels that get worse and a TV series, 'Escape of planet of apes'(71, Don Taylor), 'Conquest of planet of apes'(72, J. Lee Thompson), 'Battle for the planet of apes'(73, J.Lee Thompson) "},{"Title":"Beneath the Planet of the Apes (1970) ***","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *** out of ****I guess you could say that this first sequel to PLANET OF THE APES is a nostalgic pleasure for me; I got hooked on it as a child and while I still think it's an interesting followup to the original, as an adult I'm naturally more aware of its flaws. Yet it still works out as a good adventure film; less of a cerebral experience like PLANET OF THE APES, and more of a comic book story.James Franciscus plays astronaut Brent, sent along the same trajectory as Taylor's (Charlton Heston's) old ship in an effort to rescue him. He crash-lands in the same vicinity as his friend, and goes through a similar nightmare when he comes to discover that the planet he's stranded on is dominated by intelligent, talking apes with a decidedly low opinion of mankind. General Ursus (James Gregory) is a war-hungry gorilla leader who's anxious to investigate strange unearthly occurrences in the Forbidden Zone with the aid of the ever-skeptical scientist Dr. Zaius (Maurice Evans in a reprisal of his role from Part One). Luckily, Brent runs into Taylor's mate, Nova (Linda Harrison looking prettier than she did in PLANET) and she is able to lead him to kindly chimpanzee couple, Zira (Kim Hunter) and Cornelius (David Watson this time; Roddy McDowall was busy directing a film). The pacifistic simians try to help their human friends along their journey to find Taylor, but Brent and Nova only succeed in getting themselves captured by gorillas anyway.Up to this midway point in the film, all we're really seeing is a rehash of the first APES movie, which feels obligatory to set up the scenario. Where this chapter starts to develop its own identity and really take off is in its second half, as Brent and Nova escape and find themselves going underground (literally) in the Forbidden Zone and discovering the ruins of a ravaged city, along with a community of radiation-scarred mutations who have mastered mental telepathy and worship an atomic bomb as their god who has created them. And they know it won't be long before the Ape Army will invade their sanctuary.Charlton Heston felt that sequels were not very challenging for an actor in those days, so at first he resisted appearing in this movie. He eventually agreed on what gradually evolved into a more extended cameo in BENEATH as a favor to Richard Zanuck, since the producer had taken a gamble on making the original film when Heston asked him to. The resulting sequel can be a downbeat and unusually pessimistic viewing experience, but in an odd way that actually helps to work in its favor. The next entry was ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES (1971). "},{"Title":"Best of the rest - GREAT ending!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Originally entitled ''Planet of the Apes Revisited'', Ted Post took over direction from Franklin Schaffner in what is the best of the Planet of the Apes films after the original.  While it deviates significantly from what the audience might have imagined would happen, script writer Paul Dehn takes us a step closer to understanding how this ''upside down'' civilization came to be.The film is hindered by having less subtle commentary to make than its predecessor did (the Vietnam overtones are hard to miss), but none the less the excellent Cathedral sequence - ''the almighty bomb, who created heaven under earth'' - is masterfully orchestrated.  A credit to Dehn and to composer Leonard Rosenman, who more than fills the shoes of Jerry Goldsmith in providing an riveting score for the film.Controversy has always centred around the film's ending more than any other feature of it.  Those who critisise it miss the point - this was intended to be the LAST apes film, and although producer Arthur Jacobs kept his mind open for a possible 3rd film, it was felt that another movie set in a post-apocalyptic ape ruled world would just be ''flogging a dead horse''. One of the greatest features of these films, started by the Statue of Liberty sequence in the original, was that they all contained ''shocker'' endings, designed to send a shiver down the spine of the cinema audience. Beneath is so final, so clear cut, so definate in its climax - and is successful BECAUSE of this.  'Escape' featured the talking baby Chimp at its end.  'Conquest' featured the apes take over in its ultimate moments.Beneath suffers less than the other films from having an inadiquate budget, but is hindred by Chuck Heston's absence.  The fact that James Franciscus looks so similar is slightly irritating.  But considering the storyline, script, locations, music and great shocker ending, this film is a definate 'hit' for the series.And as for Linda Harrison........well, let's just say I've kept the best to the last..... "},{"Title":"Action-Packed Worthy Sequel","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very high quality sequel to the original. No, it was not quite as good as the original but the performances and the story were both strong. Just watched it on DVD and forgot about how creepy the underground mutant people were. Especially when they were chanting to their god. James Franciscus gave a very good performance and Linda Harrison is simply HOT! The ending was a little too abrupt but the movie is well worth seeing and owning on DVD.  "}{"Title":"Why The Critics Are Wrong","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My dog just died at the vet's, I was 10, so my mother, fearing for my emotional well being, stopped at the movie house to show me this flick.Yeah, I can understand all the criticism directed at this movie, I can understand how it doesn't match up to the original concept, I can understand how they could have gone with another storyline and it might have worked better. But 'Beneath The Planet Of The Apes' was a product of its time, the studios rarely made sequels in the '60s, writers and producers were always looking for new ideas, and there were more talented and creative people in the film industry. They wanted something different, and they made it. So you gotta take it or leave it on that.Now, back to my mother and me when I was ten. Thank God I wasn't watching some Disney movie, starring Kurt Russell and an invisible chimp, that would have depressed me more. Instead I got James Franciscus, crashing his spaceship in a nuclear wasteland, imprisoned by apes, forced to beat the crap out of a gorilla, making his way through destroyed subway tunnels, touring the subterranean ruins of New York, defying murderous mutilated mutants, killing people with spiked iron bars, punching Charlton Heston,and finally attacking a gorilla army single handed with a cool looking machine gun as the mutants are about to set off their Doomsday Bomb. Hey-you cant get into that, you ain't even an American! They don't make them like this any more. The era of creative film-making is long over. Nowadays Bruce Willis will make the same movie ten times in a row. For all its faults, Beneath The Planet Of The Apes offered us something different, and in a very short running time too. It was meant to entertain, maybe throw in a little blatant social commentary, sell a few candy bars, and then fade away. But notice it hasn't faded away. People still watch this movie, and still like it, years after Die Hard disappears into a film vault. It has the mark of effort on it, and it's never boring.The other reviews on here are all good, and their points are well taken. This is a sequel from an era without sequels, but it can stand on its own. I saw this never having seen the first movie. It was cool to a ten year old then, and fifty years from now, it will be cool to ten year olds of all ages. "},{"Title":"Doomsday movie with old world technology but high-end impact!","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie may not compare to the Planet of the Apes movies released in recent years that show off great outfits, makeup or special effects. But it makes up with sincere intention and thought-provoking message for mankind.I felt the story was much bigger than the stars Charlton Heston or James Franciscus who both looked like they only played a small part in delivering a lesson on how we can either prevent or bring about doomsday on ourself. Which is how it should be, the plot should always be the bigger star.Again, great message but everything else didn't rise up much. The performances were just decent(James Franciscus was the best) and some of the scenes had no proper continuity from one to the other.Verdict Anyways, this movie takes you back to an old world charm you hardly find today, and something for your mind to chew on long after it's over. "},{"Title":"Powerful Sequel.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This picks up where the first left off, as Charlton Heston(Taylor) journeys into the desert with his mate Nova(Linda Harrison), where he disappears, but then there is the arrival of a rescue space craft, led by Brent(James Franciscus). He contacts both Cornelius and Zira, who point him into the Forbidden Zone, where an invasion is being led by gorilla leader General Ursus(James Gregory, superb, with lots of memorable lines.)All is revealed when they meet a mutated group of humans, who worship a mysterious deity, one that may prove to be the end of them all...One of the best sequels ever made, builds upon the original, rather than repeats it, with many interesting twists and turns, all leading to an explosive ending that will come as quite a shock; so unexpected(yet sadly inevitable) that it is my personal favorite ending of all time.Pity it wasn't allowed to stand... "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This started well, with the end of the previous excellent film. After that it's all downhill, and eventually, underground. But it has a jolly panache about it and through my rose-tinted spectacles any film that mixes up Star Trek, High Chaparral and Edgar Rice Burroughs is well worth watching.US astronaut James Franciscus arrives on strange planet full of rocks and blue skies searching for Charlton Heston, previously lost in space. He immediately bumps into a very demure woman who turns out to be Heston's mate, goes on the hunt for him but then bumps into hundreds of warlike talking apes. For a while it seems to be going nowhere, which was causing me idly to fondly recall some old Monogram pictures, but it picks up and then dives headfirst into fantasy. Through many messy and improbable adventures they all end up in, well, in a messy and improbable Underground world populated by mutant humans. If this was a Star Trek TOS episode or a couple of chapters from a Martian book by Burroughs it'd be great, but this is almost laughably padded out to its doomsday ending. My TV didn't die on me!However - I remember I loved it when a kid, so I refuse to completely dis it now. It's OK, 2D, a good time-passer, and from experience pretty much forgettable. "},{"Title":"That ending --- ironic?","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning - spoiler ahead!!!! Don't read this unless you've already seen the film!!!The ending of Beneath, bemoaned by many, is surely an ironic comment on the ending of the original. In Planet, Taylor condemns the human race for blowing up their world with nuclear weapons. In Beneath, he is doomed to re-enact the very same atrocity. He blows up the new world with a nuclear weapon.It can be seen only as an ironic & withering comment on human nature. Humanity doesn't change!However, there's a brighter side. In Planet Taylor reveals himself as totally alienated from humanity, never having found love. He now finds it for the first time in Nova. When she is killed, he can't bear to go on living, & is quite willing to destroy the world that killed her. Love, it seems, is worth living for, & its destruction is ultimately world-destroying. "},{"Title":"What the hell would I have to say to a gorilla?","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A second spaceship crashes on the planet of the apes, attempting to locate the previous ship's crew. Only one astronaut, Brent (James Franciscus), survives the crash. Brent quickly finds himself captured by the apes but is helped to escape by Cornelius and Zira (Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter). Now he must venture into the Forbidden Zone to try and find Taylor (Charlton Heston), the survivor from the first film.The movie starts off like many sequels with a sense that it's simply going to mimic the first movie. However, once things move into the Forbidden Zone with the mutants, the movie finds its own identity. It's actually quite good for a sequel to a classic film. It's not on or near the level of the first movie, of course, but it's entertaining. The returning apes from the first film (Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter, Maurice Evans) could have been used to better effect. James Gregory's gorilla general is the film's antagonist, with Dr. Zaius more reasonable than before. The mutant stuff is actually pretty interesting. This is the second best of the Apes sequels. "},{"Title":"Seriously underrated.","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion, many people do not appreciate this movie as much as it deserves because they systematically compare it with Planet of the apes. Sure, it is a sequel, but it has the good idea to show us aspects of the POTA universe we could not guess watching the first movie. For example, the citizen council part of the movie is amazing and allows us to see why this sort of theater in Ape city was built for. The existence of amazingly complex submachineguns can make us suppose that apes copied human military technologies for centuries, and so on. To make it short, we go further. Plus, follow me or not, I think Ted Post's very classical directing aged much better than Franklin J. Schaffner's for the first movie. The sometimes bizarre directing of POTA is IMHO becoming a weakness as time gradually passes. It does not mean this movie is unflawed. Sure, from time to time, budget limitations are obvious, the first part of the movie is too much based on the first one, we don't learn enough about the mutant society and Heston's part, at his demand, is too short. But this sequel really adds something to the first movie. "},{"Title":"It's Doooooooomsday!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the spellbinding revelation of the original Planet of the Apes, the sequel (and subsequent sequels in the landmark series) seemed critically doomed to suffer from substandard mediocrity in the wake of its apocalyptic aftermath, yet Beneath the Planet of the Apes endures as one of the most reverent science fiction films among faithful fans of the series. A seriously flawed, yet brilliantly misunderstood masterpiece that remains as an important testament to behold. What could not be topped by Planet of the Apes' unappeasable climax, could only be subverted by going beneath it... literally.After Charlton Heston compromised with producers to only briefly reprise his role as Taylor in the sequel, James Franciscus takes the lead as Astronaut Brent. While Franciscus gives a very strong and worthwhile performance, his character still suffers at the expense of being a poor-man's Taylor. The first half of the film reiterates a lot of the exposition of the first film to bring Brent's character up to speed as he travels with the beautiful Linda Harrison as the mute slave Nova into the Forbidden Zone to find Taylor who mysteriously vanished into a mirage at the beginning of the film. As Brent and Nova begin their descent beneath the subterranean caverns of a post-apocalyptic city, the film takes a much darker and cerebral turn that is both disturbingly bizarre and brutally nihilistic. Brent, while under the telepathic mind-control of the under-dwelling society of mutated humans, shockingly tries to kill innocent Nova... twice. The malevolent Mutants reveal themselves to be a cult of hideously deformed worshipers of an atomic bomb who give praise to its awesome destructive power at an eerie mass in their tabernacle as they prepare for the inevitable confrontation against the surface-dwelling Simians who have ruled over the planet ever since it was ravaged by the inferno of nuclear holocaust two thousand years prior and the final battle for control of the Planet of the Apes will be determined by its prophetic Earth-shattering outcome.Beneath the Planet of the Apes detonates with a shock-wave of suspense that reached its apotheosis at the end of the first film and radiates unstoppably towards an inexorable conclusion at the end of the second. A brilliantly twisted and hauntingly cerebral sequel which may have proved itself to have been too intense and intellectual for its G-rated audience who were simply engrossed by the film's adventurous fantasy and captivated by the ape-like wonder of its characters. It would be almost impossible today for a major studio to gamble on making what was considered to be a franchise-killing installment because of its powerfully subversive imagery and socio-political narrative which ironically gives Beneath its characteristically unique dynamic not only as a worthy and important follow-up to its classic predecessor, but a relevant and enduring testament of historic science fiction cinema. "},{"Title":"Classic Sci-Fi Adventure with a KILLER Ending","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of the five Planet of the Apes films only the first one and its sequel Beneath are truly great and worthwhile. The three prequels devolve in quality Escape from is decent, Conquest of is okay and Battle for is poor.Beneath (1970) is the only actual sequel, hence, both the original and Beneath should be digested as one long story.THE PLOT An astronaut, James Franciscus, lands on the ape planet in search of Taylor and his crew. He makes contact with a primitive babe who knew Taylor (Nova, played by Linda Harrison) and then embarks upon a quest to find him -- leading first to the ape city (where he discovers that apes rule the planet) and then to the forbidden zone, a holocaust-ruined wasteland where psychic mutants dwell underground.Growing up I always favored Beneath above the original. Why? Possibly because Beneath has a lot more action, especially toward the end, and the concept of the underground psychic mutants was both eerie and captivating. As an adult, however, I've come to appreciate the original in increasing measure; it's deeper than Beneath, more intellectual. I now believe that each film has its strengths and weaknesses and they compliment each other well.Many criticize James Franciscus as a weak Heston (Taylor) clone. Although this is a valid complaint (Linda Harrison described Franciscus as a smaller version of Charleton Heston) and Heston is indeed inimitable (so don't even try), I never had a problem with Franciscus in this film. He does a fine job in the role of the stranded astronaut on a planet of madness. His character, Brent, isn't disillusioned with humanity like Taylor, so he has less of an 'edge,' but Brent is a fine generic 'everyman' that we can all relate to.All the great main characters from the first film are present. Aside from Nova and Taylor, the story features Dr. Zaius (Maurice Evans), Zira (Kim Hunter) and Cornelius. Unfortunately Roddy McDowall wasn't available to play Cornelius so they brought in David Watson for the part, which isn't much of a problem because you can't tell beneath all that ape make-up and Watson does a splendid job mimicking McDowall.A new, equally great character is introduced and that is Ursus, the gorilla general, played by James Gregory (remember him from the original Star Trek episode Dagger of the Mind as Dr. Adams?). Who could ever forget Ursus' motivational speech The only good human is a DEAD human!! ? ***SPOILER ALERT CONCERNING THE NATURE OF THE MUTANTS*** It is revealed in the story that the psychic mutants are human caricatures who literally worship the doomsday bomb, a bomb capable of destroying the entire planet. Evidently, human beings need something to worship even in a wholly devolved state -- truly, humankind is incurably religious. This may be a negative reflection on dead religion, which is the human attempt to connect with God ('religion' means to bind back), but it certainly isn't a negative reflection on biblical Christianity, which concerns the Almighty connecting with humanity through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and the subsequent life-birthing power of the Holy Spirit. In any event, the perverted religious nature of the psychic mutants is nothing less than fascinating, albeit a bit laughable at times, e.g. the holy fallout. ***END SPOILER*** There are numerous great scenes and images, for example, the gorillas marching in the forbidden zone and the gigantic appearance of the revered ape Lawgiver with a bleeding face, ultimately collapsing into a desert inferno.Some criticize that the first half of the story is merely an inferior repeat of the original film (astronaut crashlands, discovers that apes rule the planet and ends up in ape city), but -- you know what? -- it was great the first time around, why not experience it again with some nuances? (Especially since Beneath was released 3 YEARS after the original). Hey, I admit that this section of Beneath isn't as great as the original, it's even kind of boring (that is, after seeing the first film), but WAIT till Brent and Nova escape ape city and discover the underground lair of the psychic mutants; the film is captivating from then on.One beef I've always had with Beneath is that Leonard Rosenman's blaring score is mediocre compared to Jerry Goldsmith's original. It properly mimics the original but can't cut it. Why didn't they just re-use Goldsmith's score? On a technical level, Beneath isn't nearly as good as the original due to obvious budget limitations. The subpar score is one example; another would be the all-too-obvious pull-over ape masks in certain scenes. But these are minor cavils and never prevented me from wholly enjoying the flick. Still, I could see why some would give the film a lower rating.The climax is KILLER -- and I mean that literally -- as Brent ultimately finds Taylor and the gorillas invade the mutants' underground turf. Some great action entails and then... well, I can't give away the ultra-downer ending, can I? Regardless, I always loved the ending; in its own way it's just as great as the climax of the original.Needless to say, Beneath the Planet of the Apes is mandatory viewing. I wouldn't even take calls from film fans who don't have Beneath in their video library and hold it dear.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"Strange sequel to Planet of the Apes.","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the Planet of the Apes starts as a spaceship sent to look for & rescue Taylor (Charlton Heston) & his crew crash lands on the Ape dominated future Earth, the lone survivor Brent (James Franciscus) runs into Nova (Linda Harrison) who has Taylor's dog tag's around her neck. Realising that Taylor might still be alive he & Nova set out to find him but end up captured by the Apes, with the help of friendly chimp Zira (Kim Hunter) they manage to escape into the forbidden zone where Brent sees evidence of a ruined New York & realises he is on Earth. While underground Brent & Nova are captured by a race of telekinetic mutant humans who worship an atomic bomb & when the Apes lead by warmonger General Ursus (James Gregory) come to wipe them out the only option the mutant humans have is to launch the bomb & wipe the Apes out at what cost? Brent who finds Taylor tries to figure it all out & save the day...Directed by Ted Post this turned out to be the first of four sequel's to the huge hit Planet of the Apes (1968) after French novelist Pierre Boulle's proposed sequel Planet of the Men was rejected, generally not that well received at the time Beneath the Planet of the Apes is an odd film that for the first half is merely a remake of the original but then deviates in a totally different direction with mixed results. The first half has another US pilot crash land on future Earth & finds Nova, have run ins with hostile Apes, helped out by Zira & Cornelius before they escape into the forbidden zone where he finds relic's of the past that confirm he is on Earth but it's at this point that Beneath the Planet of the Apes takes a different direction as it introduces some telepathic mutant humans who worship an atomic bomb & it's here that things get really silly. Although the basic idea is alright & takes the series in another direction & adds to the mythology of future Earth scenes of a bunch of mutants sining hymns to an atomic bomb are quite ridiculous & verge on camp, the telepathic scenes where we only ever hear Brent's side of the dialogue is annoying because of this intense irritating beeping noise an ending where the mutant humans put up no resistance to the Apes. Where the original Planet of the Apes dealt with the conflict religion & science & other issues here it's straight anti war propaganda with a strong ban the bomb message, there's even a cute scene in which pacifist Chimps protest about the war hungry Gorilla's thirst for human blood. Beneath the Planet of the Apes moves along at a decent pace, it's fun, there's some good set-pieces & ideas that don't work as well as the original's but it's watchable & the second half is certainly different if nothing else.Beneath the Planet of the Apes starts as the first ends & actually begins with the closing few minutes of Planet of the Apes, Charlton Heston reprises his role but only at the start & at the very end. There are a few decent action scenes including a fight on-top a moving horse drawn cage, shoot-outs, explosions & fist fights. Beneath the Planet of the Apes is actually the most financially successful of all the Apes films if you consider it's box-office take & how much (or rather little) it cost to make.With a supposed budget of about $3,000,000 this is almost half of the original's & itself was apparently halved from $6,000,000 & you can see the Ape make-up isn't as good as in the original & a lot of static mask's are used. The acting is alright, Franciscus is OK, Linda Harrison is just there to look good, Heston has no more than a cameo while Kim Hunter & Maurice Evans return from the original to reprise their roles although this is the only Apes film that Roddy McDowall did not appear in (apart from the footage used from the original at the start).Beneath the Planet of the Apes is a fun watch, it's a product of it's time & while not as strong in any department as the original it makes for entertaining enough viewing with a few unintentional laugh along the way. Followed by Escape from the Planet of the Apes (1971). "}{"Title":"Rivals the original","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Planet Of The Apes' was one of the most successful movies of 1968 and so, two years later, a sequel appeared. 'Beneath' opens with a recap of the first's ending, before a new story takes over as American astronaut Brent ( the late James Franciscus ) arrives on Ape World in search of Taylor ( Charlton Heston ). He encounters a young mute woman on horseback. Nova ( Linda Harrison ) has just returned from The Forbidden Zone from where Taylor ( literally ) disappeared. She takes Brent to Ape City where he witnesses the insane General Ursus ( James Gregory ) making a impassioned speech for war against the inhabitants of The Forbidden Zone - whoever they may be. After meeting with Zira ( Kim Hunter ) and Cornelius ( David Watson ), Brent is captured along with Nova and sentenced to be used as target practice by the gorillas. They escape and flee underground, discovering that Ape World is really the Earth of the far-future.Also down there is a society of radiation-ravaged mutants, who have developed telepathic powers and can force humans to destroy one another. They wear masks to conceal their horrific ugliness. In a scene that is both comic and disturbing, Brent and Nova witness the extraordinary spectacle of these skinless beings singing hymns to a Doomsday Device - an atomic bomb capable of destroying the world.The Ape army shows up in force, culminating in a battle. Nova and Brent are shot, and before he dies, Taylor triggers the Doomsday Device. The screen goes black, and a sober voice-over informs us that a small, insignificant planet in the Solar System is now dead...It is remarkable how good 'Beneath' is when one considers that it was a troubled production. Heston turned down the chance to star, contributing little more than an extended cameo, while the inclusion of another astronaut character necessitated the unfortunate need to repeat facts about Ape World the audience already knew. Roddy McDowall was unavailable ( making this the only 'Apes' film in which he does not appear ), so instead British actor David Watson put on the monkey make-up. His impersonation of McDowall's distinctive voice is spot-on. Maurice Evans, Kim Hunter and Linda Harrison reprised their roles from the original. The outdoor feel of the first was replaced by a claustrophobic atmosphere; the ruined New York city ( with its subway tunnels ) is simply stunning.Numerous script treatments were written, including ones by Rod Serling and Pierre Boulle ( author of the original novel ), before British writer and critic Paul Dehn was brought in. Along with associate producer Mort Abrahams, he fashioned an intelligent, thought-provoking allegory on the Vietnam War ( we even see chimps as anti-war protesters! ), managing to make a strong anti-nuclear age statement along the way. It is certainly not a 'feelgood' film. Ted Post, the director, worked with Franciscus again on 'Night Slaves', a sci-fi T.V. movie based on a Jerry Sohl story. He does a decent job with 'Beneath', ensuring that the social commentary is balanced with exciting action. The climax in which the Earth is destroyed ( I do not think anyone would dare to do an ending like that now! ) seemed to bring the series to a close. Far from it. Three more sequels were made, followed by two television spin-offs! Whenever I watch 'Beneath' I always make a point of seeing its predecessor first, in order to get the full effect. It opened to mixed reviews ( some critics were angry with what they perceived to be the film's left-leaning political message ), but audiences lapped it up. Good for them.Compared to the farrago that was Tim Burton's 2001 'reimagining', 'Beneath' is an unalloyed masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Oh Mighty Bomb","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It took two years for the sequel to Planet Of The Apes to get to the big screen, henceforth 20th Century Fox would space them out about a year at a time. Beneath The Planet Of The Apes seems to have been inspired a lot by Dr. Strangelove played far less tongue in cheek by the cast.Kim Hunter, Maurice Evans, Linda Harrison, and Charlton Heston return for this first sequel. And James Franciscus is the only survivor of a rescue ship sent after Heston and his crew. Of course he finds the same simian civilization that Heston found and with the same problems and friends among the apes.Franciscus goes into the forbidden zone that Heston entered, but now the apes have a military chieftain who wants to enter and conquer the previous forbidden zone. He's played by a thuggish James Gregory.Maurice Evans is the scientist who has a vested interest in keeping the ape orthodox traditions inviolate. He doesn't want to go into the forbidden zone where Heston and Franciscus have gone, but the force of public opinion is working against him. He tags along with Gregory's military expedition to watch out for their culture.Of course there are humans there and of a higher order than the simple creatures who were thought to be below the simian on this planet. What happens when they encounter those humans is for you to see the film for.No doubt the force of public opinion influenced 20th Century Fox to make this sequel. Today's sequels to popular films are the result of certain teaser questions put into the plots of the originals. That was not done back then clearly because of some rather clumsy writing in Beneath The Planet Of The Apes. And certainly the ending here did not anticipate yet another sequel.Despite that though a lot of good social commentary about the world and America got into this film, maybe even more than in the original Planet Of The Apes. Nobody could mistake the protests of the young chimpanzees to the military expedition for anything else, but criticizing the war in Vietnam and Nixon's incursion into China.As in the first film my favorite is foxy Maurice Evans, protector of the orthodox ape religion and culture. Fans of the series will be pleased with him and the film. "},{"Title":"Man is evil! Capable of nothing but destruction!","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite often Hollywood rushed to capitalize on a winner and they are too quick to put something on film. The result is a sequel like this one. It wasn't even a contender.If you like the Planet of the Apes story, then you are going to watch just because it is entertaining. You like the message of the films, and it did get a bit stranger in this one.James Franciscus heads on the trail of Taylor (Charlton Heston) to see what happened. He is soon pursued by apes, who have become more aggressive. He gets saved by Taylor's girl, Nova (Linda Harrison), a sight for sore eyes.Franciscus find that there are people living under the city of New York. They are advanced and use their minds to communicate and to control. They can even keep their hands clean by getting their enemies to kill each other. They worship an atomic missile. The thing that got them in the fix they are in becomes their god. Go figure.Worth watching, but not spectacular. "},{"Title":"Beneath the Planet of the Apes is unnecessary - or maybe Brent is,","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently, after proctoring a law exam at Suffolk Law School in Boston, I arrived home, idly turned on HBO, and saw Beneath the Planet of the Apes (hereafter Beneath) was starting. What the hey, I said to myself, I'll watch it again. About ninety minutes later, I concluded that Beneath was serviceable, efficient entertainment, if a bit cursory and abrupt (REALLY abrupt). I thought about it some more, and tended to agree with the late Charlton Heston's assessment that the original 1968 movie Planet of the Apes (hereafter PotA) was self-contained and that a sequel was unnecessary. Ultimately, it seems that Twentieth-Century Fox's gleeful avarice overturned Heston's pragmatism and spawned the nearly identical Beneath.For at least half of Beneath, in addition to a repeat of the iconic ending of PotA, we witness a virtual reprise of the first half-hour of PotA, with Brent (James Franciscus) discovering what viewers already know about the simian-ruled, post-apocalyptic planet. For human's sake, Brent even closely resembles Heston's character Taylor (except he's a bit slighter), especially after Zira (played again by Kim Hunter) forces him to ditch his astronaut duds for a more revealing loincloth in order to escape immediate detection by the apes. Even so, gorilla General Ursus (James Gregory) captures Brent and Nova for his army's target practice. With Zira's help, they escape and plunge into the Forbidden Zone, which is really the ruins of the New York City subway system.At this point, Beneath does offer something new - Brent's gradual discovery of mutated, radiation-scarred, telekinetic/telepathic human survivors living in the subterranean shafts and ironically worshipping a Doomsday Alpha-Omega bomb. It's established that the apes avoid the Forbidden Zone and the subway lair because of the hallucinatory images they can conjure up (like the optical illusion fire and crevice that swallow up Taylor and compel Nova to seek help). The mutants mess with Brent's mind (i.e. force him to attack Nova, force him to fight Taylor after he is imprisoned with him). Meanwhile, General Ursus's army, desperate to replenish Ape City's food supplies, dare to march upon the Forbidden Zone. However, a female mutant reveals that the mind games they can play with Brent don't work on apes because of their brutishly thick skulls. So when Dr. Zaius (Maurice Evans), accompanying Ursus, deduces that the mutant's optical effects are fake, the mutants are helpless against them, except for their ace-in-the-hole bomb. So now let's see, Brent and Taylor escape prison by killing a mutant, then find Nova, then Ursus's army breaks in and kills Nova, then the army enters the mutant's shrine-like chamber with the bomb, Brent and Taylor soon follow, the apes kill several of the mutants, wound Taylor and kill Brent, and a vengeful Taylor detonates the bomb, annihilating the world and, seemingly future PotA sequels (not!)Was that all there was?Well, maybe Beneath was not so unnecessary after all, since it does introduce the fascinating human mutant angle, oh, and the increasing rift between the militaristic gorillas and the pacifistic chimpanzees early on. But Beneath glosses over these elements in its haste to get Brent caught up on ape lore and give the cynical Heston/Taylor a reason to end the sequel/ape madness. Perhaps Brent is unnecessary. Maybe the movie would have been better if it dumped the Brent character altogether and just followed Taylor (and Nova) after they plunged through the fire mirage and encountered the mutants. That way, Beneath could have given more time to explore this mysterious underground culture, and as counterpoint, the schism within ape society. After all, PotA's premise and characters are intriguing and deserve more thorough development. Beneath literally blew up this valuable opportunity. "},{"Title":"Beneath the Planet of the Apes","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unsettling, extremely grim conclusion proves that man or ape or highly intellectual human mutants with powerful telepathic abilities are able to destroy themselves. The weapon worshipped by an underground civilization of mutants who wear human masks to hide their hideous visage is a doomsday atom bomb, considered a god of peace, but they are willing to set it off if it means to keep the militant gorillas, led by General Ursus (James Gregory), from infiltrating their home and ruining the lives of those who live there. Charlton Heston pretty much has a glorified cameo as Taylor, who vanishes once he enters the Forbidden Zone, Nova (the lovely but mute, only until the very end, Linda Harrison, striking in an animal skin bikini) retreating to find help, running into another astronaut, Brent (James Franciscus)who was sent on a rescue mission to find the missing astronaut crew who disappeared. Brent recognizes that his ship had slipped through a time slippage, and when he and Nova overhear an Ape Counsel Hearing where Ursus announces to the hurrah of his army that he plans to storm the Forbidden Zone in search of food needed to keep their civilization alive, decides it is best to seek an alternate destination. Brent and Nova make friends with chimp intellectuals, Zira(Kim Hunter, shining in her role, even under heavy make-up)and Cornelius (David Watson), who try to provide them with map coordinates to escape the ape village and find a safe place elsewhere. But soon they are captured, get away with help from Zira, and find themselves in what was once the New York Subway, once again imprisoned by the underground mutants who wear funny robes and use a form of telepathy which can cause weaker minded primitives to kill/ hurt each other if necessary. Soon, the gorilla army, led by Ursus and Dr. Zaius, Minister of Science (Maurice Evans), invade the Forbidden Zone, while Taylor and Brent (who find each other when the mutants put them in a cell together attempting to have the two kill one another) try to keep the mutants from blowing the entire earth to smithereens with the Doomsday bomb. A cut Franciscus, in animal skins, should be a delight for the ladies since Heston is absent almost the entire film, only at the end getting to play hero (and unfortunately, unable to stop the inevitable), while Harrison will service the male audience as eye candy. The film shows that some of the apes are pacifists, protesting the gorilla army's aggressive militaristic approach, while Franciscus and Harrison just want to get free, only to walk unknowingly into the home of another civilization who use their gift of telepathy to have humans kill each other in order to keep peace. The finale doesn't end with a happy ending, that's for sure. Stunning art decoration and matte work showing the crumbling remains of what was once the New York Stock Exchange among other familiar landmarks of the popular city now reduced to ruin, practically hidden underground. BENEATH... certainly carries an anti-war message, pleading for mankind to stop killing each other, but also works as a post-apocalyptic tale, even closing with a disturbing fade to black, followed by a deep, resonating voice, damning those who born from the ashes of our mistakes, perhaps ultimately proving that no matter the time, we are unable to get along without using violent force, forever condemning any race who occupy the earth of the same fate. "},{"Title":"The famous mediocre sequel","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This second film is even more pessimistic than the first one. The apes turn military and war-minded because the gorillas take over and for them the only good human is a dead human. We already know that, well nearly that. From an ape general it is not surprising that he apes a certain colonel or is it general too? At least in the end he was a general, but then his horn was too little to be big enough for his appetite. As a matter of fact a second NASA rocket arrives with some more survivors looking for Taylor. But Taylor had literally disappear into thin air when trying to enter the forbidden zone. The newcomer, a certain Brent, recuperates the poor abandoned Nova who takes him back to the Ape city. And from there with a war on their hands they run into the forbidden zone to escape the gorillas. And they descend into the underground destroyed city of New York. There we are back, but with an enormous twist, to H.G. Wells, though the city of the apes is stratified in three classes that are three different species of apes. That sounds a little bit like a Brave New World. But the underground destroyed New York and its survivors have nothing to do with Terminator and the rebellion against the machines. They are pacifists who make their enemies kill each other in couples, and yet are not able to defend themselves since they have no weapon, or nearly no weapons. They have their God nevertheless and their God is a fully operational Doomsday Bomb. And that will be a big bang in the universe when it goes boom. Don't ask why and how all that found itself on a planet that is two thousand years away from the earth. Details, details, my dear Watson. And in the jungle you must presume, my dear Livingstone. And we presume. But a nuclear disaster on the earth brings humanity down, then apes take over and reverse the famous Darwinian evolution, and then war becomes inevitable and the human survivors of that cataclysm are pacifists who refuse to defend themselves except by calling for the help of their God, the nuclear auto de f that destroyed them in the first place. No hope for these humans. 1970 was the year when all hell broke down, out and up in Vietnam and Cambodia and Indochina. There was no other alternative than a nuclear war for some and this film tries to reflect that mood, but certainly not to enlighten us with any hope. Die man die hard man that is your final and inescapable fate. I am still all shivering with the recollection of that 1970 year. Gosh it was bleak.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Crteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"The Detonator","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is your only spoiler warning.I've been having a lot of fun lately going through the 20th Century Fox vault of so-called science fiction.  Having blazed through the Star Wars and Alien movies, I'm now on the Planet of the Apes series.  In all honesty, only the first two films in this franchise need to be seen because they create (and subsequently) destroy the world we know as The Planet of the Apes.  The third through fifth sequels are in the league of Star Wars Episode I.'Planet' was an interesting composite of then-current 1968 society, Roman society, and Mad Magazine.  Everything you know is flipped, but you still know what it's about.  Unlike other science fiction endeavors, 'Planet' didn't use the continuous Black stereotype frequent in the Alien movies, The Thing, and Poltergeist.  Dodge was perhaps the only realistic character in the movie.Then there is the sequels.  An embarrassment by modern standards, made worse by how much Tim Burton blatantly copied them for his spoof. 'Beneath' is 1/2 of a movie because it spends half its time remaking the original before breaking new ground.  Aliens was an unconscious remake, this is deliberate.  It is less experimental than the first, more formulaic.  The lack of experimenting, by comparison, killed the other franchises by their fourth installments.  Funny, Heston drops the bomb that destroys the world and, thus, the series.Fox's budget cuts hurt the visual aspect of this film in ways that science fiction never experienced before.  Too often it just looks like Roger Corman made it.  'Planet' was a super-size Twilight Zone episode, 'Beneath' is melancholy Star Trek.Fortunately, the subtexts are stronger this time because they aren't as bombastic in trying to make their points.  The triangle bond between the ape society (gorilla-orangutan-chimp) is embellished. Militarism becomes the dominant theme and the mutants are straight out of 'Dr. Strangelove.'  Humanity will continue to destroy itself, even after nuking the world into oblivion.  Also, as shown in Terminator, mankind will continue to live in the ruins of his old world.Overall, yet another example of an ambitious (and powerful) film vision wrecked by poor execution.  2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great sequel!","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the Planet of the Apes is a sequel to the 1968 film Planet of the Apes. Released in 1970, and directed by Ted Post and written by Paul Dehn, Beneath the Planet of the Apes stars James Franciscus, Kim Hunter, Linda Harrison, and Charlton Heston.This is one of those sequels that doesn't really require the viewer to see the first film to understand what's going on. (But I think it helps.) At the beginning of the film, it shows scenes from the first film to catch viewers up. The story however is a new adventure.After the disappearance of four astronauts sent to explore space, the American National Space Administration sends two new astronauts out to find and rescue them. Sadly, these astronauts have the same fate that the previous ones did. Their space ship crashes and lands on a strange planet. The skipper of the ship (Tod Andrews) quickly dies upon landing after he sustains a serious injury during the crash.The hero of this film is a young astronaut named Brent. (James Franciscus) As he tries to find help after his skipper dies, he meets a strange and mute woman named Nova (Linda Harrison) on horseback. She is wearing the dog tag chain of Taylor (Charlton Heston) - One of the astronauts Brent had been sent to find and rescue. Brent discovers that Nova appears to be harmless, and he knows she is the only source of hope he has of perhaps finding Taylor.Together, they ride to a place called Ape City, where Brent learns that this planet is ruled by highly intelligent, humanoid Apes who know how to talk, and that this simian civilization is very hostile towards human beings. Brent and Nova attempt to escape from the Apes, but soon, they jump from the frying pan into the fire....I love Charlton Heston, and it would have been great if he had a bigger role in this film, but what we did receive in return was the perfect compensation - The character Brent is very likable, and he was played brilliantly by James Franciscus. By having a new character, it brought a fresh new presence to the story. We were also still able to enjoy Taylor because even after disappearing, his presence was still there in a sense because we the audience knew he was somewhere, and when he did finally become visible again, he was all the more appreciated.The way the filmmakers set that up was perfect. If Taylor hadn't been in the film, I think it would have weakened the film some because the audience would have wondered what became of him, and if he would have been killed at the start, I feel it would have been too depressing and again, it may have even weakened the story because we would have missed Taylor. By keeping him alive, and making us wonder what became of him, and just knowing he'd be back, and then filling in that time by introducing us to a new character, and giving us time to get to know Brent was a good move.Beneath the Planet of the Apes is a great sequel and I am glad it was made. I would have always wondered what had become of Taylor and the other characters. I also like how bizarrely science fiction this one got. It's remarkable how well this turned out, considering that1. Charlton Heston came back to play the part of Taylor reluctantly.2. The character Cornelius isn't played by actor Roddy McDowall who played the part in the first movie. An actor named David Watson played the character in this film, and he did a good job. I didn't even know until later that it wasn't the same actor from the first movie playing the part.3. The studio insisted on a reduced budget while making this film.These handicaps forced the makers of the film to be even more inventive.Other Ape sequels followed this film, and in my humble opinion, Beneath is the most legitimate of the sequels because it is the only one set on the same Planet of the Apes as the original film.I saw part II as an anti-Vietnam war film in a way because there were plenty of Americans in 1970 who did not support the war, and felt both the Viet Cong and the United States Government were tyrants fighting for power and control, and in Beneath, I saw the Gorillas and the enemies they later faced representing both the Viet Cong, and the U.S. Government.I also saw part II slightly as a Western film that touched on the subject of Native Americans - Since the Gorillas were going out to a desert to face an enemy they knew nothing about just like U.S. troops once went out into the deserts of the U.S.A. to battle Native American tribes. (U.S. troops one-hundred years later also went to Vietnam to face an unknown enemy.)Furthermore, when the Gorilla character General Urus said the line The only good human is a dead human! - This was borrowed from General Philip Sheridan of the United States Army who once said after Comanche Chief Tosawi reputedly told General Sheridan in 1869, Me Tosawi. Me good Indian, to which General Sheridan supposedly replied, The only good Indians I ever saw were dead. This was then misquoted as The only good Indian is a dead Indian.Also in the Beneath film - There were the chimps protesting the war the Gorillas were about to embark on, much like the hippies protested Vietnam in real life.I feel the sequel follows the original very well, is the ideal continuation, helped develop the story, and is a very entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Alpha Omega bomb is real","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Dr. Strangelove and in On the Beach, Hollywood tried to make audiences understand that we had at last got the means to destroy the Earth, but audiences continued to confuse a nuclear war with dooms day, the end of the Earth. In this film, Hollywood did a fine job of making that confusion impossible by clearing showing telepathic survivors of a nuclear war running a society amidst a planet of apes while worshiping a bomb on the altar with Alpha Omega in Greek on its left fin referred to a bomb which could end the Earth.This film is NOT about a nuclear war it is about a nuclear war in which a nuclear doomsday machine has been detonated, hence the end of the world depicted in which the planet is burned to a cinder, to quote Mr. Heston playing Astronaut Taylor. Still, it is clear from other comments that IMDb readers do not realize this distinction and do not realize that the world can be destroyed I quote Times Online August 08, 2007 Dr Strangelove and the real Dooms day machine by Christopher Coker P. D. Smith DOOMSDAY MEN The real Dr Strangelove and the dream of the super weapon 552pp. Allen Lane. 20. 9 78 071 399815 3 ...Smith's study is the gripping, untold story of the ultimate weapon of mass destruction, which first came to public attention in 1950 when the Hungarian-born scientist Leo Szilard made a dramatic announcement on radio science was on the verge of creating a Doomsday Bomb. For the first time in history, mankind would soon have the ability to destroy all life on the planet. The shock wave from this statement reverberated across the following decade and beyond.What Szilard had in mind was the third of the alphabet bombs that came to characterize an entire age. The first, the A-bomb, had been used to incinerate two Japanese cities. Teller's H-bomb blasted its way into public consciousness a few years later. Finally, there was the ultimate weapon the C-bomb, a hydrogen bomb that could transmute an element such as cobalt into a radioactive element about 320 times as powerful as radium. A deadly radioactive cloud could be released into the atmosphere and carried by the westerly winds across the surface of the earth. Every living thing inhaling it, or even touched by it, would be doomed to certain death. In the autumn of 1950, Szilard's fears were given independent validation by Dr James R. Arnold of the Institute for Nuclear Studies in Chicago. Arnold, slide-rule in hand, had started out to debunk Szilard's arguments. He finished by publishing a set of calculations that showed that a Doomsday device, perhaps two-and-a-half times as heavy as the battleship Missouri, could indeed be built...The Cobalt bomb was largely forgotten after the Cuban Missile Crisis came and went. So too disappeared the fear of a Doomsday machine that could not be overridden by human intervention. Only after the Berlin Wall had been breached and the ice of the Cold War had begun to thaw did military analysts realize the Russians had actually built a version of the device. The details of this top-secret Soviet system were first revealed in 1993 by Bruce G. Blair, a former American ICBM launch control officer, now one of the country's foremost experts on Russian arms. Fearing that a sneak attack by American submarine-launched missiles might take Moscow out in thirteen minutes, the Soviet leadership had authorized the construction of an automated communications network, reinforced to withstand a nuclear strike. At its heart was a computer system similar to the one in Dr Strangelove. Its codename was Perimetr. It went fully operational in January 1985. It is still in place. Its job is to monitor whether there have been nuclear detonations on Russian territory and to check whether communications channels with the Kremlin have been severed. If the answer to both questions is yes then the computer will conclude that the country is under attack and activate its nuclear arsenal. All that is then needed is final human approval from a command post buried deep underground. It would be a brave officer, adds Smith, who, having been cut off from his superiors in the Kremlin, could ignore the advice of such a supposedly foolproof system.Bruce Blair has speculated that President Bush's September 2001 proposal for a new generation of weapons, including the robust nuclear earth penetrator, or bunker-buster, might be intended to knock out the underground command post that controls the system. The Bush administration withdrew its request for funding for the program at the end of 2005, after facing fierce domestic opposition. Some military analysts, nevertheless, believe that research is continuing into these weapons. We all face the prospect that, if Russia were ever attacked, its strategic nuclear warheads could be launched by a computer system designed and built in the late 1970s. Those of us who think Dr Strangelove to be the most telling commentary on the nuclear age should not be surprised. To paraphrase the novelist J. G. Ballard, old or not, the system remains a vivid demonstration, arranged for our benefit by the machine, of our own as a species. http//tls.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,25350-2648363,00.html See also http//www.slate.com/id/2173108/pagenum/all/#page_start In addition to this, there is the problem recounted in an article in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists that when scientists created the atomic bomb, they calculated the odds at about one chance in a million that such an explosion would end the world by starting a chain reaction in which sea water would separate into hydrogen and oxygen and ignite, turning our planet into a star and our solar system into a binary star system. But those calculations are now old and should be redone with a modern computer.These details need to be included in a special features section of the DVD so that viewers will not assume that this film is a mere cold war relic with no modern relevance. "},{"Title":"Flawed But Often Interesting","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes is an interesting movie but not a particularly good one.  This is one of those sequels that might be better appreciated if you hadn't seen the original.One of the problems is that most of the first half of the movie is spent repeating what happened in the original, with James Franciscus experiencing what happened earlier to Charlton Heston.  It's not badly done by any stretch, but everyone who saw the first Apes movie has seen this before.There are also a few continuity issues, as if the screenwriters had forgotten or ignored some of the events from the first film.  For example, the explanation that Brent (Franciscus) is after Taylor (Heston) on a rescue mission seems odd to say the least.  We learned in the first film that Taylor and his crew left Earth on an expectedly lengthy space voyage, nearly all of it in suspended animation, to colonize another planet.  The notion that someone apparently decided to send a rescue ship after Taylor a few weeks after he left is ridiculous.  I know they had to come up with *some* reason for Brent's presence, but they certainly could have come up with something better than that.However, once Beneath is finished rehashing the original, and we are introduced to the telepathic humans living in the rubble of New York City, things begin to get interesting.  There are some impressive scenes when the apes march through the Forbidden Zone and are confronted by the mutants' illusions, and the mutants' bomb-worshipping church service, while a bit over the top, is bizarre enough to grab your attention.-- Spoilers Follow-- Unfortunately, the ending to all this is not exactly what you would call satisfying.  We see the innocent and beautiful Nova shot to death, we see Brent go down graphically in a hail of bullets, and Taylor gets machine-gunned, falls down a flight of stairs, and detonates the doomsday bomb that destroys the entire planet.  It's unsettling enough to see Charlton Heston blowing up Earth, but the pretentious voice-over narration that immediately follows (A green and insignificant planet is now dead) is so out of left field and ends the movie so abruptly that you don't know whether to be depressed, amused or annoyed.In spite of everything that doesn't work, this is far better than the three dismal Apes movies that followed it.  The fact that they managed to continue the series after blowing the planet up is remarkable, although not necessarily a positive development in light of the declining quality of the films. "}{"Title":"Could be far better","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie could be far better, as i heard its script was suppose to be 14 years after Taylor show up, were there is a uprising against the apes, who revert back to their primal state, were the main characters even survived the nuclear exploded. This would be a far better story than this one.Low Budget does show itself, a daft story line does not help things either. There is countless flaws in this movie, like how Brett and Nova reached New York with ease through a old sub way tunnel. By the way there would be many ruins littering around the land-scape from the past, even after 2000 years, even after a nuclear war. Take a look at Egypt for as a good example of this.The mutants who seem to able to use brain waves to control people, yet why don't they use their brain waves on invading apes, and make them kill each other, instead of trying to make Taylor and Brett kill each other. This makes the story so daft. If the mutants are so advance, surely they should be able to find out for themselves what the apes are up to, instead of asking Brett. Why does Brett just tell them when they ask him, since he is on not the side of the apes, and its no big deal for him to just tell them this information. If the mutants was so advance, surely they would have better weapons, than a nuke to defend themselves against the invading apes. How do they survived and clothed themselves since they live beneath the city.Its obviously this story was made to put the Planet of the Apes sage to rest, by killing all the main characters in this movie, it appears it failed.I do believe a remake of this movie should be on the cards, with a original story line in mind, its sounds like a great idea. "},{"Title":"A painful, long and hard fall from grace...","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... not just for humanity in the context of the story but for the makers of this sorry excuse for a motion picture.This continuation of Franklin J. Schaffner's Planet of the Apes (1968) (an eight of out ten, in my book) is remarkable only in one regard Seldomly did a big-budget sequel with key people from the first outing still attached ever achieve such a dramatic distance in quality from its predecessor.Instead of a gripping drama, developed from smart philosophical speculation and posing some pretty big questions about the human condition (without making the mistake of biting off more than it could chew) &#x96; yes, that's what Schaffner's film was for me &#x96;, all we get here is a stupendously stupid parade of bad ideas.Recycle most of the plot points from the original, put in some cheap, forced Vietnam War allegories, add a bunch of funny, nuke-worshipping mutant-psychics (or whatever you wanna call those radioactively contaminated, amazingly unevolved clowns), throw in some hints of Wells' The Time Machine for good measure, make sure the overall story is ludicrous and no decent line is allowed into the script, execute everything in the most inane way imaginable, and Bob's your uncle!incompetent, crude, illogical, absurd, unimaginative, silly (no, strike that, that's too kind a word), boring, bland, void and plain dumb &#x96; those are just some of the attributes that come to mind when shudderingly thinking about that atrocity of a movie.It's no wonder Charlton Heston insisted on his character being killed off...You can see how little thought went into it all by the fact that it was here where an element was established that was to become a major part in the ongoing series and that seems to run counter to much of what parts 2 to 5 supposedly (and clumsily) were about, namely speciesism and racism. It is here where the singling out and defining of gorillas as an inherently, a temperamentally / racially / genetically bad subset, prone to aggression, violence, war, begins.James Franciscus does a decent job, in my opinion, making the best out of what he had to work with. His character, Brent, is a quasi-mirror image of George Taylor (Heston), protagonist from the previous tale who is mercifully relegated to a very minor rle (just short of a cameo) this time. Fittingly, even Dr. Zira (Kim Hunter) mistakes the two when first encountering Brent.A straight remake it is not, if only just. And it is those rehashed parts that actually work best. So, would I have preferred more of that, then? NO! One, work best doesn't say much in the context of this mess, as those scenes still are excruciatingly bad, just not AS bad as the rest. And, two, while conceivably a slightly better result might have been achieved, I probably would've loathed it even more, since by evoking additional comparisons, it just would've become even more palpitantly obvious how utterly unnecessary this shameful undertaking has always been to begin with.As is, they didn't meddle with everything from the original, but &#x96; and that's way worse &#x96; with the things they should have left alone most, for example by retroactively ruining the openness and mysteriousness of its ending by spelling it out &#x96; and with the tritest of explanations at that.Had this turd been a stand-alone project or at least not associated itself with the fascinating adventure from two years earlier in key aspects, I couldn't have cared less, but as things are now, it really tarnishes that which it props itself up on.So, I guess the main purpose of this rant (I'm afraid what initially was planned as a review has degenerated badly &#x96; just like the above mentioned merry band of men-turned-mutants), would be to both warn every sentient being under the open sky of this abomination (meaning, if you love the bugger, don't even place your chimp in front of the TV when it is on) and at the same time to urge those of you who've already had the misfortune of watching this garbage or the follow-up follies, thereby losing all inclination to ever again go near anything with the words planet of the apes in the title, not to let that undoubtedly horrific trip deter you from seeking out the classic that was there first, as you'd be missing out on a great piece of cinma that is &#x96; despite all the copying going on here &#x96; nothing like the exercises in the insufferable that came after it.1/10TD No, that's not redundant By that I mean a better execution of the abysmal plot could've at least made for a marginal better experience &#x96; although, honestly, I'm glad nobody with any talent (save for the actors) got sucked into this project it's much more appropriate this way, as form and function are in perfect harmony, so to speak. As the concept of the two societies (although, technically, it's at least three human-like apes, ape-like humans and mind-manipulating super-humans) clearly borrows elements from that story with its struggle between the Eloi and the Morlocks. Kind of reminded me of Lucas out of his free will tragically destroying much of the skillful narrative he himself had created with the original three chapters in the Star Wars saga. I still remember vividly that sense of wonderment when Luke first meets and finds out about Yoda in Empire How could this quirky, cranky gnome have ever been a great warrior?, I mumbled to myself &#x96; well, turns out, he's just a hyperactive Muppet, that looks and acts in his younger years exactly the way your average dinosaur-and-action-figure-wielding four-year-old would've imagined it... "},{"Title":"Not bad (for a sequel)","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Planet of the Apes film was not just a classic, but - more importantly - a Surprise hit. Probably no one expected a sequel to be made, let alone so soon. And, as far as sequels go, it's quite good, even if it is a mixed bag.It takes places literally straight after the events of the first film and we see the original film's hero (Charlton Heston's 'Taylor') riding off with his new girlfriend, only to run into some - unseen - trouble. But, hot on his heels, is another astronaut who has been sent to rescue him. This is where the story gets a bit odd. It's hard to put your finger on it, but you're given your original hero, only to have him taken away from you minutes into the film and replaced with someone who looks and acts a lot like him, but isn't him.So we follow 'Taylor Mk II' as he too journeys into the kingdom of the apes (and all the trouble that comes with it). Then, it sort of glides from a sequel (i.e. new story) into a kind of rehash of the last one. 'New Taylor' meets up with the same apes and gets chased again then imprisoned (as Charlton did previously). However, the second half picks up. And, when I say 'picks up' I mean takes on an 'original flavour' while at the same time completely going in a different direction which doesn't feel like an 'apes' movie and more.In case you haven't already seen it, I won't go into detail about what Taylor and his mate find 'below' the planet, but, even though it is a little weird sometimes, it is quite fun. It was certainly inventive for the time.All in all, Beneath the Planet of the Apes is an enjoyable ride that falls victim of being a little uneven sometimes. Plus it would never entirely live up to the original due to being unable to match its predecessor's shock ending. Part 2 ends, in some people's opinions, unsatisfactory. I just thought it was different. But then the better part of the film was quite different, too. "},{"Title":"misses Taylor","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following directly from the first movie, Taylor (Charlton Heston) and Nova (Linda Harrison) are in the Forbidden Zone. They encounter apparitions and Taylor disappears. Astronaut Brent (James Franciscus) crash lands on 3955AD following Taylor's trajectory. He's the sole survivor. Nova with Taylor's dog tags comes riding along alone. Hoping to find Taylor, Brent rides with Nova back to Ape City to find Zira (Kim Hunter). Gorilla General Ursus is agitating to invade the Forbidden Zone against the advice of Dr. Zaius. With Zira's help, Brent and Nova escape into the subway tunnels. They discover a group of telepathic humans worshiping a nuclear bomb in St. Patrick's Cathedral.The originality of the first is gone. While trying to expand on this future world, it becomes a lot more cumbersome. It's a bit of a mess when they can't even get the dates right. However it does go someplace even crazier. I do have to give credit to a movie that has more outlandish makeup than apes. It is strange that they got a younger Heston lookalike while they can't keep Heston himself. The movie works marginally. It's more camp and inferior. It could have gone all wrong but somehow it stays afloat. "},{"Title":"Where's Roddy McDowell?","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is chock full of WTF...To begin with, James Franciscus and Charlton Heston come off as dueling Troy McClure impersonators...each growling his lines with the impatience of a man waiting for the results of an important blood test. Stuck in the future, they cannot accept a planet of apes.The apes are not a big part of this movie. Kim Hunter is back...but no Roddy McDowell. Mostly, the ape army is used as a plot device. They are marching on the forbidden zone...the land of the psionic underground people who take off their faces during church services.Caught in the middle are the two astronauts and the ex-slave Nova. Nova is attractive, obedient and mute...probably auditioning to be Heston's wife.The first movie was basically Atlas Shrugged in ape form. This movie is The Fountainhead...especially the ending. It is an oddly paced movie; but, very imaginative as a sequel. "},{"Title":"Excellent first sequel","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the Planet of the Apes has never enjoyed the classic status of its illustrious progenitor, and this is a pity since, in many ways, it is at least as good a film.The shock ending of the 1968 Planet was so effective that it demanded some explanation as to what had led to the state of affairs revealed in the first movie. And so the first thing to do was to fling another human into the scenario - James Franciscus (Charlton Heston-lite), on the trail of Taylor - skip most of the ape revelations (been there, done that), and get on with the new stuff. Which turns out to be a bunch of human mutants with mental powers living in the underground ruins of New York. Cue Taylor turning up, the apes arriving, and Taylor pushing the kablooie button, activating the Armageddon bomb (thereby precluding Heston appearing in any further sequels)(or, indeed, any sequels)(then again, scriptwriters can be very imaginative...) It occurs to me that Taylor's action here - destroying the planet - is somewhat at odds with his anguished reaction at the end of the first movie for heaven's sake, that was only a little old atomic war!Beneath is great fun - a romp, far less burdened with the satire and allegorical subtext which characterised 1 and 3 in the series. With four of the original cast returning (Roddy McDowell's Cornelius has a different actor under the makeup), there is a strong sense of continuity, and the story cleverly continues seamlessly from what had originally been written - as novel and movie - as a standalone.If you watched the first one and enjoyed it, this is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Second in Series, Second Best","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most fans agree the first POTA movie is the best. The ending is now part of film legend. This one works well because it adds new twist to the first movie **************Possible Spoiler*******you see humans who survived the nuclear war, some of them can talk/think (you can argue about their acting skills).Time Travel, does going into past/future change the present, anti war, humans are destructive themes prevail here. Sometimes the movie gets a bit preachy, but it was made when the Anti-War in Vietnam movement was gaining strength. I liked how they explained the end of the earth and set the movie up for the third movie.Charles Heston has been criticized for over acting, I think you can see why here and the main female (Human, not Chimp) Nova, gets to go two movies in a row without ever saying a word.This is good sci-fi, has a plot, a moral, decent acting, and a solid script to keep you interested. Not perfect, sometimes cheesy, but overall recommended. "},{"Title":"Quite a good sequel to one of the best science fiction films ever made","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In all honesty, it's not a patch on the original but that's to be expected. Still, it's an extremely enjoyable film in its own right. Charlton Heston declined to return in a starring role but does at least appear in a supporting role, having maybe 15 minutes screen time out of an hour and a half. The leading man duty is passed on James Franciscus, who was reportedly cast because of his passing resemblance to Heston. It has to be said but he is a poor man's Charlton Heston but he was a good actor. His character, Brent, was a bit underwritten though. Kim Hunter (Zira) and Maurice Evans (Dr. Zaius) are likewise relegated to fairly small supporting roles but are just as entertaining and believable as they were in the first film. All in all, the only things that I actually disliked about the film, other than a few biggish plot holes and a fair few inconsistencies as regards the events of the first film, was the fact that it is the only film in the series without Roddy McDowall. Simply put, Planet of the Apes isn't Planet of the Apes without Roddy McDowall. That said, David Watson does a good job at playing Cornelius in this film and does quite a good impression of McDowall's very distinctive voice to boot. "},{"Title":"Decent sequel, but could have been much better........","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film starts off with a great deal of promise, starting up right where 1968's Planet of The Apes left off. The problem is that just as the viewer's curiosity is piqued regarding where Taylor and Nova will go (and how they will survive), Taylor disappears until the end of the film. I feel that this was a major flaw to the film, and although James Franciscus does an admirable job playing the lead role of Brent, the shoes of Charlton Heston were just too big for him to fill. I've always thought that if Heston were in more of the film (even with Franciscus), it would have added a great deal more credibility to the film and to the story. I like the idea of the mutant human survivors who live underground, but I thought too much time was wasted on unimportant aspects of their existence (like the church service), rather than explaining how they survived to that point and how they got their powers. The ending is rather extreme, and kind of leaves you feeling flat. I thought a more positive ending, such as the one that was originally written (where Taylor and Brent escape and free all the humans to start a new civilization) would have made for a much better film. The ending of this film also made it very hard to explain the third film, and when you think about it, the third film would be next to impossible given this ending. Overall, it is a good film and a pretty decent sequel, but it could have been much better...... "},{"Title":"nice follow up","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ending was too good to be true. The best ending I've ever seen in a film. Not the happy ending stuff of 99% of other films. Suits perfectly the story. And why would we want another PotA sequel. This film must not turn to be just another Rocky with 5 sequels. I would be glad just with those two.  "}{"Title":"The best sequel I have ever seen,but...","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well,I am those people that never had the chance to watch the original Planet of the Apes  in the movies,so I watched it on VHS and now on DVD. The new 2001 version of Planet of the Apes...well,the only thing that saves the film from disaster is CGI this time,but the rest is a sick fantasy.The original is far superior, and the sequel,Beneath the Planet of The Apes helps to discover what Taylor did after he saw the destroyed Statue of Liberty,and what discovered later.The film shocked me when we learn of the mutants,the remains of the Nuclear War that destroyed civilization.But what I didn t understand is why NASA bothers to send a rescue mission if Taylor was on a colonization mission? Maybe at NASA they worried after they lost signal from Taylor s ship... Anyway,the makeup is good,acting and the costumes.My favorite scene on this one is when astronaut Brent realizes that he is on Earth s future after discovering the ruins of New York.But my main goof for this film is the time.Taylor landed in the year 3978,and Brent arrived in 3955... A little earlier before Taylor s arrival.Call this continuity problem, I guess...Anyway, a good sequel. "},{"Title":"finishing the first movie","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  beneath the planet of the apes finishes off the first movie. it is not worse than the first movie. the makeup was great, the acting was great, the story was great, and the set was great. the ending was awesome. but i won't tell u. "},{"Title":"BENEATH THE PLOT GLITCH OF THE APES!!!!!!!! Heston sized spoilers included.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BENEATH THE PLAMET OF THE APES, is a good film, with a end that almost rivaled the original. Charlton Heston originally, did not want to do a sequel. Richard Zanuck, (Then head of 20TH CENTURY FOX) talked Heston into doing the sequel. At Heston's suggestion, his character appeared in the beginning and disappeared, and then returned for the end. Heston's fee was donated to charity and they went and made the film. The plot point I had the hardest time with was that the super intelligent human mutant race thinks this doomsday A-BOMB they have is a deity. Also the blatant, and awkward swipe at christianity didn't fit the film. It just didn't work. Having these telepathic humans just have the bomb for self defense would have worked better as a plot point. Despite this glaring flaw, this is a fun film. BURT REYNOLDS, was originally, considered to play BRENT, the character, that was destined to be played by JAMES FRANCISCUS. In this sequel, 20TH CENTURY FOX, did something it did for every other APES film that followed....it cut the budget. The makeup jobs weren't nearly as good as the original film, and neither were the production values. Instead of making them bigger and better, they got cheap. You can't do this in a film series that did the business the first film did. Alas, that's the way they did it. One sticking point was the ending...originally, there wasn't going to be another sequel. Yet, the studio wanted one. They couldn't do films in the future due to the events surrounding the conclusion of this film, so writer PAUL DEHN, (GOLDFINGER) came up with a story arch that would carry them through the next three films. Another sticking point in this film is the absence of FRANKLIN SCHAFFNER, who was off doing PATTON, I believe. His direction of the first film, is what made it what it was....a classic. A man by the name of TED POST, directed this film. He was a tv director who had done many projects, including a few episodes of THE TWLIGHT ZONE. Despite the budget restrictions there are some great effects in this film (including the illusion of the Apes, GREAT LEADER, used by the telepaths to scare them.) , and epic sequences involving hundreds of extras marching into battle. (No small feat,considering the budget) Fans of the first film will enjoy this one. However, I liked these films when they had the future primitive story lines of the first two features. The contemporary sequels that followed were ok.....but, due to restrictive budgets...were only mere shadows of what they could have been. Besides the 60's-70's clothing in them, dates all latter sequels badly. "},{"Title":"A miscarriage of sanity that cost the world its existence!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film places the viewer in the grip of tense confusion and intense emotion.  The challenge of relating to James Franciscus leads a viewer to ask When will this end?  James Gregory did a convincing job of portraying the commander of a political machine with Maurice Evans.  Watching Nova, Linda Harrison, get shot by the militant ape attack was a heartbreaker, but connected the audience with the long stream of miscarriages that the Planet of the Apes Series was famous for - tragedies.  The ultimate tragedy of seeing the Nuke Button pushed by Charlton Heston was impressive, but insane!  What would you have done in his situation?  "},{"Title":"Could Brent have stopped Taylor?","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" We see Brent ( James Franciscus) getting shot and sliding down the wall at the end but we never truly know if he survived his injuries or not. Do you think he was still alive when Taylor (Charlton Heston) activated the bomb? If so, how come he didn't attempt to stop Taylor? There was plenty of time for Brent to crawl to Taylor and stop him detonating the bomb. Even though he had a few minor bullet grazes, Brent could have dragged himself toward Taylor.Was Brent being selfish by remaining where he was shot? Was he frightened of receiving some more minor bullet grazes?Should he have shouted 'Stop!' to Taylor? "},{"Title":"An underrated, excellent sequel","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the Planet of the Apes is an underrated movie that comes close to the original (of course it can't reach the great climax of the original) and this is the only one of the ape movies that actually makes sense (it's a direct sequel to the Planet of the Apes) with an imaginative storyline. It's also important to state that this movie is basically worthless without seeing the first one, so anyone giving it a try should watch that before this one.At the beginning of the movie we get a very interesting start &#x96; the exact ending of the original Planet of the Apes. Personally I always liked these kinds of beginnings because it's usually a good start to see that the director catches up and follows the story from the very end of the first movie. We can celebrate the presence of Taylor (Charlton Heston) and Nova (Linda Harrison), the protagonists of the first movie who gave their names to the sequel, so we can actually expect something good here as well. However we can quickly say goodbye to Taylor, who we won't be seeing for a long time (till the end to be precise), but Nova keeps on being one of the main characters throughout the story. The new hero is Brent (James Franciscus) who is almost the exact copy of Taylor (physically, the way of arrival, etc. &#x96; except Taylor's nihilism). The viewer is spared from learning everything about the twisted society of the apes (only getting the regular clichs, like 'he can speak!'), except news like the gorillas are now in power and their leader Ursus is the one whose opinion counts the most. The orangutan Dr. Zaius still hates humans so he supports the general's plans of searching and killing the &#x96; supposedly human - inhabitants in the Forbidden Zone. The chimpanzees are still positive &#x96; and appear to be the most intelligent and peace-loving &#x96; characters, although we can mostly assume this from the roles of Zira and Cornelius. After a familiar escape &#x96; with the help of Zira - Brent and Nova manage to get to the Forbidden Zone where Brent realizes that they are indeed on Earth, a bit faster than Taylor did in the original. They explore the section of the underground system of New York and encounter highly intelligent mutants, who possess quite powerful psionic powers (which they fail to use for some reason against the gorillas during the raid). They capture Brent and Nova and finally Taylor appears &#x96; he is a prisoner of the mutants as well. Soon after the gorillas invade the underground city and the leader of the mutants arms the 'tool of God' an atomic bomb. In the final showdown the heroes fall and the bomb goes off.The absolutely depressing ending makes this movie a very unusual one by Hollywood standards and closes off the whole story perfectly. The locations are awesome, the contrast of the vast deserts and the ape inhabited forests is present here as well. The underground city of the mutants with the cathedral is amazing, reminded me of the original Fallout PC game (the two has not much to do with each other, it's just clear that the creators of the game took many elements from here &#x96; post nuclear/apocalyptic setting, an atomic bomb under the cathedral, etc.). The main characters are great, all the corresponding actors and actresses do a very good job the heroic Brent, the again nihilistic Taylor, the beautiful Nova, the wise human-hater Dr. Zaius, Ursus the gorilla war-chief, the good-natured Zira and Cornelius and of course the cold-hearted, emotionless mutants.If you liked Planet of the Apes, I'm suggesting you to avoid all the unnecessary sequels/prequels &#x96; except this one, cause this is one movie worth watching and completes a good story in order to become an even better one. "},{"Title":"It moves well.","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film keeps the viewer's attention, but in terms of the story and whole Planet of the Apes zeitgeist, I'm curious why they ended the series here, and why they ended it like they did.Technically there're no missteps. Everything is in order. This is classic film making before the big shift in human psychology film came about in the 70s. Here we witness a kind of sociological study, and in the end things kind of go from bad to worse.It's one of the better Ape films. Well shot, a good story and good plot, with fairly multidimensional characters (if somewhat static). If you're a classic sci-fi fan, then you've probably already seen this. Younger viewers, give it a shot, even if some of the SFX don't pass CGI muster.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Does little to advance the mythology","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the recent release of franchise re-booter Rise Of The Planet Of The Apes, it seemed like a good time to re-visit the sequels to the original Planet Of The Apes film. The original is enormously popular even now and contains many popular quotes, but the sequels I can remember little of. I watched them as a child, but cannot recall which ones I saw and even if I saw them in order. This is the first sequel, I carries on immediately after we watched Charlton Heston on his knees in front of the half-buried Statue of Liberty at the end of the first.Taylor (Charlton Heston) rides off on his horse with mute simpleton (and co-incidentally beautiful) Nova (Linda Harrison). When being met by a giant wall of fire, Taylor goes to check it out only to disappear into the side of the mountain. Meanwhile, an astronaut on a rescue mission who has followed Taylor's path, John Brent (James Franciscus), has crashed on the ape-ruled planet, and discovers the apes plans to march on a mysterious underground city they believe may be run by humans. With the help of friendly ape Zira (Kim Hunter), he gets there first along with Nova, only to discover it is run by strange telekinetic humans in crap costumes that worship their God - a nuclear bomb.While this was a perfect opportunity to develop and enlarge the franchise's mythology, the decision to introduce the mind-reading humans was a bad one. The best thing about the original was the role-reversal of the apes and humans, the former being vastly intelligent and powerful while the latter being silent and enslaved. The humans in there cheap- looking futuristic costumes and rather silly abilities, clash with the original's ideals. And the fact that so little action is focused on the apes takes the magic out of it. Though Heston does appear in what could be called an extended cameo, new lead Franciscus is simply a bland carbon-copy of Taylor's character and does not share the acting chops and gravel-faced talents of Heston. Franciscus would spend the majority of his career starring in Italian giallo films, namely Argento's Cat O' Nine Tales.When I was ready to completely write the film off, however, then came the completely depressing and quite shocking ending, which certainly bumped the film up a few notches for me. But apart from that, the film is rather bland, silly, and does nothing to extend or improve upon the original, which still remains a very solid sci-fi film. www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A great bookend to the original","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the Planet of the Apes takes up where the mega hit Planet of the Apes left off, with Taylor on the beach, cursing the maniacs who blew up civilization and left the Statue of Liberty broken in the sand. James Franciscus is another astronaut survivor, sent after Taylor's mission to find out what happened to him. He meets Nova, the feral human woman, mysteriously separated from Taylor, and follows her to Ape City. There he begins an adventure that sees the warlike General Ursus exhorting his army (the only good human is a dead human!) to follow him into the Forbidden Zone, where a menace awaits. The last vestige of the lost human civilization hangs on in an underground remnant of New York, worshiping a relic nuclear warhead. It's bizarre, tense, creepy, and ultimately tragic. With lots of action and special effects as good as any in the era, and solid performances from a stellar cast, it satisfies on many levels. While not as subtle in its use of metaphor as the brilliant and satirical first film, Beneath the Planet of the Apes still manages to further the commentary on a world gone mad ... not theirs, but ours. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time- this sequel is definitely beneath POTA","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow - how far the franchise of POTA falls after just the first sequel. The original POTA seemed to set the bar for sci-fi in the 60's, so you would expect the second effort to come in close, right? Not even close. The budget looks so strained it's a joke. The sets look like backdrops from my high school play. Especially the cityscapes, and underground destroyed buildings.The plot verges on lunacy this time. At least there was some depth to POTA, but this plot is so silly and shallow, it's ridiculous. The whole worshiping the almighty bomb, etc. was just plain stupid. I get that they were trying to make a point, but it is done with such disrespect and irreverence that it comes across completely illegitimate. Don't waste your time, unless your 10 years and completely bored out of your mind. "}{"Title":"A good sequel to a good film","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the planet of the apes is a continuation of the first.Astronaut Brent is sent on a rescue mission to find Taylor and his whereabouts.Brent ends up on the same strange planet that Taylor did and is captured by the apes and suffers the same faith as Taylor did only in a shorter version.Brent also discovers a mysterious under ground place where mutants worship an atomic bomb as their god.Little does Brent know the ape army is trying to track him down and kill him.Brent gets reunited with Taylor but the ape the ape army are getting closer and time is running out.Some bad acting and stupid parts of this film made me give it a 6 rating.This is a classic but to me its losing some of its magic.Recommended to Planet of the Apes fans,sci-fi fans and people who finds Planet of the Apes interesting.This is enjoyable to some but not all.I hope the next sequels are as good as this. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Enough Sequel","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been a long time since I watched any of the sequels to 1968's Planet Of The Apes - and, to be honest, a few years since I've watched that. The original was classic sci-fi; my memory was that the sequels got progressively sillier and sillier. It's true that Beneath The Planet Of The Apes is not as good as the original, but still it's not a bad movie.The role (although through a different character) that was played by Charlton Heston (who appears in this at the beginning and end, and has a fairly substantive role in the end) in the original is now played by James Franciscus. He's astronaut Brent, sent on a rescue mission to find Taylor (Heston.) Brent finds his way to the same planet, and faces many of the same problems Taylor had to deal with. That's one of the problems here - a lot of this is pretty similar to the first one. The mystery of the original is lacking (obviously, we know where Brent is) and to try to make up for that, the mystery in this movie seems to be to explore the mysterious Forbidden Zone from the original - a region where the apes are forbidden to travel. This movie also lacks some of the humour of the original. The only line I recall that seemed to try to recapture some of the funny spirit was when Zira (again played by Kim Hunter) was treating a somewhat apprehensive Brent for a gunshot wound, and says - in an attempt to reassure him - don't worry. I'm a trained vet. Brent looks at her incredulously and says oh, that's great. But that was really about it, and, as I recall, that line (or a variation thereof) was used in the original.The movie again - like the original - tries to go for satire, and a commentary on modern society. The target in this case is clearly religion. As I recall, the ape religion is looked at in the first one, but isn't central to the story. Here, the whole movie seems to be a criticism of the Judeo-Christian religious system. The apes, of course, believe themselves to be made in the image of God; the mutant humans who are finally encountered have a religion with a very Roman Catholic feel to it. They have developed incredible psychic powers, and are worshipers of a very powerful nuclear bomb. Their Gloria Patri (glory be to the Father, and to the the Son, and to the Holy Spirit) is restated as glory be to the bomb and to the holy fallout! The hymn All Things Bright And Beautiful is sung to a very strange tune with the word bomb replacing the word God. The movie is obviously anti-religion, clearly in sympathy, for example, with the rather naive world view expressed by John Lennon in the song Imagine which seems to believe that if only we could get rid of this horrible thing called religion we'd have perfect peace. (I think we'd just find other things to fight about!) That's the thing that really weakened this movie, to me at least - not so much the anti-religion feel, but just that the movie seemed more jaded in general terms than the original, which came across in many ways as more light-hearted.Having said that, I don't have to agree with the perspective of a movie to find it enjoyable, and for the most part I thought this was well done. One of the advantages of the heavy ape makeup is that the absence of Roddy McDowell (Cornelius is played here by David Watson, who has a much smaller role that McDowell had) isn't too much of an issue. The title, I thought, had a hidden meaning. To me, it doesn't mean so much what's underground. It's more of a reflection on the idea that beneath both the ape society and the mutant human society is contemporary (ie, 1970) society, with all of its problems being reflected back at us. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to the outstanding original","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first and probably best of four rather variable sequels to the fantastic '67 original begins with the almighty Charlton Heston as the unhinged and embittered Taylor disappearing into the dreaded Forbidden Zone. James Franciscus acquits himself reasonably well as Brent, an astronaut who crashlands on the planet of the apes who's looking for Taylor. Meanwhile an angry army of hostile gorillas led by the brutish General Ursus (marvelously essayed with fiery aplomb by James Gregory) go marching off into the Forbidden Zone to make war with the mutants who reside within it. It's with the deliciously deranged race of grotesque telepathic subterranean humanoid mutants that this film really comes into its own as one beautifully bent, batty and berserk mondo freako number Besides being played by such excellent thespians as legendary acting teacher Jeff Corey, corpulent character actor Victor Buono, the imposing Don Pedro Colley, and fetching Apes sequel perennial Natalie Trundy, these gloriously gonzo kooks have developed a wonderfully wacko alternate religion that worships a lethal nuclear missile (Glory be to the bomb/And to the holy fall-out).Ted Post's briskly efficient direction maintains a steady snappy pace throughout and stages the frequent stirring action scenes with exciting lan. Maurice Evans as the wise Dr. Zaius and Kim Hunter as the compassionate Zira make welcome encore appearances. Milton Krasner's crisp cinematography, Leonard Rosenman's primal, rousing score and the nifty special effects (the matte paintings of a ruined New York City are simply spectacular) are all up to par fine and impressive. Moreover, there's an ample amount of beefcake and cheesecake on display here the gorgeous Linda Harrison looks positively smoking hot in her fur bikini outfit while both the brawny Heston and the equally muscular Franciscus spend a sizable bulk of their screen time clad solely in loincloths. The incredibly downbeat and startling nihilistic apocalyptic ending concludes things on a fabulously pessimistic note, with the superbly sonorous narration by ubiquitous voice actor extraordinaire Paul Frees qualifying as the tasty cherry on an already quite scrumptious oddball sci-fi cinema cake. "},{"Title":"A wonderful sequel--with some over-the-top but terrific scenes!","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, without Charlton Heston in the lead, the film loses a point. Now I am not saying that James Franciscus did a bad job. While he's NOT the quality actor Heston was, he really established that he was a good actor that had just never gotten the chance to do much more than TV shows like LONGSTREET.It turns out the reason Heston wasn't in the lead was not the studio's fault. They threw gobs of money at him to take the lead but he'd had enough and wanted to go on to other challenges. So, they threw EVEN MORE money at him and so he agreed to at least do a guest spot--appearing in the last 15 or so minutes of the movie for a stunning and mega-cool conclusion.So, this movie begins with Franciscus (Brent) landing on the planet to look for Heston and the rest of his crew--not realizing Heston is the only surviver. He somehow (and pretty darn miraculously) finds Nova (Heston's squeeze in the first film) and she leads him to the nice apes, Cornelius and Zira. None of the three had seen Heston in some time--apparently he went missing when he traveled into the Forbidden Zone (I love the way that sounds).Nova reluctantly leads him there--but the way is strewn with scary stuff!! Well, it turns out all this is illusion and Brent continues with Nova deeper into the Forbidden Zone (yikes). Eventually, he meets up with some of the coolest mutants I have ever seen on film (even better than those in OMEGA MAN). They are the remnants of mankind who were not enslaved by the apes. However, they were forced to live in radioactive rubble and this has had positive and negative effects. On the plus side, they have GREAT mental powers that help them scare away ape armies and make anyone do their evil bidding! On the negative side, Brent later finds out they are all wearing masks and their faces and bodies look like chum! Well, you gotta take the good with the bad! Anyways, although these are powerful people, they are psychotics who, for fun have Brent and the captured Taylor (Heston) fight it out to the death. They also have the odd desire to worship a cheesy-looking doomsday bomb (in this one scene the special effects team blew it). Well, as the two heroes are trying to bash each other's brains out, the apes attack because now their leader is convinced the images they see aren't real. It's an all-out bloodbath and one by one we see most everyone killed. Taylor, in his last action as he dies, pushes the button to blow up the miserable planet!! And, with that, ended the Planet of the Apes movies,...or did it?! Well, seeing that this movie had a ton of money and the quality was maintained, they decided to make an odd followup--ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES. I, for one, was excited at this prospect, since BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES was jam-packed with cool action, plot and excitement. Sure it wasn't MASTERPIECE THEATER, but it was so entertaining and fun. "},{"Title":"Good second sequel","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sent to find Taylor and co, astronaut Brent shares his fate and travels to the planet of the apes where he is captured by the warring forces.  Taylor has escaped into the Forbidden Zone and Brent is keen to follow him.  Once there however, he finds a powerful tribe of mutated humans living in the ruins of New York and worshipping a nuclear missile.  Meanwhile the gorilla forces amass, ready to destroy the mutant humans forever and Brent makes a further startling discovery.The second sequel to the Planet of the Apes sort of retreads the old ground again by having a different human come into the same situation and face the same threat.  However the plot is expanded to continue the original story by going into the forbidden zone and uncovering it's secrets.  It's different from the original from this point on and it is enjoyable in a different way.  Like the original the story moves along well and has an enjoyable shock ending.Franciscus is a reasonable replacement for Heston and does well while the rest of the cast are the same again (not that you'd know behind the make-up!).  They all do well although the mutants are a touched hammy and not as strong as the apes as a threat.  Overall this is a good sequel, even if it isn't of the same standard as the original film. "},{"Title":"Planet of the Apes was just the begining. What lies Beneath may be the end!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes is a very solid and exciting sequel. It isn't as good as it might have been, but this is not to down play the movie at all. As a  film in its own right it stands up very well indeed. To substitute for the shocking ending to the first film the Statue of Liberty half buried, as if you didn't know the producers go  for an out and out situation of burying the entire New York Times Square. This works to Warholian effect and is well realised on screen. It is a shame that Charlton Heston is not featured in the movie too much, but he isn't missed. James Franciscus is a more than capable substitute as Brent. Roddy McDowell is however, sorely missed. David Watson takes over as Cornelius and does well, but it just isn't Planet of the Apes without Roddy iam afraid. The action never gives up and John Chambers make up for the survivors of the bomb now living Beneath the Planet of the Apes, and comunicating through thought waves is as good as anything he done on part one. Kim Novak, Linda Harrison and others return, and Ted Post's direction is solid and swift. As sequels come this is one of the most exciting there has been. "},{"Title":"Boring sequel","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had it's high and low points but i will remember it for it's lows this film stars James Franciscus, Charlton Heston & Kim Hunter in this sequel to the 1968 classic. Another astronaut named Brent (Franciscus) lands on the same planet as Taylor did in the first one on a reckless mission to find Taylor. This rescue mission leads beneath the planet of the apes where there lurks mutant humans who worship a nuclear bomb capable of destroying the entire planet. In my opinion this was an alright film but nothing special and a disappointing sequel to the first one, however if you enjoy the planet of the apes films you may want to give this one a watch.**/***** "},{"Title":"2nd apes movie, 2nd best","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as I'm concerned, each Apes movie was worse than the one before it, until they got to the godawful Battle for the POTA. Beneath's biggest flaw is that the first half is pretty much a replay of the first movie, but with Linda Harrison to look at, who cares? The second half really makes the film, though the mutants, the ruins of Manhattan, the bomb - all great ideas that took the movie into new territory. (Seeing the mutants peel off their skin scared the hell out of me when I was a kid.) Another reviewer described Beneath as pompous and heavyhanded, but it's not as if the first movie was high art. It's campy sci-fi fun and Beneath was a worthy successor to POTA. "},{"Title":"Beneath me watching this ever again","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Planet of the apes movie is nothing special but compared to this follow up it's a masterpiece. This film is absolutely terrible. It looks low budget , the soundtrack is so annoying it gives you a head ache and the story is just plain stupid. For some reason they decided to replace Charlton Heston in the lead role with a look alike ( James Franciscus ) although CH does have a cameo . He must have read the script and decided not to star in it. ( check out his terrible wig) Like the first film , a mute Linda Harrison runs around serving no purpose whatsoever and even the apes have no menace about them. The end is very abrupt as if the director ( or the actors) decided to walk off set because what they were involved in was irretrievable. This has the feel of a very poor Star Trek episode , one that nobody remembers. "},{"Title":"adventurous second installment","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES picks up where the first left off and revolves around a mystery surrounding the disapperance of taylor. At the same time astronaughts from earth crash land in the future and one survives to take up the quest for taylor. While the search goes on for taylor the apes in ape city are planning a military foray into the forbidden zone; a foray that will bring them face to face and into conflict with mentally superior humans who live in a dead city. BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES promises alot and delivers and is adventure on a grand scale. The only thing holding it back are awkward subplots where the humans worship a atom bomb and sing to it. The film handles the lack of charlton hestons involvement well and structured the story around that impedement. Out of ten stars this film gets eight. "}{"Title":"Possibly THE worst sequel of all time","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While the first movie in the series, the adaptation of Pierre Boulle's excellent novel, was a somewhat mixed bag and ultimately a disappointment compared to the original material, the second one, Beneath the Planet of the Apes is simply an all-round disaster with a mind-numbingly stupid plot, horrible acting, incompetent directing and editing, and the lousiest special effects ever put on the screen.Mutant humans with telepathic powers worshipping a nuclear bomb in a temple set up amidst the ruins of a subway station? Did the filmmakers deliberately pick the dumbest idea they could find? And what was the message? It is better to blow up the whole planet than to cede our power to apes or mutants?But in the end, it's not the witlessness of the plot that counts but the execution. Make it exciting and at least semi-believable, and all will be forgiven. Unfortunately, Beneath the Planet of the Apes fails in every single department. It is both extremely boring and ridiculously cheap-looking, even for its time. By far the worst instalment in the series, a horrendous movie in itself, and quite possibly THE worst sequel of all time. (Although looking strictly at the extent of drop in quality, there are many serious contenders from Futureworld and Exorcist II or Speed 2 to The Force Awakens.) "},{"Title":"Successful sequel to the classic original","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite widespread condemnation on release and a dearth of originality I quite enjoyed this first follow up to the sci-fi classic. It's not a brilliant film by any means, but it has some fun, if dated effects and a second half that covers new ground in an interesting way. The film begins with a good recap reminding us of the ending of the first film before turning into a virtual retread of that movie, with Charlton Heston lookalike James Franciscus playing a new crash-landed astronaut captured and humiliated by the war-like apes. He even hooks up with the same cute mute girl from the first film, Nova.Then the plot moves underground and we're into new territory involving super bombs, a psychic society and outright warfare. Things lead up to an excellent, extended fight scene when Franciscus finally meets up with Heston for some seriously old-fashioned fisticuffs, and then there's time for a twist ending which brings new meaning to the word 'downbeat'. I really liked this bloody way of finalising the series once and for all, ensuring that there would be no sequels (except, of course, there were). The cinematography is the best thing this film has to offer searing desert scenes that wouldn't be amiss in LAWRENCE OF ARABIA and giant underground cities that were cutting edge in the late '60s. I've always liked Franciscus and he plays the action man hero pretty well; Heston steals his (few) scenes and Linda Harrison blows away memories of Raquel Welch as the sexy love interest. Not a great film by any means, but not a bad one either, this suffers from paling in comparison with the original. "},{"Title":"More of the same","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The typical sequel formula goes as follows more of the exact same, only not as good. Unfortunately Beneath the Planet of the Apes falls to that trap as well, trying to tell the exact same story as the first one, but with the added problem that it has to take into account the events of that first film as well. Thus it comes across as pale imitation instead of something new or innovative.What makes this doubly baffling is the fact that they had a very good hook for a sequel at the end of the first film. Taylor (Charles Heston) had escaped from the apes, had found the truth about the planet he had crashed on and was all set to find a new place to live with Nova (Linda Harrison). And we do get some of that storyline, for about five minutes, after which everything seems to reset as a new astronaut (James Franciscus) crashes on to the planet, taking the place of Taylor, who promptly disappears for much of the runtime. Apparently Heston was reluctant to reprise his role, which limited his role to that of an extended cameo, which kind of explain the decision to go with the new astronaut, but it's still annoying that they have to go through the exact same scenes we already saw in the first film.The film manages to cover a lot of new ground in the second half of the film, but unfortunately that new ground just doesn't seem to fit in with the existing setting at all. It's like if you took two completely different scifi films and smashed them together to create something utterly new and bizarre. It's creative, sure, but there's little to no logic behind it, and what's even worse, the allegories kept getting more forced and farcical. And they weren't exactly subtle in the first film either, but at least they were poignant.And yet, I can honestly say that I liked the film. It is very much its own creation, unlike anything I have ever seen before, and while it lacks the depth of the original, it is very followable and entertaining. Not a good film by any objective standard, but a decent film to check out if you like older scifi films and want to see more of the original Apes universe. "},{"Title":"More monkey business.","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made two years after the original Apes movie, 'Beneath' spends the first half retreading old territory, before going off on a wacky tangent that leads to a unexpectedly downbeat and explosive final.After repeating the twist ending of the first film (Damn you! God damn you all to hell!), the film introduces astronaut Brent (James Franciscus), who has crash-landed on a desolate planet in the year AD 3955, having followed the trajectory charted by fellow NASA explorer Taylor (Charlton Heston). By a remarkable coincidence, Brent encounters Taylor's mute squeeze Nova (Linda Harrison), who takes him to Ape Town where chimpanzees Zira (Kim Hunter) and Cornelius (David Watson, replacing Roddy McDowell) inform him that Taylor has ventured into the wasteland known as the The Forbidden Zone.Nova and Brent leave the town as soon as possible, hoping to find Taylor, but are quickly captured by gorilla troops, who intend to use them for target practice; however, while being escorted to the shooting range, the pair manage to escape (with a little help from Zira), eventually finding sanctuary in a cave where Brent discovers the shocking truth he is on Earth, the human race having finally 'pushed the button'.So far, so familiar. But then things take an unexpected turn&#x85;Following the strange noise emanating from deep within the cave, Brent and Nova discover a race of telepathic mutants whose first line of defence is the use of mental illusions, but who also worship an ancient and still primed Russian 'Doomsday' device. Brent also meets Taylor, who is being held prisoner by the subterranean freaks. When the gorilla army enters the forbidden zone and attacks the mutants, Brent and Taylor escape, but are shot during the mle. In a final act of defiance, Taylor activates the bomb.As much as I enjoy all of the entries in the original Apes series, 'Beneath' is must be considered a disappointment when compared with its excellent predecessor the first half offers nothing absolutely nothing new, while the second half is just a little too silly for its own good, the most ridiculous moment being when the mutants take off rubber masks to reveal their true selves. Where exactly did they get the latex to make these convincing disguises? And more to the point, why did they make them?Beneath's apocalyptic ending suggests that this is the end of the apes, but they would soon be back by popular demand in the very enjoyable Escape from the Planet of the Apes (1971).6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"A decent sequel.","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After briefly recapping the ending of the landmark previous film, Beneath the Planet of the Apes shows how the apes are motivated towards aggression by the gorillas, led by Ursus (James Gregory). They embark on a mission to a mystery region known as The Forbidden Zone, with Dr. Zaius (Maurice Evans) going along to prove or dispel the idea of other forms of life on Earth. Meanwhile, another astronaut named Brent (James Franciscus) arrives in search of Charlton Hestons' character Taylor. He meets up with Taylors' companion Nova (super sexy Linda Harrison), and as they escape from captivity, they eventually find an underground civilization populated by human mutants who pray to an atomic bomb.This sequel, not unexpectedly, is definitely not in the same league as its predecessor. It's actually kind of goofy, albeit somewhat interesting, and works as a fair action-oriented narrative. The real marvel is the art direction by William J. Creber and Jack Martin Smith. John Chambers' ape masks are still as impressive as ever. What's most striking about the script by Paul Dehn (based on a story by Dehn and Mort Abrahams) is that these mutants are supposedly peaceable individuals, and their whole angle is getting their enemies to destroy each other.Franciscus is good in the starring role, and Gregory stands out among the strong supporting cast. Kim Hunter briefly returns as Zira, but you miss the presence of Roddy McDowall. He was directing the film The Ballad of Tam Lin at the time, and is replaced by an actor named David Watson. Paul Richards, Victor Buono, Jeff Corey, Natalie Trundy, and Don Pedro Colley play assorted mutants; this was Trundys' first appearance in an Apes film, and she went on to do all the other theatrical sequels as well. Hestons' contribution basically amounts to a special guest appearance, but he gets to administer the final coup de grace at the end.Directed by Ted Post (Hang Em High, Magnum Force, The Baby, Go Tell the Spartans), this is all filmed in a workmanlike but entertaining enough fashion.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful movie!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, I move on to the first of four sequels to the 1968 original.The story follows Brent, an astronaut who inadvertently follows Taylor into the future while searching for him. After encountering the apes from the first film. Brent finds Taylor imprisoned by a colony of subterranean human mutants who worship an ancient nuclear bomb.Now, BENEATH THE PLANET of the APES is pathetic. How the heck did this movie became the worst of the film series? Let's go through some history, shall we? Planning for the sequel, eventually titled Beneath the Planet of the Apes, began two months after the original film's release.Arthur P. Jacobs and Mort Abrahams initially considered several treatments by Rod Serling and Pierre Boulle, but ultimately turned them down. In fall 1968, the producers hired Paul Dehn to write the script. He would become the primary writer for the franchise.Charlton Heston was uninterested in a sequel, but agreed to shoot a few scenes if his character was killed off and he donated his salary to charity.Brent is played by James Franciscus and he is okay. The director of the first film was unavailable to work on this film. The returning actors are Kim Hunter, Maurice Evans and Linda Harrison and they all play their parts from the first film and they do a really great job. A new villain is Gorilla Ursus and Paul Richards played mutant leader Mendez. They all do great jobs and they play their parts amazingly. Since Roddy McDowall was unavailable to play Cornelius, his part was taken over by David Watson. Watson does a great job for the most part, but could have been worse.The story is just stupid, action is unbelievable and the ending is stupid. Charlton Heston plays his part amazingly and he does an amazing job with what he has until he is killed.Overall, I hate BENEATH THE PLANET of the APES and I just don't freaking buy this movie at all. So in my rating, I give it 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just plain stupid!","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, I move on to the first of four sequels to the 1968 original.The story follows Brent, an astronaut who inadvertently follows Taylor into the future while searching for him. After encountering the apes from the first film. Brent finds Taylor imprisoned by a colony of subterranean human mutants who worship an ancient nuclear bomb.Now, BENEATH THE PLANET of the APES is pathetic. How the heck did this movie became the worst of the film series? Let's go through some history, shall we? Planning for the sequel, eventually titled Beneath the Planet of the Apes, began two months after the original film's release.Arthur P. Jacobs and Mort Abrahams initially considered several treatments by Rod Serling and Pierre Boulle, but ultimately turned them down. In fall 1968, the producers hired Paul Dehn to write the script. He would become the primary writer for the franchise.Charlton Heston was uninterested in a sequel, but agreed to shoot a few scenes if his character was killed off and he donated his salary to charity.Brent is played by James Franciscus and he is okay. The director of the first film was unavailable to work on this film. The returning actors are Kim Hunter, Maurice Evans and Linda Harrison and they all play their parts from the first film and they do a really great job. A new villain is Gorilla Ursus and Paul Richards played mutant leader Mendez. They all do great jobs and they play their parts amazingly. Since Roddy McDowall was unavailable to play Cornelius, his part was taken over by David Watson. Watson does a great job for the most part, but could have been worse.The story is just stupid, action is unbelievable and the ending is stupid. Charlton Heston plays his part amazingly and he does an amazing job with what he has until he is killed.Overall, I hate BENEATH THE PLANET of the APES and I just don't freaking buy this movie at all. So in my rating, I give it 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Super corny, but kept my interest.","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Right away, I knew this was not going to be as good as the original, (which is mostly because I love the original so much). That being said, I was curious on how they'd follow up. All I can say is, w.t.f! Every moment of plot progression from the other ship to the underground telepathic community with the nuclear bomb straight up knocked me off my ass. Some stuff was interesting, others were kind of stupid.After realizing the extinction of man, Taylor, (Charlton Heston) disappears, and his mute love interest, Nova, finds another survivor of a rescue expedition who has also landed on the planet, determined with the help of Nova to find Taylor.I gotta give this movie credit...it kept my interest. Regardless of how goofy it got at times, it made me want to figure out what was going on the whole time. It felt way more intense with the war between apes and man. It actually felt more brutal and intense than the original, though that wasn't the original's intention understandably. A few things in the writing make it sound like it was written by a hippie, talking A LOT about peace and love. I think they might have hammered in the nuclear warfare is evil, we're all going to blow ourselves up talk that was popular around the early 70's.The film doesn't get necessarily boring, but it takes a few too many risks, some work, some don't. Overall, it wasn't that bad. I felt genuinely worried about the main character's and their mission and all the conflicts going on. It does kind of dismiss the goings on in Ape City a little abruptly, but that's what more sequels are for I guess. Recommended if you watched and enjoyed the original. "},{"Title":"Not entirely bad but it's a really disappointing sequel","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently watched the original Planet Of The Apes and I actually enjoyed it. It offered a better look into what people were thinking at the time of Science Vs Faith That may still be argued to this very day. I watched the sequel because I managed to find a box set containing every single movie to do with the Planet Of The Apes up until Dawn Of The Planet Of The Apes and this is probably the first movie in the series I didn't like.So the movie opens with a rescue party for the astronauts in the first movie that also crash lands on the planet... Which I have to ask how NASA knew they were in any kind of danger considering their expedition would take 1000 years, but I digress, he then finds Nova from the first movie and one thing leads to another and that leads them to the Apes where he escapes and goes to find another group of humans that have evolved to a higher plain of evolution.My biggest problem with the movie is the ending. So Taylor and this other guy escape the Higher humans prison cell and when they make their way out the Apes attack and it ends with them blowing up the world, basically killing all life. They kill their own lead characters off for almost no reason whatsoever for what?... To make no sequels? I really want to know what the though process was behind literally killing this entire franchise and I know that there are more but how exactly can someone write their way out of We blew up the world in the last movie. Even still, without this in mind I still think it's a horrible ending.And even with all this in mind there is still a lot to which I didn't like. The worshiping of an unexploded nuke like they're going to Sunday Mass made no sense to me. Wouldn't they know that going into an underground church where there's something that's still functional that obliterates almost everything in the area be more feared then worshiped, another thing that bugs me is that the bomb is worshiped in EXACTLY THE SAME WAY as Christianity. Isn't every religion meant to be celebrated differently? It just doesn't add up.Aside from that ranting and even more things to complain about this movie is not without it's benefits. The sets of the underground cave are really well done and the make-up is better then ever and the cinematography works for what it's trying to do.So it's not entirely awful it just has some really big problems that just detract from the enjoyment of the movie. I will finish watching all the Apes movies but this won't really be one I'll come back to in time. "},{"Title":"Bombshell Revelations","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first sequel to Planet of the Apes (1968) begins by replaying the earlier film's closing minutes. Next, we see pioneering astronaut Charlton Heston (as George Taylor) and his beautifully-figured mate Linda Harrison (as Nova) continue on their trek into The Forbidden Zone. He disappears into a special effect, shortly after telling Ms. Harrison to fine sympathetic chimpanzee Kim Hunter (as Zira) if he should disappear. Anyone who didn't see Mr. Heston's disappearance coming, go to the back of the line...Meanwhile, another spaceship has crash-landed. The ship's one survivor is handsome James Franciscus (as Brent). Heston declined starring in this film and Mr. Franciscus took over. He hooks up with Ms. Harrison and they discover a group living Beneath the Planet of the Apes. Although they get close enough to copulate, Franciscus hides behind some bushes when he changes his clothes. David Watson steps in for Roddy McDowall (as Cornelius) this time, but we do get a little Roddy in the opening...Franciscus covers what he calls Taylor's trajectory, then we find out what happened to the former star. It turns out Heston has a fairly substantial supporting role in this film, after all. The characters, from any species or time era, could be described as slow learners, given the earth-shattering facts revealed in both films (so far). Some of the new developments are silly when compared to the more intelligent original movie. However, the later scenes do interestingly poke holes in war and religion...******* Beneath the Planet of the Apes (5/1/70) Ted Post ~ James Franciscus, Charlton Heston, Maurice Evans, Kim Hunter "}{"Title":"Beneath the Planet of Humbug !","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even if you want to skip the obligatory comparison with the first (Plant of The Apes), this movie leaves you no option.. !At first they brought (James Franciscus), an actor with the same features, tone, and movements of (Charlton Heston) the lead of the original, with his beard from it also, even in certain scenes he acts like him !Then, they devoted the first half of the movie for nothing but repeating the first one to rerun it fast forward quickly, or like in bad summary. And after the end of the first half with the discovering that we're on earth (like the end of the original), here's the beginning of the second movie, the main new one, which's so silly by the way !A plot about highly telepathist, mentally retarded, outwardly deformed humans, (Where did they have been all of these years?, where were they at the first movie?), plus the story of the bomb that's going to destroy the world (again !?). It's the whole goods of the original (Plant..) which delivered them elegantly through one drama lamented the civilization of human who's gluttonous for violence, to augur a doomsday as a natural climax for all of this violence. Here.. Obviously (and obtusely too) it's the same deal all over again yet in some kind of mediocre adventure movie that reminded me of Tarzan flicks, or the cheap cowboys movies. Like a hasty commercial utilization of the original, that lacks nearly everything, and plays at poorly. So eventually you'd feel how it insulted the first fine movie, the fans of it, and the one who sat to watch it as an autonomous one either, because it was ill in so many places&#x85;Regardless of the telepathic power's idea which was sort of new at that time, you'd have  the body of (Linda Harrison) as (Nova) and her countenance (like a lifeless tasteless version of One Million years B.C's Raquel Welch 4 years earlier). The absence of the rational characters. The clothes of the bomb's worshippers were laughable, so their performance. The boring traditional work like the scene of (Brent) being questioned and tortured telepathically with the same cadre in a dead mechanical editing (director Ted Post directed many TV's works before). A very laconic kind of idiot climax. Not the tone of pessimism at the end but the voice that speaks about the end of the plant earth or what's left of it.. Whose voice was that ?? As all the humans and the apes had gone dead !!??. Let alone a whole first half which was totally wasted, and the matter of weak photocopied (Charlton Heston) all the time, then the matter of having the real (Heston) in front of the fake one together ! Frankly the whole thing looked like the tall black telepathist  frigid and repugnant.(Ted Post) who they picked to continue Franklin J. Schaffner's Sci-fi classic, will be recalled 3 years later to direct (Magnum Force), another sequel to another successful movie (Don Siegel's Dirty Harry). Actually after 30 years still Hollywood producers' dogma is very much the same, whereas for instance (Brett Ratner) 'the director of Rush Hour' would be assigned to direct (X-Men The Last Stand) the second sequel of (X Men), or even (Red Dragon) the prequel of (Silence of The Lambs) !, even if he lacks a lot of what the original movies' directors had (sense, style, authenticity, ..). He's only the guy who can finish movies on schedule, and make assured profits, despite he's loyal to the original or not, has something intellectually or visually to add to it or not ! The movie apprises of the end of the world, the madness of the nuclear armament, etc.. So even the message of the movie was repeated from the original also ! Yet it was there in better and richer way. Sorry but (Beneath the Planet of the Apes) is monstrosity dwarf that tries to imitate (The Planet of The Apes), or feigns being the bastard of it. It could be a passing pastime, or a forgettable show, which expresses what seems like very important issues through a small flick; however.. It was uninteresting, fabricated, and ridiculous too. "},{"Title":"Ape-ocolypse Now","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a bizzare, wacked sequel to the 1968 hit that won an Oscar for make up. Parts of this movie reminded of the novel I read called, A BRAVE NEW WORLD by Aldos Huxly. Heston is such a wonderful actor. It is a little creepy. But I found nothing creepy in this film. But did feel sorry for the underground mutants when they took off their human masks. The planet gets blown up at a the end of the film. Pretty grim ending. James Francisscus (famous star in Westerns, but I remember him in THE VALLEY OF GWANGI, didn't see that film). The gorilla general with Dr Zaius in the steam roon sequence, reminded me of Paul the Gorilla from, THE ELECTRIC COMPANY. The village and house of Cornelius and Zara, reminded me of THE FLINTSTONES. Elements of this film were in Tim Burton's 2001 remake. "},{"Title":"OK Sci-fi flick, but poor sequel","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This commentary contains spoilers.Had this movie been made to stand on its own without being a sequel to another, it might have been accepted as being almost as good a story as the original was. Unfortunately, it is a sequel that hopes the audience forgot the original and its details. Like too many television shows of the sixties, Beneath changes the facts, characters and history as were set out in the first film story in order to create a story of its own. The original plot of the space ship (in which the astronauts knew of and understood the time differential) returning from a deep space mission to its origin is dropped and now some sort of mysterious time/space tunnel is added as the cause of the ships going forward in time. The Forbidden Zone is no longer such a forbidden place and Dr. Zaius (once the Keeper of the Faith who feared the truth of that place) readily goes along with the thinking of the military to explore and invade the Zone - despite his original dread that human history might be found in there. The heresy trial and charges against Cornelius and Zira are forgotten and now they are held in esteem by Zaius and society. The entire time I was watching this movie, I could not get past these glaring plot inconsistencies.The social commentary is just as biting and relevant as it was in the original, and with a little imagination the audience can overlook problems such as a doomsday bomb and its silo being in the heart of New York City, caverns with unexplained interior lighting forming over stone buildings that should have been totally annihilated in a nuclear holocaust (perhaps to visually top the original's Statue of Liberty?), crystals being substituted for electronic technology in controlling the bomb, obvious rubber monkey masks on extras, a space ship not breaking apart and killing everyone when crashing on land, people living with radiation poisoning and managing to reproduce children without birth defects, and many other flaws one sees in cheaper science fiction films.The movie has the feel of a sequel desperately trying to outdo its original.Visually it does this, but the story gets muddled on the way and the overall effect therefore is weakened. I give this a six out of ten. "},{"Title":"The second of a great series","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes is the second installment of a truly great series that is a pioneer to many other sci-fi series that follows.Beneath... starts with the second human astronaut, Brent,  on a rescue mission to find Taylor and crew.  I know, there were 2 astronauts originally, but one of them dies off in the first 10 minutes of the film, which instantly makes him forgetable.  But Brent finds Nova right away but cannot communicate with her.  We see some flashbacks giving clues to Taylor's fate that occurred somewhere between the first and second movie.  They are mysterious enough to generate intrigue to the first time viewer.  Brent is led by Nova to the Ape village where they hear the Gorilla's plan to invade the Forbidden Zone.  He is also brought to Cornelius and Zira, where they  give words of wisdom as to how a futuristic human can pass for a primitive human for the time (in other words, they told him to ditch the NASA garb for the quasi-caveman outfit, which will keep him out of trouble, provided he does not speak).Brent eventually finds an underground area which is evidently a present day New York subway.  He gets the picture right away -- he is in a future of Earth as it becomes.Brent encounters some intelligent humans that have developed the means to communicate by telepathy rather than by spoken words.  They are quite vicious, yet their means of pacifism is quite warped... they will not harm any one physically, yet they will mentally manipulate someone to do the dirty work.Ok, I will not give any more from here, just to say that the Gorilla/Human  conflict reaches a head and the ending seems to ties things up.I highly recommend this film, although you would be best off watching all 5 Apes movies in sequence when you have 8 hours to enjoy a truly fabulous quintilogy (is that the word?  I know that the word trilogy is used a lot, maybe 5 films is a quintilogy...)  Truly a great series.  Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A great sequel, even though it might have been better","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath is a great action-film-of-a sequel.  Of course, other elements of the original could have been more interestingly pursued, incl. the Taylor and Nova relationship and development of their characters (or development of any characters for that matter!.  However, what the film attempts is executed effectively. **  Spoiler for those who haven't see film OK, I still don't find James Franciscus as half as convincing or moving as Heston in his parallel Oh God I'm on earth scene, but he is memorable as Brent in his own right.** The accent on action would have been more forgiveable if there was a more cerebral film after it and before Escape, but of course that's not so. The make-up budget is obviously smaller.  They make some continuity mistakes re. year landed. All that said, the not-subtle social commentary, the mutants & their rituals, and the apes' war drive make this film a classic. At least the film has some social commentary, albeit too obvious.  Ten notches above your Star Wars bubble gum plots, but let's not get into that... **Spoiler The inverted cross on the mutants' altar in their worship of power, the sick power of the bomb that created them, claims a great spot in the history of cinematic visual imagery for me. ** And then there's the ending...talk about the ultimate upshot of (Taylor's) cynicism... I would say this is the second best POA film after the original.   Ted Post knew how to direct action films with powerful images.  **Spoiler  The image of Franciscus being plastered up against the wall at the end will never leave my memory.** And then there's all the great characters from the first film Zaius, Zira, Cornelius, Nova and Taylor, alas all with reduced roles. The mutants' telepathy is an interesting plot element.  There are so many parallels with our current society, which might be even cornier than the analogies in this film, that the film is utterly effective in spite of itself.  I have to give it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Above average sequel","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most movie sequels usually do some of the same things; reprising the original and almost the same plot but with someone new because the original cast member(s) didn't want to appear in it, having the lead character make only a brief appearance, or going off in a tangent to try and expand the story.  This one manages to do all three.Heston look-a-like James Franciscus essentially repeats the first movie trying to find Taylor, until the point we find there's some mutant humans in the wreckage of New York beneath the Ape City.  For 1970 the effect of the entombed city and the bizarre survivors was pretty spooky, and I can remember both being both mesmerized and spooked as a little kid watching it on broadcast TV.  However.....********Spoiler warning******************The passage of time and the ever increasing budgets of modern movies have made the effects look fairly cheap, but the biggest smack in the proverbial forehead is how the mutants worship the nuclear bomb.  Sitting in rows of church pews and singing in a falsetto choir was a bit much.  It's-a-BOMB!  It's-a-BOMB! Wor-ship the BOMB!  Those scenes alone nearly ruined the movie.  However, if I remember right it's supposed to be a Cobalt bomb which would have been a genuine planet cracker.Things do improve, although the ending is a letdown.  It was well-done, but the feeling of utter tragedy after everything the characters went through to survive was overwhelming.  However, at least it didn't do what so many movies today do, which is tack on a happy ending despite whatever happened in the story. "},{"Title":"Not so bad IF you are an Apes fan...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes was an interesting sequel with a surprise ending.  I find it interesting that ultimately a human (Colonel Taylor) destroys the world.  The budget cuts in for this film are obvious.  So many of the background apes wear cheap masks with mouths that gape open- they look terrible.  BUT if you are a PotA fan, you can't help but enjoy seeing most of the original gang in action.  Too bad Roddy McDowel was busy on another film!   I guess it's good that his replacement is not even noticed by most audiences. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi, Excellent Ending","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes starts off kinda questionable (why is there a rescue mission?) And the first half is kinda the same old stuff seen in the first film. But once that is past, we are treated with an intriguing science fiction with a bleak commentary on mankind. Without spoiling the ending, it is a downer, but rightfully so. In fact, it is the best ending I've ever seen in a movie. It is poignant, daring and well set up. If you're looking for the typical, bland, same old happy ending, this movie is not for you. But if you want something original and gutsy, then this is your movie. "},{"Title":"I always like this one...","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mostly because I liked the premise and James Franciscus. He was a good talent, underappreciated today I am sad to say. This was not the greatest flick in the world, the ending especially-SPOILER ALERT!!-is not the best-see the cultist Human Mutants hit the button and nuke the world as the monkeys close in. But leading up to it-the chase and etc-is worth it.I think this at least makes it despite not having Roddy either.**1/2 outta ****  "},{"Title":"Much wasted potential in this film","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am rewatching all of the late 1960s/early 1970s Apes films after seeing Tim Burton's wasted mess last week.  All I can say about Beneath the Planet of the Apes is that it had so much potential, but most of that potential is wasted.  It starts off good, rehashing the ending of the 1968 Planet of the Apes.  And it's a shame that Heston didn't want to make another Apes film (even though he appears in about 1/4th of this one anyway--strange) because that is where an interesting sequel could have gone.  A creative scriptwriter could have come up with a lot more interesting surprises had they shown he-man Heston exploring what 40th century earth had become.  Funny, this film immediately starts to remind me of Burton's 2001 Planet of the Apes when we first flash to the James Franciscus spaceship crashed on earth scene.  It's like, Oh no, it's going to be another film of rushed plot elements hokily referring to the first.  Basically, that is what you get in Beneath the Planet of the Apes.  We see he-man Heston and she-woman Nova in flashbacks confronting mysteriously bad-looking Ten Commandment-like psychic illusions in the Forbidden Zone.  We see he-man Heston falling into one of the psychic illusions in the Forbidden Zone and she-woman Nova's ever-cheesy, ever-tortured expression.  (However, there is another great soliloque by Heston in a Nova flashback before he disappears--the one where he contemplates starting a colony with Nova.  Man, you've got to love those cheesy Heston soliloques in the Apes flicks.)  Sorry to say, Franciscus is just no match for Heston in terms screen presence in the Apes films.  Heston simply is THE MAN in Planet of the Apes.  We go back to the ape city for part of Beneath the Planet of the Apes, but that part of the film seems rushed, more like Burton's approach (the Cliff Notes approach) to me.  Kim Hunter's Dr. Zira is still good, as is Maurice Evans Dr. Zaius and David Watson's Cornelius (I didn't even realize it wasn't Roddy McDowell until the end).  Though cheesy, I still enjoy the late 1960s/early 1970s political satire in this film--the protesting young chimps in the streets, the LBJ-like Dr. Zaius exclaiming, Move along, young people, move along! and the Vietnam-era general-types in the gorillas.  It's the cheese/effective stuff like this that Burton's film has none of (which it could have, being that Burton seems like a fine film maker, and that is why his film is so puzzling).  Anyway, the human underground city that Francisus and Nova discover is interesting in this film, but again, the whole thing is too rushed to work effectively.  We meet the underground people, who have psychic powers, but there are so many gaps in logic in what they are and aren't psychic about that it is not even worth commenting on.  The underground people's religious service to the atomic bomb is interesting, but beyond that their presence does not have much power.  Heston and Franciscus's meeting is laughable; it makes no sense and again makes me wonder  If Heston was going to be in this film for the last twenty minutes, why didn't he just agree to do the whole thing?  So odd.  And the ending is a joke--senseless and rushed.  But it's still on OK B movie in my opinion.  I like it better than Burton's.  One final comment  I can't believe these films are rated G.  There's some violent, scary stuff in them and though low budget-looking by today's standards, I think they at least merit a PG rating.  Beneath is not great, but it's worth a watch anyway.   "}{"Title":"Recent viewing left fond memory faded.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having the looming release of Planet of the apes 2001 version going thru the marketing jaunt I was determined to see my favorite of the first 5 films again.Well this film IS better on the big screen, due to the special effects to create the illusions the mutated/evolved survivors of the government class thru the 2000 years after the Apes took over.It was good to see James Franciscus again...The movie is slow by todays standards. The art of building suspense has escalated into non-stop action in todays movies, so the pace difference is very noticible.The scenes involving Ape city just don't satisfy--- also having extensive interest that lead me to the Magazine that came out before the TV show I was disappointed by the lack of Forbidden zone interaction as well as the lack of TRUE motive for the apes to invade the zone. Beyond that the film holds well. Enough to recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"One example of where the sequel was definitely NOT better than the original.","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing the original Planet of the Apes on DVD (I opted not to purchase the entire set) I decided to rent Beneath the Planet of the Apes to see if it was anywhere near as good as the original.  It most definitely was not. This movie was a complete mismash of bad plot elements hastily assembled to cash in on the original's wave of success.  The character Brent, played by a dazed and confused James Franciscus (who was an excellent actor by the way) arrives via a pre-crashed spacecraft on a preposterous rescue mission. In the first film of the series, Charlton Heston's character (Taylor) goes to great length to describe how their travelling at near-light speeds has caused the time-warp, causing them to arrive in the year 3955 AD.  Brent's story does not correlate with Taylor's, since he behaves as if the time-warp was some mysterious artifact of following Taylor's trajectory.  But even after swallowing this mess, the rest of the movie has little in the area of plot. Taylor comes upon the mutants who treat him as if he is a spy sent from the apes - which is nonsense since they are mindreaders and should know this to be a falsehood.  The mutants force Brent to attack Nova (played by the beautiful Linda Harrison who is little more than window dressing in both films) and the reason for this is never explained.  Later on they make Taylor and Brent battle one another (again, via mind control) with the skimpy explanation that they are their enemies.  Again, the reason behind this is never explained. About the only plot point in the film which makes sense is that the apes want to battle the mutant humans out of fear.  The humans have laid waste to the planet and the apes fear it may happen again.  This was actually quite logical and Dr. Zaius (Maurice Evans reprising his role) seems like the unlikely hero this time around. Finally, the ending was horrible.  I don't want to give it away, but allow me to say that a very simple plot twist would have allowed for many possibilities with the series.  Also, the way the film ended DID NOT set things up correctly for the next film. "},{"Title":"Nice continuation, but depressing ending!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes continues the plot of the first film rather nicely and introduces us to some, shall we say, new wild and wacked out plot elements for us to see. The plot picks up directly where the original film left off, it is still 3955 and a new astronaut named Brent (James Franciscus) has landed on the ape planet searching for Taylor (Charlton Heston). He meets up with Nova (Linda Harrison) who takes him back to the ape city, where he meets up with Dr. Zira (Kim Hunter) and Dr. Cornelius (David Watson), discussing the last location of Taylor. Brent and Nova then travel to the remnants of NYC where they meet up with a weird race of mutant humans who can control beings with their minds and worship a nuclear bomb(!). They are followed by an army of apes led by Dr. Zaius (Maurice Evans) and Ursus (James Gregory).The thing I like best about this sequel is the fact that several key characters from the original return, although Heston is reduced to a cameo role and Kim Hunter is briefly seen in a 10 minute scene and disappears for the rest of the film. Roddy McDowell wasn't available for this one, so another actor played his character. The acting is just as good as the original and James Franciscus fills Heston's shoes nicely. I thought the mind controlling mutants was a nice touch to the film but the fact that they worshipped a nuclear bomb was goofy and utterly laughable. That whole scene where they chant and pray to the bomb was ridiculous and the eye closing, beeping way they control minds was more annoying than anything. The violence is still there, even more so than the original and the ending is much, much, much more depressing than the original! I won't give it away but if you watch it you know what I mean. All in all, a good film that shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Sequels ever","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a great follow up to a classic film... Beneath doesn't just rehash The Planet of the Apes, it isactually a great story with great ideas in itself.  Mostsequels are doomed from the start as just being the sameold thing done over to bring in the cash, luckily Beneath thePlanet of the Apes is one of the rare ones. The ending is a classic and rivals the ending to the firstfilm.  Some people have written in that the ending is adowner.  The ending had to be this way, of course it is adowner but it is still one of the best endings to a movie Ihave ever seen.  The closing speech in the darkness isclassic stuff. Watch these movies and see all the parallels to our ownsociety even now (and in some cases especially now). Praise the almighty bomb and the holy fallout. Amen "},{"Title":"Bombs away!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is it about American astronauts? No sooner do they lock into some time warp than they crash their spaceship! NASA seems to have perfected time travel, but even a bumpy landing seems beyond them.More's the pity for James Franciscus, who has lucklessly ventured after Charlton Heston from film #1 and, you guessed it, written off his vehicle. So with rescue out of the question, Franciscus follows along the same path as Heston, trapped by talking apes, nearly shot as target practice, before stumbling upon the remains of New York City. All the while he grits his teeth, flexes his impressive abdominals and does some murderously good William Shatner impressions.Not that this second film in the cycle is without merit. Au contraire, it is, after the first, the most effective in the series and can boast some fine moments. Budget restrictions are in evidence throughout; extras wear badly fitting ape masks and the whole thing is just that little bit less polished than two years earlier. Imagination is not stinted on however. Few sequels are as honourable as this in that particular department.But its a gloomy, depressing and confused film redeemed by some fine moments. Watch by all means, but bear in mind that the three further sequels never reached the heights of this one at its best.  "},{"Title":"Charlton Heston is excellent and James Franciscus is terrific","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was 6 years old I saw this movie before watching the first Planet Of The Apes and I found it very interesting, It was the best sci-fi thriller I've ever seen, and I've never stopped watching. Eventhough I've seen the first one ten years later and I still like this one better.  When I saw the beginning of it I see Charlton Heston for the second time after seeing him in El Cid, I see him looking at the damaged Statue of Liberty and hear him shouting Damn you all to hell I asked my dad what was wrong with him and he explained to me that in the first one Astronaut Taylor(Heston) thought he landed on another planet ruled by talking apes, but discovered that he has really landed on earth after seeing that statue.  I really loved the action and suspense and there was a great performance by James Franciscus who plays Brent searching for Taylor. I love all the scenes in the movie especially the one where those half humans, half mutants remove their masks and show their ugly faces.  I disagree that they rated it G, it should be rated R or PG-13 because of all the violent scenes.  My brothers and I were surprised of the way it ended.  Some people may not recommend it but it is better than the last three sequels.      "},{"Title":"Skip it, and just stick with the original","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the all-time worst sequels.  It totally misunderstands what made the first film work, and even at its own level is a mess of a movie.  It's overly melodramatic hokum, that only works at that old-time serial, cliffhanger level.  It has an appeal almost completely at a comic book level, and the the fact that the original was able to transcend that shows how much better the first one was.  This is a film they never should have made, and it's amazing that they could make another APES film afterward.  That film, ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES (1971) is much better, and really the only sequel to bother seeing. "},{"Title":"Go Zaius","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes has many flaws in it, but no one could really expect a great sequel from a movie that had a low budget and a rushed production.  The production values were down, Heston appeared in only a few scenes, and the bomb scenes are a little boring, but the movie is still entertaining and the apes don't look that bad.  Dr. Zaius, Taylor, Cornelius and Zira are back, and the memorable characters are worth seeing the movie. This movie also emphasizes the gorilla/human debate, as the gorillas don't seem much better than human kind.Some people say the movie is depressing, particularly the ending, but the movie is an earth-sized smiley face when you compare it to Conquest of the Planet of the Apes. "},{"Title":"Okay but not as good as PLANET OF THE APES !","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an okay movie. Just one problem, THE END. The end is stupid. I've only seen two movies of the Planet of the Apes series. Planet of the Apes, and Beneath the Planet of the Apes (This one). I am planning to see the next one in the series but the end of this movie doesn't make that much sense. I don't want to spoil it for the people who haven't seen this movie, so for the people who saw this movie continue reading. The people who didn't see the movie, DO NOT READ THE BOTTEM BECAUSE IT WILL SPOIL THE END FOR YOU !When Taylor makes the atomic bomb go off, it explodes all of Planet of the Apes. That is dumb, because there are at least 2 movies left in the series. What I'm trying to say is that this would be a good ending in the last movie. I haven't seen the last two movies yet, so I might be wrong.The acting, I have to say wasn't that good. The part when Taylor and Brent meet in that jail and that guy makes them fight, THAT IS DUMB ! When those people pray to the atomic bomb, THAT IS DUMB. Some parts in this movie are dumb. Overall I'll give this movie from 1 out of 5, a 3 and a half. For those people who didn't see the first movie, SEE IT ! "},{"Title":"Good Premise Ruined By Downer Ending","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath The Planet Of The Apes had a difficult, troubled production because of Charlton Heston's refusal to reprise his role as Taylor in anything beyond a cameo.  As a result, what should have been an intriguing follow-up story to the masterpiece of the first film was seriously hampered as they were forced to use James Franciscus as a fellow astronaut looking for Taylor (which brings up a gaping hole in plot logic. The first film established that Taylor and his team were on a colonization mission, so what the heck is there a rescue mission?).  Once you get past that bummer part of the plot, the film becomes a nice action/sci-fi thriller with a fascinating journey under the ruins of New York and the crazed mutants who have taken over.  And then, the film is sadly ruined by a downer ending that incredibly enough Heston sold the production team on even though he had gone out of his way to contribute very little else to the film.  The downer ending makes repeat viewing hard to do, and it also wrecks the fascinating possibilities that remained after the first film.  "}{"Title":"Very unimaginative","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Astronaut James Franciscus crash lands on earth two thousand years in the future looking for lost compadre Charlton Heston. This sequel to the 1968 classic starts well with plenty of action and boasts a terrific villain in lunatic gorilla Ursus. Unfortunately, the film degenerates quickly into a lame-brained eco-thriller with zombie-like humans living below ground praising the atomic bomb. Franciscus is an able sub for Heston (who appears sparingly) as he's cut from the same teeth gritting school of acting. Kim Hunter and Maurice Evans are back from the original but Roddy McDowell is replaced by David Watson as Cornelius. James Gregory is exceptional as Ursus, a war monger who seems to be channelling both George Patton AND Joseph McCarthy at the same time. The surprisingly stupid script is by classy Paul Dehn. Directed by Ted Post, who helmed the classic Clint Eastwood western HANG 'EM HIGH prior to taking on this unimaginative dud. "},{"Title":"Beneath The Original","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is not the first one. It gets away from the Evolution theme that is so successful in the original. While the action is much more frequent, the drama of the original is lost after the opening sequence. While there are a few original sequences that are a bit creative (the peace protesters modeled much after the US Vietnam War Protesters in 1970, the script here is missing the depth and touch of Rod Serling from the first film.The cast is really quite good for a production that was done on the cheap. James Franciscus was an almost name actor in the 1960's and with Heston still here along with Evans and the addition of James Gregory and Victor Buono do not hurt this one. The rescue mission is logical but not logical in some ways. The phony on board projection set from the first movie is not reused.It is neat to have a wrecked New York Subway and St. Patrick's Catheral used as Baker drops in the film. In a way this short film could have been so much more, but is effective because it is short and has the ultimate ending. Unfortunately the series continued and went on and on despite the logical place this one stops. The scripts of the later films get even worse. The loss of the evolution theme is the worst thing as even today the environmentalists have lost the fact that this planet evolves and this movies gloom and doom have now now overtaken the global warming folks.The theme of the first film was a much higher IQ with smarter plotting. "},{"Title":"Beneath Most Other Sequels","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When looking for greatness in a franchise, you first have to see what types of creativity the filmmakers can produce after a terrific first film. With Beneath the Planet of the Apes, you get a below average film with plot holes that fill an entire page. After watching the original and seeing the catastrophic ending it had I would have hoped for a more impactful sequel. One that would follow directly after the events of realizing where they actually were. Beneath is just a cash grab that most of the main cast didn't even want to make. You can tell Heston wasn't interested in being a part of anymore movies in the franchise.The film suffers from everything including a weak script, uninteresting sub-plot and lack of focus on the main story. The film is only 90 minutes long but the apes are not the stars of the film. Instead the two leads come across a cave full of mysterious and supernatural like humans. I just didn't find that sub-plot interesting at all. I would have liked to see the story follow Heston and Hunter continuing to explore future earth and simultaneously fighting the apes.I realize sequels like to stray away from the original material but to bring elements of supernatural into a post apocalyptic world was absurd. The opening scene gave me goosebumps all over again seeing Heston discover the Statue of Liberty but it wasn't enough to sway my opinion of the entire film. Sure the few scenes between Heston and Franciscus were great but very limited. I get the sense that as I go back and watch these old 'classics' I will become even more disappointed. But at least Dawn of the Planet of the Apes looks incredible.+opening scene+Heston & Franciscus-Supernatural humans?-Plot holes galore-Story should have been completely different-Where are the ape fights?5.0/10 "},{"Title":"A solid sequel","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first sequel has many of the same ingredients as the original film - fear of nuclear destruction, ape arrogance, striking visuals - but it doesn't come together with the same kind of flair. Charlton Heston lookalike James Franciscus is the freshly stranded astronaut who repeats the first film's plot before discovering a society of disfigured telepaths worshipping a nuclear bomb in the superbly realised subterranean ruins of New York. Meanwhile, on the surface, a none-too-subtle Vietnam metaphor is underway. Ted Post's direction is solid enough but really belongs on TV, while the ending is rushed and really serves only to justify Heston's no-more-sequels cameo. (Little did he know, eh readers?) There's a lot to like here, but it doesn't have the inspiration and intensity of the original. "},{"Title":"A new arrival on the Planet of the Apes","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sequel to the classic 'Planet of the Apes' begins just before that film ends so we see Taylor and Nova ride away from the apes and learn just were they are. We then see an astronaut climbing out of a ship similar to that which brought Taylor; this astronaut is a man called Brent who was sent to discover what happened to Taylor. Soon he meets Nova and the viewer is shown how Taylor disappeared in the Forbidden Zone; however since she can't speak Brent doesn't know this. He joins her as she heads to the ape city to see Zera. They arrive just as Ursus, a gorilla, is giving a speech advocating the elimination of humans and an invasion of the Forbidden Zone. Brent and Nova manage to see Zera but are captured shortly afterwards. Zera helps them escape and they flee into the Forbidden Zone where they hide in a cave and Brent learns just where he is. This cave leads to a subterranean city inhabited by a race of telepathic humans who worship a nuclear bomb! Here Brent is reunited with Taylor but it isn't a happy reunion as the telepaths force them to fight. They manage to escape but as they do the apes are entering the city determined to wipe out any humans they find.While I don't think this film is as good as the original it is still well worth watching. After the introduction I was surprised to find that Charlton Heston's Taylor was not going to be the protagonist after all. Instead the lead is Brent, James Franciscus does well in the role but isn't as good a leading man as Heston. Linda Harrison, Kim Hunter and Maurice Evens make welcome returns as Nova, Zera and Dr. Zaius and are joined by James Gregory who plays the gorilla leader Ursus. Once again there is a fair amount of action as well as some social comment; chimpanzees protesting against the upcoming war clearly referred to protests against the Vietnam War and the comments about nuclear weapons was obvious. There were a few shocks; not least the final scene. I liked how we learn more about ape society in this film; clearly not all of the apes are as equal as they claimed before and they are less united too. "},{"Title":"The next best of the Ape quintuplets","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Astronaut (Franciscus) crash-lands on the planet of the apes and sets out in search of the crew of the original mission where he befriends Zira (Hunter) and Cornelius (Watson) oblivious to the whereabouts of Taylor (Heston) and Nova (Harrison) after they set out in search of the why at the end of the first instalment. The apes once again attempt to eradicate the human problem, but this time are contending with a mutant force of humans who communicate telepathically and who are in possession of a doomsday device that threatens the planet.Limited expectations for Beneath, the first sequel, were exceeded and while the tone of this film is considerably more morose to that of the others, there's still plenty to enjoy. The cast of characters is both distinguished and diverse and not easily dismissed; Franciscus, Hunter, Evans, Heston, Richards, Corey, Buono, Gomez, Trundy, Colley, Sierra - it's a film buff's fantasy to spot the faces, even if some are unrecognisable. The sets are again superb with the mutant underworld nicely contrasting the harsh, dry landscape of the apes' surface civilisation.Finally, the film's tone resonated. From the death of the skipper (Andrews) early in the picture, to the film's final massacre, director Post handles moribundity with surprising dignity and sincerity. It's more violent than its predecessor, the outlook less optimistic and the plot perhaps more clichd and to some extent imitable, but, despite the criticisms it remained compelling, entertaining and the next best in the original series of five, closely followed by Escape. "},{"Title":"Monkey sequel","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of the 'Ape' sequels, this sees a new loincloth clad all American hero, Brent, wandering around the Monkey Planet that used to be called Earth after being caught up in the same space / time flux thingamijig as Charlton 'cold, dead hands' Heston in the original. Brent awakens next to his derelict, burnt out spacecraft, confused, but it's not long before Nova, Taylor's squeeze from the first movie shows up, and leads him to the Ape City, where he is captured. After a fairly tedious sequence where the friendly monkey scientist Dr. Zira explains the situation (for those who missed Apes 1) Brent escapes captivity and follows a bizarre, auditory signal which leads him underground, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, kids, where he encounters a fresh horror a race of mutants, almost human, who perform acts of worship to their deity, a still operational nuclear missile capable of bringing an end to all life on the planet, whilst singing a truly sac-tighteningly eerie rendition of All Things Bright and Beautiful. Seriously, this is freaky stuff. Unfortunately for Brent, these mutants, though almost as he, are no more friendly than the simians above ground.... More action oriented than the original, I actually enjoyed this one more, as the pace it sets keeps things ticking over rather nicely. With fine performances all round, yet more visually impressive set designs - the New York subway station, the derelict New York Library - using a combination of physical constructs and matte paintings to produce backdrops far more evocative than anything CGI is capable of, and staggeringly good make up work once more, as well as a nice line in social commentary, this is way above your average sci-fi fodder. A very, very good sequel. "},{"Title":"Man is evil! Capable of nothing but destruction!","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite often Hollywood rushed to capitalize on a winner and they are too quick to put something on film. The result is a sequel like this one. It wasn't even a contender.If you like the Planet of the Apes story, then you are going to watch just because it is entertaining. You like the message of the films, and it did get a bit stranger in this one.James Franciscus heads on the trail of Taylor (Charlton Heston) to see what happened. He is soon pursued by apes, who have become more aggressive. He gets saved by Taylor's girl, Nova (Linda Harrison), a sight for sore eyes.Franciscus find that there are people living under the city of New York. They are advanced and use their minds to communicate and to control. They can even keep their hands clean by getting their enemies to kill each other. They worship an atomic missile. The thing that got them in the fix they are in becomes their god. Go figure.Worth watching, but not spectacular. "},{"Title":"Planet of the Grapes","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've ever bought grapes from Wal-Mart, you've marveled at the low cost of a fruit that can make your wallet cringe during certain times of the year. You walk by, they're 99 cents a pound, and you grab a three or four pound bag. Literally, by the time you get home, they're mush. It's like biting down on grape-flavored turds.Sooner or later, you'll get very choosy about where you buy your produce.The mushification of the tangy original, Planet of the Apes, into Wal-Mart grapes (Beneath the Planet of the Apes) took only a bit longer. I don't believe, other than The Sting II, that I've ever seen a worse sequel to a dandy original. What was a crunchy satire turned into an incoherent and ludicrous mess, with James Franciscus landing on the Earth of its future and getting embroiled in a genocidal war against humanity by gorillas. Then there's the mutant weirdos hiding out underground, dressed like the sperm cells of Everything You Ever Wanted to Know about Sex, and the stupidity of this sequel reaches, along with that nasty cobalt bomb, critical mass.It's so embarrassing to see such an entertaining original story turned into glop, even with veteran sequel director Ted Post trying his darnedest to hold things together, that you may want to hang on to the copy you taped off the Sci-Fi channel, maybe to threaten your kids with if they complain about how you should leave the buying of produce at Wal-Mart up to your wife.Oh, you don't like my grapes? Well, kids, try this! "},{"Title":"very strange, somehow predictable, and still somewhat satirical","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the Planet of the Apes supposes that, along with the clich that 'if one already came, another will come too' for a sequel, there are other true mutants on the planet. So, in a sense, Zaius wasn't incorrect in his assumption to Taylor in part one. There is another and another and another- only they're really mutants! Men and women with telepathic potential to control minds, read thoughts, and basically make their enemies fight to the death instead of doing it themselves. This, of course, is unbenownst to Zaius, who is at the whim of a war-monger gorilla who wants to go into the forbidden zone to wipe out every last human alive. And meanwhile there is that 'other' human, who as played by James Franciscus has a peculiar resemblance to a Mr. Charlton Heston, appearing here in glorified cameo mode.Beneath isn't anything close to great film-making- the competent but mostly studio-bound director Ted Post has the duties here, which include putting in bits of stock footage at the start of the film (in case, you know, people FORGOT THE ENDING!) And it's not even very intriguing science fiction either; the idea of the weird, Pagan mutants who only use their voices when they are singing psalms, isn't too far removed from your average Star Trek episode. But there is something interesting about it all the same, that- and granted Heston was behind the script in pulling the strings for the end- there were other things to explore in this new civilized ape world. There are some fun scenes here, and seeing Linda Harrison as Nova never gets old to boot. And yet there's also the nagging feeling of 'its-only-a-fair-sequel' that keeps it from ever even thinking of going to the possibilities the original explored. The makeup and sets look cool as always, and there's some good experimenting with Goldsmith's score. Now, what is behind the forbidden zone? Who knows. "}{"Title":"Beneath probably should have stayed topside.","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the phenomenal success of Planet of the Apes, a sequel seemed like a no-brainer (even though sequel-itis, which now dominates the multiplexes, was not the norm in Hollywood at this time.) Heston didn't want to sign on, but finally did so with a few conditions, one of them being a reduced workload, so Franciscus was brought in as a new, similar-looking leading man. He plays an astronaut looking for Heston who crash lands in the same basic area as Heston and his crew did in the prior film. After Heston disappears in a mysterious fashion, his mate Harrison rides alone through the desert until she comes upon Franciscus. Noticing Heston's dog tags around her neck (which simply could not have been salvaged, based on the events of the first film!), he coerces her into helping to locate Heston. She takes him to Ape City, where he is mortified to discover that Earth is now run by simians and mankind is reduced to little more than cattle for slaughter. He checks in with kindly doctor Hunter before being captured and marked for target practice. Eventually, however, Franciscus and Harrison manage to break away and hide out in a cavern, which winds up leading to a stunning and surreal underground city run by mutated humans. It all comes to a head with the mutants having to fend off the apes, who blame them for an impending famine. Franciscus is incredibly handsome and sexy, though he lacks the towering presence of Heston. He's basically faced with a retread of what Heston went through in the earlier film, complete with amazed reactions to the oddities and revelations of the planet he's on. Harrison, who has taken some heat over the years for her work in these films is actually quite lovely and does as well a job as anyone could with a role like hers. Heston is off-screen for the better part of the movie and what he does provide is only moderately entertaining. Stalwart apes, played by Hunter, Evans and Gregory are quite good, but they have reduced participation this time around (there are still occasional glimmers of humor, though, notably when Evans and Gregory discuss the human problem in a steam room!) Roddy McDowall was directing Tam-Lin at the time and couldn't be in the film, so Watson took over his role (except in the footage used from the original movie), which is, likewise, much smaller than before. The mutants are portrayed by an amusing assortment of character actors including Corey, Buono and Sierra. The scenes involving these folks are campy in the extreme with amusing costumes (where did they come from?!) and hysterically modified hymns which are sung in honor of their god, a doomsday bomb that has somehow survived intact and with a shiny coat of gold paint on it! All this craziness inserted near the end of the story really takes the viewers away from the aspects that made the first movie so popular. It's a definite hit or miss sequel with several gripping and captivating scenes and also with some illogical and preposterous scenes. Many story elements don't make sense and the budget was cut severely prior to filming. Interestingly, some of the Mutant City sets are redressed ones from Hello Dolly!! Still, fans of the series ought to enjoy this a great deal and fans of Franciscus are urged to check it out as he wears next to nothing for the bulk of the film. "},{"Title":"A Powerful Sequel","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one film that truly scared me.  When I first saw it as a child I remember looking at this film and really made me have less optimism about mankind's future than what I had always envisioned it to be.  The ending is something that really makes people less hopeful about our future.  However, much like the first film, this one also served as a great political commentary and definitely reflected the era in which it was made, especially the scene with the anti-war demonstrators.  It could have easily been any major university campus at that time.  All in all this was a fairly good sequel to the original film. "},{"Title":"Beneath the Planet of the Apes - Indeed!","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That was the one word review I read in a TV Guide recently for this film, and I couldn't resist repeating it here.Beneath was the very first film in the Apes series that I saw, at the tender age of 5, and some of the violence in the film stuck with me to this day, particularly the shooting of Brent and Taylor in the finale (what were my parents thinking?). Viewing the film recently as an adult,I found it to be a fairly weak installment in the series.The film initially moves along at a decent and suspenseful pace, and serves to reacquaint the audience with the original's films characters and plot line. And then it gets incredibly absurd and takes a complete left turn when Brent confronts the underground mutants and their religious fanaticism for a doomsday bomb. Wha? That's not to say the film is without it's merits. James Gregory's performance is menacing and easily one of the best characters to ever appear in the Apes series, while the return of most of the main cast from the first film is also welcoming (David Watson does a near dead on imitation of Roddy McDowell that I wasn't even aware that Roddy wasn't in this film). The makeup, sets, and music are, once again, first rate, and the mutant's sermon music is particularly disturbing, atonal, and netherwordly.So there are many things to like about this film, but unfortunately the plot is not one of them, and this drags the film down to being the 2nd worst in the series, IMO. The film to follow it, Escape from the PLanet of the Apes, showed that a superb plot could overshadow the ever dimishing production values on the series.  "},{"Title":"Most underrated of the series","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When this used to run on ITV in Britain in the 1980s the film critic of TVTimes described it as 'visually more spectacular than the first'. Surprisingly, unlike so many other things, he was absolutely right. Apes are on screen from the first scene (albeit a resume of the ending of the original for continuity )and the most powerful scenes include the magnificent Ursus (the late James Gregory) making the case for invasion to the assembled Ape City. Ursus carries the menace that is missing from the first, feebly implied with the lowly gaoler Julius and the deferred threat of Dr Zaius. The best visuals include the full gorilla war machine and the Dante-esque infernal Lawgiver hallucinations. The New York Underground is almost altogether another planet (no change there then) with its pious transUranic mutants.Suffered mostly from comparison in proximity to #1 - the curse of the sequel - but less so today, as easily the best of the four sequels and the only true 'Planet of the Apes' sequel, with the action set on the post holocaust world of mute humans, Forbidden Zones and ape rule, before the budget cuts meant we were down to just two Apes after the first 30 minutes of the next sequel. First follow up to herald the dawn of that hitherto unheard of phenomenon, the science fiction blockbuster series, without which, no Star Wars series, Aliens, Terminator, or even Star Trek.  "},{"Title":"sequel to original not a rehash","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The great strength of this film is the fact it is not a rehash of the original. Something different was tried with both the character of taylor and the story in the second film. The film is neither a for profit sequel or a rehash of the original. The plot of the film involving a group of humans who have perfected mind warfare was fun and in the vein of a fine novel. The film works as a sequel and as a serious story. BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES is a great fantasy film and sports art direction which emphasizes the fantasy level in the films story with a gritty edge to it. A film with something for movie fans and apes fans a like.....something fun to watch period. "},{"Title":"Creepiest Ending Ever!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All the PotA films were part of my staple diet of films when I was an impressionable lad, but none was more powerful than Beneath.  As a whole, the film had all the right elements, the lost human, the Apes, the mutated cult, and of course Charleton Heston (and for that matter, Linda Harrison). The action is good through out, the psycho-religious zealousy is a good twist, and the Apes...man, the APES rule!!!  Sure, the general story basis is a bit suspect (call it an alternate version of its predecessor), but as with all the PotA films (and sci-fi for that matter) you have to be a little gracious with reality suspension. But what really made this was the stark, musicless narration at the end of the film.  The kinetic frenzy of the events that lead up to the climax, only to end with the brief voice-over and silent credits--personally speaking, that ending is the creepiest ending ever.  It made such an impact in my life as to be the measuring stick to which I judge all horror and science fiction films by. This is a good solid post-apocalyptic apocalypse film, chock full o' warring Apes, whacko-bomb-zealots singing out of key hymns, burning mirages, and Charleton Heston.  If that sounds interesting to you, then this film is A MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the oringal","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A rescue mission is sent to find Taylor.Now Brent the man send to find him.Finds himself Beneath the Planet of the Apes.Now he will have to Battle aliens who make this movie cheesier than the oringal.The apes are on a crusade to get rid of all humans,And the aliens are trying to make the planet there`s.The film leads up to a shootem up with the apes and the aliens.Which kills Taylor, Brent,and Nova.The movie was good but slow .It was cheesy but enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Horrible, bland repeat sequel to a great movie","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh gosh. Oh my gosh. I'm going to need a drink. This review will contains spoilers for the first Planet of the Apes film, as well as spoilers for this film. But I don't care, because I just hate this movie.Planet of the Apes is a French sci-fi novel published in 1963 and written by Pierre Boulle. It focused on an astronaut who crash-lands on a strange planet in the distant future. There he discovers that humans are dumb animals, and apes are the superior race. This is a ridiculous premise, but it takes itself seriously, making a great book in the process. In 1968, a film adaptation was made starring Charlton Heston as the astronaut Taylor, Kim Hunter as chimpanzee scientist Zira, Roddy McDowall as her fianc and fellow chimp scientist Cornelius, Maurice Evans as the man-hating, narrow-minded chief scientist orangutan Dr. Zaius, and Linda Harrison as the dumb cavewoman Nova. This masterpiece of a film has become a classic. The ending, however, has a different ending from the novel. This ending is a shocking plot twist that's up there with I am your father. The planet has been Earth all along. So, it seems that a sequel could be even better, right? Right?WRONG! Beneath the Planet of the Apes was released in 1970 to box office success, despite its legacy now being that of a meh film. This film had pretty much every ingredient to a bad sequel.The best part of the film is the beginning, because it is the end of the first film. I will not spoil the infamous twist at the end of the film, but it's still terrifying. At about the same time, an astronaut named Brent (James Franciscus) crash-lands on the planet. (Really, who's training these astronauts?) He finds the ape civilization, and the animal humans. I have trouble remembering what happens after that. AND I JUST WATCHED THIS MOVIE YESTERDAY! He finds that the apes are sending out their army to exterminate humans because of their evil. Brent flees from the city, but is captured by the apes. Chimpanzee Zira helps him to escape, and with the cavewoman Nova, he flees, and finds parts of New York, discovers the truth about the planet, and damns all men to hell. He then finds a race of mutated psychic humans who worship an atomic bomb. Then he finds Taylor, who has been their prisoner the whole film. They spend the last 15 MINUTES trying to stop the bomb, which is what the film should be about.The first problem with this film is this I don't care. I don't care what happens. I don't care about the characters. The first movie was suspenseful, and the characters were great. Why would a sequel to THAT FILM be so uninteresting? The first 50 minutes of this film are boring, and the last 45 are beyond bizarre. Franciscus as Brent is boring. He is only a cheap replacement for Charlton Heston. He is given no depth and no personality, and really doesn't do anything in the long run. That's another problem with this film- A MAJORITY OF THE CHARACTERS DO NOTHING. Brent does nothing. Zira and Cornelius do nothing. Dr. Zaius does nothing. The ape general Ursus (James Gregory) is clich, shallow, and does nothing. Nova does nothing. The only characters that do anything are the mutant humans and Taylor, and even then Taylor does nothing until the end. AND EVEN THEN HIS ONE ACTION HELPS TO RUIN THE FILM MORE.The first 50 minutes are just a repeat of the first film. An astronaut crash-lands on a planet in the distant future, discovers the ape civilization, gets captured by them, escapes, find the truth about the planet, and damns mankind to hell. Why make a sequel if you're just telling the same story? And even when the story becomes different, it becomes a worse movie.The mutant humans are among the dumbest ideas that I've ever heard. For one thing, why are they worshipping a bomb? And their worship ceremony is possibly blasphemous. It is obviously based around a Catholic Mass, and it really is portrayed as insane. Wow. Anti- Catholicism in THIS movie? I can't imagine what Pierre Boulle, the author of the original book, thought of this. He was Catholic. And then there are their psychic powers. How did they get these? And then the final straw is the bomb. It is a DOOMSDAY BOMB. Planet of the Apes has a DOOMSDAY BOMB. Wow.There is also the matter of the Apes desire to wipe out mankind. They claim that they wish to do this because man is evil, and capable only of destruction. But men are animals now. There is no such thing as an evil animal. How stupid are these scientists and leaders? Actually, some of our own leaders aren't much worse.Then there is that ending. Taylor and Brent try to stop the mutants from detonating the bomb. Meanwhile, the apes are coming to destroy the humans. The apes fire at the mutants, and Taylor and Brent are caught in the crossfire, killing them. But before Taylor dies, he accidentally detonates the bomb. Wow. He destroys the Planet of the Apes. This is so dumb and pointless. There are ways to continue the story without this, without time-travel (which is apparently what happens in the next film). This film is so horrible. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best of a Phenomenally Good Series","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film doesn't retain the status as a classic that its predecessor does, but it's still an exceptionally good movie with a strong cast, a great director, and what no science fiction movie can do without-- great special effects.Beneath the Planet of the Apes is the story of Brent (James Franciscus), a man sent from Taylor's Earth to determine the missing astronaut's whereabouts. Of course, he stumbles upon the same mind-blowing discovery Taylor did in the original film (though considerably sooner and with far fewer cerebral walking scenes) a society ruled by apes! He meets Nova (Linda Harrison). And Cornelius (Roddy McDowall's part is now inhabited by someone else). And Zira (Kim Hunter), who-- now pregnant-- has become an example of free thought, which she doesn't bother hiding from either Zaius (Maurice Evans) or his new, trigger-happy right-hand man, a gorilla named Ursus (James Gregory).When Zira and Cornelius learn of Brent's mission to find Taylor, they send him on with their blessing-- on a journey where he discovers much more than an advanced ape society!With a fascinating musical score (although it lacks the exotic, haunting beauty of Jerry Goldsmith's score for the original), zoom-oriented photography, and another basket of social commentary, Beneath the Planet of the Apes builds on the series and creates a landscape of cinematic brilliance that held up for two of the three films that came later. "},{"Title":"Just not as good as the original.","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having just watched Beneath the Planet of the Apes, I felt that this is a good time to write a review.First off, I must say that I love the original Planet of the Apes. It truly is a science picture masterpiece and one of the greatest films to ever be made. Sadly, Beneath is not nearly as good for various reasons.Reason number one, Charlton Hestons lack of screen time. I know that he did not want to be in this film. However seeing as how the first film ended, it would have been a great idea to have Heston play a large role in Beneath as well. Instead of having Heston play the major role, James Franciscus does. Franciscus performs OK, but he just is not Heston.Reason number two. Roddy Mcdowells absence from the film. Mcdowell was a major reason for the success of the entire franchise of Planet of the Apes. They try to substitute another actor to play the part of Cornelius, but it is not the same. Mcdowell starred in all of the other films and without him in this film you can see that something is missing.To conclude, this film just is not nearly as good as the original. Franciscus is not as good a leading actor as Heston. Mcdowell not being in the movie at all is a big disappointment. I would recommend seeing this movie if you really liked the first one, just do not expect it to be nearly as good. There are some great action scenes in Beneath. But I would have to say that this is easily the worst of the Planet of the Apes films. Not a terrible movie, but terrible when you compare it to the others in the series. "}{"Title":"Clumsy and Clunky&#x85;Worth a Watch for Some Interesting Scenes","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Uneven and Clunky, this Sequel to a Great an Iconic Original is Sophomoric and Silly. It has Some Moments of Charm but is Horribly Paced and Edited. It Spurts and Sputters with Scenes More or Less Sanding Alone. The Lengthy Fight in the Jail Cell for Example, just Goes On Forever and is Only Justified by the Bloody End of it All. There are Some Interesting, but Cheap, Matte Shots of the Underground and the Irradiated Face Makeup is Scary and Quite Effective.But the Direction by Hack Ted Post is Just Awful and the Music is Bombastic and Not Eerie Like the Original. In Other Words, the Movie has Some Fittingly Neat Sci-Fi Ingredients but is Frequently Stopped by Some Stagy and Goofy Religious Parables that are Handled Like a Bad B-Movie and these are at the Heart of the Story.Overall, Worth a Watch but the Film is Anything but Smooth. Some of the Individual Scenes are Effective on their Own but the Montage Here is Bad and Coupled with the Script and Music Brings it Beneath the Original but Above the Remainder of the Series. "},{"Title":"Man is evil!","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must say this movie is pretty heavy on the social comments. I know every installment in this franchise is, but seriously, this one really goes over the top. Not that there's anything wrong with that, in fact the scene involving a group of church goers praying to the atom bomb is one of the movie's highlights, but it's just not really that subtle. This is still a pretty remarkable effort within the genre, because they got it just right. The apocalyptic atmosphere works out well, the acting is delightfully cheesy and the dialogues well, it's Planet Of The Apes. At some points the movie does tend to drag because the element of surprise is a bit missing. It starts out with apes trying to conquer the forbidden zone, and it ends with apes trying to conquer the forbidden zone. And in the meantime apes try to conquer the forbidden zone. The ending makes up a lot in that compartment though, I can safely say I wasn't expecting that to happen, but what a brilliant conclusion. On a more childish note, it's always a load of fun watching apes be people. It's so weird and amusing. Generally speaking this is a worthy first sequel. "},{"Title":"The sequel was shocking and worthy of the franchise","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (no spoilers)The sequel was just as shocking at the first. I sat down to watch it WITHOUT seeing any trailers or even finding out what it was about. I must say i was very pleasantly surprised by the film.The film built upon the first film and contains the sexy Nova. If you do watch it and have not seen it before then stop reading the reviews just watch it!I think many people sit down and examine the plot in every detail too much. How can anybody possibly know what is possible in 2000 years if the humans blew eachother up and the apes took over?The plot is good. Fans will like it. "},{"Title":"The Sequel to 'Planet of the Apes'","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Franciscus is sent out to see what has happened to Charlton Heston 2,000 years from the present, and discovers that he was swallowed up by another dimension. Franciscus stands in as a surrogate Charlton Heston, but apart from that, there is nothing significant about the film. "},{"Title":"A fun sci-fi adventure...a good sequel","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ***  out of  ****PLANET OF THE APES was a landmark classic in science fiction. Its first sequel is a worthy continuation, and a fun sci-fi adventure. It's not a cerebral movie like the original...it's more like a comic book.BENEATH is a very downbeat film, and it actually works that way. It's an apocalyptic story with no punches pulled, as war is wrought by the apes and a new society of radiation-scarred  mutations who dwell under the planet's surface and worship an atomic bomb. It's an intriguing concept given a straight-forward approach. This is not a feel good entry in the series, so don't look for it to be one.It's great to see Charlton Heston return, and James Franciscus gives a surprisingly competent performance as the new astronaut stranded on the planet. Also worth mentioning is James Gregory's exciting gorilla general (Ursus) whose new helmet and dark costume add a different look to the ape community.The downer ending is a shocker, but it's brilliant in its uniqueness. "},{"Title":"Good picture for the times.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many people didn't like this movie because of the ending. I saw all 5 of these movies together when I was 14 and I thought this movie was the climax. Even at 14, I felt that this movie was the end of the story. I can understand Hollywood wanting to suck every last bit of the blood they can from the first movie. It was a money maker. But the last three movies go so far out of reality, comical on purpose frequently, that they get boring. Yeah, they 'should'a, could'a, would'a,' produced a more enjoyable future for Taylor and the BABE, but this was the 1970's. The useless war in the far east was still happening and the media was not quite as pro-military-contractor as it is now. They were showing the dark side of life in many of the movies made then; RACE WITH THE DEVIL, EASY RIDER, THE OMEN, THE OMEGA MAN, THE HILLS HAVE EYES, INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS, most horror flicks and political based movies, etc. The blowing up of this planet with such a sick batch of homo-sapiens on it was kinda expected; DR. STRANGLOVE prepared the older people for it... This was a decent movie, as any movie with Linda Harrison had to be. --what a BABE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Classic ape fight","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As you know I liked the first movie allot, I feel that the remake doesn't compare to the original and in my humble opinion there was no need for a remake. Now in the second installment, I am glad to see Charleston Heston back as Taylor. I also liked the way the story picks up not long after the first leaves off. The cast again does a great job and the effects are even better then the first. I never knew about a Colbolt bomb before this movie. I really didn't, and I learned something. Colbolt bomb, bad. Anyway, the acting is great, the effects are great. Now without giving anything away, the climax is kind of sad. But there is three movie movies so that makes it good. So another 9 STARS for the second movie in the ape legend. "},{"Title":"Sequels","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed the entire original Planet of the Apes series of movies. As far as sequels go, there are far worse sequels out there than these. (Charlies Angels being the all time worst, the later Rockys, Jasons, Freddys, Jaws, Matrix's, Excorcists - which is still surprisingly trying to milk the original)If you are looking for flaws in Beneath than either you are trying too hard or you are a rocket scientist/brain surgeon. The most glaring flaw for me were those really bad ape Halloween type masks on the background extras. Other than that this film was a decent sequel to the classic original. I only recently learned that McDowell was not in this one, they sure fooled me.Some of these reviewers think they can sway the public with the lame skip these, stay with the original quote which is so stupid. Would I listen to one idiot's ignorance? No, I would take the overall consensus.Based on today's crap movies and their crap sequels, Beneath is an academy award nominated spectacular. On another note, remaking the classics just so they can use state of the art technology is a terrible idea. Some of the new stuff is so overboard with computerized graphics that they spoil the film. Black and white movies I can maybe understand remaking a colored version but that's it. Leave the classics alone and think up your own ideas!I give this an 8 out of 10, mainly to get the rating above the paltry 5.8 some of these morons dropped it to.  "},{"Title":"quite mind-blowing","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Planet Of The Apes is the only stand-alone movie in the series, which is comprised of five films, but Beneath The Planet Of The Apes is the best. As well as continuing the raw action of the first movie, it enters into topical territory, the apes examined as a microcosm of society, with all its class distinctions; gorillas, orangutans and chimpanzees. Then there's what happens later, and that's a whole new story. As in the first flick, the makeup is superb. Kim Hunter and Roddy MacDowall are under a lot of that makeup and they are a tag-team, to great comic effect. James Franciscus carries Heston's torch comfortably. Heston makes his last appearance in the series, and it must be said that some of the spark left with him. But then there's Nova... Quite mind-blowing.  "},{"Title":"Not worth watching.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If like me you are or were curious about the Planet of the Apes movies and TV series etc. my advice is to just treat Planet of the Apes as a standalone product and just watch the first one. I have not seen any of the Planet of the Apes movies after Beneath the Planet of the Apes or the TV series and I feel fairly safe in saying it's better off to leave them alone (I did see the recent remake though). It looks like this was one of those cases where a franchise was not left alone and run into the ground until every last possible cent was extracted. Beneath the Planet of the Apes has this guy who looks like a casting reject from the first film, who spends all his time doing a bad Charlton Heston impersonation and says TAYYloRRR at every opportunity. Heston himself only makes a cameo and the rest of the film is so sub-par that it's obvious nobody actually tried to make a decent film, they were just following half-assed orders from above. Even the mutants just look like normal people who happen to have no skin except for when they're hiding under their normal skin disguises (and have strange mental powers). The whole thing with the holy bomb is done in such a way as to make it look like a joke (not of the har-har variety). I think the people who worked on this were only doing it for the paycheck. Take my advice, just stick with the first one and the remake. "}{"Title":"A Fascinating Sequel","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was burdened with two big things  a star in Charleton Heston who only wanted to return briefly; and an ending to the original film that seemed impossible to top.  They sure tried!  Once the film gets through with clumsily introducing another set of crashed astronauts, our lead Brent enters the remains of an underground subway station and the wonderful apocalyptic set design begins.  With a race of mutated humans living beneath the planet who worship an atomic bomb, this film takes a wild chance and goes for outrageous satire.  And it has an ending that is simply the most apocalyptic ending you can imagine.  No one thought a sequel could possibly follow...but it did.  Screenwriter and poet Paul Dehn should be credited with boldly going where no film should have been expected to go.  It's a mess, all right, but a strange and wondrous mess.  You will never find wide-spread acceptance of a film that shows mutated human beings ripping off their masks--revealing their true faces--while in church, worshipping a bomb, and singing... but therein lies its worth.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Great Sequel to a great movie!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great sequel, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, to a great movie, Planet of the Apes! Great acting! You've gotta see this movie!Beneath the Planet of the Apes takes off where Planet of the Apes ended.After you see this movie, check out Escape from the Planet of the Apes, Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, and Battle for the Planet of the Apes! "},{"Title":"Beneath the Planet of the Very Silly Confused Head Shaking Hollywood Filmmakers","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After viewing this movie for the first time in 25 years, my first reaction is to say Um . . . okay and back off as if I had encountered some psychotic rambling junkie who was fascinating but somehow dangerous.I was a big fan of the Apes movies as a kid and I did remember this for not quite living up to the original, so I was prepared for all that . .. what I wasn't quite prepared for was something so incoherent on its own terms as well as the terms of being a sequel.I still don't quite understand why Dr. Zaius allowed the gorillas to storm the Forbidden Zone to attack an unknown enemy, that doesn't make any sense. Why was Brent on a rescue mission for Taylor? I thought traveling to the future was the point of Taylor's mission. And if it was an aberration in time, as they suggested, why was this aberration consistent enough to get Brent there a few weeks after Taylor landed?Why were the mutants wearing masks? How did they get that big atomic bomb up there anyhow? Who were they trying to hide their faces from? There are so many details like this that don't quite click about this movie.Bizarre and incoherent. Sure, worth watching as an oddity but . . . I bet the cartoon TV show Return to the Planet of the Apes was made more sense . . . as a bonus, it did feature Brent and Nova as characters . . . "},{"Title":"Excellent film with a powerful message about religion taking sides in war","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is THE best out of the entire Planet of the Apes series (although the first one was not too far behind this one) and had a very powerful message about the rediculous and often tragic result of religion claiming to be peaceful and even preach love your brother yet give no second thought to slaughtering their fellow man, even MEMBERS OF THEIR OWN FAITH!!, on the battlefield!!  (This is one of the reasons why I belong to the faith I do today, the Christian Congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses, because they aren't involved in warfare.) People have bemoaned this movie because of the flaws that existed.  Okay, there were a few flaws, however they seemed to be nicely glossed over with a powerful theme-- a message that is even more pertenant today than it was thirty years ago when this movie came out.   "},{"Title":"Terrific sequel","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed the second part in the saga. Of course, it's not as good as the original but it nonetheless retains the sense of adventure and discovery of it predecessor and builds on it. Great makeup, special effects, and location photography augment the fine acting and continued exploration of the fundamental questions facing humankind (and apekind). The seeming finality of the conclusion demand that the viewer see the next installment. Terrific entertainment 8/10. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is quite possibly one of the most disappointing movies that I have seen in my life. After watching this and the original back to back I can say that despite the similarity in characters, the sequel was just dreadful. This movie lost my interest very quickly by repeating what seemed to be a strikingly similar first half followed by a bumble f*** that I'm sure most would refer to as a twist. The only, and I mean only, redeeming quality of Beneath was Nova who is absolutely gorgeous. Then she goes and dies in the pathetic excuse for an ending in which an ape turns the corner, apparently startled, and shoots Nova while Heston and Brent do nothing to stop her... Even thinking about it makes my head hurt.. It sucks.. Not worth it. "},{"Title":"Kinda Dumb, Kinda Not","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first Ape film I've seen (besides the latest from Tim Burton) and all I can say is that this was a dumb film. A pretty good dumb film.This is the sequel to the original Planet of the Apes and this time the main character in this film (Brent) is looking for the main character from the first film (Taylor). Brent discovers the monkey race (that, in the future, apparently acts like gabby sitcom characters). But that's not the only race he discovers. When he ventures through an underworld version of Manhattan, he finds a second race of super humans who worship an atomic bomb.I found this film to be very interesting concept-wise. It was released several years after the President Truman bombed the heck out Hiroshima and Nagasaki, unintentionally starting the arms race. The movie displays a mix of anxiety and disgust for the political reverence of nuclear weapons, and the fear that the world will ultimately be destroyed by these weapons. For a three decade-and-a-half movie it's oddly contemporary, what with the global climate and the search for W.O.M.D.Though considering that it IS a three decade-and-a-half movie, you can be sure that it will have its outdated and just plain silly moments. The special effects are humorous. Death at times is surprisingly shallow. Some roles are kind of stereotypical (They have the black mind reader doing most of the abuse?). The overacting is earnest and the messages on bombs and religion are so blunt that it's annoying and dumb. Altogether it's a smug, corny B-Movie. On the plus side, it has interesting ideas on technology and is pretty watch-able at 95 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Best ending ever","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those films that somehow falls through the cracks when people consider the best films of its' time. Perhaps because at the time (late 60's), sequels were less common, and considered beneath serious film. How sad this is because Beneath is a great ending to a mind blowing journey started in the first film. Arthur P. Jacobs should have stopped making Apes movies after this one. Beneath gives supreme closure to an enthralling story. Ted Post inherits the directing duties from the legendary Franklin Shaffner-no easy task considering the ground broken by Pt.1-and he fills in admirably, giving us an even darker and more violent film than the 1st. The ending is pure brilliance. Brutal, bloody and final, your jaw will be on the floor as the end credits roll. You won't ever in your life be able to wrap your head around the fact that this movie was rated G!!!!! Hands down this is the most violent and bloody G rated movie ever!!! While made for less money, which is apparent at times, the performances from James Franciscus and Maurice Evans, as well as the strong story telling skills of Post, make up for the cost cutting. This movie should be thought of as a companion piece to the Original and the subsequent 3 Apes films should be considered a completely separate canon. If you liked the original I implore you take one step further and see this conclusion to the odyssey began by Charlton Heston in the brilliant 1st installment. "},{"Title":"Interesting sequel...","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After finding out that the future of Earth is in ruins, Taylor(Charlton Heston)discovers the the bomb has been gone off. In Beneath the Planet of the Apes, there are others living on Earth. Another astronaut crash lands on Earth discovering that they are in the Future. About the ground is the area of the talking apes. With Zira and Cornelius meeting the other human, they also have the non-speaking human Nova. Thinking the apes were all getting along was true, it happens to be more conflicts than peace gatherings. The gorillas are war-mongers, the orangutans are bottom-feeders, and only the chimps are peace-makers. Cornelius and Zira help the other human and Nova find Taylor. They not only find the underground of once my home state New York, there they find something more disturbing Mutants who worship the A-Bomb! If you thought the apes were bad, the mutants are worse. They use mind-control to break Taylor and the friend. It was a little bit sad, but very interesting movie to watch. It has a lot of intensity to it. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"The ape call continues.","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film begins where the first one ends.Brent arrives on a rescue mission in search of Taylor with his one partner of whom first goes blind & then dies.A speech is made by General Ursus that The only good human is a dead human. Cornelius is played by a different British actor than Roddy MacDowall,David Watson.Cornelius & Zira Meet Brent mistaking him for Taylor because Nova lead him there.Zira helps Brent to escape the truck's cage.Going underground Brent views old New York as he had above. Brent & Taylor meet again.The gorillas & Dr.Zaius are surprised at the underground mutants speaking.Taylor threatens that he'll blow up the world if they don't listen to him because he's got nothing left to live for after Brent & Nova got shot Taylor get's shot 5 times & then pushed the doomsday button.the Narrarator then tells how This lovely green planet now dies.But as they told on a Bravo special in 1998 it was too popular to stop there & so that if they could have Cornelius & Zira travel back in time it could continue.It was also told on Bravo that the original plan was to have Heston's character die & finish the whole business off so he'd be done with it & so he asked for Taylor to be killed off & so he was told that Taylor would first disappear at the beginning & get killed off @ the end.Of which once it's explained it then just naturally fell right into place. Next stop is Escape & a great one it is as you'll see too through and through too.Truthfully, Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste. "}{"Title":"I'll Be A Monkey's Uncle This Sucked a Huge Banana!!!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I loved the Planet of the Apes movie. It has to rank as one of the best  not to mention strange and memorable sci-fi movies of all time. Great ending. It ranks as one of probably the top ten sci-fi films of all-time. That being said, Beneath the Planet of the Apes is alright, at least compared to the other sequels. But, that ain't saying much. This one sucked on a huge banana! Like a previous reviewer said, I could think of a number of interesting way to do a sequel, most of which involved Nova and Taylor and what they did after Taylor discovered where he was, was actually earth. You could even have the Brent character in it and trying to find them. You could have had another group of apes that broke off from the ape city bunch. There were many different and better ideas. Although, I do think the Nova and Taylor story afterwards would have been the most interesting. Beneath the Planet of the Apes has too many flaws in it. The biggest most glaring being the one that had the planet killing nuke in New York City. The military wouldn't have a nuke there because the city would be targeted. Anyways, I was very dissatisfied with the story and the outcome. It was a downer. Shame on Mr. Heston for talking producers into just doing a cameo and blowing everything all to hell because he didn't want to do any more sequels. The most disappointing things about Planet of the Apes is the lack of consistency with the characters and their outcomes in relation to the original. Like with Cornelius and Zira concerning heresy and other things.Plus it seemed highly unlikely that Taylor would have pressed the button to the nuke when he damned mankind in the first place for doing it earlier, plus his friends Zira and Cornelius were still on the planet. There was a lot that didn't make sense as far as consistency was concerned. The other major disappointment was the fact that the first one was great and this could have been so much better.In the end, it ended up being that the apes were every bit as destructive as human had proved to be. This gets a half of banana out of a four banana bunch.In other words this movie sucked. Watch the original and leave it at that.  "},{"Title":"Planet of the Snafued","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Major SpoilersBeneath is a  textbook example on how NOT to make a sequel; there as so many things that are wrong with this picture that is is hard to list them all.  First and most importantly is that important details from the first film are ignored. The year is the biggest blunder in the whole picture; Taylor crashed in 3978 but the the rescue team (which makes no sense as Taylor was on a colonization mission) lands in 3955 a full 23 years before Taylor even arrived!Things basicly go downhill from there. Dr Zaius has forgotten his statement about the Forbidden Zone being created by Man and the whole idea of it being forbidden is forgotten.  It is never really explained why the Apes -must- go into the Forbidden Zone. After escaping from the Apes Brent runs into a bunch of human mutants who worship a bomb and are as bloodthirsty as the Apes.Brent finally finds Taylor who tells him the bomb is designed to ignite the atmosphere. This has all sorts of problems - 1) why would anyone build such a bomb? The whole purpose of a weapon is that you can use it against an enemy. 2) How did a missle that likely was in a silo someplace get into the middle of New York City? 3) With the entire infrastructure to repair the bomb destroyed how did the mutants keep it in working order for nearly  2000 years (and how did they manufacture their masks while we're at it)?Of course the infamous ending proves Zaius statement that man is evil capable of nothing but destruction correct as Taylor in his death throws sets off the Alpha-Omega bomb frying the planet.  Which has to be the dumbest ending to a picture I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen it, PLEASE DON'T!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beneath the Planet of the Apes one of the all-time worst sequels, not because it's a bad film on its own terms, but because it so totally and uncaringly misinterprets what made the first film work. It is a mess of a movie that was made to cash in on the success of the original.  It can be fun if you like your SF dished up as a crazy comic book adventure, but for me it so coarsens and makes campy the original conception that I despise the movie.   This is a film that never should have been made, and it's a miracle that it spawned the rest of the APES series. I don't want to waste any more words on Beneath except to say that its sequel,1971s Escape from the Planet of the Apes, is much better movie and really the only APES sequel worth bothering to view. "},{"Title":"PLANET OF THE APES was only the beginning...","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superb sequel, and one of the finest fantasy films ever made. In terms of cinematic storytelling, BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES is more straightforward than the film that spawned it- with a literal showstopper of an ending. Director Ted Post's underrated direction keeps the very linear story moving full speed ahead, and the viewer is caught up in the goings-on. We see it all through the eyes of James Franciscus (who was himself an underrated performer). Leonard Rosenman's spooky score only adds to our unease. James Gregory's distinctive, growling voice lent the brutal gorilla General Ursus an air of overpowering menace, though it would've been interesting, indeed, had Orson Welles accepted the role (listen to his voice in the Mercury Theater production of DRACULA). Charlton Heston's misanthropic character returns from the first film to have the final say in the ultimate movie ending. Maybe the best film in the series.  "},{"Title":"The higher you climb the harder you fall","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second movie in the saga is by an extremely wide margin the very worst of them - it is actually completely awful in itself, let alone as a sequel to the great first APE movie.Most of the story is a heavy-handed commentary on religion, war and the use of nuclear weapons - the dialogue is so pompous and the idea so pretentious that most of the acting seems more fit for the stage rather than the screen. The ending is disastrous, actually making the entire point of the film meaningless. "},{"Title":"Oh Almighty Bomb, Fallout be thy name....","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sequel sure takes a huge downturn.  Instead of continuing watching the journey of Taylor and Nova, we now have to watch through Brent's (astronaut sent to find Taylor and company).  And so the process of discovery and shock is done all over again, and told in a shortcut fashion to less effect.  There are some aspects of movie that's good like the chimp activists.  Too bad Zira and Cornelius are not around much.  I must say the gorilla general talks like John Wayne.The thing with a race of mutant humans worshipping the atom bomb was silly, especially the mass scene.  The control panels for the bomb remind me of the Christopher Reeve Superman movies.  The ending sure sucks though.The verdict 2.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not only bad but immoral ending","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie seems to be just half way thought through and certainly made the writers jump through hoops to continue the story line.  But what is incomprehensible is the ending.  However screwed up the world was in 3300 or whatever year it was.....to have Taylor make the decision he made.....underscored that Dr Zaus was right about humanity.  Certainly the worst of the 5 movies and what an incredibly terrible moral message. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a train wreck of a film, from Heston look-alike Franciscus, to the dumb apes, to the weird melted-face-people with telepathic mind-control powers who worship a missile. This is the worst of the five original Apes films. Only a cameo from Heston saves this turkey from a 1 rating. "},{"Title":"Fatuous extension of its predecessor","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First sequel to 1968's Planet of the Apes makes a laughable attempt to continue with the story (the filmmakers really boxed themselves into a corner with the original, hindered further by star Charlton Heston, who didn't want to continue with his role). Heston-lookalike James Franciscus plays an astronaut searching for the original missing space travelers and gets caught in that same old time-warp wherein he's eventually confronted by the apes; he also discovers an underground army harboring an Atom bomb. Heston does make an extended cameo in the film, but getting his character in and out of the action proved to be too much--it just keeps getting sillier. Fetching ape-scientist Kim Hunter is hardly around this time, and what happened to Roddy McDowall as her partner? The film's production is fine, and the underground sets are incredible, but this installment is a pale imitation. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beneath the Planet of the Apes (1970) ** (out of 4) First sequel has an astronaut (James Franciscus) sent on a mission to rescue to folks from the first film but he meets up with those damn dirty apes. The first hour of this film is mildy entertaining but the final thirty-minutes were quite dull, boring and just not too interesting. The first film had a corny story but the strong direction and script made it believable but that's not the case here. The film is overly corny and it's rather hard to take it too serious due to the rather lackluster direction. "}{"Title":"What lies beneath","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Actually nothing extraordinary.Pierre Boulle's novel and Shaffner's movie had different endings,so you could not ask the French writer for a sequel.This one uses shots from the first one,and allows us to see the fascinating discovery scene once more.As for Ted Post's work,it's OK.Nothing extraordinary,but entertaining all along the way.We are far from the heights of the Shaffner's movie though.Zira and Cornelius disappear too soon,and Heston ,after a short stint,only comes for the final apocalypse.None of the actors remaining on the stage can sustain emotion and tension.THe settings in the subterraneans where the men live are impressive,but why do they worship the bomb?The most moving part happens when Nova ,out of despair,manages to speak (in Boulle's book,Taylor (Mrou) taught her the human language).The end of the movie seemed definitive.And yet.. "},{"Title":"The Mass","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as I am concerned, it was cheesy, silly and maybe just plain dumb.BUT...That High Mass with the Mutants worshiping the Bomb was over the top.I only watch this movie for this scene.It's bizarre; the music is fantastic; and once the weirdness sets in, one can sit back and just laugh at how freaky it truly is.It is one of the most outre sci-fi scenes ever.I rate the movie a zero, but this scene merits a 10. It's so good; I wanted to join the Church of the Bomb! "},{"Title":"Beneath the planet of the stupid","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **CAUTION SOME SPOILERS**The second film in the series ends on an extremely depressing note of the earth getting blown up. How do you like leaving a movie theater with the imagery of the earth getting totally destroyed at the end? It's not what I call entertaining.It takes depression to new heights by ending, as I mentioned, with the world being blown up during the battle of the apes against the mutant humans. I think the decision to blow up the planet was Heston's idea to make sure he was not tempted to be in anymore of these awful films.  "},{"Title":"What the hell would I have to say to a gorilla?!!!","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Poor old Brent(James Franciscus).Thrust into a nightmare of apocalyptic proportions (when he is suffering from piles.) Brent has landed on future Earth, seeking Taylor. He finds a cult society of mutants living underground who worship a Doomsday Bomb. (He takes time out to wonder if he has left the iron on at home.) Anyway,he finds Taylor and they are forced to knock the stuffing out of each other in a brawl,(Brent wonders if he remembered to lock his back door before he left Earth.) They manage to escape and have to de-fuse the Doomsday Bomb. A gunfight ensues and Taylor is mortally wounded. (Brent tries to remember if he's fed his cat back home). Brent is shot in the forehead and riddled with bullets, ( he wonders if he cancelled his subscription to Playboy) and dies. A fantastic, downbeat movie. "},{"Title":"And the Madhouse Continues!--Part II","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" (A continuation from part one, of Planet of the Apes). . . Although life could very well exist on planets other than earth, in addition to the ironic twist to be found in this particular series of films, as further evidence in support of the theory that life self-generates, given only the proper conditions, and minus the need of any Creator; even this, in itself, would not necessarily prove, in the strictest conclusive sense, that God hadn't been the one to create it there, too, along with all the physical conditions necessary to support it. Yet, I still would not be the least bit astounded, if it turns out there's nothing alive out there, as well as somewhat surprised if the proof finally emerges that there is. God's Biblically-stated purpose for having created life on earth certainly renders no such possibility necessary, rather than even quite superfluous. . . . Moreover, if earth cannot be calculated, in any demonstrably intelligible way, to be the astronomical centre of the universe, which I'm certainly not stating to be necessarily the case; then it does at least appear that Jerusalem, the Eternal City, is the geographical centre of the earth's own land mass. Even more, the Bible clearly indicates that Jerusalem is, if nothing else, the theological centre of the universe (Revelation, Chapters 21-22). In this sense, even the medieval theologians would have had it right, despite the false and misleading interpretation they'd inherited from Aristotle's way of thinking; just as, to be sure, the Bible itself totally denies that the earth is flat (Isaiah 4022). Either way, the earth is no ordinary planet, but the very one which is uniquely central to God's purpose. In fact, far from people going to Heaven, other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself (Ecclesiastes 318-22; 93-6) (Acts 229-36) (Hebrews 1138-39) (Revelation 1115-19); it is actually Heaven which is Biblically said to come down to earth (Matthew 610), but in stages. It is written that after Christ rules the entire world, from Jerusalem, with a Rod of Iron, for one-thousand years (Revelation 201-4), then God the Father moves His Throne down to earth as well, in the form of the New Jerusalem; as the physical matter itself is being burned up, and transfigured into the same spiritual substance of which Christ's own resurrected and imperishable body is composed. . . . One may ask, however, whether Enoch had gone to Heaven (Hebrews 115), even though this story necessarily demonstrates nothing more than that Enoch could have been snatched away from an otherwise certain death, at the hands of those he describes, also, in Jude 14-15; just as there is even evidence (II Chronicles 2112-15) to support the contention that Elijah, far from having gone to Heaven, was simply transported, like unto Philip (Acts 839-40), to another place on the earth; but, unlike with Philip, to a place from where no man could ever find him again. Similarly, the allegorical reference, in Revelation 1214-17, concerning those who shall be Divinely protected, on the wings of a great eagle, is undoubtedly another instance of the same kind of translation, from one place, to another, right upon this earth; just as the common belief, that these 144,000 shall be preaching the Gospel, is compellingly overruled, in Revelation 146-9. And what would be the purpose of having made man unequivocally mortal in this sense, save for a resurrection from the dead (Job 1923-27); so that, in effect, what Jesus said about, for instance, Lazarus having been asleep (John 1111), would be literally true, while verses such as Revelation 149-11 are actually the more allegorical references? The point is that man would have been made mortal, as an act of mercy, to those who reject Him; unlike Satan and the other fallen spirit-beings, who are tormented everlastingly (Revelation 2010). . . . Of course, the indication, in this verse, is that the beast and false prophet are everlastingly tormented as well; but, as with other hard to understand verses (II Peter 315-16), this could amount to nothing more than an ambiguity of language, particularly in the English. Either way, it is necessarily the case that, if the Bible is Divinely-Inspired, and thus consistently coherent in its claims, the factor of allegory, in one direction or the other, cannot be avoided. It could even be that the plural reference, as to those who everlastingly suffer, in Revelation 2010, is to the multitudes of fallen spirit beings, while the mention of the beast and false prophet being there as well is more in the nature of a parenthetical insertion. What also seems compellingly apparent is that God perhaps intended for the actual meaning to remain unclear, as indicated, again, in the references from Ecclesiastes, above; just as, for that matter, the reference, again, to Revelation 1411, where it is said that the smoke of the torment, of those who worshipped the beast, shall ascend, forever and ever, is something about which to literally ponder. I Peter 318-22 is perhaps the most notorious of all such hard sayings, although it necessarily means no more than that the same Christ, who was literally, unequivocally dead, for three days and three nights, in the heart of the earth, had formerly preached, to the spirits in prison (the bondage of their sin, while they yet lived), through His Divine Spirit in Noah. What is totally clear, however, can be found, either way, in Deuteronomy 2929, along with Ecclesiastes 1212-14, which is all any of us indispensably need to know; along with, say, Matthew 1613-17 (the only real way to know, although many pretend, I John 310-18, especially to themselves), and Romans 81-18, as well as I Corinthians 151-21. (Part three, in Battle for the Planet of the Apes) "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cannot believe there are so many positive reviews for this film, which must rate as one of the worst I have ever seen, perhaps even THE worst. Yes, it's really that bad.Don't get me wrong, I'm a big fan of the first episode, which remains a seminal classic, but this sequel is pure garbage.***spoiler*** The acting is wooden and the plot is ridiculous. I mean ... telepathic aliens who worship a nuclear weapon? Seriously? And what genius hired a talentless hack like James Franciscus for the lead role, but left out Roddy McDowall? The special effects ... aren't, the sets are boring, there's zero development of plot or characters, and everyone dies at the end ... for absolutely no logical reason.Oh there was so much potential for exploring the post-apocalyptic ruins of New York, rebuilding a new civilisation, serious political commentary on mankind's strengths and weaknesses, war and diplomacy between man and ape, and of course following the romantic and other progress of Taylor and Nova.But none of that happened. Instead, they just met some of the silliest and most misplaced aliens in the history of cinema, and died. The end.It's not even good enough to qualify as a so-bad-it's-good cult classic, like Plan 9 from Outer Space. It's just bad. Embarrassingly and boringly bad. I'm dead serious when I say I could do better with a smartphone and half a dozen of my mates, on a budget of two sixpacks and a big pizza.Executive summary 95 minutes of my life that I'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Slightly Strange Sequel","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" !!!!! POSSIBLE SPOILER !!!!!There's two possible reasons you can criticise BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES for . First of all by playing it safe and have Brent go through the same sort of plot that happened to Taylor in the first movie then ( Second possible criticism ) have the film mutate ( Geddit ? ) into something rather different from the first half of the story . I don't know if it's just me but the second half of this film has an entirely different feel from the rest of the franchise . It's by no means a bad thing because I really did enjoy this bleak downbeat twist of amutant kamikaze karaoke singalong , though no doubt a lot of reviewers seem to hate it .I actually saw this at the cinema a few months before PLANET OF THE APES premiered on British television which meant I my enjoyment of the shock ending of the original was spoiled slightly . Let that be a warning to you - Never watch a film franchise out of order . And never EVER let mutant humans write hymns ! "},{"Title":"Beneath the Planet of the Apes","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The critics think this is the best of the sequels in the five part series, I think Escape from... is much better, but I suppose I can see small reasons for them to think that, from director Ted Post (Hang 'Em High, Magnum Force). Basically it starts where the last the first film left off, just after Taylor (Charlton Heston) has discovered the Planet of the Apes is in fact the Earth three-thousand years later, seeing the Statue of Liberty in the sand, and we return to the ship he landed in, where another two survivors have woken up and got out. One quickly dies, but Brent (James Franciscus, who resembles Heston), after finding Nova (Linda Harrison) with Taylor's tag goes in search of him, quickly finding the community of walking talking apes. As before, the only ape determined to help him is Dr. Zira (Kim Hunter), with brief husband Cornelius (David Watson, replacing an unavailable Roddy MacDowall, who only appears in the opening first film archive), who knew Taylor well, and helps Brent escape to go searching for his friend in what is known as The Forbidden Zone. While the apes, led by General Ursus (James Gregory) and Dr. Zaius (Maurice Evans), Brent and Nova find an underground community of mutant, telepathic and mind controlling humans, who not only fear the threat of the apes, but worship a bomb as their God! Brent and Taylor realise that this bomb is powerful enough to blow the planet, and when the apes manage to get beneath the planet all hell breaks lose, and it may in fact be the end of everything. The only problem with the ending is that if your going to make Escape from... you really need to see how it came to be, you never saw Zira, Cornelius and Dr. Milo fix the human ship and escape going back in time! Also starring Paul Richards as Mendez, Victor Buono as Fat Man, Jeff Corey as Caspay, Natalie Trundy as Albina, Thomas Gomez as Minister, Don Pedro Colley as Negro and Tod Andrews as Skipper. The telepathic humans idea is really flat for following a brilliant science-fiction adventure, surely it should explain the origins of humans becoming apes or something. It might have some alright action moments, and still well-meaning make-up, but it is camp and not as gripping as its predecessor, but it isn't terrible. Worth watching, at least once, in my opinion! "}]