[{"Title":"One Of The All-Time Greatest Films","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"112 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a classic because it operates and works on every level imaginable, a truly evocative film. Other posters have elucidated upon and discussed the musicology of it, and the significance of Chopin. I'll take their word for it, and not go there. That's out of my league. And, as others have noted, the film is an exploration and study of character, which it certainly is. All that and more. I see the film as being in its own way a period piece unto itself, the period being films made in the late 60s and early 70s. It is quintessentially representative of what was an important movie circa 1970. Of course the storyline of an alienated young man (Jack Nicholson as Robert Dupea), walking away from all that is expected of him, and indeed walking away --if not running away-- from his prodigious gifts, and doing it all with a cocky attitude, no longer resonates quite the way it did in 1970. But, if you weren't around in 1970, trust me, it resonated well then. It was a theme that seemed important and meaningful at the time, even though the character's motivations for his actions are never really explained and remain something of a blank slate for the viewer to fill in. In 1970, when the concept of an identity crises was big, it worked to just suggest and imply that Dupea felt the need to Quixotically search out and determine for himself what was important for him. That dovetailed with another important component in many movies of that era --you never explain yourself, because if you explain things, you trivialize it all and ruin it. Or, as Jenny, Ali McGraw's character in Love Story (also a 1970 film) put it, Love means never having to say you're sorry. Meanwhile, unfolding alongside the Dupea character, was Karen Black's tour de force performance as the big-haired clingy-dependent waitress girlfriend, Rayette, and doing it to a medley of apropos Tammy Wynette tunes. Karen Black's performance perfectly captured and spot-on nailed an almost ubiquitous sort of woman prevalent in that era, when the social changes wrought by the women's movement had not yet taken fruit.As for the notorious diner scene, this one scene essentially dominates the whole movie. It is something that people who have seen the movie will bring up and talk about, even decades later. Yet the scene is in no way pivotal or important to the story. At most it once and for all permanently affixes in the viewers' minds that Dupea was an impulsively flippant and angry person, not one to meekly abide any of life's minor frustrations. But we were already getting that picture of him before this scene happens. And, courtesy of Dupea, the scene provides a snippet of gratuitous social commentary about inflexibility and the stupidity of mindless adherence to meaningless rules. Something for the viewers to cheer and say, I can relate to that! Those things aside, to me the real value of the scene was that it provided an entertaining contrast in a bleak drama, a needed change of pace. But regardless of whether it was a statement about Dupea's attitude, or a social comment about stupid rules, or a needed amusing interlude, no matter which of those it is, its lasting impression renders its importance out of proportion to the movie as a whole. Surely, as he made this film, director Bob Rafelson's never intended that 35 years later this particular scene be the main thing viewers took away and remembered about the film. In this sense, as entertaining as it is, the scene therefore must be viewed as being a bit of a story-telling flaw. In retrospect, it should have been toned down just a skosh. But, then, on the other hand, were it not for this scene, perhaps the film would hardly be remembered at all. It is already a largely overlooked masterpiece.This movie pops up on the movie channels on a semi-regular basis, and when it does I always stop and am riveted. The cinematography is superb. The acting is superb. Nicholson turning in one of the performances from that era that made him the unhinged star in the first place, long before he became a parody of himself. But be warned, it is not a happy film. It is the product of an era that did not as a rule produce happy films. But it is nevertheless a film that must be seen. "},{"Title":"A very complex and deep character study...","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"76 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bob Rafelson's FIVE EASY PIECES is about inner pain and suffering that just so happens to consume people in all walks of life.  It is sometimes hard to watch and Nicholson's character Robert is a miserable SOB.  However, he is also a very compelling character who affects all around him.  He is lonely, he is scared, and he does not know what to do with himself.If you are looking for plot, this is not the picture for you.  The only remnants of a plot concern Nicholson's father, a distant memory of his previous prestigious lifestyle as a classical pianist, who has fallen sick. Jack decides to visit his family's estate to pay his last respects.  This sets the forum of emotional indifference and misery.  He hates his old life, which he left to become a construction worker and has taken up with a flighty waitress played brilliantly by Karen Black.  He pretends to enjoy this simple way of living, but he treats Black like the trash he considers her to be and could care less about anyone.Why should anyone see this film?  Because Jack Nicholson is one of our greatest actors and he is able to transcend what was put on paper regarding the main character and project raw power and feelings in his own, unique way.  The movie is littered with classic scenes, in particular, the chicken salad sandwich scene, one of the funniest I've ever seen.  The one I feel that stands out and symbolizes the essence of the film is where Jack plays Chopin in the piano room while Rafelson's camera does a slow 360 around the room, glancing at pictures of his life before he fled from it.  It is a perfect mixture of intensity, music, and sadness.The last scene, which ends so abruptly, makes perfect sense within this context.  It leaves us feeling empty and unfulfilled, exactly how Nicholson's character feels.  This is what makes this character piece all the more powerful.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"86 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Previously known only for creating 'The Monkees', Bob Rafelson produced an underrated masterpiece when he made 'Five Easy Pieces', a film that deserves to be a lot better known.  Jack Nicholson, typically intense but atypically understated, has possibly his finest hour as Bobby Duprea, a self-hating misogynist ill at ease with himself and the world.  Many people will, when thinking of Nicholson, bring to mind his pantomime pyschopath Johnny from 'The Shining'; but Bobby, a profoundly human creation, is actually far more scary.  Elsewhere the film features characteristically gorgeous cinematography from Laszlo Kovaks; a soundtrack that skilfully offsets Tammy Wynette and Chopin; excellent writing throughout and some very black humour.  Like a less extreme version of Mike Leigh's 'Naked', and bristling with uncomfortable truth, 'Five Easy Pieces' is a true classic of 1970s cinema. Few films today are as good.   "},{"Title":"Robert Dupea As A Creative Personality","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"70 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In discussing films with extraordinary characterization, Bob Rafelson's Five Easy Pieces is an exemplary example. The film is an intense character study of an alienated, misfit drifter who seems to have no specific direction or place in life. Jack Nicholson brings to life Robert Dupea, a man who has considerable natural musical talent, but has rejected that life and his family who is also musically talented. There are hints throughout the film that Robert had great promise as a concert pianist if only he had stuck with it. He contains many of the creative personality characteristics that would predispose him to musical greatness. Psychologists who study creativity have found that generally creative people contain a number of specific personality characteristics. Robert contains many of them, but has generally abandoned creating anything.I would first like to comment on why I feel the film received the title, Five Easy Pieces. I at first thought that it might be because Robert plays piano five times throughout the film. But in a second viewing, I counted and he only played piano four times, including the time where he mimics playing the piano at the dinner table when discussing his experience playing in Las Vegas. I pondered a little further and realized that the title was likely spawned from the five classical pieces listed in the introductory credits; Chopin's Fantasy in F minor, Bach's Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue, Mozart's E-flat major concerto, Chopin's Prelude in E minor, and finally Mozart's Fantasy in D minor. I myself am not a musician, but other people who do play music have told me that these pieces are somewhat difficult to play. But Robert can sit down and play them with no problem. In this sense, the title Five Easy Pieces is somewhat ironic.One of the main characteristics of creative people is 'alienation'. I will discuss this concept first because alienation is one of the central themes of the film. The alienation that lies in Robert is a direct result of his lack of direction towards any one particular life. In his case, one life would be the average working class type of person and the other would be that of a musician. Robert seems to be caught somewhere between the two. He came from a talented, musically oriented family and was at one point, a promising pianist, but now engages in a common, working class lifestyle where he drinks beer, bowls, listens to country music and chases after women. But it is evident that he does not feel settled in this lifestyle. He is as much of a misfit among the common community as he is among the musical atmosphere of Puget Sound. In essence, he is a nowhere type of man.Robert also displays the personality characteristic of 'naivete', meaning that a person tends to act somewhat child-like. Creative people tend to be quite impulsive and open to emotional display, and are quite often labeled as temperamental. Poet, Earl Birney states that poets might just be people who have not overgrown their love for poetry as a child. Many researchers have theorized that the creator is like a child. Schiller argues that you can not create if your intellect (a uniquely adult attribute) hinders you. Another theorist, Osborne argues that to be creative one must eliminate the mature, intellectual attitude, and that creative people are able to resist premature judgements through the use of brainstorming techniques, producing many ideas and alternatives. Freud said that both the child and the creative person are similar in that both have unfulfilled wishes and desires. Satisfied people do not create. He argued that all people need an escape from reality; in adulthood we daydream (play internally) for wish fulfillment, but the creative person keeps it external by creating something such as a symphony, poem, or a painting etc. At many points in Five Easy Pieces, Robert displays child like behavior. This is characterized most notably in the famous scene where he explodes at a waitress in a diner because the establishment does not have the meal that he desires. He flies into a temper tantrum and sweeps all of the glasses and menus off the table. Another wonderful scene illustrating Robert's naivete is the one when he jumps aboard a truck with a piano in the back and begins playing it during a traffic jam. Creative people, like children are often open to high emotional display, and hence Robert seizes the moment by playing the piano to get his mind off the traffic jam which he has lost patience with. He, like many other creative people is very confident, self assertive, dominant, and independent.The film's narrative neatly unfolds, Robert's insecurity, another common creative trait. Many great creators have doubts about the quality of their product and the authenticity of their talent, hence the notion that creative people are never satisfied. It is quite evident that Robert has high doubts that he could be a great pianist. This is probably why he ended up being a drifter, choosing the common, trailer park sort of life. There is a scene near the end of the film where Robert is speaking with his father and in a way apologizing for his own life and not living up to the expectations of the family. He states that they both know that Robert is not any good anyway. This is a depiction of his insecurity. But not only is he insecure about his talent as a musician; he is also insecure about his life in general. He is caught somewhere in between two worlds, the world of the common man and the world of the creative musician, and thus is always running away from things as a result.All of the creative theory aside, Five Easy Pieces is very enjoyable on the level of acting. Jack Nicholson nails the character of Robert Dupea dead on. The character called for a certain degree of arrogance and obnoxiousness which are characteristics that we all know that no one can portray better than Jack.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Sheet Music, Chicken Salad, Deductive Reasoning, The Me-Generation & Peculair Sex!!","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"87 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson plays the lone rebel who is infuriated with his prodigal and affluent upbringing in suburban Seattle...As a rebellion to his adolescent environment, he shifts his adult habitat to a rural, lower middle class lifestyle in South Carolina!! Jack Nicholson is constantly abrasive, and volatile, from dawn to dusk!! He basically hates his wife,(Karen Black). His wife is a promiscuous simpleton who is always apologizing for herself!! Karen Black was perennially type cast as the crazy broad in the 1970's!!! His home life is one whereby irrational behavior, and depressants of one form or another, are an assurance of what someone doesn't want in their lives without the ability to change it!! As the movie progresses, his father's failing health dictates that he must return to the sadness and reassurance of his family for a junket with reveille and disenchantment!! His biggest downfall is that he cannot understand why people cannot understand him!!!..His one night stand exacerbates his emotional resolve!! He is told with point blank disinterest that his personality can no longer sustain a relationship, regardless of his devotion or non-devotion to marital fidelity!! Selfishness precludes all other emotions with everyone of the characters in the movie!! Jack Nicholson feels that the best way to vindicate himself is to fly the coup from his spousal commitment!!...The film Five Easy Pieces signifies the five pieces of music Jack Nicholson had to master on the piano as a young child!! This film is an excellent depiction of the isolated feelings that all the characters in the movie experience!! The aggregate rancor in this movie serve as a devastating force for a sadly encroaching me-ism generation!!.. The setting, Washington State, is slightly different for the early seventies, back then, virtually all esoteric lifestyles were generally illustrated in New England or New York!!.. Everybody's subconsciously negative proclivities, which culminated with a vindictive individualistic preoccupation, were characteristics that had always been taboo in movies before... Even ordering things like wheat toast and chicken salad became a form of hostile debate!! Deductive reasoning was successfully accomplished; as explained by the two lesbians Jack Nicholson picked up hitchhiking!! The lesbians were another unusual idea that was innovative for a movie made in the early 1970's!! The moral decline of Jack Nicholson in this movie hence signified the harbinger of ethical decay in the United States!! This film is utterly brilliant, because!! it is avant-garde.. UNFORTUNATELY!!! "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the great American films.","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is most famous for a scene in which Jack Nicholson tells a waitress to hold the chicken salad between her knees so he can get some plain wheat toast, but, in a movie as good as this, that very famous scene may be its least memorable one. After that scene, I hadn't heard anything about what this film was really about, and its depth and power took me completely by surprise. It's a story of a man trapped in his own life, unable to find a place to settle. All the locations at which he has arrived have lead to nothing but disappointment and the realization that there just might not be a life for him. God, how I can sympathize. Just as I was starting to question whether Nicholson was as good an actor as everybody seems to think he is, I've come upon his very best performance. Karen Black plays his girlfriend, a hick who loves him to death. He's not sure if she's good enough for him, or vice versa. Lois Smith, Ralph Waite, and Susan Anspach give good supporting performances. A flat-out masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The pianist","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces was one of the most revered films of the 1970s. It was the film that showed audiences what Jack Nicholson could do, after having worked for many years in movies that were seen only by real cinephiles, but not by a wider audiences. Not having seen the film in a long time, we decided to watch it when it showed on cable recently. The only thing is the copy we saw was not anamorphic in format, which on key scenes almost shows a blank screen while the characters talk off camera!Bob Rafelson and Carole Eastman created a screen play that dealt with existential themes, a rarity in the American cinema. Mr. Rafelson was at the height of his creative period, something that later projects seem to contradict the promise he showed at the time.Bobby Dupea, the main character of the story, is a complex individual who has left a life of privilege and culture behind to become an oil rig worker and getting away from his previous life. At the time we meet him, he is involved with Rayette, a simple woman who loves him, but one can see how different they are. That contrast comes more obvious when Bobby goes back home and meets Catherine, his brother's fiancée, who is a musician and seem to be more attuned with Bobby than the simple minded Rayette.Five Easy Pieces was a film that showcased the enormously talented Jack Nicholson doing some interesting work. The measure of his acting ability is seen about half way in the movie as Bobby, Rayette, and the two lesbian hitchhikers have stopped at a diner. Bobby's meal order request creates a match of words in which Mr. Nicholson shows what he is capable of doing.The film concludes with a puzzling scene, as Bobby and Rayette are heading back home. We watch them stopping at a gas station and little prepares us for what happens next. In a way, we have seen all along the film how restless Bobby has become and it's clear that in spite of his being with Rayette, she will never understands how to make him happy at all.The reason for watching Five Easy Pieces is Jack Nicholson. His character is the most interesting one in the film and he does an excellent job in creating the tension behind this complex man he portraits. Karen Black's Rayette is annoying at times because of her whining. Susan Anspach comes out better playing Catherine. Some other familiar faces in the cast are, Sally Struthers, Ralph White, Lois Smith, Billy Green Bush and Fannie Flagg.Five Easy Pieces is one of the best films of that decade. "},{"Title":"stick it between your knees","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1969, Jack Nicholson made his big break in Easy Rider, and the very next year, he got his first lead role in another easy Five Easy Pieces. He plays Robert Eroica Bobby Dupea, a man from a well-off musical family. Bobby has given up his potential, choosing instead to work in the oil fields. Angry and with no goal in life, he spends most of his time drinking, partying, and ignoring his girlfriend Rayette Dipesto (Karen Black). Then, his father has a stroke, forcing Bobby to visit his family. Staying with his family prompts him to not only reconsider the path that he has chosen in life, but to reevaluate his whole existence, and how he abandoned his talent.Five Easy Pieces was one of the movies that affirmed the new direction that the movie industry was taking in the late '60s and early '70s. Ten years earlier, they might have given the movie an idiotically sugary ending, but the movie does not have such an ending. The ending not only shows how unhappy Bobby is, but also the sense of cynicism that had come to pervade the country. A 10/10.Of course, the really famous scene happens in the restaurant. Although that was probably just thrown in for comic relief, it truly is a classic. "},{"Title":"Faking a little Chopin...","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Among my favorite films ever - I was in college, 21 or so, circa 1991 the first time I saw this, courtesy of a filmgeek friend who owned a copy. He made a point of not telling any of us a thing about it before we watched it, and from the start I was hooked. It begins slowly - the plot takes a bit of time to get moving - but with great detail, as Rafelson's quiet, unfussy direction (qualities I later discovered in masters like Ozu, Tarkovsky and Satyajit Ray, who I doubt I would've appreciated had I not seen this first) provides plenty of space to establish character.*Spoilers ahead*There's a dramatic, revelatory shift in the story, unveiled in 2 scenesNicholson's spontaneous freeway concert, and the visit to his sister shortly thereafter - about 1/3 of the way in. Right at the point where you think you have this character (in fact, several of the characters) pegged, there's a sudden revelation of something else, a critical piece of background very casually revealed (coming completely out of nowhere, yet completely plausible) that not only completely alters this character's identity, but obliterates any stereotypes potentially associated with him. The diner scene is famous, but there are several others of note - the screaming narcissism of Nicholson's character comes to the foreground during the homecoming scenes, and the implosion of the intellectual conversation about TV, media, and kitty cats is pretty memorable as well. Karen Black's performance is stunning as well - her character is so needy that it almost arrives as a shock when, in one of her final moments in the film, she lets Bobby (Nicholson) know that she's got his number, so to speak. And the ending is completely devastating...Rafelson and screenwriter Carole Eastman aren't exactly making Bobby out to be a hero here - the cowardliness and misogyny of his behavior is apparent throughout, but so is the pretense and overripe unreality that has provoked (or actually encouraged) his utterly self-absorbed individualism. In any case, this is a devastating film, one of the great high-water marks in 60s-70s American cinema. "},{"Title":"When There's a Fire In Your Heart","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This incredible movie would have to be one of Jack Nicholson and the totally underrated Karen Black's finest hours (and a half!). This would probably be my favourite movie of all time and though you might find it initially depressing you too will find many instances of black humour with repeated viewings. Everybody and their dog always raves about the chicken salad sandwich diner scene and the dialogue between the main character and his invalid father but for my money the money shot is when Bobby first tells Rayette he has to visit his family ALONE and as he tries to leave without her (which wouldve ended up being the most humane thing he does in the film!!) he finds his car wont start at the crucial moment and he completely loses it in his car cursing a lotta four letter words under his breath. I wont go into the details of what this film is about but its thoroughly entertaining and works on many levels. Fans of this sort of drama should check out WHEN YOU COMIN BACK, RED RYDER as well for superb character breakdowns also. If you thought the main character in  Michael Leigh's NAKED was a miserable lost soul on a road to nowhere you aint seen nothing yet til you check out Jack in this!! A complete masterpiece from beginning to end. Great soundtrack with Tammy Wynette by the way and Karen Black shows off her awesome vocal style as well...... "}{"Title":"A subtle, emotional, and beautiful character study of the 70s","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's hard to believe a film this powerful and well acted could be put aside and forgotten about so easily. It's another powerful and unique film from the decade OF great films.Five Easy Pieces is simple yet complex film just as unique as any films today. Robert Dupea is a confused ex Concert Pianest from a genius family who lives in a small town as an oil rigger, he spends his nights with his ditsy oblivious girlfriend Rayette(black) chugging beers and taking out his emotions on her.When his over emotional sister informs him that his father is ill he must visit his old house and confront his old life. He takes the trip with his ditsy girlfriend and along the way picks up two hippies on the side of the road who constantly bicker about MANKIND which leads to the classic diner scene.When he visits his old house it's a perfect example of how Robert blows things out proportion, his family are actually kind and easy going. Things become complex when Robert becomes involved in the piano teacher of his injured brother, she forces him to take out his emotions and confront his piano talents. But Rayette who was crashing at a hotel returns and gets in the middle.The obvious conflict is now that Robert must choose beetween is older life as an oil rigger with his ditsy girlfriend, or return to playing piano and get together with Katherine.5 easy pieces is a emotional, complex, subtle, and brilliant film. I t has some of the most memorable scenes in cinema and I believe it's Nicholsons best performance to date.Despite the small fuss about this film on here and the low rating Five Easy Pieces remains one of the most emotional and unique film of all time.10 stars from me. "},{"Title":"When Everything is Nothing","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After years doing Roger Corman quickies, Jack Nicholson emerged as a fully-formed mature actor in this great movie. I re-watched this film last week, and I still love it. Based partly on the life of eccentric Canadian concert pianist Glenn Gould, this is a wonderful character study of Bobby Dupea (Nicholson) who seems to have  everything musical talent, education, supportive family - but who, as the by-line says is never satisfied. He tosses it in to work on oil rigs. His father's illness forces him to return to the family home on Puget Sound, bringing his girlfriend Rayette (beautifully played by Karen Black). What emerges is a clash of class and culture with Nicholson stuck between, enraged at both his background and Rayette. What is so wonderful is that information &  character emerge thru small moments. (One of my favourites is Nicholson's piano-playing during the traffic jam). Nicholson shows the many sides of this talented drifter; a man who can be both charming and appallingly selfish. The cast is uniformly excellent, and the music of Tammy Wynette adds ironic commentary to the unfolding events.A classic film. "},{"Title":"Choosing to be","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces is much like its protagonist, Robert Eroica Dupea buried beneath a disguise of superficiality lies brilliance, passion, and pain. Not only is Nicholson as Dupea at his personal best ever, his performance in this film is unparalleled in post-modern cinema.We soon learn he works as a manual laborer in a hot, dusty oil field simply because he is so exceptional that he can do anything he wants, he can truly be anyone...except himself. The people with whom he surrounds himself cannot help being who they are, but they do the best they can with what they have. There is a humanity, an honesty in their simple lives that he admires but cannot find in himself. In a way it is honorable that he does not condescend, that with pleasure he dates a gum-smacking waitress from a diner and goes bowling with his pals. But he wants more, because he will never find what he is searching for in them, there is so much more to him than just a rowdy two-timing roughneck. Frustrated, he erupts in fits of torment and rage that obliterate his mask of sanity. He cannot escape the life he left behind.It is his past, his eccentric but gifted family that comes to bear when he returns to his childhood home on a small, eternally foggy island in Puget Sound. We see the real him emerge the tortured musical genius, the sensitive loving son. We are moved, they are moved, but he is not. He will always see himself as a failure, he has lost all he ever wanted, and nothing else matters. His entire life has been one of self-denial, and as a final act of self-condemnation he rejects himself.The closing scene will always be controversial because of its ambiguity. He looks in the mirror and fearing the past, present, and future dives even deeper into a life of anonymity. He has become no one.Watching this masterpiece is witnessing the journey of not just any man but every man, to choose between finding or losing, accepting or rejecting, living or dying. By watching Robert Dupea, we can choose to do what he could not. "},{"Title":"Powerful, brilliant film","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not many films have the quiet impact as Five Easy Pieces seems to have. I remember watching it way back, and this was a time when all I wanted from films was action or a lot of humour. There was something about the film that stuck with me and today I've watched it at least 10 times.Nicholson portrays Robert Dupea, an aimless drifter wandering from one existence to another. He learns of his father's decaying condition and returns to the home where he grew up. There he mainly confronts himself and the reason why he's never settled down anywhere and why his life is heading nowhere fast.Besides being an excellent character study this film is also a great period piece, showcasing 1970 America in all it's glory. The film's low key approach towards everything makes it all the more powerful for viewers who like to absorb them completely and really try to get the point. It's not just that it's well written and expertly well acted, it's more the fact that it's demonstrating a lifestyle and a way of thinking that few films do. Nicholson doesn't see the errors of his ways, nor does he have to. They may not be errors. He's stuck somewhere where he doesn't feel he belongs. He has the guts (or some might call it being a coward) to leave everything behind and search for something better. It might not be anywhere, but at least it's not because of a lack of trying. That's how I see it anyway.Nicholson's performance is nothing short of brilliant. I'd say this is his best one. For some reason, director Bob Rafelson does everything right here. I don't particularly like any of his other films, this is his crowning achievement. This film is a standout in every department. "},{"Title":"A character we know in real life but don't see in films","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Dupea (Jack Nicholson) is a surly cad, who works at an oil rig, undermining his extraordinary talent on the piano for middling, if momentarily comforting, financial security. He lives with his girlfriend Rayette (Karen Black), an aspiring country singer working as a waitress, who is often left in tears during Bob's many emotional tirades, though she still sticks by him through everything he puts her through. When Rayette reveals she's pregnant and Bob's best friend and coworker (Billy Bush) is locked up for robbery, Bob's pianist sister Partita (Lois Smith) shows up to inform him of the catatonic state of their father (Ralph Waite) following multiple strokes. Bob decides to quit his job and travel to Washington state to visit his family, something he hasn't done in years, taking Rayette along with him, expecting virtually nothing from those he hasn't seen or shown much love for in his recent years.Five Easy Pieces explores the uglier side of humans through various characters that lack the ability to see the bigger picture or the perception of those they love. Bob doesn't understand why Rayette can be so hurt by his behavior when she's clearly at fault and Rayette can't understand why Bob won't capitalize on his pianistic talents and has such an animosity towards the people he meets. No character in this film is to be praised or cheered on, as all exhibit some kind of unhealthy impulse or personality trait that we've come, to find as a contemptible feature.The film softly echoes that of Ingmar Bergman's masterful Wild Strawberries, about an elderly man reconnecting with his daughter, who is sickened by the sight of him because he takes pride in the fact that he can win over strangers while simultaneously hurt and belittle his family so regularly. It's a strange, underexplored trait that many possess, in that the attention and affection from strangers is easier to obtain than to return the love and support your family gives you. It's a trait that comes with forcing people who are normally cold and restrained to show loftier, more impacting emotions and the Bob character is the epitome of that central idea.Five Easy Pieces explores the dichotomy through a series of vignette-style scenes that allow the audience to extract from them what they may. It's remarkable how this film, for most of its runtime, walks on a sharp knife-blade, teetering the line between farcical comedy (the famous diner scene or when Bob hops on the back of a truck carrying a piano in traffic) and emotional drama (the dinner table scenes at Bob's father's house, where Bob's father is a passive observer to his behavior), never falling and becoming one or the other.In the meantime, Nicholson gives a strong performance simply in terms of being human throughout this entire film. Quite frequently, as stated, his behavior is contemptible and his treatment of those around him plays out like he was never ever taught The Golden Rule in school. Yet, this is why Bob is such an investing presence. He defies everything we've presumably learned about treating others with respect and gratitude, and Nicholson, an actor known for rebellious roles and his large personality in films throughout the beginning of his career, is convincing in embodying such a role.Five Easy Pieces comes at a time during in American cinema known as the New Hollywood era, when the star system was being put into effect, films were becoming large-scale investments for studios (this particular film cost $1 million to make, a surprising feat at the time), and directors, particularly young ones, were beginning to forge names for themselves. This also meant the subject mater of films became weightier than the films of the 1950's and previous decades. With this change in the system, writers Bob Rafelson (also director) and Adrien Joyce (Carole Eastman) adhere to the period's principles by detailing the kind of coldness that is occasionally summoned inside people when they're forced to produce emotions outside of their control. However, with the talented Nicholson at the center of the film, they work to create a character who reveals this kind of anger whenever he's asked to produce some kind of emotion. Not only is the subject matter weightier than what was expected from Hollywood at the time, it's also much more honest and cuts deeper than may mainstream films ever did at the time.Starring Jack Nicholson, Karen Black, Billy Bush, Lois Smith, and Ralph Waite. Directed by Bob Rafelson. "},{"Title":"A life you don't approve","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Only in a second time viewing this film it hit me how wonderful it is. I've only just began to cherish these old gems from the 70's, the innovations brought by the new Hollywood must've been a fresh gust of wind. Both Jack Nicholson and Bob Rafelson were a huge part of it, and this movie might as well be one of the lot's finest. The great thing about the movie is Nicholson's character, Bobby Eroica Dupea, and how well constructed and complex his actions are. We may spend the entire movie hating the guts out of him, for his sexist and generally annoying behavior towards everyone else, but later on we realize that that cynic attitude serves as a protection cover for his true inner conflicts. We learn that through a magnificent delivered monologue of Bobby addressing his father, which is the pinnacle of a beautifully written script. Karen Black is also great as Nicholson's hysterical but sweet girlfriend. And how can i not mention the diner scene? or Palm Apodaca and her friend, with their quirky cleanliness obsession and general disgust over modern society. Bobby certainly saw both of them as weirdos, eventually dumping them, but all i could think of during those car scenes was how they were alike, outcasts. To me, what really stands out are the contradictions and opposite sides shown to Bobby's situation, it seems he's always in crossroads, questioning himself, where do i belong? it's clear he doesn't belong with the pompous celibates, but neither does he seem to belong with Rayette. What probably started as a refusal of his bourgeois life only for the sake of rebelling against his father apparently turned into something grander, and irreversible, for that matter. The last scene proves us that, it's so anguishing to see him completely abandoning his girlfriend, his belongings and especially his identity, but anything not to face the bad things. Heading into another auspicious beginning, perhaps? "},{"Title":"Excellent and always fascinating","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've watched the film twice and love it. The different personalities, the different people and their interests just fascinates me. The film is beautifully shot and paced. The acting is excellent by everyone, the dialog interesting.There are certain scenes that made us laugh out loud. When hitchhikers join the traveling couple we hear some loony dialog that is perfectly delivered and done in such a humorous way. You almost wish you could have been there to hear more.Some people seem to question the quick cuts, the unexplained meetings. The timeline does get distorted but it in no way damages the quality of the film. I think most people will want this to stay in their collection. And if you enjoyed this check out Jack in The Passenger. "},{"Title":"Excellent Period Piece","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces stands out thanks to a great performance from Jack Nicholson and Karen Black, as well as a great screenplay that refines the rebellious ideas of the times that were prevalent in movies such as Easy Rider. It takes those themes and makes them relatable to a broader audience, and avoids diving into to weird of places like the commune in Easy Rider. The insecurity and uneasyness of Nicholson's character adds more depth and another connection between the audience and the film. The film has some truly great scenes like the diner scene, and the piano on the highway scene. The camera work is also great and underrated. Some great camera work is most noticeable in the instances of the the hitchhikers, and also the sunset scene. Underrated film, one of Nicholson's best. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An interesting existential work, that uses the talented Nicholson to show a man struggling with his dichotomous life.  Karen Black also shines and the country soundtrack, in all its irony is the perfect contrast to the classical pieces.  Recommended if you are in the mood for something that is deeper than the normal Hollywood fare, but not so esoteric as to become enigmatic.  "},{"Title":"Why it is called Five Easy Pieces","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The main review contains a twenty line treatise on why the author thinks the film is called Five Easy Pieces. The author comes up with several theories. All are wrong-he just wasn't listening to the dialogue.During the scene where Robert plays Bach in the house, he laughs when he is complemented. He tells his fawning audience member that he played the piece better when he was eight years old, and that it is one of the 5 easiest compositions he knows. It's really simple when you listen...  "}{"Title":"A classic of 70's American cinema","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the undoubted classics of 70's American cinema.  This is Nickolson at his best, like in The Last Detail, the consummate anti-hero, the film never succumbing to cheap easy glories for its main protagonist.  He is the archetypical under-achieving misfit, who may or may not deserve our sympathy.  Victim of circumstance or does he bring his own troubles upon himself?  No easy answers will be found here.  I just regret that Nicholson isn't admired enough for these understated roles, and that Rafelson only came close again in the magnificent King of Marvin Gardens. "},{"Title":"Music for drifters","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces continues a run of counter culture films that Jack Nicholson was involved in from the late 1960s onwards and also continues a collaboration with writer and director Bob Rafelson that would continue for several decades.Nicholson plays Robert Dupea, a man from a well to do family, talented musician who has turned his back to the riches and privileges to become a drifter. We first see him work at an oil field going home to see his girlfriend. We also have later scenes with his friend and fellow worker, we soon realise he has a tumultuous relationship with his girlfriend (Karen Black)and happy to play around with other women.Dupea at heart is a loner and also feels alienated. As a character later remarks he feels love for no one but wants love in return. We are not sure whether he feels love for the music he plays. Pretty early on he casually walks out on his job after a dispute with his friend.The film has been regarded as a classic mainly because of the diner scene which tended to be endless replayed and its edginess for the time as it has nudity and strong language.Its an episodic character study but also rather dull and the uniformly good acting and quirky acting cannot disguise the slow meandering pace. We feel sorry for his girlfriend. When Dupea returns to see his ill father, he abandons her at a motel for two weeks whilst he forms a sexual relationship with his brother's girlfriend.Dupea is not a character who you sympathise with or maybe even understand. At the end of the film when he pulls into a gas station and goes to the men's room, a truck pulls up. You can guess he will just jump into the truck and wander off and abandon his girlfriend and indeed he does. "},{"Title":"There's nothing Easy about Five Easy Pieces","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (There may be Spoilers) 1970 ground-breaking film about the 60's and 70's counter-culture with a young man who's just about had it with his life and threw a promising and rewarding musical career away to go out in the cruel cold world and find himself. We first see Robert Dupea, Jack Nicholson, working on an oil rig and spending his free time with his waitress girlfriend Rayette, Karen Black, at the local bowling alley. Robert is a bit unnerved with Rayette bowling, she misses 19 strikes in a row, as well as her nagging him about if he loves her or not. On the job at the oil field Robert is also getting fed up with his friend and fellow oil rig worker Elton, Billy Green Bush, whom he feel is below his social and educational status. One day getting into a augment with Elton Robert walks off the job and quits. It's also at that time that Elton is arrested by the Feds, or FBI, for jumping bail for a service station robbery over a year ago.Going to see his sister Tita, Lois Smith, in L.A whom Robert hasn't seen in three years he finds out from her that his father Nicholas Dupea, William Challee, is deathly ill and may die any day and if he would go see him for just one last time. Taking a reluctant Rayette along with him Robert drives north to the island compound where the Dupea family make their home. On the way there Robert picks up two hitch-hikers Pam & Terry, Helena Kallianiotas & Terry Grous. The two are both obsessed with the cleanliness of America and the world to the point where Rayette almost take a swing at them and Robert is about to throw the two nut-jobs out of his speeding car. Stopping at a road-side diner Robert loses his cool with the waitress Lorina Thayer after she gives him a by the numbers lecture about ordering a meal where he tells her, after trying to explain to Lorina what he want's for lunch, to stick between her legs and cleans the table off for her. Shoving all the cups glasses plates and silverware off it. This robotic and mindless by the book and without thinking talk, that Lorina gives him, is just what drove Robert to quit the many jobs that he had.At the Dupea island compound Robert finds that his dad is suffering from an extreme case of Alzheimers and there's nothing he can do to help or even communicate with him. Getting an earful by his relatives about how a great pianist he could have been Robert tries to get away from them, like the dozen or so jobs that he held over the last three years, and ends up between the sheets with family friend Catherine Van Oost, Susan Anspach. Catherine later gets fed up with Robert when he insults her by insulting the world of classical music, which she's loves, saying that it's all cr*p and he's sorry that he had anything to do with it. Robert taking Rayette's side in an argument with his stuffed-up relatives, who put her down as a trailer park type and uneducated in the finer things in life, makes him realize that his family is no better and in some cases even worse then the rednecks he's used to and associated with on the outside and decides to take off and go back home with her.After saying good by to his dad who seemed to be totally unaware of what was going on and his sister Tita the only family member that he has any feelings for Robert drives back home with Rayette. Still there's something that's been bothering Robert about his relationship and dependence on Rayette. Out on the road and what seems like the middle of nowhere at the first possible moment Robert, stopping at a gas station/diner makes a decision that would change his and Raynett lives forever. Jack Nicholson's first staring role in a major picture, after being in B-type films for 12 years, and he showed there in the move Five Easy Pieces as Robert Dupea. The same talent he had that reflected in dozens of films afterward that earned him two Academy Awards. "},{"Title":"HEY!!! Let's kick off the greatest decade in American Cinema","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  WARNING SPOILER AHEADI firmly believe that the 70's were the best times in cinema, creators believed in experimentation and creating a solid national body of work with an underlying thread and renovation/innovation of film, comparable to Italian Neorrealism or the French New Wave, the 70's produced some of the best films in American Cinema, and actually had something original to say, unlike today's lack of originality and abundance of mindnumbing emptiness...Five Easy Pieces started off the trend that had begun to shape around films like Easy Rider or Midnight Cowboy, dealing with deeper themes that reflected a deeper understanding of humanity's concerns that could only be hinted at during the Golden Age of the Studio SystemIt basically deals with a man that is caught between his potential and his aspirations(or lack of). Jack Nicholson really brings to the surfaces the inner conflicts of Robert Dupea, an oilrig worker that lives a working class existence, with it's usual insatisfaction, while at the same time is hiding or running away from his musically gifted family and his promising future as a Concert Pianist.After learning that his father is ailing from a Stroke, he embarks on a Road Trip to visit his family in Puget Sound, and takes with him his bimbo girlfriend(a hysterically ugly Karen Black, but ugly not for her ugliness but for her attempts at being beautiful, Think Peggy Bundy). The Trip allows him to escape the mediocre life he has, and even comprehend his mediocrity and his wasted potential, while at the same time, the contact with his family and their cultured existence reminds him of why he left.The master touch is the ending, in which he finally leaves the family and embarks on the road home with his pathetic excuse for a girlfriend. Stopping at a gas station he goes to the restroom, hangs his jacket and when he comes out, instead of heading for his car, asks a truck driver if he will let him ride along, running away again, from his unfulfilled potential, his mediocre life, a cold family and a woman that he doesn't even love. He heads off to find satisfaction of his unknown desires... Here you see he is above his family's intellectual games, his working class existence, and his unfulfilled life, he merely wanders in search of an existence where he will be satisfied.By the way, the films title is an ironic reference to the piece he plays at home, flawlessly achieving a somewhat complicated Piece and then calling it one of the easiest pieces he can play.A superb effort and a compelling, existential, character study that works because those involved succeed in portraying the complexity of insatisfaction  "},{"Title":" . . .a great launchpad for Jack, but so many others should have lit their stars as well","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Five Easy Pieces 31 years after its initial release, when the Tampa Public Library system brought in the DVD of it.  I was surprised that more of the acting excellence displayed did not manifest in a career akin (or reflecting some pct of the success) of the inimitable Jack Nicholson. Susan Anspach plays Catherine to the hilt; and Helena Kallianiotes, one of the hitchhikers portrays an amiably reckless Palm with her girlfriend.  Susan should have become an A picture leading lady like Julia Roberts - or maybe an excellent character actor like Blythe Danner.  Helena should have had an equal number of 'eccentric' character roles.  Sally Struthers - already begun to be typecast for a ditsy blonde . . . has enduring allure for me anyway.  Oh well luck, opportunity, availability all had a hand in the years that followed.  This was a great launchpad for Jack; but so many others could have (no should have) lit their stars as well.  8 / 10. "},{"Title":"Overlook a few flaws for the perfections...total time transport experience","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces (1970)Watching this movie, there is no lingering question about whether the studio era of film-making had anything left. Nothing at all, it seems. Even movies from the same American movement like the Graduate and Taxi Driver took their cues from old and new sources, mixing new themes and a raw frankness with some elegant film-making that is interesting on its own terms.Not here. And this is partly what makes the movie important, if not great, whatever greatness is. The drifting story line, the grimy mise-en-scene, the forlorn realization that this really is America for a lot of people, all of this makes the movie unique and moving and stark in a way that movies rarely were, or rarely are. It's not just Nicholson's coming out party (out to the wider public). It's a weirdly wonderful movie.Earlier serious films about misfits and the disaffected among us (not prison films and more obvious outsider scenes) include The Misfits of course but also Days of Wine and Roses and Lost Weekend. But these have such a different patina to them, and ultimately such different intentions, it's hard to remember just how far gone the days of studio movie-making and all the careful slickness of them are gone. Cukor, Wilder, and above all Wyler are hardly possible, at least not with the same pertinence. All of this defends it in history, but what about as a movie in it's own right? I think it wavers. Yes, the beginning is fast and powerful, shifting ground and getting us as footloose as the protagonist. And the end is so quietly nasty and yet, weirdly, liberating and appropriate, it's great, too. Between is a lot of great stuff, some of it legendary. But in a film that demands (and creates) a full fledged realism, there are parts that just don't hold water. The famous diner scene is funny, but it's more about being a show off than really responding to the situation (no one is quite right in their theatrical reactions). And other moments like this (the scene where Nicholson visits the old-school family most of all) make you realize the film is only ninety percent there.Which is enough, really. What works works great, really edgy and fresh and quiet and creepy. And believable. Nice stuff. "},{"Title":"this movie still disgusts me 40 years later","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember watching this in the theater when it came out, in a privileged college town. When Nicholson abuses the waitress in the iconic scene that everybody else seems to love, all the well-off punks in the theater cheered ecstatically. How heroic to humiliate a poor waitress in a lousy diner! Nobody involved in the movie could be bothered to see the world from the waitress's point of view. And classical music as a symbol of privilege, a short-hand for the bad guys--isn't this the tiredest cliché in movies (The Bond villain in The Spy Loved Me, Hannibal Lechter, etc etc etc etc....)? The movie also features one of the worst sex scenes in cinematic history. Jack Nicholson puts the moves on his brother's lover (The brother is a graceless geek, cause, you know, that's what all classical musicians are like) by destroying some of her possessions and going all he-man and violent on her. She explodes with passion! Because that's what women want, after all. In a scene near the end, an insufferable bitch at an insufferable party condescends to Nicholson's girlfriend. And he goes out of his mind with Nicholsonian rage. Maybe the falsest scene of this whole fraudulent movie--he has been treating her with utter disdain for two hours on the screen already. What does he expect? This movie still makes me sick. "},{"Title":"Smaller than the sum of its parts, but . . .","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces is one of those flawed movies that has several excellent scenes, some outstanding performances, and very often features ingenious direction. But the sum never equals the many great parts. Why? For one thing, character motivations are often opaque. Even the character of Bobby, whom Jack Nicholson plays brilliantly, remains a mosaic rather than an intelligible entity. The closest the movie comes to figuring out Bobby is when Catherine van Oost (played, again brilliantly, by Susan Anspach) dices and slices him into many more than five tiny little pieces. Why should I go with you? she asks him. If a person has no love for himself, no respect for himself, no love of his friends, family, work, something--how can he ask for love in return? I mean, why should he ask for it? Bobby is left muttering something like Well, ah . . . I could make you happy. But he realizes she's right. The audience, unfortunately, realized the same thing about an hour earlier.The editing by Christopher Holmes and Gerald Shepard is first-class&#151;but the best part of the movie is Bob Rafelson's directing. I mean, what a vision this man had! It stretches from what look like Gulf Coast oil fields to Los Angeles to Vancouver Island (or places remarkably similar). The extremely difficult traffic sequences--even the ones on the ferry boats--flow seamlessly. And the road movie section from L.A. to Vancouver with Helena Kallianiotis as the utterly bizarre, hygiene-obsessed lesbian is a masterpiece. In every location, Rafelson has everything under control, yet he allowed actors a wide berth to expand the rather abstract characters assigned them. The movie is worth watching for both its flaws and its inconsistencies. Not a great movie, but worth watching, thinking about, and rediscovering. "},{"Title":"A lesson in film acting","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If anyone is remotely interested in becoming a film actor then they have to watch this film. Jack Nicholson is the very definition of presence, control and sexiness.The film itself is a gem of 70's Hollywood but doesn't quite stand up to the decades later films - it's message seems rather clumsily put across and the script has a few pacing issues. However these factors should not be enough to put you off a fantastic work and a great period piece. Even the most cynical viewer has to sit through it at least until the 'diner scene' and get your notepad out 'cos Jack gives you a lesson. "},{"Title":"Taking the Easy Way Out","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Contains spoilers.The central character in this film is Bobby Dupea, a blue-collar Texas oilfield worker who travels to his family home in the Pacific North-West when he discovers that his father is dangerously ill after a stroke. In the course of the film, the audience comes to learn that Bobby is not originally from a working-class background; he comes from a well-to-do and artistic middle-class family, and he himself was once a promising concert pianist before he abandoned his career.What we never find out is exactly why Bobby gave up his life in music. While talking to his father, he says, `You know, I was never that good', but there is no indication whether this is the truth, or the result of insecurity about his talent, or an excuse he has invented. What is undoubtedly true is that Bobby is in revolt against his family, not just against their ambitions for him to excel in music, but also against their entire lifestyle. The family have a deep love of high culture in all its forms, and particularly of classical music. Bobby has abandoned not only his career in music but also his family's cultural values. His life in Texas, revolving around heavy drinking, bowling alleys, country-and-western music and casual womanising (even though he has a live-in girlfriend, Rayette), seems to have been designed to fit every middle-class stereotype about how the working-class live.The family's obsession with music is shown in the names they have given to their children; Bobby's full name is Robert Eroica Dupea, his brother is Carl Fidelio and his sister is Partita. Names, in fact, are important in this film. The central character's split identity is shown by his two names- he is still Robert to his family, and only Rayette and his Texas friends call him Bobby. Rayette's name seems to have been invented to fit her social background, it being something of a film convention that a female character with an unusual name consisting of a supposedly feminine suffix added to a male name will be drawn from the poor underclass.Rebellion against middle-class values is frequently presented in films (and in other art forms) as something laudable, but not here. This is not an ideological film that aims to attack the vices of the bourgeoisie or to extol the virtues of the proletariat, but rather a character study of a largely unsympathetic character. Bobby is selfish and irresponsible, unable to accept any restrictions on his freedom to do as he pleases or to consider the happiness of others when this conflicts with his own wishes. He retains, moreover, some of the more unattractive middle-class characteristics, especially snobbishness. A man who forces his girlfriend to stay in a motel because he is too ashamed of her social origins to let his family meet her (as Bobby does to Rayette) can hardly be said to have freed himself from middle-class values. Ironically, when Rayette does eventually meet Bobby's family, they get on much better than he had feared.There has been much discussion of the precise significance of the title `Five Easy Pieces'; my interpretation would be that, besides the obvious musical meaning, it also relates to Bobby's character. In music, he will never try a difficult piece if he can get away with playing an easier one- as he does when his sister asks him to play for her. In life too, he is always looking for the easy way out, the least amount of responsibility or the least emotional risk. The final scene, where Bobby abandons Rayette on impulse to start a new life in Alaska is perhaps the best example of this, but he also treats his family badly, as when he seduces his brother's girlfriend.Although there are some other good contributions, particularly from Karen Black as Rayette, it is Jack Nicholson's performance as Bobby that stands. Nicholson always holds the viewer's attention, whatever he is doing, and in his set pieces can make the film spark into life. The scenes where Bobby confronts a surly waitress in a diner and a snobbish friend of the family are among the best in the film, charged with a sort of angry humour. Throughout the whole of his performance, in fact, there is something that would become a Nicholson trademark- an undercurrent of suppressed anger. This combination of barely-controlled (and sometimes uncontrolled) rage and grim humour prefigures a later, and even better, Nicholson performance in `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest'.`Five Easy Pieces' is not a film of the same calibre; it can be dull and static in places and, like many character studies of unsympathetic characters, it can seem lacking in heart. It is, however, worth seeing, if only for one commanding performance. 6/10.  "}{"Title":"A Bust","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces was released in theaters on September 12, 1970. Five Easy Pieces is a 1970 American drama film written by Carole Eastman (as Adrien Joyce) and Bob Rafelson, and directed by Rafelson. The film stars Jack Nicholson, with Karen Black, Susan Anspach, Ralph Waite, and Sally Struthers in supporting roles.The film tells the story of a surly oil rig worker, Bobby Dupea, whose blue-collar existence belies his privileged youth as a child prodigy. When word reaches Bobby that his father is dying, he goes home to see him, reluctantly bringing along his pregnant girlfriend, Rayette (Black), a dimwitted waitress. The film was selected to be preserved by the Library of Congress in the National Film Registry in 2000.Summary Classical pianist Robert Dupea (Nicholson), who comes from a family of musicians, works in a California oil field. Most of his time is spent in bowling alleys, drinking beer in the trailer of his friend, Elton (Bush), or with his waitress girlfriend, Rayette (Black). When he learns that she is pregnant, and his friend Elton is arrested for having robbed a gas station a year earlier, he quits his job and leaves for Los Angeles where his sister, Partita (Smith), also a pianist, is making a recording. Partita informs him that their father has suffered two strokes and urges him to return to the family home on Puget Sound. He tells Rayette that he must go to see his father and reluctantly agrees to take her along. On the way, they pick up two lesbians headed for Alaska whose constant chatter about filth increasingly annoys Robert. The four of them are thrown out of a restaurant when he gets into an argument with a waitress who refuses to accommodate his special order. Eventually, Robert reaches his destination. Embarrassed by Rayette's lack of polish, he registers her in a motel and goes to his family home. At dinner that night, he meets Catherine Van Oost (Anspach), a young pianist engaged to his brother, Carl (Waite), a violinist.Questions Who does Robert fall in love with? What happens to Rayette at the motel? Who ridicules Rayette background? Why did Rayette background come into question? What was Robert's nurse doing to his father? Whom does Robert try to convince to go away with him? What happens to Rayette?Fun Facts Five Easy Pieces refers to a book of piano lessons for beginners. The song played by Dupea on the piano in the back of the truck driving down the road is Chopin's Fantaisie in F. When Dupea goes to quit his oil-rigging job, the loud whirring of machines can be heard in the background. George Lucas used this identical sound effect seven years later, for the trash compacter scene in Star Wars.My Thoughts This movie was stupid right from the beginning. There's really no plot that keeps your interest. There was no action and the movie didn't make any sense to me what so ever. Karen Black who played Rayette was waste in this movie. She played the role of a wife that was constantly insulted and put down. Just because I can't give this zero stars I have to give it 1 weasel star and that's being nice. "},{"Title":"Typical Over-rated '70s Character Study","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maybe it is just me, but I consider the 1970's to be a lost decade for the arts, whether it be music, film, etc. Anybody out there still listening to disco? Anybody out there buying shag carpeting and paneling for their homes? Anybody out their wife-swapping? This is typical 70's fare Free, casual sex, irresponsible individuality, social issues (anti-pollution and anti-establishment in this one), and the lack of a plot or enough character development to understand the lead character's motivations, or to a least sympathize with their actions.This film does have its positives. Jack Nicholson as usual gives his typical Jack performance, which are always enjoyable (Jack is great at being Jack; don't get me wrong, I think he is a good actor playing Jack, just not great. I will watch anything with him, in fact, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is my favorite film. I just feel that to be a great actor, you have to be able to play characters other than yourself). The Script, most of all the dialogue, is very good. All of the actors give good performances.Unfortunately, there is no true plot. Jack's character, Bobby, is a skilled musician from an upscale musical family who turns his back on all of this to work on an oil rig. He is an unlikable character he will sleep with anyone regardless of their relationship to him and in spite of his live-in girlfriend and shows no respect to his family, girlfriend, superiors, even friends.The film never explains his decisions. The film leaves you totally blind at the end as to where Jack will go or do next. In fact the film's end conclusively determines that Bobby is not a likable person, let alone understandable.As stated before, this is a typical 70's movie. Lots of dialogue, little plot, not entertaining (with the exception of the cafe scene, which I will not remark on due to its popularity in film lore), and no conclusion. For 70's fare, stick to Biopics (Patton), Action (Bullitt, The Getaway), Thrillers (Godfather's), and Horror (Exorcist, Omen). Avoid the meaningful social dramas such as this, Network, Last Tango In Paris, etc. While these are well scripted and acted, the plots tend to be non-existent. "},{"Title":"No Change 35 Years Later","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film when it first came out, and at the time didn't understand the critics' raves and whatnot. Thirty-five years later I decided to see what a callow youth missed (as he viewed it in a drive-in with his own Lucky Lager between his knees). I'm sorry to say that I have not learned much &#150; the movie still seems one of the most overrated 'classics' designated as such.The scenes do not move smoothly; the locations are what, where? Texas? California? How does he get between the two locations so fast in one of the early scenes? How is the meeting with the two tarts arranged? Other scenes' inclusions are hard to understand - why the one scene with his friend's arrest, and the later one with the intellectuals in his family's home? Just so he can defend his girlfriend and shout at a particularly pompous one, and then go chasing after his brother's girlfriend? Which brings me to - why is this guy seen as charming? He is basically a condescending (to both 'classes' he associates with) hedonist, bored with whatever he chases after. By the end of the film he has learned nothing; except to find another way to humiliate a person who is absolutely dedicated to him. Which can be all right &#150; after all the film doesn't have to be about a wonderful person &#150; but the film could be accepted more easily if it showed these actions in a more coherent, logical manner. And I know the arguments about 'life not always being coherent or logical', but I think films can be.I also remember rave reviews 30+ years ago concerning the performance of Helen Kallianiotes, playing a hitchhiker. The second time around the performance just comes off as mannered, obnoxious, and unnecessary. Her appearance simply acts as a vignette used as a setup for the famous restaurant scene, which itself appears just to be a setup so Nicholson's character can humiliate yet another 'blue collar' type on his way to 'finding himself'.I found most of the scenes somewhat boring &#150; and most of the angst portrayed as affected and unconvincing. I'm somewhat uplifted to find that possibly I wasn't as callow a youth as I thought; worse yet however, maybe I'm just as callow as an old man "},{"Title":"I move around a lot, not because I'm looking for anything really, but 'cause I'm getting away from things that get bad if I stay.  Bobby Dupea","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces (1970) directed by Bob Rafelson - is one of the real gems that needs to be seen and admired but is sadly not known enough to the viewers. The film is build as a road movie around Bobby Dupea, a middle-class intellectual turned truck driver and working in the oil fields. Playing a once promising pianist (his full name is Robert Eroica Dupea - he was named after Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 3, Op. 55, The Eroica Symphony - no more, no less) who chose to abandon his musical family (Five Easy Pieces refers to five pieces by Chopin), Jack Nicholson has rarely been better. It is one of his performances that I truly love and admire. If you only saw Nicholson in his later films where he often plays the same character over again, the combination of Daryl Van Horne and Col. Nathan R. Jessep, find Five Easy Pieces. Bobby's fully shaded character with its outbursts of emotions, insecurities, and poignancy of wasted intelligence is the wonder to follow. Karen Black as Bobby's girlfriend Rayette, Tammy Wynett's admiring waitress, is outstanding. Laszlo Kovack's cinematography is gorgeous. The chicken - salad scene in a diner is a classic and pure delight to watch. "},{"Title":"Not even Nicholson can save this","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Those who praise Five Easy Pieces call it a great character study. Maybe it is, but that doesn't make it a great movie. The character of Robert Dupea may have made for a nice subject for an article in a psychology journal. But as the lead character in a film he leaves a lot to be desired. Not even the fact that Dupea is played by the great Jack Nicholson can mask the truth that the movie which tells his story is downright dull. Yeah, there's a pretty interesting story in here somewhere but the way that story unfolds on the screen leaves a lot to be desired.The biggest problem with this movie is quite simply that nothing happens. We are just forced to sit and watch as Robert Dupea tries to find himself. While Dupea's finding himself you'll probably be stifling yawns. The fact that the lead character we're following is an irredeemable louse doesn't help matters either. Robert Dupea treats all those around him, most notably his ever-loyal girlfriend, like absolute garbage. He's completely full of himself, which is rather odd for someone working a menial job on an oil rig. Where does this guy get off being so high and mighty? Who the heck is he to think he's so much better than those around him? About halfway through the film we see where that attitude comes from as Dupea goes on a journey back to his childhood home to reconnect with the person he truly is or at least used to be. This is where all that great character study malarkey kicks in. Yes, it turns out Robert Dupea isn't exactly what he initially seems to be. Yes, he's a very complex character. But he's still at heart an awful human being. And this is still a boring movie.Jack Nicholson is certainly one of our finest actors and he does the best he can here but this film just isn't salvageable. The character Nicholson plays is impossible to root for. You end up sympathizing with everyone in the movie but him, a problem since the movie is really about him alone. For the first half of the movie absolutely nothing happens as the filmmakers go out of their way to establish what a mean-spirited jerk Dupea is. Actually that was established in the first five minutes but they belabor the point to tedious effect. Then the great journey home begins and the movie for a few minutes veers off into Bizarro World when Dupea picks up a pair of hippie, lesbian hitchhikers. One of these hitchhikers, named Palm Apodaca which tells you about all you need to know, launches into one of the most bizarre, comical rants in film history. Only she's not trying to be funny, she's deadly serious. If nothing else, at least you the viewer can laugh at the sheer stupidity of it all, which is about all the enjoyment you'll get out of this film. Soon enough Palm and friend are gone and we're back to focusing on Robert Dupea. Who's still a selfish, obnoxious, jerk stuck in an utterly boring movie. A great character study? You can judge that for yourself. A great movie? Absolutely not. "},{"Title":"Jack's Finest Hour","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1969, Jack Nicholson was already starting out in the movie industry. He had just done several motion pictures, starring in supporting roles. Some of them were the original Little Shop of Horrors and Easy Rider. Audiences by 1969 already knew who he was and what he stands for. In Easy Rider, he played a drunken Southern lawyer with a good heart, who hitched a ride with Dennis Hopper and Peter Fonda on their motorcycle trip. But in 1970, Nicholson took on a role that would propel him not only toward the Academy Awards, but to movie audiences again with his leading role in Five Easy Pieces.In Five Easy Pieces, Nicholson plays Robert Bobby Dupea, a man who's a oil rigger at day and a free-wheeler at night. He spends much of his time in the oil fields and goes in and out of motels and bowling alleys with friends at night. Earler in his life, he was a piano prodigy and was raised by his parents who admired piano-playing. But, times have change. Nowadays, Dupea works constantly, trying to make his life better by sticking to his job. His friends encourages him to live the good life. But, to Bobby's point of view, his words isn't getting him nowhere. His girlfriend, (Karen Black), does her best to keep him out of trouble, but her relationship with Bobby soon start to crumble as his lifestyle of free-wheeling grows too much for her to handle. One day, Dupea receives word from his mother that his father had suffered two strokes and as a result, can't talk nor walk anymore. Devastated, Bobby decides to take his girlfriend to Puget Sound, which is in British Columbia. Along the way, they pick up two lebsian hitchhikers, who joined them on their ride to Washington. Little while on, Bobby drops them off and continue on with his trip. Once Dupea gets to Puget Sound, he tries to make amends to his deserted family, but realizes that it might be too late.Nicholson gives, what I think, a stand-out performance. Here's a character who is very different from the other characters that he would portrayed in his later films. Dupea is a angry, young man who doesn't know what he wants out of life. Another thing to point about Nicholoson's character is the dedication of the blue-collar worker. The movie illustrates a certain time frame in America, where anguish and rebellion were common. Nicholson was the right actor to play this person. The director or even the screenwriters would've thought that by casting an younger actor into this picture might make the audience identify with this person.There's one classic scene that explains entirely the attitude of Nicholson's character. At a diner that is located on a interstate highway, Nicholoson tries to order a breakfast with a substitution. When he can't get what he wanted, he goes out of his way to get exactly what he wants. That scene, while it's classic in every way, tells us that this character is a man who will not obey the rules to society and will do whatever he wants to do. Even with Nicholoson playing out that scene with Karen Black and the two hitchhikers. I think it is clear that no other actor would've play out that scene if it wasn't for Nicholoson's anger. that's why I think he was one of the biggest emerging stars in Hollywood at that time. He is a actor that will do things differently and opposite and as soon as he changes the game, he can be satisfied with what he wants.Besides Nicholson, Karen Black does a terrific job, playing Nicholoson's dim-witted waitress girlfriend. For her character to work, she acts like an attachment to Dupea. She is sort of the glue that sticks and keeps together the relationship. But as the film progresses on, we sense early on that their relationship might not last for long. Even after watching this movie for the first time, I got a sense that the running theme of loneliness that applies directly toward the Karen Black's character. In the beginning of the movie, she is alone in her house while Bobby is working on the oil fields. In the end, she finds herself alone again, except that it would probably means that this will be the last time.For me, examining cinema has been a favorite of mine. Movies from the 70's were really about the 70's themselves. After seeing Five Easy Pieces, I knew that this movie would open up the gates of New Hollywood. because of that, new directors especially Bob Rafelson, who directed directed this movie, had the ability to direct what he wanted to see. I feel as if with the upcoming movies that came later in the 1970's, movie audiences were seeing flesh and blood characters being portrayed on the big screen. I might sound like the kind of guy that said that they make don't movies like this anymore, but in the case of Five Easy Pieces, that's an exception. ★★★★ 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Jack . . .","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1970, Jack Nicholson gave his single best performance in Five Easy Pieces. He plays Robert Eroica Dupea, Bobby for short, who works on an oil rig in California. He exists in a blue-collar town, drinking, bowling, screwing around. He has a girlfriend, Raynette (Karen Black), who drives him up a wall with constant chatter and a strange obsession with Tammy Wynette. We assume that we know him, but the best surprise from Five Easy Pieces is that we come to understand that neither we nor his friends really know him at all.Bobby comes from a wealthy family, all with musical abilities (his middle name comes from Beethoven's Third Symphony). He plays the piano with a certain amount of skill, but it was never good enough for his father. We learn that years ago he alienated himself from his family. That alienation has made him a ball of frustration. He doesn't relate to anyone, nor does anyone relate to him, not at work, not at the bowling alley and certainly not to the family members he left behind. He stands away from everyone else, he hides what is in his mind and in his heart. He lives a very lonely existence from which it seems there is no exit.His relationship with Raynette is hardly a relationship at all. She's sweet, gorgeous, fusses over her appearance and obsessively listens to Tammy Wynette songs like Stand By Your Man, which becomes a metaphor for her devotion to Bobby. She needs Bobby far more than he needs her and his approach to her is to consistently put her down. He keeps her in his life, it seems, to have someone over which to feel superior. He doesn't want to commit to Raynette and communicates so little with her that he finds out she's pregnant from a co-worker. Non-committal, he has sex with another woman, Betty (Sally Struthers) &#x96; not out of love but just to prove to himself that he's not in love with her.What we sense from Bobby is a feeling of pent up frustration. There is hardly a moment when he feels relaxed or at ease. We see in his eyes that he is always thinking about something else. The saddest thing is that here is a man barely into his thirties, already having regrets. No one really knows him. When his buddy Elton, from work, talks to him about the importance of family, Bobby unloads It's ridiculous. I'm sitting here listening to some cracker asshole, lives in a trailer park, compare his life to mine. At this point, we understand that we know nothing about him, and it opens the film's unexpected second half.The second half of Five Easy Pieces is almost alien from the first. Bobby is informed that he has to come back home because his father has had a stroke. He drives from California up to his family's home on the coast of Washington. He drags Raynette along with him and leaves her in the motel while he goes to visit. He hasn't seen his father or the rest of his family in some time. We sense that from the moment he walks in the door.We meet his brother Carl (Ralph Waite, who was soon to be the patriarch of The Waltons), who had an accident and can no longer play the violin. We meet his sister Partita (Lois Smith), who is in love with Spicer (John Ryan), her father's male nurse. We meet Catherine (Susan Anspach), who is Carl's girlfriend as well as his student. And in the center is Nicholas, their father whose stroke has rendered him catatonic.Bobby doesn't seem to belong amid this bunch any more than he fits in with the folks back home. He smiles a frustrated smile that hides a great deal. Raynette shows up in a cab and is polite to the family and the family seems to like her. Bobby doesn't really want her there but he explodes on a visiting intellectual snob who tries to put her down with words that she (correctly) assumes that Raynette doesn't know. Raynette's defense is to come back with a story about a cat that was run over in the road. For the first time, Bobby comes to her defense. You shouldn't even be in the same room with her, you pompous celibate. That statement doesn't come out of love for Raynette but an excuse to throw the woman's intellectual jackassery back in her face.Nicholson has a dozen moments like that in Five Easy Pieces. Just when we think we have him figured out, he turns on us. "},{"Title":"Emotionally raw","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All women know the protagonist of this film -- the guy who takes a woman to bed and withdraws as soon as she becomes attached and lets her more complicated feelings show.He is fine as long as she is compliant. Otherwise, he's trolling for the next woman to seduce. Though intelligent and gifted, he naively hopes that things will stay simple. They never do, so soon he's off again. No matter how many beers he downs, he never can escape himself.Bob Rafelson, who directed this fascinating film, has been quoted as saying Bobby (Jack Nicholson) is a guy who is out of touch with his emotions. This leaves Bobby squirmingly uncomfortable in life -- a rolling stone unable to gather any ally at any time. The final few frames of this film summarize this truth devastatingly. Turning in as strong a performance as Nicholson is Karen Black as the insecure Rayette. She's uneducated but smarter than Bobby in terms of what really counts in life -- love, and being able to stick things out through the rough spots. Bobby mistreats Rayette, withholding the gentle little things she craves (I love you). In the end, maybe Bobby saves her from herself.Bobby's not entirely dense. I move around a lot, he tells his stroke-muted father. Not because I'm looking for anything, really, but to get away from things that go bad if I stay.He's learning, I guess. But will he learn enough in time? "},{"Title":"The Ending Doesn't Make Sense to Me!","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched the film a few times already. The acting and writing are all high quality. Jack Nicholson did an excellent job in playing Bobby. You have to wonder by the end of the movie about what he is searching for in life. That is why the ending doesn't make sense to me. He comes from a wealthy talented musical family in Wasington. He works like a common man in the California oil fields. He has a girlfriend, Rayette, who is perfectly played by Karen Black. Nothing seems to make him happy at all. He just seems to keep running from life. This time, he had to confront his elderly ill father and his family. Still it is a great film that has you asking questions. "},{"Title":"No plot, no problem at all","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces...a movie with virtually zero plot. And I loved every second of it. No movie other than 'A Streetcar Named Desire' will keep an audience engaged for about two hours without a compelling plot. However, Five Easy Pieces pulls it off.Five Easy Pieces is a movie about behavior and attitudes. It is about the audience anticipating how Bobby (Jack Nicholson) will react and say to particular situations that are extremely familiar to just about everyone. He constantly kept me guessing. Sometimes he surprises you (how he defends his dizzy girlfriend from an elitist snob) and sometimes he does exactly what you think he will do (the diner scene).Essentially, a person could easily predict the ending of this movie within the first three minutes but that is hardly the point. The point is that this guy is disgusted with himself, hates his surroundings, and loathes all choices he has made in life but can't change his mindset or conduct. Why can't he change? Why did he act like that? What is he thinking? These are a few of the questions that you will be asking yourself during the film, and that is what's so compelling. "}{"Title":"A fantastically acted, multi-layered drama","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson is of course known as one of the best actors of his generations and one of the first films to show case his talents was the drama Five Easy Pieces, which earned him his first Oscar nomination.Bobby (Nicholson) is a talented pianist who is running from his past. He works as an oil rig worker with his friend Elton (Billy 'Green' Bush). He is mean spirited to his girlfriend, Rayette (Karen Black) and often cheats on her and puts her down, leading to her suffering depression. But when Bobby's sister, Partita (Lois Smith) tells him his father is very sick Bobby and Rayette go on a road trip northwards to Puget Sound in Washington State.Five Easy Pieces is a terrifically acted filled with fantastic performances throughout. Nicholson gives a great performance of someone who is faulted, selfish man, a complex character who is exhibits both good and bad elements. He is human and is longs to escape in the wide empty wilderness that America has to offer. Bobby pushes away all the people that love him as he embarks on a course of self-destruction. Black played a very sympathetic character in comparison and all the performances are natural and organic throughout.Stylistically and tonally Five Easy Pieces is similar to other films from the period, particularly Midnight Cowboy, Easy Driver and Taxi Driver. They all have a similar looks and they explore themes such as identity, isolation and class conflict. This is a film not set in a glamour parts of America, it is set in small industrial towns, travel diners and stark environments of deserts to wet woodlands. Even the house of Bobby's wealthy family was tight and cramped.Looking at director Bob Rafelson's filmography it is clear that Five Easy Pieces is his best film. He delivered a tight character driven story about a fault man with a quick 94 minute length. The pacing was perfect. There is a good cinematography as it shows off the landscapes or using hand-held cameras when needed.Five Easy Pieces works as a personal drama with a man falling up he his own selfishness and self-destruction, a film looking at family relationships and the differences with class and education, a man's attempting to escape and as a road movie exploring different parts and different elements of America. "},{"Title":"Not pleasant but very well written and acted.","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces is a very unusual film because the star (Jack Nicholson) plays an incredibly unlikable guy. Robert badly mistreats his girlfriend, Rayett (Karen Black), and cheats on her. She IS often annoying and slow, but he chose to live with her and spends much of his time making fun of or ignoring her. He's easily bored and prone to self-defeating and selfish behaviors because he's emotionally stunted--unable to really love anyone.This is also an unusual film because it doesn't have a traditional plot. Much of it spent just watching the man go through life. The main focus of the film, when it does occur, is Robert returning home to visit his family. The father is quite ill and it's obvious Robert does NOT want to visit and is only doing so out of obligation. But, guilted into this, he goes. There, you learn that the family is full of gifted musicians and intellectuals--and Robert is very ill-at-ease in this environment--and seeing these folks, it is understandable. They are about as unlike him as possible.If a psychotherapist watched this film and wanted to form a diagnosis of the two main characters, they would probably see Robert as a relatively high functioning antisocial personality (meaning, his violations of laws and norms are usually NOT the sort to get him imprisoned) and Rayette as a Dependent Personality. Dependents NEED someone to love them--even if that person is abusive and distant. Like a whipped dog, they wait and hope to get an occasional bone tossed their way in the form of a kind word here or there. And, they are quite sad to see. Because these two were done so realistically, you have to admire the writing of this film.Overall, a very well written film. In spots, it's VERY enjoyable (such as the famous diner scene) and in others, it's very painful. To carry it off, the actors (particularly Nicholson and Black) are at the top of their game. Also, the musical choices were wonderful. Playing all the low self-esteem Tammy Wynette songs (such as Stand By Your Man) seem to be perfect to describe Rayette's life. "},{"Title":"The ending is just another beginning.","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film, and his brief role in Easy Rider made Jack Nicholson an icon. Five Easy Pieces is one of the films that set the tone for what would be an incredible decade of movie making. Nicholson stars as a man named Bobby Dupea. In the film's first half hour, Dupea seems like a simpleton who works in the California oil fields, and then comes home and mistreats his girlfriend while downing beers. About a half hour into the film, something extraordinary happens. We learn there may be a lot more to Bobby Dupea, than just a typical blue-collar existence.During a traffic jam, either coming from or going to work (it isn't all that clear which), Nicholson's Dupea has the first of at least four substantial wig-outs. He hilariously gets out of his car and begins shouting at all the other motorists. The biggest laugh from this critic came when he barks right back in the face of a dog which is barking at him from one of the vehicles. Then, he notices a piano on the back of a flat bed truck. He jumps up there and begins furiously playing the instrument while stunned motorists cheer him on. The truck takes him off the interstate in a symbolic scene obviously made to show how Bobby Dupea is about to change directions in his life. We soon find out that Bobby comes from a classically trained family of musicians that he walked out on long ago. His sister informs him that their father is seriously ill, and against his better judgment, Bobby takes a road trip up to Washington to see him. Complicating matters is the fact that his Tammy Wynette wanna-be girlfriend is along for the ride, and Bobby has no desire to have his family meet her. After an odd fifteen minutes or so of plot transition involving lesbian hitchhikers, rude waitresses, and several arguments, Bobby finally reaches his family home. From there, the characters we meet get even STRANGER. It quickly becomes apparent that Bobby Dupea may have made a wise decision walking out on this odd group of people that make up his family. The last 45 or so minutes take place in his family's odd world, and Bobby Dupea tries to come to grips with not only them, but himself. The film's conclusion doesn't seem to show any great awakenings or catharsis for our protagonist. But it does tell us that he feels the need to start over in life yet again.The acting in this film is extraordinary. And not just from Nicholson. The cinematography is good as you might expect from Lazlo Kovaks. To the film's credit is the fact that its main character is such an unredeemable jerk, and we still care what happens to him. There is a good deal of sexual content, and that often adds to the angst of these characters. The film is almost like three short movies rolled up into one. The finished product is uneven, but unforgettable at the same time. Some people take years to discover themselves. Some people probably never really do. And some people don't even try to look. They just exist. At least Nicholson's Bobby Dupea is out there continuing to look. 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 1970s","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Five Easy Pieces is one of American cinema's essential character studies, a brilliant and fascinating look at the life of a young man who sometimes lashes out with a blinding rage at the world and the people who love and care for him.  The interesting expository construction of Nicholson's shift in occupation (concert pianist to oil rigger) adds to the level of interest I had in Bobby Dupea, and I was totally shattered during the sequence where Bobby talks to his ailing father.  The supporting performances by Karen Black and Lois Smith were outstanding.  This is an absolutely superb movie.   "},{"Title":"Generational drift","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A succinct, all-American film reminding me of Nicholson's extraordinary existential fantasy for Michelangelo Antonioni, Passenger. It's an often funny film, full of middle-class observational humour about class differences. Nicholson's Bobby is not immoral, not in the sense of a Meursault. He wants to do the right thing , but without subscribing to some prescribed idea of it. Redemption is offered as the main dramatic thrust of the film, a visit to his family home on news of his father's ill-health. He finds himself bouncing between the two poles of his life the puffed-up, pontificating haut-bourgeoisie and and the hand-to-mouth ignorance of the working class. The weight of this post-Easy Rider counter-culturalism is in Nicholson's performance which is neither monstrous nor pitiful; always human & sympathetic but never generic. In support is a fine cast, including Karen Black's likable-ditsy diner busgirl Rayette. A movie that should gain from further viewing. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Change In Values","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When a story focuses on characters instead of plot, there's usually some underlying theme or message about human values. Bobby (Jack Nicholson) has left behind his talent of playing classical music to become an oil field worker. In so doing, he has hooked up with a young woman, played by Karen Black, who likes country/western music, and could best be described as a trailer park airhead. When Bobby returns to his family roots, he must confront relatives who still cling to their heritage of classical music and intellectual culture. Bobby has changed. His family has not.Five Easy Pieces has a low-budget, naturalistic look and feel. Outdoor scenes were filmed in the California oil fields and in the cold Pacific Northwest. Interior sets are homey. The film's color cinematography, by Laszlo Kovacs, is terrific, and arguably the best element of the film. It conveys a gloomy, moody, melancholy tone, consistent with the script's deep existential themes. Music oscillates between country/western and classical. There is no score.Jack Nicholson gives a fine performance. He isn't annoyingly overbearing as in later roles. Karen Black tries really hard, but is miscast. I could have done without Billy Green Bush, as Elton, Bobby's oil field friend, with that gimmicky deep laugh. Arguably, the best performance was from Lois Smith, as Bobby's piano playing sister. The Palm Apodaca character, who goes on and on about environmental crap, but doesn't want to talk about it, is a hoot.Low-key and very low-budget, Five Easy Pieces is a film about shifting human values and a restless spirit. Some subtle dark humor and an occasional jab at stuffy intellectualism are interspersed throughout. Mostly, the film is a character study about a man who has changed over time, and the effects that those changes have on those around him. "},{"Title":"A Fine Character Study","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson delivers a wonderful performance -- back when he was still playing characters other than Jack Nicholson -- in this well done but awfully gloomy film from Bob Rafelson.Nicholson plays Bobby Dupea, a worker on an oil rig with decidedly anti-social tendencies, who returns home to make peace with his dying father. Once there, he's confronted with the cushy, privileged life he left behind, and we learn that he turned away from a promising career as a concert pianist.What I like most about Five Easy Pieces is its ambivalence toward its main character. The film does not try to turn Bobby into some sort of noble hero, who shuns the establishment in order to uphold his own principles. He seems much more like a spoiled rich kid who can afford to be a slacker because he's never lived without a safety net. He fails to pursue a musical career, but more because he's lazy than because of anything that career would represent for him. And his treatment of his girlfriend, played heart breakingly by Karen Black in one of her many fascinating performances, is unnecessarily cruel. She's so dumbly loyal that mistreating her is the equivalent of mistreating a dog.But still, Nicholson is able to make us like Bobby, and to understand at some level where his anti-social behavior comes from. He is unable to tolerate the arbitrary rules and restrictions of bourgeois life, and a famous scene in a diner when he tries to order a tuna fish sandwich with toasted bread and ends up in a complicated argument with the waitress provides just one illustration of how Bobby perceives the world from which he is running.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Nice Fine Art","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     I think this movie is best analyzed around fine and especially the classical musician.    This movie was great in that in helped clear up reasoning of a dilemna of the great master musicians such as Chopin. You as the composer are alone in your music and it is your own. However to be remembered after your death, others must perform your music. Like a wanderer, the future musician is yet to be born and yet being thought of while the music is being composed. The musician is to carried along hitching rides on Chopin's trip-cared for. Or is Chopin hitching the rides? Is he catching the rides of the future musicians playing his music? This movie helps analyze these questions.   The subtile symbolism in the movie is well done as well. Lumber truck-> Piano wood.. Oil Rig-> oiled wood.. The wood (and oil) is being used-on a trip too with the music.      I feel that Nicholson's character in this movie, almost like a whore of the pimp music and it made him feel bound and enslaved. On the other hand, this was what the character was also like this.. kind of an adventuresome type and yet living in respect for the (classical) music, thus allowing it to guide him. The character seemed to be enjoying his life and seemed to feel as though he had control over the music. This was what was good about this movie. Perhaps if the character tried writing his own music it would help in analyzing Chopin?     It's an interesting movie..and very thought provoking. If you appreciate fine art, then this movie is worth viewing. "},{"Title":"a great exestentialist film","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the beginning of the film I assumed that it would be a typical film about a blue collar guy. Jack Nicholson's character plays an unhappy man working at an oil rig. About halfway through the film when we see shot of Jack's father's house, we are shocked. Why? His father practically lives in a mansion. In other words, the main character works at an oil rig because he chooses to, not because he can't do anything better with his life. This is when the film got my attention.Robert Dupea (the main character) is a man looking for an answer to the questions that plague all of us. Why am I here? What's the meaning of life? Rob finds no answers with his rich family. But also, when he leaves that family, he still finds no meaning.People looking for the typical contrived cliches found in movies, such as a likeable main character and a happy ending should avoid this film but if you're looking for an interesting philisophical film then pick this up at the video store.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of emptiness","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ask me about my fave movie of all time, and I will give you this one... Although it is obvious that writers Carol Eastman and Rafelson had Bergman's Wild Strawberries in mind, the movie still holds it own as a brilliant examination of a man who is journeying through life without really knowing what he is looking for. Nicholson is in top form as the ultimate (yikes) Generation X man, someone who could have been a contender but doesn't give a toss without really knowing why. Besides being extremely funny at times (take the legendary diner scene), it also touches universal subjects such as the (in)ability to love and open up in a relationship and dealing with overbearing parents and well-meaning but befuddled siblings. It's about walking the road less travelled by, marching to your own beat. Most recommended to anyone pushing 30, or simply anyone who feels trapped in the world and cannot find satisfactory ways to break out.... A masterpiece! "}{"Title":"Story of a man who rejects anyone who loves him for no reason","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Karen Black is great in this film and well-deserving of The Best Supporting Actress Oscar.  She steals the film from her moody and brooding co-star, Jack Nicholson.  Put it this way subtract Black from the film and you don't have a film worth watching.  The story would have been better if the film had told us why Nicholson rejected his family and his musical gifts.  Why does he hate everyone that loves him?  He doesn't love himself.  Why?  Why should we sympathize with this man?  He has a great girlfriend, a rich family that cares for him, and tremendous natural gifts to play the piano. The last scene in the movie is one of the most pathetic scenes ever filmed. Someone needs to slap Jack and tell him to wake up!! Please!!! "},{"Title":"Adolescent","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Five Easy Pieces' is basically a youth movie.  Jack Nicholson plays a young man who leaves his cultured home to work on oilrigs in Texas.  He is crude and lives his life around getting drunk and picking up dippy young girls, (well played by Sally Struthers).  He lives with Rayette, an uneducated waitress, who he mistreats.  He mistreats most people in this movie relying on his charm to get through life.   He makes fun of his brother, Carl, and has sex with his fiancé.   I did not like the character of Robert Dupea.   He used people then abandoned them when things got too serious.  He could not accept any responsibility and looked for the easy way to live life.  That is why it was a youth movie.  It had this adolescent view of life.  His family was portrayed as pompous creatures and his contempt for Rayette was obvious.  Rayette, wonderfully played by Karen Black, was the most honest person in the movie but she was an object of derision because she was uneducated.  Robert's treatment of her was contemptible.  Robert cared for no one but Robert.  Did he leave home to find himself?  The self he found was crude and self-centered and was probably the cause of his disillusionment.  His meaningful mirror gazing was more self-loathing than anything.  He really needed to grow up  "},{"Title":"Outside the Body","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I revisit certain movies because though poor films, they have some extraordinary element. This has two, folded into one.The most obvious is Jack. This is how young Nicholson acts when he is unconstrained. More precisely, this is the fullness of his acting style when he has it on his own terms. Jack's talent is that he understands the envelope of stage self, and how to place his presence in relationship to that shell. Sometimes he is inside, doing his `internal' acting bit, similar to what most others do. But once in a while, he shifts to an external presence where his being is mostly outside his skin. We usually notice this when he is energetic or right after he has performed one of his violent shifts between inside and out. The only other actor I know who does this is Toshiro Mifune, someone known for the agility of this move, but he always signals the switch. Jack doesn't; in fact he more often sneaks into this external mode after convincing us that such shifts are always violent. The result is extraordinarily offputting and effective because we can never be sure who is watching who.The master of this (performance-perspective) shifting trick is Chopin, who is the real star of this project. Chopin developed this notion of imagination-then-performance mapped to and inside-versus-outside the vehicle. In Chopin's case, it is a matter of creating a supposed focus in the tune, how it begins a direction and then unexpectedly doubles back, or comments on itself, or goes in a completely unexpected apparently unrelated direction - all this much like Garrison Keillor's storytelling. That's the disguise, because while you are paying attention to that, he has designed the music in such a way that the performer (if so skilled) can subtly shift outside the music by a technique of rubato, which is a parallel thread of moving `in' and `out' of the being of the piece.Strictly speaking, rubato is a matter of moving slightly before and after the beat independent of the phrasing. Its a metaphysical contact with the listener that can be life-altering, especially if the same performer has diverted your attention elsewhere. Rubinstein was this sort of master performer of Chopin. The central element of this story is a Chopin piece played by `Bobby!' Ostensibly he is playing the `easiest' one he knows as if he were eight. The listener is impressed with the `feeling' that Bobby claims isn't there. (Bergman's later `Autumn Sonota' does the reverse, also with Chopin.)It is a remarkable construction to so fold the story. It is about the dual modes of Chopin, presented by Jack using those two modes as precisely as performing as Playing a role can map to playing a piece. Even the bit about the chicken sandwich is about this.To see how this can be exploited by a director who actually understands the phenomenon, watch what Sean Penn does with Jack in `The Pledge.'Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Family Matters.","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is all about a man named Robert venturing out on his own and becoming an independent person. He defies what his parents want him to do and becomes a successful person. Once he discovers that his father is very sick, he decides to go back to his family with his girlfriend and try to fix the relationship that he had with them. They quickly discover that it isn't as easy as they thought it would be. He must deal with his struggles from his past while focusing on the current situation that is going on. The audience feels nothing but hope and optimism for him that he'll be able to fix things with his family and help his father in any way that he can. "},{"Title":"HVCC Student Yuchen Bai Review","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An effective, emotionally ravaging story concerning a drifter who runs away from his problems and picks up every odd job he can find. Nicholson has that magnetic quality that few actors possess so well, and his strong, utterly superb performance drives this film all the way through. Although it does bog down from time to time, director Bob Rafelson displays his mastery of the art of subtlety, using this for most of the film, before nailing his most important scenes with sudden outbursts from his characters that catch you off guard. Nicholson's character is definitely flawed, and he's a time-bomb ready to explode at any moment, but his mysterious character always keeps you glued to your seat, and the end of the film is just perfect beyond words. "},{"Title":"Jack Nicholson's Personas Pianist and Oil Rig Worker","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The character of Robert Bobby Dupea, performed brilliantly by Jack Nicholson, is the focus of this movie. Dupea is a character at a point in his life where he does not fit into either of two separate worlds, one is a world where he is free and the other where he is tied to his family's life of isolation, tradition and detachment. He was born with all the advantages others would envy, which he rejects for a life that his family no doubt feels is beneath his level.When the show opens Bobby is living and working in an oil drilling region in Southern California. His partner is a café server named Rayette, performed by Karen Black. In that world, he hangs out with co-workers Elton and his family, where they booze, attend wild parties, go bowling and watch television. It's not a life that Bobby was born into but he can have fun with the women he seems to easily attract and not be tied down to the rigid life he knew growing up in a family of music artists. Bobby takes out his frustration on Rayette, who represents all the blue collar boredom he resents in his adopted life away from his own buttoned-up family. They have a rocky relationship in a small house where Rayette listens to country music, probably the last thing Bobby wants to listen to. When he meets up with his sister in Los Angeles, he finds out that his father has suffered two stokes. Partita, the sister, tells him to go home for a final visit.The movie then switches to an island in Puget Sound, near Seattle, where his family of professional musicians resides. His sister Partita, an accomplished pianist, lives there with the ailing father and brother Carl, played by Ralph Waite, a pleasant enough man but very stiff in the horse collar he has to wear as the result of an accident that has curtailed his career as a violinist. The whole family is stiff by Bobby's standards with the exception of his brother's fiancée Catherine, played by Susan Anspatch. Catherine is a free spirit like Bobby, who is not totally at ease in the family's isolated world in Puget Sound. Bobby charms her when he shows his talent on the piano, playing Chopin. His family's island home is presented as a dark, damp, dreary place in the movie, which fits the mood. People living here must take a ferry to the mainland. When Rayette is here, she is like a fish out of water. A telling scene near the end with a group of family friends brings her discomfort into focus; in this encounter, Bobby shows his devotion to Raylene but the ending shows Bobby is not ready to find a direction to his life. This is a powerful movie about family, freedom, social class, and trying to find purpose in life. "},{"Title":"A waste of two hours","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For the life of me I can't understand what all the raving is about this movie. One of the greatest movies ever made, Excellent story. BLAH! The movie started out interesting but then became mired in meaningless conversations. I thought that Jack Nicholson was poorly chosen for this role. His usual character is strong and bold, in this movie he is confused and wandering and in my opinion he does not play it well. Ralph Waite is wasted as a dithering, unassuming husband that acts as if he must have his wife's approval for seemingly everything. All in all a real mish-mash of a movie that just winds to a very unsatisfying ending. Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was different from most of the films that I usually watch and I really did enjoy it. Mostly because of the unmatched acting that Jack Nicholson does. I have seen plenty of his films and I struggle to think of one in which I thought he was less than amazing. The supporting cast was also phenomenal, making this easy to watch and follow along with. I was not overly thrilled with the choices of music however, but that is something I will gladly overlook. The movie is about rebellion from the normality of society. It is almost impossible to tell that this film has a relatively small budget because of the sheer quality. Something that I found to be interesting is that Bobby (Nicholson) doesn't fit in with any specific type of social group, that he is truly independent. The editing has some rough parts, but for the most part is was average, if not slightly above average. This has gone down as an American classic and you will not struggle to see why. "},{"Title":"An Affecting Human-Drama!","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Rafelson's 'Five Easy Pieces' is An Affecting Human-Drama, that is also a character study of a man lost in the ruins of old America. Its an unsettling tale, made admirably & efficiently.'Five Easy Pieces' Synopsis A drop-out from upper-class America picks up work along the way on oil-rigs when his life isn't spent in a squalid succession of bars, motels, and other points of interest.'Five Easy Pieces' explores its protagonist, Robert Dupea's journey. Played by Jack Nicolson, Bob's motives & ambiguousness is effectively projected in this dramatic film. You follow the unlikely protagonist in his difficult journey, that is also a commentary on those who lost to the Great American Dream. The flaw, however, lies in its slow-pacing. The narrative is never dull, but the pace is often slow & lethargic. A faster pace would've only enhanced the impact, in my opinion.Rafelson's Direction is captivating. Cinematography is first-class. Editing isn't sharp enough. Performance-Wise Nicolson delivers an engrossing turn as Bob, enacting the hard-to-love protagonist, with proper understanding. The Late/Great Karen Black is the show-stopper, though. As Nicholson's innocent yet oblivious girlfriend, Black is haunting in her portrayal.On the whole, 'Five Easy Pieces' caters to a niche audience, primarily, the pseudo intellectuals. But its still worth a recommendation. "},{"Title":"Some iconic moments","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All was not easy with the relationship of Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn. There's a famous story that Tracy made a crack about Hepburn's whole family saying that they all talked like they had a feather up the old booty. I can only imagine that Karen Black must have thought that about Jack Nicholson's family in Five Easy Pieces.Nicholson's an oil worker and Black is a waitress with whom he's co- habitating and who he's gotten pregnant. What Black doesn't know is that Nicholson comes from an artistic family and is a classically trained pianist. That he'd doing all kinds of blue collar type work like oil rigs is part of his rebellion against his pretentious family.What Nicholson does in Five Easy Pieces is make an essentially unlikeable character interesting and entertaining. His family is as pretentious as the Hepburns, but he's not really any better. But dint and force of the personality that we've come to know and expect from Jack Nicholson he lifts Five Easy Pieces into Oscar category. He got one of his many nominations for Best Actor, the film was nominated for Best Picture and Karen Black who got her innings in was nominated for Best Supporting Actress.A couple of really iconic Nicholson moments occur here with Nicholson playing a piano on top of a truck hauling said piano through traffic. Also a scene in a coffee shop when he can't have it his way with the meal. But for him Five Easy Pieces is more than fodder for impressionists doing Jack Nicholson. His scene with his father William Challee who is wheelchair bound and speechless reveals a vulnerable Nicholson rarely seen afterward on the big screen.If Five Easy Pieces touches greatness as a film it's all due to Jack Nicholson. "}{"Title":"Jack Nicholson is a star","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bobby Dupea (Jack Nicholson) abandoned his concert pianist career. He is working in a California oil field having fun with his emotional waitress girlfriend Rayette (Karen Black). He also likes to party with his low class best friend Elton (Billy Green Bush). Elton is arrested for a gas station robbery a year earlier. Bobby goes to LA to see his sister Partita (Lois Smith). She tells him that their father is ill. Bobby goes to see his father in Washington State and reluctantly takes Rayette along. They pick up a couple hitchhikers.There is a real rambling quality to this which is fitting for the aimless Bobby Dupea. This is simply a great showcase of Jack Nicholson's power of personality. He just takes over every scene. He is truly a movie star. The movie isn't much more than that but that's plenty enough. The diner scene is one of the most iconic scenes of the era and Nicholson makes it by the simple power of his voice. "},{"Title":"Character study of a lost soul in post-revolution 1970","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces (1970) is a well-known drama about Robert Dupea (Jack Nicholson) who leaves behind his high society upbringing in preference to being a drifter, working on oil fields and so on. When he catches word of his dad's recent illness he drives up to Washington, reluctantly with his bimbo girlfriend, Rayette (Karen Black). While there he has a fling with his brother's babe (Susan Anspach).Although the story is somewhat meandering and contains a few less-than-noble characters, this is a well-done character study of a confused soul who doesn't know what he wants. He sees the pomposity, illusion and pressure that goes with upper-class culture and seeks liberation in the more common, which doesn't wholly inspire him. He has temper tantrums, cheats on his girlfriend, and is basically a problem waiting to happen, although he's not entirely without respectable or likable qualities.I think the film struck a chord at the time because Robert's plight in the story represented the dilemma of many people after the counter-culture revolution of the 60s. As a society, we threw off the restraints of conventional morality and education to basically have a wild party. But what do you do when the party's over and you're hung over? The chicken salad scene is infamous and there are quite a few other memorable scenes, like the ultra-cynical hitchhiker with her female pal (Toni Basil). Some characters are intentionally over-the-top, like the overbearing wannabe intellectual at the Dupea residence, but this was done to be amusing. Despite the exaggerations, the characters ring true.If you like Susan Anspach here be sure to check her out in 1988's The Legend of Wolf Lodge (aka Into the Fire) where she plays a scary housewife who thinks she's hotter than she actually is (see my review), which isn't to say that Susan's not attractive as Catherine in this movie because she definitely is. She has a unique look and intriguing personality. Too bad she shows signs of being a trollop but, then again, it was 1970 and, besides, she felt guilty about her behavior.Someone said Five Easy Pieces is a film you'll enjoy more as you get older and that's the case with me. The first couple of times I viewed it I found it mildly absorbing but was ultimately unimpressed. I didn't get the hype. I saw it for the third time last night and felt it was much better than I remembered. You'll appreciate it more too if you're fairly mature, don't have ADHD, and you understand that it's not a conventional drama with typical contrivances and a charming protagonist. Rather, it's a slice-of-life drama focusing on a confused and sometimes childish individual who isn't always likable. It's equal parts fascinating, insightful, amusing, meandering and pointless.The film runs 98 minutes and was shot in California, Oregon, Washington, British Columbia and Illinois.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a very enjoyable work in my opinion. Jack Nicholson plays an angry and frustrated man whose life growing up in a wealthy and intelligent family of musicians does not prepare him to cope with the realities outside of home.The viewer truly gets a sense of this characters rage as Nicholson's superb acting shines through.In my opinion, his chameleon style acting adds a certain quality to the film, where Nicholson has a very noticeable presence on screen.I would highly recommend this film to anyone interested in Nicholson and great cinema in general. "},{"Title":"Tumbling Tumbleweed","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the film that moved Nicholson from the B-list of actors to the A-list, and is likely his best performance. It's not really a counter-culture movie, though it was made during that period (1970). Bobby (Nicholson) is not looking to connect with the anti-establishment or anti-war movement, even if by rejecting his upper-class upbringing, he does appear anti- establishment. Rather, I see the movie as a statement about one man, too intense and alienated to be comfortable anywhere. Thus he bounces from one milieu to another, not happy anywhere, and probably not liking himself much either. His brother's girl Catherine (Anspach) spots these flaws, which is why she refuses his overtures. Thus, he appears to be on a one- way trip to nowhere, abandoning poor Rayette at a truck stop, even though she likely carries his child (it's not made clear). Bobby is certainly one of the least sympathetic male leads of that period or any period.The screenplay is excellent, with truly unusual characters and storyline. Nicholson's fiery intensity comes across as unforced, defining the temperamental Bobby in compelling fashion. At the same time Karen Black's pathetically vulnerable Rayette lends the movie the kind of heart it needs from becoming too sour.The movie reminds me a bit of 1946's The Razor's Edge. There Larry Darrell (Tyrone Power) leaves his upper-class family for a taste of working-class life, which turns into a conscious pursuit of spiritual wisdom. In Easy Pieces, however, Bobby has no conscious pursuit, having no real understanding of himself or his desires. Most importantly, Bobby gets no help from the one figure who could provide him with insight, namely his mutely stricken father. Instead, the world appears to stare indifferently back at him through his father's unblinking eyes, unlike Darrell who eventually gets spiritual wisdom from a Tibetan High Lama. Perhaps the move toward a personal nihilism marks a key difference between movies of the 40's and those of the less restrictive 1960's.Anyway, it's a highly unusual movie, well done in every department and not to be missed, despite the downbeat tone. "},{"Title":"Unique Character Study.","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Rafelson directs this unique character study of Robert Dupea(Jack Nicholson, superb and complex performance) who is a gifted pianist who nonetheless works in an oil field with his troubled friend. After they get into legal trouble, they lose their jobs, but Robert is then called back to the Washington home of his dying father, where he must confront the family he left behind, and try to deal with the simmering emotions lying underneath. He also brings with him his girlfriend(Karen Black) who tries to fit in with his intelligent but troubled family.Episodic but effective film has many memorable scenes(the diner, the hitch-hikers, the piano on the truck, etc.) A solid and thought-provoking script(with haunting ending) makes this film stand out, though it does keep the viewer at arms length emotionally, reflecting the conflicted nature of the main character, whose fate you may ponder long after the film ends. "},{"Title":"Definition of the worlds most irresponsible man","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is so messed up in so many ways. Robert obviously does not have his life together and is ashamed or embarrassed of where he's at. When things start to get stressful Robert clearly buckles under the pressure. When he finds out that his best friend had been arrested and that his girlfriend, Rayette, is pregnant he quit his job and left for Los Angeles to seek out his sister Partita. It's already bad enough that Robert would just impulsively leave his job and his pregnant girlfriend but he makes it even worse when he decides to go visit his sickly father and is embarrassed to bring Rayette with him. He even makes her stay at a hotel while he goes over to his fathers and from there he gets himself into an even bigger mess. He meets Catherine who is engaged to his brother and becomes attracted to her where they eventually make love. Robert just seems to dig himself into a bigger ditch as the story goes on but the worst part about it is that in the end when he and Rayette are on their way back home he abandons her at a gas station and hitch hikes on a truck to god only knows where. Overall the movie was funny but if you really think about it it's really twisted and this guy is irresponsible and heartless. "},{"Title":"Opposite Oppositions","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those studies that has a character that is a character and is not easy to warm up to. His inability to fit in anywhere is where all the angst originates. Try as he may, there is just no place for him in a world of expectations and unyielding conformity.This is Jack Nicholson's film, no doubt, but the people caught in his whirlwind world are all just as intriguing. It is these folks, all are interesting and provocative, that give us the atmosphere of atrophy that he so desperately denies and is as much at odds with himself as his environs.The look of the film is engaging and the dueling soundtrack of Classical and Country gives the feel of uneasy pieces of culture that are at constant odds. A disharmony as such. Also at opposites are the women in his life that come from bowling alleys and concert halls. It is a film of opposites and the most opposite is a man's search from opposing ends of the human condition.It is a powerful picture, a film about polarization, with some gut-wrenching realism's and some light hearted touches. It is not an easy watch, because our main character is not easy in his own skin. He comes across mostly as a heel, but there are many signs of a warmth beneath the exterior. However the humanity is forever buried beneath unable to emerge, constantly being pressured by extraneous forces of people and place. Wherever he moves he will undoubtedly be the same frustrated person unable to settle in the unsuitable terrain that is wherever he is. "},{"Title":"It was funny and good","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I liked this movie, I thought I wouldn't and it surprised me. The interesting angles and perspectives are my favorite. I thought the diner scene was so funny, but yet very real. The waitress and the man seem to be alike thats why they butt heads when he was ordering his meal. I think that they were both strong willed and both unpredictable characters. The car scene where the woman and the man are on the road , you can see the road going on and going just continuing, but you just don't know where. It relates to the two characters relationship, the two seem to be feeling opposite of each other and they seem to be going no where with their relationship. The angles switch up starts off straight, zoomed all the way in and then goes to be zoomed all the way out with the angle seemly to be crocked. You can tell the emotions without any words being said, you know the man is going through some sort of emotional problem in his head just the way he is looking at himself in the mirror, great perspective showing his whole body outside the mirror, as well as showing him in the mirror to see expressions. "},{"Title":"Iconic, tragic but relatable.","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Five Easy Pieces' is a complex, masterpiece starring Jack Nicholson. It is a film set in 1970s America where people were striving for something more. They had hopes and dreams. Like 'Of mice and men', 'On the Road', the characters were looking for that 'something.' Nicholson's character, Robert Dupea, however, running away from his hopes and dreams. The expectations of his father when Dupea was a child is highlighted through the movie but is stressed more when Dupea talks to his father near the end of the movie. Dupea obviously didn't want to become a musician and can't see the fact that he is a talented, natural pianist, 'We both know that I was never really that good at it, anyway.'Whereas his father did want him to become one.He also admits that he 'travels around a lot' because he is 'getting away from bad things'. As well as the dreams of Dupea, his girlfriend Dipesto wants to be a singer. She thinks she is really good at it, but in fact she isn't. Dipesto reminded me of the formidable character in Steinbeck's 'Of Mice and Men', Curley's wife. She wanted to become a actress and was led to believe she could become one yet the reader knew that her talents were not good enough. The constant struggle that you go through when watching this film is, who is Bobby Dupea? What does he want? What is he doing? Dupea seems unemotional at the beginning of the film. He is unemotional to his stupid girlfriend (who is frankly quite annoying in most parts of the film) and always in a bad mood. Yet, when he meets Catherine, he immediately seems to have chemistry with her. He tells her near the end of the film that he loves her but she tells him she can't be with him because of the fact that 'does not love himself or anything at all and thus should not expect love in return'. This is harsh but true. Nicholson portrayal of Dupea is inspiring and truly amazing. I am surprised he didn't win that Oscar for it. But fortunately, soon after he does for 'One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest'. A truly stunning film. If you don't watch this film in you're lifetime, you will, I promise you, regret it. "},{"Title":"My point of view.","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert quit a career in music and left his home to live as a simple worker, a simple life. The movie starts with everyday's life, and ordinary hard working people's problems. Robert was compromised to be with a good girl that wasn't filling any void inside of him though. It wasn't her fault since Rayette was a lovely character, not so bright or educated but kind hearted, in contrast with Robert who had serious issues.When things went wrong with his friend, he also learned about his dad being seriously ill. He tried to hold back his girlfriend from following him, and that's the first key point of the movie. She came along with him and during the trip they gave a lift to two weird women.The second key point was the words of one of the women, about dirt and filth. If you will forget those words, you might get disappointed by the ending of the movie. If you keep that in mind, everything goes normally.For a second time he avoids taking Rayette with him. Maybe because he knew that the root of all of his problems was lying there. Seems like Robert disrespects women, but he honestly knows who is wrong and who isn't. Its his fault. He finally arrives at the house. He sees his father, the father, after two strokes is almost 100% numb, unable to speak. He can only move some muscles on his face and not always. Robert's reaction, when he saw his father assured me about lots of things.He was in a house, extremely disciplined, obsessed with music. It was the boring prison of his pressing and submissive father, his father made him lose the music inside him, because music shouldn't become a jail of discipline and high hopes of somebody else. We can also see that, when Robert speaks about anything but classical music and his brother tries to protect his wife from this bad affection. And it was the only enjoyable moment in the house. His brother was full of sarcasm, like Robert was the black sheep of the family. His brother's wife also asked him how he was bored when he was a child. She was doing lots of things and she was there for about two months. When he answered that he was doing nothing (because of his submissive dad) it was a revelation about what Robert was. He made sex with his brother's wife, in order to set her free, he liked her. She was filling the void, but she didn't wanted him, because she could see through. He had no love, as she said, for anyone or anything. He had no music inside him.While leaving with Rayette to head back to their ordinary life, which he hated because it was also a bad routine for him, he stopped at a gas station, went to restrooms, and took a look at himself. Before that Rayette was singing, trying to cheer him up. He had no music inside him. He treated her badly once again.He realised what was the problem. What he was hating most could be himself, for making things wrong wherever he was going. He left her and everything else to start a new life or maybe to isolate himself. He realised that he was keeping his father inside him for so many years, that he was mentally damaged. A very well directed film, an interesting drama. The movie was incredible i guess since it was released at 1970. Well directed, nice actors and if you have ever freely played an instrument, the movie can touch you deeper. "}{"Title":"Should I stay or should I go?","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bobby Dupea (Jack Nicholson) has run away from his promising upscale past living on an idyllic Northwest island as part of a talented family of musicians to work the oil fields of Texas and take up with the trailer park set. Shacking up with a dense waitress (Karen Black) he can neither cope or commit himself to the relationship but given the state of funk he's in lacks the energy to leave or desire to fit in to either world. When he reconnects with his sister he finds out his father is near death and decides to travel back home to say goodbye. Taking girlfriend Rayette along for the ride he deposits her in a motel to wait for him for a couple of days while he continues on to the island. Once on the island though he becomes smitten with his brother's protégé bride to be and two days become two weeks resulting in Rayette's unannounced and indelicate arrival at the snobbish compound.Five Easy Pieces is a morose exploration of a man's search for identity during the seismic cultural shift that began in the sixties. Society was changing at a rapid pace and the goals of wealth position and power as a barometer of successful existence were being called into question by a good chunk of the younger generation and Pieces in a somberly glum mood addresses the topic eloquently. Nicholson's naturalistic acting style is a perfect fit for anti-hero Bobby. Frustrated, spoiled, self absorbed, lost, Bobby's abrasive sometimes childish behavior wards off sympathy with a callous ambiguity that can be both tender and cruel in a flash. At the heart of it he's a confused kid but Nicholson's sardonic style forces the viewer to keep their distance allowing the film to fluidly maintain it's bleak amoral mood.Given the film's lugubrious content it is left up to director Bob Raefelson's free wheeling style to give form and energy to Dupea's torpid and cynical existence and he does so with aplomb. In nearly every scene Raefelson applies the right amount of melancholy and humor slyly fleshing out other characters through revealing composition and terse dialog while checker boarding and jump cutting somber and energized scenes bringing to each a unique tension without lingering. Laslo Kovacs cinematography is virtuoso without being self indulgent. There are both compelling exposition and crammed interiors shots that inform and establish without calling attention to itself along with some very effective but limited hand held and tracking shots pertinent to the prevailing atmosphere. The supporting cast led by Black's Rayette, Billy Bush Green and Lois Smith is outstanding with special mention to some scene stealing moments by Helena Kalliontios as a neurotic environmentalist.Five Easy Pieces is one of the many excellent works that contributed to American Film's last golden age when the play was the thing, speaking to an age of discontent and confusion with ignoble and flawed characters trying to sort out the American Dream on their terms. The content wasn't always pretty but it had a firm grip on reality and unlike films of today had the ability to remain unpredictable well beyond the first reel. "},{"Title":"class conflicts","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert comes from a upper class family, is very educated, and would normally be seen as someone who would make something of themselves. In Roberts case he becomes a drifter working on oil rigs and hanging out with middle class people and creating a middle class life for himself. He must return home when his father becomes ill and you can see a clash between his family and Roberts new life with his girlfriend. They do not fit in well and Robert stops discussions because he feels they are inappropriate. The title of this film really intrigued me and the answers I found are still debated upon. The title can refer to the 5 pieces of classical music played in the film (Chopin - Fantasy in F Minor Op.49, Bach - Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue, Mozart - E flat Major Concerto K.271, Chopin - Prelude in E Minor Opus 28 no. 4, Mozart - Fantasy in D Minor K.397) even though 2 are diagetic sounds. Other interpretations feel that the 3 women he fooled around with are 3 easy pieces and the 2 pieces of music he played total the 5 easy pieces. I loved this movie and loved how it illustrates class conflict. "},{"Title":"five easy pieces","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a different side of Jack Nickelson that I haven't seen before. What I like about Jack Nickelson is that most actors that audiences see are big and buff with great looks. I like that Jack Nickelson doesn't exactly fit that description. He kinda looks like an everyday guy, and I think the audience can better relate to him that way. It's weird cause I'm so used to seeing Nickelson when he is much older, so when I see him in this movie I have to get used to him looking much younger. Jack Nickelson is a great actor in this movie. The character that he has to portray doesn't seem like an easy task, but Nickelson did a great job. The story is definitely different from what I'm used to. The story also briefly talked about issues of the 60s as well. When the hitch hikers came into the story and how the one woman kept complaining about the government, I thought of another 60s movie. There seems to be a theme with movies in the new Hollywood era. That is I love the endings of them. I loved how Nickelson left his girlfriend the car, with a full tank of gas, and went back home to be with the girl he was meant to be with, and then the credits appeared. I didn't expect for the story to end there, but I think it's cool how it did. I like how the truck drives away and the audience knows what Nickelson is going to do, but the movie doesn't actually show it. "},{"Title":"the bitter end of the 1960s","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not many films coming out of the 1960s were able to sum up the age with as much insight and skill, although when seen today this introspective character study looks more than ever like a period artifact. The fashions are dated (note Jack Nicholson's colorful wardrobe); the anti-establishment anger (at traffic, billboards, waitresses who won't make exceptions to the menu, etc.) is now almost quaint; but the strength of Bob Rafelson's direction is still fresh and invigorating, even more so when compared to the big screen marketing and merchandising campaigns being sold as motion pictures these days. The film reflects a moment of transition in American movie-making, looking backward to a decade of experimentation and forward toward the disillusioned, downbeat, post-Watergate '70s, with Jack Nicholson, in one of his definitive early roles, playing the vagabond black sheep in a family of classical musicians, blessed with talent but not with the emotion to interpret it. The character could almost be an emblem of his generation moody, dissatisfied, inarticulate, and restless, and his search for some avenue of escape from responsibility, whether in the trailer home society of the Southwest or at his family estate on the rain-swept Northwest frontier, refined the rebellion expressed in films like 'Easy Rider' to a deeper, more troubled disappointment. "},{"Title":"5 easy pieces","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is quite similar to the other films that were made during this time period in the sense that it is very honest and the both the acting and the film-making is raw and truthful. Jack Nicholson's character drops out of his life in upper class America to get away from the problems he is dealing with and every person that he meets is very honest with him and gives their opinions regardless of their importance. Two of my favorite scenes are when with Jack Nicholson in traffic and he gets out of the car and starts screaming at the other drivers and playing the piano, and of course the diner scene in which he yells at the waitress. The camera-work of the film is very beautiful, the shots of the car driving along the beach pans out so you can see the whole beach at sunset are particularly beautiful. The shots within the car while it is moving are fabulous especially the scene where Jack Nicholson and Karen Black pick up the 2 hitchhikers and 2 of the women get into an argument. The way the camera is shooting you feel as if you are in the car with them making it a bit uncomfortable but it also pulls you into the scene. Overall this film is fantastic. "},{"Title":"Almost  Same !","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The content of this movie is about narrating the story of the main actor, so every scene in the movie is related to him. When I watched the movie, I felt I was watching the series of the personal life which were selected only the important events and were combined together. Therefore, we can see the transition between shots are not smooth or continuous(discontinuity editing). In the scene of playing bowling, the filmmaker uses the cutting on action technique because the audiences would be able to see the acting of players and the running of bowling. Moreover, the scene in the car is interesting; we can see the camera photograph from many directions. Two people in the car, the camera photograph from the back seat after there are four people in the car; the camera photograph from in many directions. Besides, when the main actor ran to help his friend, we can see the shaking of the scene because of the running of a person who hold camera. Furthermore, if we consider culture how this movie is different from older movie, the movie has more freedom; we can see there are more sex scenes or using language more rudeness including to manner more rudeness too. Finally, when the main actor drove the car back home with his girl friend I thought everything was almost same as in the beginning, but I was surprised at his decision in the end. "},{"Title":"Where loveless Bobby wanders and wonders about life, love and himself&#x85;","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the only movie in which I recall seeing Jack Nicholson cry. He's no cry baby though, in this story.At one level, this is a humdrum narrative a bright &#x96; perhaps gifted &#x96; young pianist, Robert 'Bobby' Dupea (Jack Nicholson) drifts around south-west USA enjoying a free and easy hedonistic lifestyle &#x96; all to avoid facing up to his roots and himself. He has a not-very-bright girl, Rayette Dipesto (Karen Black, in an acting performance as good as Nicholson's) who just loves him, and won't let go. So much so, Rayette simply becomes Rayette the Pest; he calls her Dipesto most of the time, anyway. And she becomes even more of a pest when Bobby finds out she's pregnant.So, he quits his job at an oilfield, goes to LA and finds out from his sister that his father has had two strokes, and is now mostly paralyzed. Grudgingly, he agrees to visit his father and, almost as grudgingly, takes Rayette with him. Embarrassed by Rayette's homespun, low-class upbringing, however, Bobby leaves her at a motel so as to see his family alone. There, he gets involved with his brother's fiancée, gets into a fight with his father's male nurse, tries to tell his mute father how he feels (in a remarkably poignant scene) and is forced, when Rayette shows up unannounced, to eventually defend her simple nature from the cutting remarks of a family acquaintance. Unable to face the family or his perceived failures any more, Bobby leaves with Rayette and, at a gas station further on, simply abandons Rayette by cadging a lift from a passing truck driver while she's busy buying a coffee in the diner. The stark end shows Rayette wandering around the gas station, trying to find Bobby...So, it's not much of a plot, all told. What raises it to the level of tragedy, almost, and makes it superlative drama, though, are the characters and the actors who bring them to all-too-believable life &#x96; and the life of small town Americana, about which Peter Bogdanovich also captured so well, a year later, in The Last Picture Show (1971). In FEP, however, the small town scene is simply a stark counterpoint to the classical family life that Bobby loves to hate, almost as much as he hates to love anything or anybody, including himself. One mixed-up dude, no question.The Oscar-worthy performances are from Nicholson and Black, for sure; but, the acting of the remaining cast cannot be faulted, I think, including Sally Ann Struthers in her first movie. Hence, much kudos must go to the director also, Bob Rafelson, for eliciting such strong performances from such a diverse group of actors; and for the script which has some of the best lines ever spoken on film. In truth, the entire experience of this movie reminds me of the perfection of Casablanca (1942), one of the most highly regarded movies of all time, where everything gelled.So also Five Easy Pieces, a film that will stand the test of time, I'm sure, as one of Hollywood's best. For me, the scenes that stick are Bobby throwing a fit of frustrated anger in his car; his attempts to get a sandwich at a diner (a classic scene, if ever there was one); playing the piano on a truck stuck in a traffic jam; crying at the feet of his mute and wheelchair-bound father in a futile attempt to communicate; and, of course, the truck disappearing in the distance as poor Rayette wanders about, looking for Bobby.As to the title? Well, some mention the classical music that permeates the sound track. I prefer the interpretation that links Bobby's misogyny with the five women he manipulates and plays so easily his girlfriend, a pickup from the bowling alley, the two lesbian hitchhikers, and his brother's fiancée.This is film making at its most mature. Highest recommendation for all adults, young and old. "},{"Title":"A Sample of a Man's Freedom","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The main character is free because he gets to drop out of one relation and pick up another easily -- from work to travel, from love commitment to an affair, again from a romance to an affair, from one residence to another, and, finally, from a romance to the road. It's a bit like being Americans, who, at that time, were the most mobile people, moving on average 19 times per lifetime. So, the film is a demonstration of main character Dupea's mobility, a sample of his life. Maybe it embodies the values of the hippies of his day, who were often on the road and who celebrated freedom -- without conception of a society against which to rebel. No, the main characters are strictly devoted to addressing their challenges, and the hitchhiker complainant about filth is designed to mock as pretentious that rebellion against establishment. Anyway, which are the five? Probably it's Dupea's girlfriend, the two bowling alley flirts, his sister-in-law, and then, mysteriously ... himself? Yes, himself, as one need not worry about getting into any sort of relationship with him and all that that could imply. "},{"Title":"Five Queasy Pieces","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is important today because it was made when Jack Nicholson was at the beginning of his major star period in films-----one that has endured for over 35 years and continues to this day.Having said that, it seems in retrospect that Five Easy Pieces is an overrated movie. It presents us with a thoroughly unpleasant leading character who reveals new meaning to the term self-absorption. The fact that Nicholson plays the part so convincingly adds to our difficulty in accepting both him and the meandering episodic story.We would be hard pressed to find any film by Nicholson's predecessor rebel and anti-hero, Marlon Brando, that gave us such a totally negative leading character. Even Brando's The Wild One (1954) presents us with an anti-hero who is capable of redemption. And Brando's own rebel predecessor, John Garfield, never appeared in any film playing a part like that of Bobby. While Bobby seems superficially to be a highly complex fellow----he is really one dimensional----BAD!In undertaking Five Easy Pieces, Nicholson may well have been right to assume the risk of showing the full extent of his previously unknown range and power as an actor in such a difficult role for the public to accept. However, this does not mean that either we have to like the film or consider it as any more than what it really is----Jack Nicholson's breakout role that fulfilled his earlier promise in Easy Rider. Some may claim that Nicholson's character demonstrates inherent honesty in his consistently selfish attitude toward life. But if this is true---it is false honesty. In a pivotal scene in the film----the one when Bobby (Nicholson) tearfully confesses his sins to his paralyzed father---you are left with the feeling (and perhaps the hope) that there may be some redeeming value to this person deep down in his soul. However, his subsequent behavior toward those who have been kind to him reinforces the conclusion that the scene with the father may well have been a set-up, intended to mislead us in our subsequent understanding of Bobby's real nature.Five Easy Pieces illustrates why------like so many other films---- that its whole is not equal to the sum of its parts. The film has moments of great acting, humor and visual beauty. But in the end, it is primarily of historical significance as an early record in Jack Nicholson's remarkable career demonstrating why his fame has lasted for so long. "},{"Title":"Social Class","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces, written and directed by Bob Rafelson, seemed to defy the expectations of most films from its time period. Unlike films like Easy Rider and The Graduate, Five Easy Pieces is not a period film, and is timeless in its various messages. Instead, the film focuses on the individual; is a film about the study of a character who has trouble confronting his fears and his past. It shows the story of Bobby Dupea, played brilliantly by Jack Nicholson, a man who was born as an aristocratic music child prodigy, but hated this lifestyle so much that he escaped from it to live as a blue collar, almost white trash American far from his home. Throughout the telling of this story the viewer is given many views into the differences between social classes and how this makes Bobby confused about his place in the world.Rafelson gives us our first glimpse of Bobby as a blue collar working man who lives and works in Southern California with his girlfriend Rayette, an idiotic waitress overplayed by Janet Black. Bobby surrounds himself by other low class people, like his good friend Elton, who lives in a trailer and works with Bobby on the oil rigs. At first, the viewer believes that Bobby is like these people that he is surrounded by. He drinks beer, plays five card stud after work, and does tough manual labor. But through a few of his actions we can see that he is not exactly like his companions. We see his unfair treatment of Rayette at the bowling alley, when he calls her pathetic for sitting in the car when Bobby talks down to her. He treats her badly, and there are obvious tensions between them that seem fueled by her low intelligence and different upbringing. Bobby also shows that he is more sophisticated than those around him when he talks to the two girls in the bowling alley who believe he is the man they see on the television in used car commercials. Although later he enjoys their company, specifically with Betty when he has sex with her behind Rayette's back, Bobby treats the girls as lower class people, playing into their naïve belief that he is famous.We see the most obvious example of this social difference a bit later in the film, when in a conversation with Elton, Bobby learns that Rayette is pregnant. Elton believes it is a blessing that Bobby will be having a child. But Bobby tells Elton off, calling him trailer trash, and basically saying that he is better than all these people that he has been living around. Here we see the truth about Bobby's character. Although he wishes to escape his aristocratic life, he does not want to be totally absorbed and held down in his current position as a blue collar worker. He realizes that staying with Rayette, marrying her and having children will tie him down in this lifestyle, and he wants to keep drifting, keeping his life interesting and not mundane.Eventually, after meeting with his sister and finding out about his father's illness, Bobby returns home on an amusing road trip to Washington State with Rayette and a few liberal lesbians that they pick up on the way. Once at home, (after leaving Rayette in a hotel room on the mainland) he is again absorbed in the boring and meaningless life that he left behind. His sister, brother, and his brother's girlfriend Catherine do little except practice classical music, eat and sleep. During his brief stay there, Bobby has a romantic fling with Catherine, hoping she will realize how worthless the aristocratic life is and leave with him. However, we see further differences here as Catherine truly enjoys her lifestyle.Finally, Rayette finds her way to the house, and is patronized by some of Paul and Catherine's friends. Bobby is very upset, believing it is unfair to make fun of Rayette for her low intelligence, and he states his opinion in a very firm way, calling the woman pocking fun at her a pompous celibate. It is obvious here that Bobby has had it with his old, cultured life, and can never again live with it.In the end, Bobby has an emotional, as well as one-sided, conversation with his father, who can not respond in any way because of his stroke. In his speech to his father he apologizes that he didn't turn out the way he should have, justifying it by saying he wasn't that good at the piano anyway. Although he has talked to his father and tried to come to peace with his old fears, Bobby does not change his life. After leaving his home, he deserts Rayette and continues on his path, searching for a more exciting, and un-aristocratic life. "}{"Title":"Five Easy Pieces","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a sad story about a man named Bobby who has no idea what he wants for himself. He never seems to have a real personal connection with anyone. Everything he does is forced and uncomfortable for him. His girlfriend Rayette, played by Karen Black, is naive and overly stupid. Their relationship is completely one sided. Ray loves Bobby even though he continues to leave her alone and resists from telling her that he loves her. He keeps himself alienated from everyone and everything and continues to run from this alienation. The only person in the film who he truly seems to care about is his sister. Although he does not open up to her, he listens to her and willingly goes to visit her. As soon as she tells him about their father, we can see that he didn't have a good relationship with him either. He becomes uncomfortable and nervous with the idea of going back home for a while.Jack Nicholson's performance as Bobby was excellent. His facial expressions drew you into the character and showed his complete sense of ambivalence towards the world. He traveled around and had affairs without even thinking twice about it. He even has an affair when he finally returns home to see his father. As he walks into the house, he seems uncomfortable again. He's not really at home there and we can see why he left in the first place. There is music playing constantly in the house and part of him seems to enjoy it. His musical talent shows through when he plays for his brother's girlfriend Catherine, who he eventually sleeps with. Although short lived, Catherine is the only person that makes him feel any comfort in his own home.When Bobby tries to apologies to his father we are not sure if it is truly sincere or not. He begins to cry but it seems to be because he is alienated and overwhelmed rather than sorry about his relationship with his father. As he is apologizing he realizes that it is too late and nothing that he says will ever make a difference, so he runs away again. He leaves home with Rayette in the car with him. When they stop at a gas station he realizes that he needs to get away from Rayette as well. Once more he runs away from everything he's got by jumping on a truck and driving away. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces is a very interesting film to start the 1970s in the film industry. The beginnings and endings of decades tend to be not only transitional times in years, but also in culture. The end of the 1960s was an extremely turbulent time in American history. First, the United States was in a war with Vietnam, a war that was not widely supported by the American people. The very influential reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. had been assassinated in 1968, which put the entire county into an uproar. Then, Bobby Kennedy was also killed, which put the icing on the cake.Five Easy Pieces follows the story of a young man, working for an oil company, in a lower middle-class society. Only later do we learn that the protagonist, Robert Dupea (Jack Nicholson), is actually a member of a high-class family and he used to be an accomplished pianist. There are little clues at the beginning of the film that tell us about Robert's life before he works for the oil company. There is no indication whatsoever that Robert used to be a member of a well-to-do family. Robert does not seem to be very faithful to his less-than-intelligent girlfriend, Rayette (Karen Black), a waitress at a local diner. It is evident that he does not have a very good relationship with her right from the beginning of the film. In fact, most of the movie they are arguing with each other. I think that Robert has feelings for her, but he is not in love with her.Robert's world of drinking, working, finagling, and love affairs all changes when he goes to visit his sister, Partita (Lois Smith). She tells him that their father has had a stroke and is very ill. She wants him to come home to be with their father. Here, we find out that Robert could be a part of an upper-class family and his reluctance tells us that perhaps he did not leave home on the best of terms. Indeed, this is the case. Robert and Rayette leave for Washington to visit Robert's home. When they arrive, we find out more about Robert's past. One of the first things we notice is that Robert does not really fit in with his family. His father, brother, and sister act as if they were upper-class citizens while Robert does not act in such a manner. This brings to light an important theme in the film, the theme of social class division. We see two opposing classes, the lower-middle class and the upper class of society. It is apparent that Robert prefers the lower-middle class, which is little out of the ordinary.It seems that Robert wants to deny who he is by running away. He already ran away once before and now, being back home, he has those feelings again. While home, he also has an affair with his brother's fiancé and piano student, Catherine (Susan Anspach). The affair ends abruptly when Catherine decides she loves Robert's brother, Carl (Ralph Waite). Robert finally makes some kind of peace with his father, who is unable to speak. After he does this, Rayette and he leave. When they stop at a rest stop, Rayette goes to get coffee and, after a little contemplation, Robert decides to hitch a ride with a truck driver, leaving Rayette behind. Robert runs away from his life once again.Robert does not want to accept who is, no matter who he is. He does not seem satisfied with his life. He runs away for fear that things will get bad. In fact, Robert tells his dying father that I move around a lot because things tend to get bad when I stay. He is afraid to be close to anyone and he feels alienated, like he does not fit in anywhere. The film is beautifully acted with a great performance from Jack Nicholson. The only problem I have with the film is that the character of Robert does not seem to evolve in any way. He ends up running away again in the end. Nevertheless, Five Easy Pieces is a unique film about alienation, failing to accept who you are, and running away from your problems. "},{"Title":"Music as a sexual reference, Bobby as The Graduate","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Scott Greenan New American Cinema February 17, 2006 Five Easy PiecesFive Easy Pieces is rather reminiscent of The Graduate in a manner of speaking. That same feeling of confusion about life, work, love and the future remains; this leaves the audience feeling uneasy even about our own main character. We do not sympathize for him but rather pity him for his incapability to settle down. His meaningless relationships and misogynistic treatment of women is nauseating and is truly reflected in his soon-to-be sister-in-law, Catherine's, statement that his music, like his love, had no emotion. I found that the most interesting aspect of the film was the music. Music became an extended metaphor for physical love as the film progressed. It even seemed to capture the feeling of a scene through the background music, whether it was classical or country. Bobby, the main character, is summarized when he says that he moves around a lot and yet is not searching for anything. He is almost trapped in the extremely open framing of the film. For example, he seems ensnared at his job and yet his job is in a vast open oil field. Bobby continues on through the open framing through his driving and later at the lake near his family's house. Although the women that he picked up on the road said that the world was becoming suffocated by crap, there was nothing but open space everywhere. The crap that she was referring to resides in the people of the time. Ray becomes a blatant example of this through her television, brand name clothes, and excessive make-up. But where does Bobby fit in with this? He, like Benjamin in The Graduate, is running away from responsibility and family. One would assume that his character would change upon returning home. After all, he treats his sister so well. However, his old ways of womanizing comes into play when he sleeps with Catherine. We first meet Catherine in the piano room as she and her fiancé (Bobby's brother) play two separate piano's facing one another, a blatant sexual reference. His brother injured his neck and is thus incapable of using his violin. This physical incapability to use his instrument is unappealing to Catherine and could be a metaphor for his love-making capabilities (or lack thereof). She looks to Bobby to play piano for her. This scene had the same dizzying affect as the random sex scene earlier with Betty. His physical love-making, later, was not shown and yet the bad after effects were ever-present. Overall, he becomes ashamed by being with his family and ashamed of whom he has become. The one person to whom he truly opens up is his father who is incapable of responding. Oddly enough the attention wasn't on the father throughout any of the movie, even though he was the reason for Bobby's trip. The final scene shows him leaving everything behind (even Ray), a scene almost like the final shot of The Graduate. Neither he nor the audience knows where he is going and we are left to watch the scene unfold at the gas station in silence. This is the only time where silence is established. Perhaps the stillness helped him gather his thoughts after being bombarded by music (women and sex) throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Portrait of a rising generation on the verge of losing its way","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bobby is a guy who's been around but he doesn't know that he mightn't rush things. According to the saying carpe diem, unable to look her father in the face, dismayed by his old man's irreversible illness, he dreams a world conceived in his own image and likeness. His indomitable iron will makes him hold his course towards a sort of anarchic disorder, inspiring him a diffuse sense of rebellion against everyone and no one in particular. He's always torn between anger at having to face the truth and a wild desire to laugh at the ridiculousness of the whole thing.But only his way of playing Chopin to experience emotions can awaken pleasant recollections and reconcile him with his self, bringing to light a life-long tendency to introversion hidden under his skin. Not by chance the camera movement nearly completes a circle around the room during the revealing sequence of his piano solo, zooming into some meaningful pictures that disclose his absolutely normal past years, dismantling in a disturbing way his forced attitude of rebellion. He might have been quite a good guy if only they had given him a chance, the camera seems to say.No wonder Nicholson doesn't toil hard to display his full richness of talent, having found his most congenial role in years and being always the master of the situation like a perfect landlord, acting naturally in the same concentrated and unconstrained style. His character is histrionic, melodramatic, romantic, impudent, unbecoming, licentious depending on the circumstances, a sort of deus ex machina bound to cheer or disturb the people around him according to his momentary disposition of soul.This movie can be defined in many ways. As a blend of skin-deep sensations always on the verge of irony (the duologue between Bobby asking for a sandwich and the waitress refusing flatly is very amusing). As a cynical story swerving from the straight path and resembling from time to time a drama full of lofty sentiments (see the silent duologue between father and son). Or as the somber description of a pessimistic middle-class (soon there never will be more room for human beings, they say). But more precisely Five easy pieces can be defined as the portrait of a rising generation on the verge of losing its way and worried about the fact that it has been caught unawares. "},{"Title":"Good Movie Of The Times","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a great study of the beginning of the seventies and one man's search for a life. The dresses and crocheted sweaters are great and Karen Black gives a surprisingly moving performance as a sweet attractive simple little Southern girl. The film didn't move me as much as it seems to have moved others. I also couldn't relate at all to Jack Nicholson and his words with the waitress over his order. But others really enjoyed and remembered this particular scene. I found it rude of him. I was told it was a sign of the times and how things were more inflexible then. I was surprised at how much Jack took to the other lady in the movie. He was ready to settle down with her. Overall, a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"additional filming locations","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's a story in the Victoria Times Colonist Feb. 5, 2005, about cinematographer Laszlo Kovacs. In the interview, he talks about the minuscule budget for the film Five Easy Pieces. He says they decided to film the famous chicken salad sandwich scene on the spot when they stopped at a Denny's outside Eugene, Oregon but much of the film was shot here on Vancouver Island, in Victoria and the Saanich Peninsula Beacon Hill Park, the Dallas Road waterfront, Saanich Inlet, the Cormie estate in Central Saanich, the Mill Bay ferry, etc. I don't know if any of the film was shot in the City of Vancouver but a lot of it was shot on Vancouver Island. There are many interesting comments in the newspaper story on some of Kovacs' other fine films, like Easy Rider and Paper Moon. "},{"Title":"Interesting period piece","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a great study of the beginning of the seventies and one man's search for a life. The dresses and crocheted sweaters are great and Karen Black gives a surprisingly moving performance as a sweet attractive simple little Southern girl. The film didn't move me as much as it seems to have moved others. I also couldn't relate at all to Jack Nicholson and his words with the waitress over his order. But others really enjoyed and remembered this particular scene. I found it rude of him. I was told it was a sign of the times and how things were more inflexible then. I was surprised at how much Jack took to the other lady in the movie. He was ready to settle down with her. Overall, a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good Work","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jack Nicholson & Karen Black both shine in this offbeat character study. Nicholson's character makes no apologies for his behavior, and Black fits the overly clingy redneck girlfriend to a T.  I especially enjoyed the stark differences in the first & second halves of the film, it pushes you to discover why Jack's character has done what he has.  For those of you who are used to seeing Ralph Waite as strictly salt-of-the-earth types, this will surprise you to see what kind of range he possesses.  "},{"Title":"Character Continuum","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I graduated from college the year this film came out, and saw it in the theatre a half dozen times.  Watching it again -- really the best film of Jack Nicholson's career -- makes me realize why  what a great movie!It's interesting to compare Jack Nicholson in this movie with his role in About Schmidt.  Can't you imagine a character like Bobby Dupea getting too old to continue working as an oil rigger in Alaska?  He lands a desk job and is ultimately promoted to mid-management.  Meanwhile, he marries an uninteresting woman he doesn't love, raises a daughter who has no positive sense of self, estranges himself completely from his siblings and other family, lets any artistic talent completely atrophy, and one day, upon the death of his wife, realizes his life is empty.  In many ways, Warren Schmidt is Bobby Dupea 30 years later... a man who can't connect.  I've never figured out why the Dupea character had so little use for himself, but the same personality problem plagues Schmidt.Nicholson's performance as Bobby Dupea completely sold me, but in About Schmidt I thought he was working too hard at acting for the character to be believable.  I can understand now why Nicholson may have wanted to do that film.  But in no way is About Schmidt in the same class as Five Easy Pieces.  This film is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Multifaceted Gem of a Film","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Five Easy Pieces' is one of the most human, most touching, and saddest films I've seen. By turns up-front-and-in-your-face, and  exquisitely literate, the screenplay gives the cast, especially Karen Black, Jack Nicholson, and Susan Anspach, a deep, satisfying well from which to draw in portraying their characters. And the art direction and cinematography are deceptively, artfully simple.One reviewer, who seems all too keen to live in our didactically labelled and pigeonholed, ersatz, saccharine, hyper-therapized, Oprah-Everyone-Must-Realize-Their-Dream, politically correct postmodern world, wrote that Robert Dupea (Jack Nicholson's character) suffers from narcissistic personality disorder. Good grief. Dupea is just a man confused by and fed up with all the emptyheaded noise people make (even by his own noise) - a man who can find no sounds, despite his musical gift, with which his spirit can harmonize. Robert Dupea simply hasn't heard the different drummer's beat to which he should march.Though it got, and still gets, lots of raves, the diner chicken salad sandwich scene is the least telling about Robert Dupea. Yes, it revealed a small something of the character, but it was also the one scene in 'Five Easy Pieces' that afforded anything like comic relief. Hence the paeans from those incapable of appreciating  Jack Nicholson's talent as something deeper than the one he has for cultivating his flash and randy offscreen public image.Above all one thing is true about 'Five Easy Pieces' (and of that other Nicholson great 'The Last Detail') they don't make films like it anymore. Not for the $800,000 it cost to make, and not for the mega-millions it takes to make this weekend's latest so-called blockbuster. If there's one more true thing about it, it's that the cast and director had ample talent another glaring lacuna in almost all of today's return-on-investment, greed-motivated cinema.In making 'Five Easy Pieces' somebody - to wit writers, director, cast, crew - actually THOUGHT long and hard about what they were doing. They did very well indeed, and gave us an enduring, multifaceted gem of a film. "}{"Title":"The Whine Spectator","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Have we simply forgotten how to make movies as refined as this? It certainly seems so. The films of the early seventies are like fine wine now. A few people out there know what they've been missing, but a whole generation has been weaned on mass-market Australian Shiraz and California Chardonnay. They've never tasted real wine -- merely oak! Filmmakers like Rafelson were influenced by the beat writers as much as they were the New Wave. Filmmakers today are influenced by television and Dogme 95. The results so far are not worth cellaring.As to Five Easy Pieces itself, it's big and bold, yet delicately structured, with surprisingly good tannic grip and an aftertaste that doesn't so much linger as it does haunt. Will keep indefinitely.  "},{"Title":"Magnetic Jack","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jack Nicholson has some of the same problems Mick Jagger has - his public persona often overshadows the fact that he truly is a genius at his craft. He manages to possess a tense undercurrent throughout the film until the end, where he finally RELEASES and becomes vulnerable, sans jacket. Plus, can you ever order Chicken Salad without thinking of Jack? A fine, introspective film. "},{"Title":"A tremendous character study, brimming with intelligence...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A chicken salad sandwich but hold the chicken,Where should I hold it, Between your knees!!!!. this movie is so brilliant that hearing about it before watching pales the impact. The simple story of an auspicious pianist who gives up a career to work as a roughneck on a tough oil rig. Nicholson's performance then, As now, is the axis of this wonderful slice-of-life. he returns home with his strangely romantic girlfriend to visit his ailing father and is confronted with past memories , a somehow lost career, a less welcoming family and other oddities. I loved it so much that my second viewing followed the first in no time. "},{"Title":"A study in Narcissistic Personality Disorder","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a fantastic study of a person with narcissistic personality disorder.  From start to finish, you find yourself disliking the lead character (played by Nicholson). He lacks empathy, he manipulates people, he considers himself above all others, he puts others down without any concern for how they will feel, these are all classic NPD. Scene after scene, this movie hits home and really gives you a great understanding of how miserable it can be to have your life intertwined with someone with this problem.The scene with the piano solo is incredible, as he admits to feeling no emotion at all. Welcome to life with a narcissist -- you think they are normal emotional beings, and then only later do you realize that they are an empty shell with a single goal - to obtain your adoration.The only time he shows any true feelings is when he is chasing after the latest and greatest sexual conquest.  Again this is amazingly true-to-life, as the narcissist is constantly in search of the perfect companion, but finding only mere humans with imperfections and flaws, he constantly moves on and on and on, leaving a trail of heartbreak.  This dawns on us at the wonderfully realistic ending, when we see that he, like most people with NPD, will never change, and will spend the rest of his days in an endless series of attempts to escape himself. "},{"Title":"Probably the best American Film Nobody's seen","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great acting, perhaps Jack's best and most natural, outstanding direction, and a great screenplay make this lush, harsh, and incredibly well thought movie a classic. Not to mention the diner scene. If you love movies, you've got to see this one. "},{"Title":"Nicholson plays the out of tune key on the family piano!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A discordant melodrama of a life in emotional turmoil. Nicholson's role of a man trapped by relationships, love commitments, and higher expectations is quite convincing. The supporting cast help reinforce this struggle within him.However, there are moments of loyalty(standing up for Karen Black's character) and tenderness(the crying scene with his father), that show some vestige of a humane spirit. The pronounced absence, nor any mention of the mother may belie his attitude toward women.The ending none-the-less is blatantly anti-climatic. One has surmised already that he will break any bonds of responsibility. The movie in whole is a superb portrayal of forces outside and inside a tortured soul; A contrasting cinematic symphony, so to speak.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jack Nicholson in one of his best roles as Robert, a talented pianist who gave up his promising future as a musician and left his family. He now lives in a run-down steel town working at an oil rig, bowling, drinking and living with his bimbo girlfriend (wonderfully played by Karen Black). When he hears his father's had a stroke, he goes home to visit his family. There, he attemps to get his past in order. This movie is a great character study, exploring where Robert came from and how he wound up living such an empty life. What really seems to have brought Robert down is his insecurity and his doubts about himself, which will seem to follow him all throughout his life. Fine acting all around and great dialogue (including Robert's speech to his father and the chicken salad routine). When I saw the ending, I initially felt empty and unfulfilled by it. But then I realized that the audience is supposed to feel that way. Just as empty and unfulfilled as Robert feels. "},{"Title":"A character that will haunt you","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bobby Dupea is one of those characters that haunt you forever. If there was ever a lost soul wandering the earth, it is Bobby. No purpose, no love, no self-respect. This is one of those special movies that you enjoy watching over and over, always anticipating the special scene coming next. The movie is crafted somewhat like a mystery in that it gives us pieces of the puzzle that is Bobby. My opinion is that although Bobby was trained to be a pianist, it dawned on him that he did not have the talent to make the big leagues. He says so in his monologue with his father -we both know I wasn't that good. Taking that away left him with nothing, a failure at a young age. The last scene where he leaves Rayette, taking absolutely nothing with him, no wallet, no jacket, no money, almost naked, says it all. I have always wondered about the title Five easy pieces and how it relates to the story and have never gotten a satisfactory answer. Maybe Bob Rafelson or Carole Eastman can someday enlighten us. My guess is that it relates to Bobby's auspicious beginnings. "},{"Title":"An astounding and depressive character study","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is fascinating and, ultimately, depressing to witness the greatness of Jack Nicholson's performance in Five Easy Pieces.  Nicholson seems hopelessly inseparable from the repressed and volatile character he is playing in this film, and thus makes this piece of acting one of his finest.  While other roles he has played, (A Few Good Men, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Chinatown and The Shining) contain a star-power grandiose flavor in those performances, Five Easy Pieces seems to be genuinely heart-felt and understood by Nicholson.  The main character's unwillingness and incapable mentalites to admit wrongness and/or display courage to face life is desparate and repressive.  The greatest moments of this film occur when the class structure of the main character's upbringing is contrasted against his current preference of lifestyles.  A once promising man is shown wallowing in self-denial and self-condemnation while surrounding himself with inferior persons so he can feel superior.  This character is brilliantly compelling and fully realized.  The ending of Five Easy Pieces is perfection.  It is certainly fitting to believe that this character is one that will never be able to face up to his realities, and will continue to run from any sign of it.  The best movie that Bob Rafelson has created and one of the greatest performances from one of our greatest contemporary actors. "},{"Title":"Misery is bliss","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In short, Rafelson's picture is one of the best films of the 1970's. Deeply integrated with black comedy & sadness, Five Easy Pieces is mesmerizing. Nicholson's Robert Dupea performance is one of the best of the 1970's. A man so bitter and ashamed over his past that he'll let himself be miserable rather than do anything about it.  And when he does act on his impulses, they are selfish.This film, to me, is a great representation of the freedom that directors and actors experienced during the early 70's renaissance in American cinema.  "}{"Title":"Skillfully treats many complex themes","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Spoilers) This movie is best watched without any prior information, since it goes in unexpected directions. Of course if you are looking here, then that piece of advice will likely be given too late to be heeded.Among the themes treated are the influence of the past on the present, love and alienation between siblings and parents, failures realized and imagined, and class distinctions. Credit an excellent screenplay and great performances for being able to handle this with believability.When we first meet Bobby Dupea (Jack Nicholson) he is a roustabout working in the oilfields near Bakersfield, California. He is living with Rayette Dipesto (Karen Black), a café waitress who fancies herself as a country singer. Rayette is a bit of an airhead, but not unlikable. She frequently seeks assurance of Bobby's love, which he does not easily grant. On a trip to a local bowling alley, with friends Elton and Stoney, Bobby and Rayette have a falling out over Rayette's not being able to help win the competition with the friends. If you had not gotten the drift before, you could see that this relationship was a difficult one, since a deep rift must exist for so trivial an event to cause a quarrel.Rayette is pregnant, but has been afraid to tell Bobby--not a sign of a great relationship. When Elton tells Bobby about the pregnancy and encourages him to settle down into family life, Bobby explodes in anger with the comment, I'm sitt'n here listening to some cracker asshole who lives in a trailer park compare his life to mine. My reaction at that point was, Whoa, where did that come from? Maybe Bobby Dupea is not what I thought. Indeed he is not. In the next scene Bobby has traded in his jeans for a suit and tie and is coming into a professional recording studio in Los Angeles where his sister Partita is recording a classical piano solo (it was never clear to me how Bobby knew she was there). Partita was surprised and delighted to see him, and he her. She tells him that his father has had a stroke and pleads with him to come back to their home (on an island off Washington State) to reestablish contact with the family, and maybe settle some unresolved issues. The trip home and what happens there comprise the rest of the movie. It is then that we learn much more about the conflicted and confused Bobby. One of the finest scenes of the movie has the camera panning around a room in the family home while Bobby plays a Chopin piece. There are shots of violins interposed with photos of the family history showing that Bobby's father, brother, and sister are classical music virtuosi. Bobby grew up in an environment where music was all; the pressures to fit into that milieu would have been enormous. You can only imagine the emotions provoked by coming back into that house after several years in a fruitless search for meaning. This goes to the heart of understanding Bobby. After devoting several decades of your young life to a pursuit that is not panning out, what do you do? In Bobby's case he sought the anonymity of a blue collar life. But, as shown in the scene where he explodes at Elton, he cannot shed the image of himself created in the refined atmosphere of his youth. But he can't move forward. From my first impression of Bobby's being a vulgar boor I came to view him as a tragic figure. I did not wind up particularly liking him, but I felt that I understood him. Understanding what makes a person tick does not mean that you will like them. One of the most poignant scenes ever filmed has Bobby wheeling his father onto the house grounds and trying to explain himself in what amounts to a tortured apology. We can only guess at the mute old man's reaction, but Nicholson expertly portrays his own agony. Being filmed against a beautiful windswept seascape at sunset accentuates the emotional impact of this scene. As part of his stated reasons for deserting the family Bobby offers the idea that he was never that good a pianist anyway, but I was left wondering if that was true or if it was an excuse, an excuse for his escaping what he perceived to be the suffocating, barren, and pressurized world of high art and family.Bobby is a complex of conflicting emotions. When he takes off for the car trip home he walks out on Rayette, but then goes back and asks her to go along. When Rayette shows up at the family home, Bobby is embarrassed by her, but then strongly defends her when she is attacked at a group meeting of callous sophisticates. He is subject to anger and violence, but can also be loving and tender. The conflicting emotions are reflected in the movie's music, ranging from Rayette's preference for Tammy Wynette to Bobby's world of Chopin, Mozart, and Bach. I would think that having been imbued with the classics throughout his early life, an appreciation for great music would stick, but giving that up is in line with his repudiation of his previous life. However, his being drawn to the piano on the truck is the first hint we get of the life he cannot fully leave behind. To a greater or lesser extent we are all shaped by our pasts.When I saw this in its original release I was stunned by its depth and honesty. I still react in very much the same way, but it does have a nostalgic feel to it that seems to date it to the late 1960s, early 1970s. I am not sure why this is. Could not this story be lived out in 2012? No matter what the era, this is a classic movie. "},{"Title":"A fascinating character study, capturing the essence of a misfit generation ...","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bobby Dupea is a character that defines but can not be defined. Whatever category you try to put him in, it never works. He's an oil rig worker with a level of sophistication that transcends his blue-collar environment. He seems free-spirited but not enough to stand his dull girlfriend whereas she's singing or playing bowling. Bobby is a living contradiction whose life goes in two different directions that cancel each other out. In fact, his life seems to have no direction at all &#x85; but one thing for sure, he likes things to be done HIS way and this is the frustration the viewer must endure during the first act of the film.In his breakthrough leading role, Jack proved to have that secret magnetism that can make even the roughest and surliest bastards so likable. He leads the film with a virtuoso acting, supported by great characters, on the top of them, Karen Black, poignantly authentic as the poor treated-like-crap waitress girlfriend, Rayette. The Bobby-Rayette couple drives the constant feeling of pointlessness. Rayette wants a baby, she obviously loves her man, and no doubt she would love him more than any woman, but an even stronger certitude is that Bobby can't see his future with her and that a desire to change the direction is ferociously burning in his heart.But where to, this is the question. If his life is so bitter, how did he end up there in the first place? This is the intelligence of the script, where the answers of our entire question relies less on what will happen, but what happened. Bob Rafelson's film is less about following a character than understanding him. In other words it's a character study, and cinematically speaking, it's one of the best. I think I've seen the film quite enough to sense a constant pessimism despite the whole globally enjoyable mood. It's not a dark film, but the soul of the main character severely lacks the passion that would inspire our sympathy. And Five Easy Pieces is not an invitation to root for Bobby, but to understand the roots of his disillusions.Two crucial moments happen in a fairly short interval, one is the famous traffic jam, probably the film's highlight where Bobby in his uniform, transported by a sort of inner craziness jumps on a truck and plays a classical piano music, in a road intersection. A powerful image that perfectly symbolizes the very essence of Bobby, a man stuck between two worlds, no surprise if at the end, the trucks takes the opposite direction. Later, reality joins the symbol, when after meeting his sister, a classic piano player too, he learns about his father's sickness. This is the pivotal point that would get him back to his roots, Bobby must visit his father.The second act works as a formidable interlude with a remaining connection with the past through Rayette whose tears saved her from abandon, creating an uneasy feeling of hypocritical love. Maybe Bobby despises this hypocrisy less than Rayette who's just a victim of herself. But the film sweeps these considerations through the two hitch-hikers' characters who go to Alaska to escape from the general filth. One of these two chicks expresses a sort of fed-up attitude with an obnoxiousness that doesn't quite bother Bobby. This is because what disturbs Bobby more than anything occurs during the most iconic moment of the film the chicken-salad sandwich, a perfectly played scene capturing the spirit of a man who rejects useless rules.This sets up the 'Bobby' we'll meet in solo in the third act where he goes back to his Family. The contrast with the first part is striking, it's an isolated world both geographically and culturally, set in an island and floating in an intellectual, musical universe made of codes, etiquette and grandiloquent names, from Carl Fidelio to Partita, we meet the family of Robert Eroica Dupea, bourgeois, distinguished without this decadence we would have expected. On the contrary, the portrayal of Bobby's family is particularly realistic, and it's hard to find any unlovable character in this colorful gallery, the genuine scene where everybody hides a laugh at the father's burp is authentically funny and profoundly human. It's ironic that the misfit is still Bobby and the enigma still goes on &#x85; The first answers come from the character of Catherine, a young musician that inhabits the Dupea dungeon as a fish in water. She has a sweet and fresh gorgeousness, a strong personality, sincere and particularly sensitive, and as observational viewers, she's the anti-Rayette from Bobby's perspective. In the famous scene where Bobby plays a Chopin piece, Catherine is moved by the music while Bobby admits he only played that because it was easy, like a fake emotion. This rawness and self-loathing attitude shocked Catherine and revealed Bobby's disdain towards superficiality and pretensions. He loved Catherine's spontaneity and can't stand to see her lost in the very world of pompous conventions he left.Catherine literally psychoanalyzes Bobby, revealing her inability to love him, since he doesn't even love himself. But this is not THE answer, she happens to love an environment that Bobby loathes, and why Bobby rejects this environment can be felt on the climactic scene where he finally confronts his stone-faced ill father. This heartbreaking moment, Nicholson was perfect, revealed Bobby's secret a life made of rules and conventions that went nowhere since he was not 'that good'. But he was good enough to feel brilliant among mediocrities. He both couldn't live with and without rules, cruel dilemma. Bobby Dupea is the quintessential misfit, the 'greatest generation's son that can't find his place in the new world. And one thing, Bobby learned from his journey is that it's useless pretending ... and maybe at that moment he left Rayette in the gas station to go somewhere, the I'm fine he coldly delivered was actually sincere &#x85; "},{"Title":"A fairly interesting character study","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces revolves around Jack Nicholson's character Robert Dupea and his relationships with those around him. There's not much in the way of plot as we mostly just follow him around to see what makes him tick. I won't elaborate on that because the whole point of watching the film is determining that for yourself.Nicholson delivers a fine performance as always, this time with more subtlety than we're used to seeing from him. Karen Black, as his dim, mistreated girlfriend, also gives a good performance. I should note that both Nicholson and Black were nominated for Oscars. Besides those two the cast is mostly forgettable with a few exceptions in minor roles.The script is alright but is bound to seem a bit dull at times. The movie is basically a character study and any plot developments seem to exist only to give opportunities for further insight into Dupea himself. The diner scene is one that many still cite as a classic but I think that the ending is a much more memorable scene.The direction by Bob Rafelson is well handled but not particularly noteworthy for the most part. The Kovacs cinematography helps to give the film a very realistic look but I can't say that I'm particularly fond of it myself. As for the soundtrack, there are some interesting, apropos selections.Considering the focus on character, I recommend the film only if you're not averse to a story that travels at a leisurely pace. In the end, I think that the film is worthwhile but could have benefited from a little more emphasis on plot. "},{"Title":"Jack gives a five star performance. Nicholson is brilliant piece by piece.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Finally after all these years, I watched this 1970 classic for the first time, and I must say it's a brilliant film. Bob Rafelson who both directed and wrote this complex drama about character study and the search for discovery clearly made one of the better films of the 70's. Again as always the world's greatest actor Jack Nichoslon holds true to form with another brilliant performance that's over the top he never holds anything back. The story is interesting, entertaining, and emotional Nichoslon is Robert Dupea a man who's gone against the grain and set out on his own with his only pleasure he finds is working as an oil rig, and on the side he loves to have fun and romance sleazy women. Karen Black portrays his girlfriend Ray and her character is just so pitiful and bad always, in a depressed and emotional mood you as a viewer get tired of her whining despite her sexy looks. Then after about thirty to forty minutes the film takes a change as we find out that Bobby left a family behind who were all musicians, that's found out during the scene when he meets his sister in the recording studio. Bobby then journeys to Washington state to visit his family his father who's lost speech due to a stroke, and his political correct brother is still around, yet the prize of it all is his brother's fiancée Catherine(Susan Anspach). The scenes and parts between Nicholson and Anspach are sparkling and shining their chemistry was so great during this film the two would later also romance and have a child together off screen. Though Bobby finds a romance with Catherine isn't meant, because he's just to outspoken and correct it's so powerful how his character speaks out to authority, parts like this really set the tone for the early 70's with characters who are anti-establishment. In the end Robert and Ray leave even though he has skills and talent for a concert pianist, his life was not meant to be lived as a cultured and sophisticated type of a person. Really all in all the movie is beautiful from the scenes of Jack the way his character is so direct, and his screen time with both Black and Anspach are nice treats. The battle over the chicken salad sandwich, and the weird lesbian hitchhikers are also very memorable parts. This film proves that it's hard to change a person as the viewer sees the way it ends it really established ground that one needs to do their own thing and travel their own path in life. Overall a great anti-establishment film and a tribute to character independence and happiness that's obtained during the journeys and emotions of life. "},{"Title":"One of the most interesting films I've ever watched!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say one thing for this film. It's one of the most underrated of the 70s, and i am bitterly disappointed that Jack, simply because he is such a terrific actor, didn't win an Oscar for this performance.Bobby Dupea is one of the most complex characters i have ever watched. Throughout the whole film I felt as though I did not have a clue what was going on inside his head and also that i completely understood him, both at the same time. You get the impression of him being uncaring and bitter, especially towards his girlfriend, but when he returns to his family you see a different side of him, he seems more in touch with his emotions and while he is moody he is also affectionate, if not teasing, towards his brother and fiercely protective of his sister.Watching the film you feel as though you are taking this emotional journey with Robert, finding out about his current life, his former life with his family, and why he ran from that in the first place. Why does he feel such contempt for Rayette? All she wants is for him to love her but all Bobby can do is put her down and revile her taste in Country music.It's a deep and moving film with some extremely funny moments, the chicken salad sandwich scene to name but a few, and Helena Kalinotes gives an underrated and marvellous performance as Palm Apodaka. Karen Black portrayed the naive and emotional Rayette to perfection, and Susan Anspach was brilliant as the conservative Catherine, a real contrast to Bobby's free spirit.I just adored this film, I really did. It's small but undeniably complex and thanks to the impeccable direction by Bob Rafelson you can't help but be engrossed from beginning to end. A world-class movie. "},{"Title":"A great film from Rafelson and Nicholson","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rafelson's character study about an oil rigger(Nicholson) who returns to his hometown to comfort his dying father, while bringing his waitress girlfriend (Black) along with him while he confronts his rich family. Nicholson does very well in his portrayal of the character in this Oscar-nominated role, while Karen Black was also very good in this film. Although it moved slow at times, i found Rafelson's film to be very good. The screenplay was written very well, and i like how the 1970 film captured the era and atmosphere was great throughout. This is another quality film from Nicholson in his very early days, films like these helped shaped later roles along the same lines such as his portrayal of a slightly similar characer in About Schmidt. --- IMDb Rating 7.4, my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"It has stayed with me all these years.","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Memorable, but confusing. I was just 20 when I saw it and always felt that I needed to understand this movie. Many of the other reviews helped explain it for me. There are several other reviewers that mention the same parts of this film that are (were) puzzles to me as a viewer. With only one viewing in the year of release, I always wanted to know What does it mean? Back then (1970) I expected a plot. I expected a conflict to be resolved. I expected the character to grow. All my expectations were rewarded only with a puzzle that has lasted a lifetime. I searched for people to discuss this movie with and found none that could explain it. Yes they all remember the famous line in the diner about the sandwich. (Because I think it was in the trailer.) At the time it was made, I didn't understand the character's need to be free. It was an adult film that I saw at a time when I needed movies to please the child in me. ...and yet,...unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Classic Jack Nicholson flick","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like most of the films that Jack Nicholson has been in, it's his performance that you will remember most about Five Easy Pieces. I love Nicholson's seventies movies because the great actor was still raw and going into one of his films, a performance with gusto comes as standard. Not to say that his latter day performances haven't been as good; but in his early days; he was more outrageous, and this is a film that does a good job of portraying that side of him. The film is a character study, which gives Jack the opportunity he needs to get inside the film and deliver a performance that not only works, but also makes the film work with it. I found it interesting that Nicholson, a co-star in 1969's Easy Rider stars here with another of it's co-stars; Karen Black. Having these two together in another film would make you think that the acting isn't going to be as good; with them both being co-stars in the earlier film - but they rise to the challenge and, really, both show that they should have been given more screen time in Dennis Hopper's roadbound classic.The plot follows a greasy oil rigger who has to return home after receiving news that his father is dying. It turns out that this guy is actually a very good piano player, and while back home he must come to terms with the life that he leads, and the one he ran away from. Themes include finding your place in the world, as well as how some people's selfishness can take over their life. Five Easy Piece's gritty portrayal of a man leading his own life and making his own way is really well done, and almost every event in the film has a meaning beyond what you are immediately seeing on the screen. At times, it can seem like the film is rather slow paced; but it really has to be, due to the fact that there's so much of it to take in. I loved the atmosphere of the movie, which is very gritty and gives the film a distinct 'real life' feel. These days, most movies go for a glossy texture; but most of the seventies films that have stood the test of time include this gritty feel and the reason why this will be remembered and so-called 'modern classics' like 2004's 'Crash' wont is that this flick feels real, and not like overblown Hollywood rubbish. On the whole, like most of Nicholson's seventies films; this is an out and out classic that should be respected by all! "},{"Title":"Lovely stuff...","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I watch Five Easy Pieces, I always am reminded of another classic work of fiction, that of J.D. Salinger's The Catcher in The Rye, I think that Jack Nicholson's character Bobby is similar to a would-be, grown-up Holden Caulfield, if Holden Caulfield was a classically trained musician that is. Aside from that, this is a moving, melancholy display of fine acting, although in the scene where Nicholson attempts to cry I am not entirely convinced, it is as slow as it needs to be and I think the script is fantastic, unlike the reviewer on the main page who seems to think that the film's greatness stems from Nicholson's performance solely. Stand-out scenes include Jack's chastisement of a pompous celibate, including my second favourite line of dialog in the whole film, Where the hell do you get the ass to tell anybody anything? and the subsequent fight he gets into with his father's nurse, the Chopin scene, Jack's confrontation with his father and, of course, the classic chicken sandwich scene, I want you to hold it between your knees!. This is one of my favourite films and I think it deserves a 10; at times it is laugh-out loud hilarious, at other times it is challenging and, most of all, it is delicately poignant and beautiful and it lingers long in the memory.  "},{"Title":"Life and Death","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is much more than a character study and it's not necessarily about someone who cannot accept himself. It's uncomfortably realistic. The main character. Robert Dupea, played by Jack Nicholson, is not as atypical as he seems. The fact that his circumstances are unusual does not make him unusual. We notice him more because of his circumstances, but there are a lot of people like him. Briefly, Dupea is born into an upper-class family steeped, to the point of decay, in high culture. We don't find this out until about twenty minutes into the film. The director, Bob Rafelson, leads the audience to believe this will be about a man stuck in a blue-collar nightmare. We find he's living a nightmare, but it's not due to class structure; or, more precisely, because Dupea can function, if he wishes, in any class, we can't say he's a victim of class the way his blue-collar girlfriend is. News that his father is dying causes him to visit the house he was raised in and has long-since abandoned. That's not the only reason he's in a state of crisis, however. His girlfriend (played by Karen Black) is pregnant. The movie touches on this fact offhandedly; I sense many people fail to take in the fact when it is revealed to us in a conversation Dupea has with his buddy on the oil rig. Dupea is undergoing stress on two fronts. His nemesis of a father is about to die, and a son or daughter is about to be born. Whether he wants it or not, a moment of decision is overtaking Dupea. Dupea's not an Everyman. But he's not a monster. Early in the film, after suddenly calling his co-worker a cracker--a very cutting thing to say--he sees that two men are beating him up. He drops everything (in fact, he's been busy telling his boss what he can do with the job he's just quit) and runs over to the men, throwing punches and taking a beating. At the level of personal safety, not only is he not a coward, he's fearless. He shows decency time and time again. With his girlfriend giving him a dirty look meant to get him to drop off two hitch-hikers they've just picked up (actually, he's offered them the ride because their car has crashed) he continues to drive them all the way to their destination; a trip lasting a whole day. Why does his girlfriend dislike them? She dislikes them because it becomes clear to her just after Dupea lets them in the car that they are in a lesbian relationship. She gives him a malicious grin meant to shame him into kicking them out of his car. He doesn't address her petty concern. He drives them as far as he and his girlfriend are going. So, this is about a decent man who finds a lot of the people he is supposed to love intolerable. We watch him at his peak of suffering.  "}{"Title":"I want you to hold it between your knees! - Classic Jack","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  FIVE EASY PIECES (1970) ***1/2 Jack Nicholson, Karen Black, Susan Anspach, Fannie Flagg, Billy Green Bush, Ralph Waite.  Excellent, impressionistic film about an anxious and musically talented young man Bobby Dupea (superlative Jack) whose aimless life is catching up to him facing some painful decisions.  Noteworthy for its classic chicken salad sandwich diner scene.  Sally Struthers has a small role.  Directed skillfully by Bob Rafelson. "},{"Title":"Wasn't Sartre a pianist?","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Rafelson's seminal work on the existential interplay of atheistic and moral tensions, still stands as a brilliant study of the artist's struggle with identity in the face of the freedom that life imposes on him.  Easily Rafelson's best work, as well as one of Nicholson's strongest performances, Five Easy Pieces ushered in the greatest decade in American film making.  Criticized by some as taking pot shots at overly wooden characters (Lorna Thayer's waitress, Irene Dailey's snooty intellectual are the one's frequently mentioned), this appears to be little more than the disquisition of dreary folks who get too little sun.  Like many of the best films of the seventies, the protagonist's journey is littered with archetypal characters of the time.  It could be argued that all of the supporting characters in Five Easy Pieces are represented in this manner.  Yet far from being its Achilles heal, Rafelson's superior juxtaposition of these characters, drive Robert Dupea through life like a pinball.  To this day, I feel that the chosen ending was what truly separated this film from the litany of character studies that would follow.  Anybody who doubts the quality of film from those days compared to the canker that is contemporary Hollywood, need only imagine the ending if Soderbergh or God forbid Spielberg were allowed to rewrite it?  Given that Soderbergh dared to defile Ocean's Eleven I guess we had better not speak to loud or it may come to pass.  "},{"Title":"Portrait of an American malcontent","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Five Easy Pieces is the best of the six Bob Rafelson pictures that Jack Nicholson has appeared in, and his performance confirmed his star status, laying the basis for the roles of his maturity.  Bobby Dupea exemplifies the rebellious mood of the Vietnam era, but Five Easy Pieces transcends its time to provide a superb portrait of an American malcontent.  The oppressively overcultured world of the Dupea family is sharply contrasted by art director Tobe Rafelson with the garish blue-collar culture of trailer parks, bowling alleys, and diners.  On the soundtrack, there is nothing between Bach, Chopin, and Mozart on the one hand, and Tammy Wynette's declamatory C&W songs on the other.  There is in fact an imbalance in the film, as in cinematic terms the world of oil rigs and trailer parks is more attractive than the claustrophobic Dupea household, and the brash, sensual Karen Black is more appealing than the repressed Susan Anspach.  The classical piano pieces cannot compete with the driving up-front appeal of Wynette singing about standing by your man and D-I-V-O-R-C-E.  To middle-class audinces in 1970 she was a liberating force, an introduction to the hard-hat blues of Nashville.  Bobby flees from his emotionally chilly family to the sentimental trailer-park ambience of Rayette and Elton, and ends up rejecting both.  The ending is one of the toughest, most uncompromising in American cinema. "},{"Title":"An ideal representation of just why the 70s were such a special decade for American movies","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1967 to 1977 was probably the most special years in American film making. Before Star Wars ruined it all, major studios produced thinking adult entertainment. Thats why films such as The French Connection, The Graduate, and this were produced. In no other era would Hollywood bigwigs offer unknown casts and crews a chance based on a good storyline. In no other era would a film like Five Easy Pieces gain recognition and become a hit. The film remains one of the most introspective character studies ever made. None of the protagonists are exactly likable, but they're all multi-layered and ultimately sympathetic. Jack Nicholson can be seen at his best here. Before he became Jack and seemed to repeat the same manic role (this was after The Shining), he was at his finest. The part where he confronts his father after all these years is tear inducing.The film is often best remembered for the Chicken Salad sandwich diner sequence. Thats a memorable exchange of dialog no doubt, but its hardly the only noteworthy part of the film. Everything about the production is first-rate across the board from the acting to the direction by Bob Rafelson. Even Karen Black, an actress often mocked and regulated to b-movies, is in fine form here. Essentially this is a character study and just about everyone will have something to relate to. Five Easy Pieces is near perfect and an ideal representation of just why the 70s were such a special decade for American movies. (10/10) "},{"Title":"11 on a scale of 1-to-10","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nicholson is as superb in this role, then in his early 30's, as he is 3-1/2 decades later. The film portrays one of the quintessential stories, found at anytime, but prevalent in the 1960's - the person of education, talent, promise and privilege - who has, nonetheless, chosen to drop out and lead a life which is the type most born into would fervently wish to rise above. The theme, his prodigious musical talent and prestigious family history, is the means to the story's end here, but his family history and background could have been, say, banking, shipbuilding or politics as well. You sympathize with him sometimes, and would like to boot him in the ass others. The scenes are realistic, and the differences between the two milieu in which the film occurs (trailer parks, tacky rental house, oil field roughnecking - versus the beautiful family estate, on one of the magnificent islands of the Pacific Northwest, steeped in culture and gentility) are dramatic and poignant. Nearly all of the characters/actors in support of Nicholson are interesting and sympathetic, except Sally Struthers (whom I have always found an annoying presence), and Susan Anspach's Catherine - whom I felt to be unjustifiably aloof, opinionated and smug, especially for one who, from what was indicated in the story, was a person who lacked any degree of personal talent or success to warrant this demeanor. But these two exceptions aside, I marked this as my favorite film of all I'd seen, from the time I first saw it, until Being There came along a decade later - and I would still rate it 1-A on my personal all-time list. "},{"Title":"perhaps the most amazing thing about 5 Easy Pcs","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" is that Sean Rutledge can write about 80 lines about it, without ever mentioning what makes it worthy of a vote of 10. But, he does manage to generate an average length of 4 syllables for the 800 odd words he spews.The film is a great study of a man born into precise and high expectations, probably having precious little parental affection, (which may be the fault for him) being insecure about himself, and rebelling against those expectations by choosing an almost diametrically opposed life for himself. But then, he cannot feel comfortable with that life or the people involved in it. The result is a loner who despises himself and everyone around him, leading him to take advantage of them whenever possible. But, at least he knows it. Note his comment to Karen B. when they're sitting in the car outside the bowling alley.For a multitude of theories on personality traits, including creativity, alienation, 'naivete', impulsiveness, insecurity, etc etc etc etc see Sean's manifesto.As for me, I prefer Jack's approach; Sean, get to the point, you pompous celibate!  "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Five Easy Pieces is the story of Robert Dupea, a directionless man who gave up an upper class life with great potential as a classical pianist to work on an oil rig.  The story is a simple one.  His father is ailing, so he leaves to go back and spend a few weeks at home.  His pregnant girlfriend Rayette (Karen Black), comes with him.The strength of this movie is entirely in the main character.  It is brilliantly conceived as a character study.  Everybody can relate to him.  He lacks any direction in life.  He's not comfortable around the rich arrogance of his family, and he despises the lifestyle he had on the oil rig.  Most of the performances in this film are excellent, with Nicholson stealing the show, earning a well deserved Oscar nomination and some recognition of his talents that would continue to shine over the next few years.This movie is deserving of its reputation if for no other reason then Nicholson's performance.  I've always felt that the most important aspect of a movie is that it has a main character the viewer can sympathize with.  Nicholson and the script both work perfectly to complete this achievement. "},{"Title":"Movie Masterpiece starring Jack Nicholson","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brave and uncompromising film, unafraid to show its characters in an unsympathetic light and present the American dream as one of disillusionment.  Jack Nicholson's talented anti-hero and Karen Black's gum-chewing waitress girlfriend lead an outstanding cast in this moving study of unfulfilled lives.  A stand out among the tired and formulaic 'gloss'.  And there's no cute kids!  Wonderful on every level.  "},{"Title":"many have said...","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It has been said by many people over the years that Bobby is displaying a detachment disorder. Narcissistic or borderline. I have loved this film and it has remained in my top 5 for decades, which says a lot. Since I have been involved in psychology for the last ten years, I cant count how many times colleagues or professors have cited this film and this character as a perfect example of detachment disorder. Now, since I am in the field myself, I would have to agree. Jack Nicholsons' performance is uncanny. And it is this aspect of the film that makes me feel that Rayette was definitely pregnant and that Bobby truly felt nothing about that but obligations... and he ran. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know why everybody speaks so reverently about this supposedly hidden gem. I recall that this was something of a hit. It played for about six weeks at the famous Hellman Theatre. Jack Nicholson and Karen Black were big 70s breakout stars and they both sold tickets. That being said its a bad movie. Just being realistic is not enough to overcome a lack of storyline. Oh it's so realistic that it is just about miserable people acted boorish in a cold damp miserable locale. Its OK as a curiosity piece but don't expect to get hooked by the story. Just when you are wondering if the story is ever going to start the picture ends and you feel ripped off for the time you put into the movie. When we blocked out all the wretched style excesses from the 70s we should have burned these celluloid documents as well. "}{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my opinion this was an OK movie it was not what I expected but it definitely was made very well and the acting was great there were definitely some funny parts inside the movie and there were numerous parts that I feel were drawn out more than they needed to be. I liked seeing all the older cars and trucks that were shown in this film as well. Their were different parts throughout the movie that I did like very much one of them was the car ride with the three women and when they stoped to get breakfast, this was funny to see these parts.. Jack N. has aways been a great actor and that did not change here he was great in this film and he was aways on point. As for his girl friend in the film well she is about five cans short of a six pack.. as for the ending well I did not under stand that at all.. "},{"Title":"Awful or worse?","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film might have had something to say when it was made, but these days it's just a meandering mess. I had never seen the film yet I was guessing the next thing to happen with relative ease throughout the entire film as it was all so telegraphed.The acting aside from Jack was ordinary or caricatured, and even he seemed to be hamming it up on occasion.If you enjoy watching films where every character has zero redeeming features, this is for you, buy a box of popcorn and sit back and enjoy, otherwise maybe Grapes of Wrath is worth a view.Maybe in another fifty years I might watch it again and find out how amazing it really was and what I was missing. "},{"Title":"Five Easy Pieces","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five easy pieces was an okay movie. I didn't notice anything spectacular about the camera-work or lighting or anything like that. The movie is about a man named Bobby Dupea who came from a family of musicians but he soon grew tired of that life so he took of to travel the world in hopes of finding himself and his purpose in the world. He was sick of the everyday routine of practicing his music. He settled in a small town and worked at an oil ridge and also got a girlfriend by the name of Rayette. However, his life there begins to develop the same boring routine he had in his hometown. He went to work, came home, argued with his girlfriend, and hung out with his one friend. Bobby was a confusing man who didn't really seem to love anyone or anything at all. He seemed very lost. The movie ends with Rayette going into a gas station and when she comes out Bobby is gone. He hitched a ride on a truck and was off to his next town hopefully to find what he had been searching for his whole life. Bobby's character was very interesting and complex which made the movie interesting to me. "},{"Title":"Five Lost Pieces","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Alright, I'll be honest and I'll say that this movie didn't mean much to me and let me explain why. Well, first of all, I don't get much out of this movie because, from what I've read, and from what I've seen it depicts the American way of life at the beginning of the 8th decade of the 20th century. This way of life is totally strange to me because I'm from Europe, I'm young and I didn't experience these things. Second, I was expecting a much more entertaining character to be portrayed by Jack Nicholson. I was expecting this movie to be a wild road movie with Jack Nicholson doing all sorts of crazy stuff. This isn't the idea of the film, and Nicholson's character is kinda sick of life, looking to find himself. His wife(portrayed by Karen Black) is kinda in antithesis with him. She wants to be near him, while he just wants to get away and escape from his life. Now while I'm writing this, I'm thinking This is actually a pretty good idea for a movie, but I'm too young and unexperienced to understand these kind of movies and I hope that when I grow older I'll start to appreciate more these types of films depicting foreign cultures in important social-changing times. "},{"Title":"Five Easy Pieces","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson plays a bit of a jerk in this film... So it's a good job almost everyone around him is even worse than he is. Aside from his bubblehead wife, his obnoxious family and loser friends, his life seems to consist of menial labour, petty arguments and one night stand affairs. In the latter case, normally I'd disapprove of such heinous acts... but looking at who's he hitched too... Can I understand why? Yup. 100%.A trip to see his terminally ill father might offer some light relief from his dead-end existence, but it just makes things worse. Along the way, him and his spouse pick up the two most irritating hitchhikers ever who just won't SHUT UP. Usually, one of the reasons you shouldn't give a lift to someone off the street is because you'd be worried about your own personal safety. Believe me... After listening to these two blabbermouths for hours on end, death would come as a blessed release.Then they arrive at Nicholson's old family estate... where no-one likes him and his relatives are a bunch of superficial snobs. More fights ensue, mostly revolving around his decision NOT to follow in the family business of playing the piano professionally. As for bonding with the old man... the geezer can't talk, and interaction is almost impossible. Talk about your wasted trips. He does meet ONE sane female houseguest there, and for a while it looks like they might run off together to escape this madness. Nope... She decides to stay behind. And suggests HE'S the problem. Maybe not too sane after all.The last straw is when he finds out the last girl in the world who you'd want to impregnate is... you guessed it. This sparks a rather drastic last gasp action from him... And no, it's NOT what you think. It does provide for by far the most satisfying part of the film however, which by now as been an amalgamation of bickering, boredom and belligerence. The actors play their roles well... TOO well, as I wanted to bash their collective skulls together. My distaste for these louts made it almost impossible to follow the proceedings, and thus negates interest in the already flimsy plot.Quick question If you saw a group of people so annoying you'd cross a motorway to avoid them, would you REALLY want to watch about said individuals? 5/10 "},{"Title":"Jack Nicholson/Karen Black Classic","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson and Karen Black star in this movie about a man who feels inadequate and out of place in his life and in his family. I don't know why I am reviewing this movie, when I don't really have anything terribly original to add to all that has been said. (But I don't know what has been said, as I make it a rule to not read other reviews and not be influenced.) But, as Five Easy Pieces is a 1970s classic film, it was on my short list of movies to see and I loved it. It was a very thoughtful film, with three-dimensional characters. But the main reason for my review is Karen Black. Even from the first scene she was in, I could tell she would be astounding. Her sweet, quirky, and needy disposition makes the viewer feel her pain, and the scenes where she says Do you love me? or Say you love me breaks your heart. She was truly exceptional and I don't know why she didn't win an Oscar. Jack goes home when he hears news that his father has had a heart attack and he tries to make amends with him, but they never saw eye to eye. At the same time, he comes on to his brother's wife or fiancée. Add a waitress who won't cooperate and a crazy woman sermonizing about too much stuff and being wasteful and costarring Sally Struthers from All in the Family in a memorable role, Five Easy Pieces is a crazy, serious look at being one's self, knowing what one wants out of life, and putting in the hard work in life to get ahead. Don't miss the winner. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the main reasons to like this movie is because Jack Nicholson is in it, who can say they don't like Jack Nicholson movies. The ending of this movie was how I was hoping it would be because even though he was a cheater she was just so annoying that you wanted to leave her and your not even apart of it. The house that he grew up in was a bit weird in terms of how the family seems dysfunctional but it plays into the reason in my opinion as to why he ups and leaves when he did the first time. The fact that he doesn't end up with the British girl is a good thing because he seems like the type to get bored easily so I don't think it would have worked out. "},{"Title":"Involving and memorable drama...","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" American screenwriter, producer and director Bob Rafaelson's second feature film which he co-produced with Richard Wechsler, was written by American screenwriter Carole Eastman (1934-2004) after a story by Carole Eastman and Bob Rafaelson. It was shot on locations in Canada and USA and is an American production which was produced by former American production company BBS Productions which was founded in the late 1960s by Bob Rafaelson, American film producer Bert Schneider (1933-2011) and American film producer Stephen Blauner. It tells the story about Robert Dupea, a once gifted classical pianist who works at an oil field in California. Robert is in a mundane relationship with a waitress named Rayette whom he mostly criticizes. He spends most of his time with her and his friend Elton, but when Robert learns that Rayette is pregnant and Elton is arrested he leaves his job and goes to Los Angeles to meet his sister Tita.Finely and engagingly directed by American filmmaker Bob Rafaelson, this finely paced fictional tale which is narrated mostly from the protagonist's point of view, draws a moving portrayal of an inspirited though somewhat unsettled man's conflicting relationship with his girlfriend, with women in general and his relationship with his family whom he has distanced himself from for a long time. While notable for it's naturalistic milieu depictions, fine cinematography by Hungarian cinematographer László Kovács (1933-2007) and use of music, this character-driven, dialog-driven and reflective American New Wave road-movie depicts an in-depth study of character which examines themes like family relations, love and identity.This at times very humorous, romantic and atmospheric character-piece from the early 1970s about a man's both external and internal journey from California to Washington State to reconcile with his father is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, colorful characters, quick-witted dialog, the majestic acting performances by Jack Nicholson in one of his first major roles and the great supporting cast. An involving and memorable drama which gained, among other awards, the NYFCC Award for Best Film, Best Director and Best Supporting Actress Karen Black at the 36th New York Film Critics Circle Awards in 1971. "},{"Title":"Escape from Alcatraz","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a sense this film has two great merits. It is a 'period piece', perfectly capturing the Zeitgeist of the USA in the end-of-the-sixties/start-of-the-seventies. But it is also a map to where the US went wrong, if we watch it nowadays. The script, acting sensibility, and directorial prowess make this film a true icon within North American cinema. The feeling is that this film, like Nicholson's character in fact, has no place amidst the bombast, hypocrisy and garish vaudeville of mainstream Hollywood. It is crude but sophisticated, rebellious but focused. And perfectly filmed by Lazlo Kovacks, the man who gave 'Easy Rider'its visuals. The male and female psychologies are brilliantly handled and portrayed. It comes as no surprise, therefore, that a woman has written the script. Nicholson portrays his character with strength and ambiguity, and his suicidal drive is creative, desperate and coherent DESPITE the many paradoxes within. He is our true anti-hero. We root for him despite his flaws, and when he returns to his family home, we truly sense the suffocating backdrop to his former life. Never condescending, the script allows us to discover all the subtleties, all the bitterness, all the hate, resentment and tenderness which float in that house. And now we understand HIM better. So the film's harsh but 'open' finale comes as no gimmick. And the final scene is like a signature at the end of what is, undoubtedly, some sort of American masterpiece. "},{"Title":"1970 Toast recipe  Chicken Sal San on Wheat Toast---hold the butter, lettuce, mayonnaise AND the chicken!  Brilliant, iconic film.","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The time is 1970, the Happy-go-lucky Pop culture of the Beatles and the Hippies was quickly devolving into the drug culture plague, as Nixon presided over the beginnings of the various Watergate-related intrigues, and millions of young people protested the horror of the Vietnam war, a war which was broadcast in all its ugliness and violence on the nightly news day after day. As the big eastern cities were continuing to decay and the poverty and the hopelessness of a huge percentage of the American population was recently exposed in the 60's summer race riots, this was a time in American Cinema in which those alienated from society, in films like Easy Rider and Alice's Restaurant and Taxi Driver and Joe became the new American heroes--those people with whom so many of the youth could identify. The anti- hero, like Travis Bickel from Taxi Driver and Joe from Joe reigned supreme, and gone were the days of the prominence of the Jimmy Stewarts and John Waynes of previous generations. No film captured this dispirited, almost depressive time with more insight, imagination and searing truth than Five Easy Pieces. But the film is not depressing in and of itself. On the contrary it is filled with such rich characters and situations, that we are captivated from the opening frames straight through the heart-breaking non-conclusive conclusion. There are moments of great humor as well--in the portrayal of the goofy friends Bobby and Rayette hang out with, to Sally Struther's pre-All in the Family hysterical nymphet, to the Lesbian couple's obsession with crap and filth in America to the insufferable snobs in Bobby's father's home to the priceless Diner scene and that infamous order of toast.......errr... the chicken sal sand on wheat toast minus the butter, lettuce, mayonnaise.....and chicken salad. Brilliant.The heart and soul of the film is Jack Nicholson's Bobby. Talented, direction-less, thoughtless, cruel, helpless, trapped--the very essence of the alienated anti-hero of 1970 that all could identify with. He is sympathetic, but poisonous, a product of the times and a rootlessness that is both real and symbolic. Karen Black's Rayette is the polar opposite of Bobby, and her innocent, naive sweetness becomes heartbreaking as she, like all those Bobby touches becomes a victim of his ultimate callousness. But of course no one is more a victim of this alienated spirit than Bobby himself. He'll escape from his friends, his life, the world around him, those who love him or want to love him so desperately....but the ultimate tragedy is that he'll never escape from himself. One knows where Bobby will end up...alone, lost, bitter, all beauty gone from his life, all purpose a distant and faded memory. "}{"Title":"The Personification Of The Living Steppenwolf","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Years before Jack Nicholson made a name for himself in hit films such as 'Chinatown (1973)' & 'One Flew Over The Cuckoos Nest (1975)',he appeared on the small screen in the late 1950's in a series of dramas for television. In the 1960's, he then took on roles in modestly (low) budgeted films for American International Films,working up to co writing the screenplay for the Monkees first,and only feature film, 'Head'. With the early 1970's,he moved on to his first serious challenge, 'Five Easy Pieces',a character study of a man who was raised in a upper class family with money,where culture,music,art,etc. was top of the bill. Robert Eroica Dupea (Nicholson)opted to just walk away from it all,not feeling at home in these surroundings. Robert took a job working on an oil rig in an undisclosed locale (Texas?),absorbing himself in the Joe Sixpack,blue collar,working class world (and not being any happier there). Robert has a girl friend,Rayette Dipesto (Karen Black),who is a waitress in a local truck stop,who Robert treats like crap (and she always willing to run back to him & take his abuse). Robert & his co worker on the oil rig,Elton (Billy Green Bush),generally spend their days drinking,cheating on their mates,and just acting stupid in general. When Robert's younger sister contacts him that their father is dying and wants to see Robert one more time,he agrees ('tho not without some nagging thoughts about having to go back home). There,he meets a young woman (Susan Anspach),engaged to his older brother,who he decides to make her just another notch in the old bed post,until he finds out that she has a bit more depth than whom he has been with. Bob Rafelson (working up from directing several episodes of the Monkey's television series,to their ill fated film,'Head',to some mighty tasty feature films,such as the remake of 'The Postman Always Rings Twice',also with Nicholson)directs from a screenplay written by Carole Eastman (credited as Adrian Joyce),and Rafelson. Besides Jack Nicholson as Robert,and Karen Black as Rayette,there is also the afore mentioned Billy Green Bush,Fannie Flagg,as well as Sally Struthers (All In The Family,here credited as Sally Ann Struthers),Toni Basil (you may remember her hit song,Mickie from back in the 1980's),and even Ralph Waite (the Waltons),among others. This is not a film for those who rumple & fetish fast moving films with plenty of smoke & mirrors to cover up the total lack of intelligence,but a character study of someone searching for happiness,and generally always coming up short. Rated 'R' by the MPAA for some salty language,some adult content,with a flash of semi nudity (if it were produced today,it would pull down little more than a PG-13,or even just a PG) "},{"Title":"Five Easy Pieces","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought Five Easy Pieces was a good movie. The camera angles were done really good in this film. When we see Robert and his girlfriend in the car and even when they pick up the two girls whose car broke down the camera angles go from all different angles. This movie also deal with issues that you wouldn't normally see in older movies such as the language, sex, and cheating. Robert has to deal with seeing his father. They didn't really get along but his father had a stroke and he went to see him. Robert tries to talk to him even though the father really cant say anything. Robert's family is very musically talented. He is also very good at playing the piano. But i thought this was a good movie and I would watch it again. "},{"Title":"You can stick this film Between Your Legs.","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Easy Rider has many factors in its favor. First off, you can't go wrong with Jack Nicholson. He is a cocky, miserable SOB but that's why he is so intriguing. Secondly, alienation is a theme that always seems to resonate (at least with me). Bobby's (Nicholson) unhappiness and cynicism is the very which that had pervaded the country (and perhaps is doing so again).Bobby's story is an interesting one. He rejects the comfortable life in which he grew up, instead trading it in for a life of no glitz and no glamor. It is Into the Wild minus Alaska and with Nicholson's wit. The diner scene is the best&#x97;and most famous&#x97;of the entire movie even though it is not essential to the plot and was likely just thrown in for comic relief. "},{"Title":"Jack Can Act!","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is Bobby Eroica Dupea a complicated person with a bunch of issues? Yes, is he one of the most important characters in American films? I do not think so, but Jack Nicholson's performance IS one of the best in American film.Bobby can boil over and explode at any minute (and does a few times). He has many issues, he does not treat his girlfriend well; likes to have some drinks and the fun associated with that; and does not have a good relationship with his father.Most of the characters in this film are eccentric and I found some of their interactions forced. Meeting Palm and Terry on the road did not add much except too much talk of filth and the infamous chicken salad scene in the restaurant. Jack's brooding, transcendent performance overcomes all of this. "},{"Title":"When a man lacks the ability to connect with anyone or anything what does he do?","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Dupea is a man that doesn't seem to fit in anywhere or with anyone. He was ill at ease with his upper class family of musicians. Robert never seems to blend into his surroundings as a middle class man working at an oil rig and dating a waitress. Even when he picks up some rebellious young women speaking against the evils of modern society and consumerism he just sit there silently looking at them with bewilderment. When a man lacks the ability to connect with anyone or anything what does he do? This is exactly what the film Five Easy Pieces explorers. Music, a simple life, family, women, friendship all of this he tries to fill in the void in his life and fails. This all works because of the amazing performance of Jack Nicholson. He brings this difficult character to life and gives a power house performance. Nicholson is able to portray a large range of emotions in this film and often does so within the same scene. Robert Dupea is a complex character running away from things unseen and Jack Nicholson makes it all seem so effortless. There is a reason why this movie launched the career of one of America's greatest actors.The one flaw in the film was its inability to incorporate some of the more wonderful shots into the overall narrative of the film. Whenever there was a wide shot of a setting sun, Robert looking out at a lake or showing the wall of photos when we see the long shot of a wall of pictures while Robert play the piano for Catherine are such examples. These scenes should tell part of the story visually but instead they only seem like they are forced into the film because great film has these shots. While Bob Rafelson is a good director he lacks the overall talent to weave these moments with the rest of narrative. To his credit though these scenes do not feel disjointed from the rest of the film.Some of the historical significance of this movie is a bit lost on me having not been living during this time and prevents me from connecting to the film as well as other may have during its era. Still the overall impact this film is a good display of some of the sentiment around that time. While everyone with good reason speaks about the chicken salad speech or even the scenes with the family at dinner I felt the best one is when Jack Nicholson is drunk and stuck in traffic and cursing out people for lining up in the best part of the day. He then proceeds to hop onto the back of a truck hauling junking and starts to play a out of tune piano while the truck turns off the highway away from his car and his friend. This scene perfectly shows Robert Dupea's plight as he drifts away out of tune with the world. Nicholson's performance alone is worth watching this film but it is a great film even if a bit short of amazing. "},{"Title":"Nicholson's Star Turn","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A man from a musical family wanders through life rather aimlessly in search of his place in life. It sounds pretentious but this is a fine character study that helped turn Nicholson into a major movie star. Black is endearing and funny as his air-headed girlfriend. Anspach plays Nicholson's brother's girlfriend, towards whom his intentions are not exactly familial. Smith is good as Nicholson's sister. Kallianiotes is hilarious as a germo-phobic hitchhiker. The cast features future TV personalities Struthers, Waite, and Flagg. Rafelson, who was a hip name in the early 1970s before fading into obscurity, provides solid direction. "},{"Title":"Family Reunion","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Five Easy Pieces, Jack Nicholson plays a California oil rig worker, Bobby Dupea, who becomes disenchanted with his job, his closest friend and his girlfriend. He has a reunion with his family. They are musicians, as is he. However he had left this life behind also. He suggests that it was the pretension of their craft that led him to this decision. The reunion reinforces this.It's a beautiful film to watch. Many opportunities are taken to stage scenic landscape shots of stark beauty in California and Washington state.The soundtrack is remarkable! The contrast of Country-Western and Classical musics is illustrative.Very clever use of humor. Bobby takes every opportunity to laugh at himself and others.A subtext is sibling rivalry. Another subtext is sexual confusion. Bobby is torn between passive and defensive partners.The film culminates in a heartrending manner when Bobby confronts himself.Five Easy Pieces is a personal favorite! It speaks to cultural confusion that is found in the modern United States. This was quite profound in the late '60's to early '70's.It appears to me that Bob Rafelson was influenced by Elia Kazan's East Of Eden. This is suggested to me by the presence of Lois Smith, and several plot devices.I think this film inspired Michelangelo Antonioni to cast Nicholson in his film The Passenger, which has a very similar theme. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a mere character study.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" FEP is basically without a plot, being an above-average character study. It's well-made, it makes sense, doesn't get either too weepy or in any way preachy - which is not all-too often the case with such movies. Of course, the two main reasons the movie works well is because it has that grainy, realistic 70s look and because Nicholson is in it. I could hardly imagine this kind of story holding any kind of interest in it if Ben Affleck or Di Crapio had tried to carry it on their untalented, miserable, weak backs.Karen Black overdoes the ditsy-blond shtick, coming off as a caricature (Britney Spears, Melanie Griffith) rather than a real person. The painfully obvious point about how utterly below Nicholson's class/station/level/intellect his girlfriend is could have been made more subtly. Naturally, she still manages to be convincing as the dumb bimbo; after all, anyone who joins the Scientologists should have no problem tapping into their stupid inner self for inspiration.What are the five easy pieces? Am I as bad as Black for not understanding the title? Nicholson's five fingers (even though he has ten, I'd guess)? Five easy classical piano pieces? Five easy lays? What? "},{"Title":"Nicholson Finally Coming to Surface, With Style","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces has got to be one of Jack's most underrated and unseen movies. It came at the beginning of his career, and it has proved that he is not merely playing the same character as naysayers proclaim. This film can easily fall into your favorites with this immense character portrayal.But Five Easy Pieces isn't just a great character study, it's highly entertaining and has many scenes that puts the audience into a sense of justification. Many movies show injustice and unfairness, mostly finalizing these conflicts with passiveness and coping. I love Five Easy Pieces for letting that passiveness stop. Robert Depea is so headstrong and tempered that when something annoys him, he does something about it. This movie evokes some of the best stick it to him moments of any movie I've seen. It's also created legendary scenes like the restaurant confrontation and Depea's temper tantrums. The best thing about this character is that he is not merely hot-headed, Nicholson does a great job of showing the profundity and train of thought of this character. Some times he acts on impulse, while at others, through the use of long and controlled takes, the audience can see Depea cogitating on his life and revealing his confusion and epiphanies.Karen Black is also great in this movie as Depea's wife, Rayette. I find it amusing that she managed to make such an annoying character, so likable and needed on screen. Depea's frustration coincides with the audience feeling, she is simply a pest on some level. Yet, her screen presence as Rayette, makes it difficult to hate her. Many critics at the time flattered her for her performance, she won a number of awards, and its sad she didn't win the Oscar because it was well deserved. Nicholson didn't win the Oscar either, but this was the year of Patton and we all know who would win.Five Easy Pieces isn't just great because of these powerhouse performances, it really is a great film overall. The road trip scenes are amusing and put the audience in content. The music is great for any fan of classical. The shots are beautiful in such a character-based movie. Most importantly, it plays on wonderful themes. It's hard to overlook the ever present theme of how where a person has ended up says nothing about where they came from. The theme of everyday life; just living because this is where you are. Probrably the most complex and resounding would be the indifference people develop for life. Depea shows this indifference astonishingly, something that is all to prevalent in every life as boring as the next guy. "},{"Title":"I move around a lot, not because I'm looking for anything really, but 'cause I'm getting away from things that get bad if I stay.","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Rafelson's 'Five Easy Pieces (1970)' paints an unflattering portrait of an unflattering man, one who'd much rather run from his troubles than confront them face-to-face. Robert Bobby Dupea (Jack Nicholson) grew up in an upper middle-class family, and spent his childhood &#150; as did his siblings &#150; becoming well-versed in music. However, with the coming of adulthood, Bobby sought to distance himself from his artistic roots, unable or perhaps unwilling to maintain a respectable lifestyle. Skipping across America, earning money through a series of mundane odd jobs, he is living a life that is both uninteresting and unfulfilling, and his compulsion to continually flee for a new life serves only to prolong the uselessness of his existence. By the beginning of the 1970s, Jack Nicholson had already signalled his intentions to dominate American cinema his big break had been in Dennis Hopper's 'Easy Rider (1969)', and 'Five Easy Pieces' only cemented his position among the emerging acting greats of his generation.In a deliberate decision that sets the sombre tone of the film, the images we see are rather uninteresting to look at. As Bobby, with his waitress girlfriend Rayette (Karen Black) in tow, strikes off across the country to visit his ailing estranged father, the America that we experience is not precisely blue skies and sunny meadows. The air has a downcast, greyish hue to it, suggesting a dull and uninviting environment, and service stations and diners untidily scatter the road-side, their signs in miserable tatters on the grass. Adding further to Bobby's predicament is the presence of girlfriend Rayette, an unintelligent, naive and somewhat pathetic but blindly devoted woman with a special fondness for the music of Tammy Wynette &#150; a fair distance from the classical pieces on which Bobby was raised. Rayette is quite possibly the most annoying film character I've seen in the last six months though I'm unsure if this can be attributed to the actress or merely the character, and, with each word of that whiny Southern accent, I just wanted to strangle her. In any case, let's just say that I perfectly understood why Bobby wanted to ditch her.I've heard the ending to 'Five Easy Pieces' described as gutting, but I certainly wasn't prepared for what transpired in the final five minutes. Having acquired the self-realisation that he is a man with no love for himself, no respect for himself, no love of his friends, family or work, it seems that he is doomed to a miserable life, trapped by his inability to confront the obstacles that obstruct his happiness indeed, he finds himself capable of talking to his father only once the latter has become an unresponsive stroke victim. As Bobby spontaneously decides to hitchhike with a truck driver, leaving his unfortunate girlfriend to wonder where he's got to, the camera lingers on the miserable service station as the final credits begin to roll; it seems like hours before the image fades slowly into black. Where is Bobby travelling to start his new life? I think that, in his final desperate effort to capture a glint of fulfillment, he is heading towards Alaska, away from all the dirt and filth of mainland America, where the snow is clean and white. Bobby's outlook is not hopeful, but it's worth a try. "}{"Title":"Great characterisation, even better interpretation by Nicholson in one of his best roles.","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces stars Jack Nicholson as an oil rig worker who spends his life mistreating his girlfriend (a delightfully nuts Karen Black), bowling and sleeping around. After finding out his father is sick, he returns home to a very different way of life.Nicholson is obviously one of the main elements that makes this movie great, but the rest of the cast give as good as they get and the script is astute. Anyone who feels persecuted by familial expectations can relate to this character and meet him at least halfway in his actions, but the beauty of the script is that for the most part of the film we don't understand why he does the things he does. The slow reveal is compelling and Nicholson's performance absorbing. The film is paced slow and introspective, never spoon feeding the audience how to interpret like so many films these days. Director Bob Rafelson (who later went on direct Nicholson in The Postman Always Rings Twice, Man Trouble and Blood and Wine) is not particularly showy, allowing the characters to tell the story, but his subtle visuals add depth to certain scenes, such as Nicholson's Bobby playing piano whilst the camera pans around the room over photographs showing the life he was meant to have. The ending is surprising and at the same time inevitable, guaranteed to leave you thinking about it after the credits end.Anyone interested in character driven films should check this out. This is also one of Nicholson's most controlled performances, up there with Carnal Knowledge, Cuckoo's Nest and About Schmidt. "},{"Title":"Nicholson's Best Movie --- One of the Best Ever Made!","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this movie was released in 1970 it was initially first-run in New York, Toronto and Los Angeles. I seriously considered driving to New York's Baronet Theatre just to see it 2 weeks sooner. When it played my city, I was in no way disappointed. This was the movie Jack Nicholson was born to play, and is in every way possible superior even to his role in Cukoo's Nest. I've seen it 7 times.Nicholson plays the ultimate alienation role, a man who finds no love either for himself or for the world. Intelligent and educated, he prefers working in the California oil fields with blue collar friends than in the stiff and crusty artistic world he was trained for. When his father is seriously ill, he's called home to Washington state and a clash of cultures will ensue.Most people have heard of the Chicken Salad Sandwich scene and that's too bad because the movie delivers one beautiful-sensational-gut wrenching scene after another. The scene where he tries to explain himself to his father is priceless, as was the concluding scenes with Karen Black in the gas station -- the most sensational dramatic scene in a movie in decades.Some people wrongly think Nicholson is a rat for stringing Karen Black along when he doesn't love the girl. Nonsense. Here on Planet Earth many are involved with people who do not love them back, and are grateful anyway for the relationship. Herein Nicholson is in no way deceptive about his true feelings and Black can leave anytime -- but loves him too much for any such choice.The title, I'm told, is from piano lessons where the student learns to play 5 easy pieces. In other words, the Nicholson character is just beginning his learning. This is one GREAT movie! "},{"Title":"Characterization","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Rafelson's film, Five Easy Pieces, displays amazing characterization. Jack Nicholson plays the role of Robert Dupea, in an exemplary portrayal of a man who is an outsider wherever he goes. In the first few scenes it seems that his job as an oil rigger has been his profession for his whole life, but the first scene where we see that he does not fit in their world is when they are stuck in traffic and he jumps onto the truck and starts playing piano. This is also the first indication that he had the potential of becoming a professional pianist. When we are introduced to his family, we are brought into a world of intellects and pianists, where it seems impossible to stick Dupea there for life.The road trip aspect of this movie is different from most of the other movies such as Easy Rider because he returns to his home, and provides an in depth background of his roots. When he arrives home, his brother is nonchalant and does not even recognize how long he has been away from the house. Meanwhile, even the sister who loves him dearly does not realize how much trouble communicating him and the father had. The father is the cause for his return since he had a stroke and was close to the end of his life. In hindsight, Dupea probably felt that by returning home he might be able to patch things up with his father which might resolve his restlessness. However, when he finds out that his father can barely show emotions, never mind speaking, he realizes the hopelessness of finally belonging somewhere.There is a huge social gap between classes in this movie, and Dupea seems to slip right through both groups. There is the lower class, and the aristocracy of his past. However, Bobby is different from both of the groups. He has a high intelligence shown in his speech and thought, but he chooses to drink beer, and work at a worthless job in his opinion. He does not fit in anywhere because he rejects his old lifestyle, but at the same time he feels that he is too good for the white trash lifestyle. The scene with his friend by the oil riggers displayed this concept, where the friend accused him of thinking too highly of himself in comparison to the friend when they were in similar situations. His girlfriend is of the lower class. She is ignorant of the high class style that Dupea's friends showed. Jack Nicholson yelled at the intellectual lady who makes fun of Rayette, his girlfriend. This is the final disconnection from his former lifestyle. He calls everyone contradicting idiots. This seems to be the part where the audience realizes that he will never return to his home. However, he still remains on the middle ground with no group to join. While Karen Black's performance is over-the-top, she still gets sympathy from the audience to a certain extent when Bobby abandons her at the gas station. However, we also notice that this is the only way that both of them will be able to survive, because if they remained together, they would both suffocate. "},{"Title":"bobby searching","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the film, Five Easy Pieces, Jack Nicholson perfectly portrays a man torn between two worlds with a decision to make. Themes of alienation, culture clashes, and music are carried throughout the film. In its seemingly simple plot and film sequences there is hidden a story about a man that everyone can relate to.An interesting film technique that was used a couple times during the film really struck me. The first time it was used Bobby was out on the oil rigs at dusk. The shot shows a large part of the blue sky fading to pink as Jack's dark silhouette mixes in creating a stark contrast and feeling of loneliness. This type of scene is shown a second time after Bobby has talked to his father, and realizes that it is too late to apologize, even though he doesn't really have to. As the camera fades away there is a very similar looking dusky blue sky holding Bobby's silhouette and his father's who is in a wheelchair. Again in this scene he is feeling alone and unhappy, which is accentuated by the way this scene is shot. Bobby really seems to have no one to turn to. His sister is the only person that he remotely can have a conversation with, but even she cannot understand his need to get away. It's as if in his isolation he is searching for a different kind of isolation. To find any happiness he needs to leave behind the world that he has become a part of and start anew. The only way to do this is to hitch a ride to Canada on a truck, leaving pregnant Rayette alone. Maybe not the best way to go about it, but the only way he can truly cut the ties. This is the second scene in the movie when he 'escapes' in a truck. As he sits to play the piano, which is also an escape, he gets carried off the freeway.Bobby is a blue collar worker when we first see him, but then after he 'quits' his job we see him put a suit on to go visit his sister. He has to fit into some kind of ideal in order to communicate with his well to do family. Ignoring his musical talent for the most part has made him the black sheep of his family. Once we see his father's house it is amazing that he ever left it, but it just doesn't fit him. He seems like a stranger in the house, and to the people in it. When he tries to be funny and dance around, his brother, Carl gets up from the table and leaves. The house is a stark contrast compared to his house and the trailers that we see in his world. The paintings that hang all over his father's house are reminders of the greatness of the past and his ancestors. There is only one picture of Bobby that we see and he looks very preppy; probably not a picture he thinks fondly of. When Catherine and Carl's friends come to visit we, along with Bobby, get a glimpse of what the upper class is like. The shot is interesting, because it seems like Bobby and Rayette are trapped. There is the woman that is sitting directly in the middle blocking their exit in a way. Around them there are intellectual men with beards and glasses spouting information that they probably don't even really care about. Bobby lashes out at both social classes in the film. He calls his friend Elton a cracker at one point saying how pathetic it is that he lives in a trailer. Later in the movie he yells at the upper class people as well saying that they talk about things that they don't even know about. He does not seem to fit in with either class.Music is the one thing that can carry him from class to class. The first time we see him play the piano he is drunk, on the back of a pick-up truck stuck in traffic and horns are mixing in the with the music creating a classical urban style of music. Then we see him in his father's house playing beautifully for Catherine, even though he says it is a piece he learned when he was eight. The upper and lower social classes also seem to differ in their idea of what music really is. Rayette is constantly playing country music that Bobby hates and doesn't even consider music. It seems like every time he walks into his father's house someone is playing the piano and he is confronted with the past he ran away from so many years ago. He needs to find a middle ground, a type of music that he can listen to and enjoy without being reminded of his past. At one point it seems like the chains on the oil rig are music to Bobby, but he also ignores that type of music.Bobby is caught between two worlds and struggles to belong in both. However he is not able to keep up the act that he must perform for both, and decides to leave them both behind. Throughout the film he is constantly returning. He returns to the house to get Rayette and bring her along, and he returns to the house where he grew up, so it is not clear as to whether or not he will leave for a day, a week, or if this time it's forever. "},{"Title":"Can't get no satisfaction.","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces is a film that is about loss of identity and dissatisfaction. This theme of dissatisfaction comes out in throughout the film&#151;Bobby (our main character) is dissatisfied with his girlfriend Rayette, with his way of life, with his old way of life, with everything. Nothing seems to fit for him, and he is constantly in search of a place that works for him.Early in the film, Rayette says to Bobby You're just never satisfied, or something along those lines, to which he responds, That's right. This is where the theme begins to take hold. He is not satisfied with his place as a blue collar worker with oil rigs, as can be seen by the art on the walls of his house when the film opens. After numerous images of the traditional blue collar worker (strong men working with their hands posed against a sunset, for example), we see Bobby return to his house with Rayette, where there seem to be sophisticated pieces of art hanging on the walls&#151;at least more sophisticated than a person of his status at the time would know of. Also, Rayette is constantly listening to country music and constantly trying to sound like Tammy Wynette. Bobby makes a comment at one point about how terrible the music is, which is a result of his musical background that doesn't become known to the viewer until a bit later in the film. However, these subtle hints at education far superior to those around him are meant to hint to the viewer that this is not where Bobby belongs, and most likely not really where he wants to be. The boiling point of Bobby's feelings seems to be when he discovers that Rayette is pregnant and where he outright tells his friend Elton that he is better than what he's become. He has become too dissatisfied with the way his life has played out and turns back to his old way of life by visiting his sister. A simple gesture, but one that will throw him back into the upper levels of society where he came from.It's somewhat obvious by Bobby's relationship with his sister that he was not content living the life of a rich man either. It's assumed that he wanted to escape the life of a rich and talented musician (for whatever reason), and do something completely opposite, which is how he ended up with Rayette and with the life he had at the start of the film. It seems he's constantly running from his past, which he ends up admitting to his brain dead father right before he leaves. When he does find satisfaction, it is with his brother's fiancée Katherine. We can tell that he is content with her&#151;he stays in bed with her after they have sex, he talks to her, he listens, and she puts him in his place. She's the only person that gets through to his thickheaded, mean, stubborn ways and makes him think. However, there is no satisfaction to be found in this relationship either due to her relationship with his brother.At the very end of the film, Bobby looks in the mirror of the gas station bathroom and studies himself. It appears he is trying to figure out who he is and what's really going on with himself. Whatever he decides is not entirely certain&#151;the only thing he is certain of is that he is not cut out for a life with Rayette and the endless drone that was his blue collar life. The film has a somewhat open ended ending&#151;it leaves the audience with kind of a dismayed view of what could become of Bobby with no money, no nothing. However, I think that this ending is the only one that really suits the film&#151;Rayette was an annoying and obnoxious woman and not cut out for life with Bobby (as was illustrated when she was at the dinner table at his family's house)&#133;Bobby was not ever satisfied with his life with her, and he was used to always running back to the road to find his satisfaction. The audience is left with the impression that Bobby will keep traveling the filth that is America (as the hitch hiker from California would say) until he finds his satisfaction just as other young Americans searching for their identity. "},{"Title":"5 easy pieces","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie 5 easy pieces was made in 1970 and had the much younger but still famous actor Jack Nicholson for the lead role. Nicholson plays a man by the name of Robert Dupea who is coming back to his hometown to see his dying father. When we first see Dupea (Nicholson) we see him as a man who goes from job to job and the same goes for woman. He likes to drink and you could almost consider him of some sort of drifter. We see him in the beginning where he is working in an oil field where the job was more of physical work than intellectual work, but we get the impression that Bobby wants it that way something completely different than his past. When he wasn't doing that he was either playing cards or with his somewhat girlfriend Rayette (Karen Black). Though he lies to her flirts with girls in front of her face and even sleeps with other woman, yet for some reason Rayette is holding on hoping that someday Bobby will say that he loves her.When he comes back to see his father we see that Dupea had a much different previous life back home, where he was a very accomplished musician as a pianist. We get to see a very humorous part of Nicholson in this movie when his friend Elton () and him are suppose to be driving to work and they end up by getting stuck in the traffic jam. Dupea gets so fed up with all the honking and yelling that he climbs out of the truck and starts screaming and yelling back but obviously was not going the results he wanted. He then sees a piano in the back of a truck and gets into the back of it and plays the piano in front of everyone in the crowded streets. I don't think this movie had a set tone or mood on how we should feel about Bobby Dupea as human being. I think that they wanted to let the viewers decide for themselves how they felt about him. They didn't make him out to be some sort of romantic sweep you off your feet kind of guy. He had true flaws just like anyone one of us could have. Yet I have to feel sympathetic for him I think that his relationship with his father and himself was derailed from an early age. From then on Dupea didn't want to get close or have relationships with people because of fear of being hurt. I think that bobby just didn't have any direction on his life and coming back to see his dying father could have been the best or worst thing for him. It's up to us to pick which one it is. "},{"Title":"running from what?","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the movie Five Easy Pieces, Robert Dupea (Jack Nicholson) is running away from something. However, he himself does not even know what it is that he is so afraid of. In the end he has a cathartic interaction with his father before he leaves. I'm not running away from anything. I'm just getting away from things that get bad if I stay. I think even he has trouble believing this excuse himself. He is in classic denial of his own being. He is running away from himself. One can see evidence of this throughout the movie. In many instances he seems to burn bridges with acquaintances without even knowing why. He's not even sure why he left home anymore.Although from an aristocratic and affluent back ground, Robert chooses to leave home to live the life of a vagrant. The opening shot is of Robert working on an oil rig. His night life consists of bowling and putting up with his girlfriend, Rayette (Karen Black) whom he seems to find absolutely repulsive. In the bowling ally, he is approached by two women who mistake him for someone else, each one dumber than the next. The next night he and his friend Elton (Billy Greenbush) have an affair with these two women without even thinking twice about it. These two women combined were probably less smart than Rayette, yet he pursues them for some cheap thrills. He knows that he does not want Rayette, but he figures as long as he's living this life, she seems to be the appropriate fixture. Another scene that speaks to his lack of emotion towards anyone is that after Robert has reduced Rayette to tears in the bowling ally, he says, No one would want to hit on you, you look pathetic. The first scene that Robert shows any sign of being a caring human being is when he goes to visit his sister in the music studio. He seems to truly care about her. When he hears the news about his father, it sparks the first time throughout the movie that he feels to have any responsibility or remorse. He has work and tends to go on a regular basis, but he is usually drinking before during and afterwards. He also quit his job and pondered leaving when Elton proposed he stay around and takes care of the responsibility of being a father. Entertaining the wishes of his sister and feeling slight remorse that the trip he took home was three years ago, he decides to take the trip.When he reaches the house, he introduced to a woman who caches his attention immediately. While she seems only to be a diversion to dealing with reality of his situation, it seems that Robert develops some true feelings for her. They challenge each other equally instead of the empty and meaningless relationships that Robert had been involved with in the past. In their first extended conversation there is a beautiful panning shot of the entire room where Robert used to practice piano, which shows pictures of famous musicians, instruments and old family photos that ends on Catherine's tearing face. He falls for the one girl he meets with class throughout the whole movie. He is running from this bourgeois lifestyle but refuses to admit that this is who he is. He will never be attracted to the slumming and womanizing. You don't even love yourself. How can you ask for love in return? is Catherine's reply to Robert's pursuit.The scene when Robert is face to face with himself looking in the mirror in the bathroom of the gas station is when he is finally honest with himself. He looks straight at himself and thinks about going back to the place where he was and leaving the place he has just come from. Although he has differences with his family, there is reciprocal love there. Back in California, all he has is a dead end. I think he makes the right choice. "},{"Title":"Marvelous Stuff","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't think any other film of the period comes close to breaking down and epitomising the spirit of rebellion and disillusionment that became a motif of the 1970's.As Robert Eroica Dupea, Jack Nicholson gives a mesmerising performance. Shifting between quiet inner turmoil and unrest and moments of wild, unfettered rage, he is a man who has rejected his intellectual, middle class upbringing, yet seems unable to find peace in the low brow life he has chosen. He is the essence of anti-hero. At times he is thoroughly dislikeable - an abomination of a man who treats those around him with contempt and intolerance, yet Nicholson fills him with enough charm as to create both audience sympathy and empathy.He claims to be without sentiment or inner feeling, yet his explosions of passion belie this. His impassioned defence of his irritating girlfriend - You don't even deserve to be in the same room as her, you pompous celibate - is both shocking in its heartfelt delivery and its explosive vitriol.The story is both rambling and bleak, yet there is an undercurrent of warmth and feeling throughout. It's not a film that sets out to entertain... it's a film that makes you think. The low key ending comes abruptly, but is a perfect reflection of the restlessness of the character we have followed. A man who is still searching for his inner peace. "},{"Title":"An intricately complex film","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie surprises repeatedly by juxtaposing characters and settings. The story takes the viewer from the Texas oil fields to a private island in New England or the northwest. Bobby juxtaposes himself as a roughneck and a phenomenal pianist who tragically feels nothing from the music. Those two, combined with the classic diner scene with wheat toast pose the question, which is the real Bobby? Karen Black plays Bobby's Texas squeegee and a waitress of the kind Bobby later encounters, blasting country music while she sings to herself in the mirror. Susan Anspach (I always expected to see more of her) plays a privileged, arrogant denizen of the Duprea compound who becomes another of Bobby's lovers. Finally, and much to my personal satisfaction as a writer in the biz, the story ends in ambiguity, or has Hemingway would write it, and Bobby went out. "},{"Title":"Magnificently uncompromising  (spoilers)","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bobby Dupea (excellently played by Jack Nicholson) is a man who wants to escape his past but who finds it almost impossible to forge a future. He seems trapped in a purgatory, one that forces him to keep moving forward but one that keeps emotionally inert. Even though he keeps moving he never seems to get anywhere.The film starts with Bobby working in an oil field. The job doesn't demand anything intellectually but you get the impression that that's the way Bobby likes it. Manual labour is what he wants. And Bobby's girlfriend, too, the unsophisticated Rayette, doesn't challenge his intelligence either. However, much to his annoyance, she's challenging emotionally. She listens to country music songs over and over again and she cries when he flirts with other women, when he sleeps with them and when he refuses to say that he loves her. What she doesn't seem to realise is that all he wants is an easy lay and somewhere to sleep. She has nothing else to offer him.But this working class existence was meant to be a haven, because in his other life Bobby was a talented pianist. And this talent is first demonstrated in an excellent scene on a busy highway. Bobby and his friend Elton are meant to be driving to work but they're stuck in a traffic jam. Annoyed by the hooting, Bobby gets out of the car and starts shouting at the other drivers. But then he notices a piano on the back of a truck. He hops onto the vehicle, and then amidst the noise of the busy road, he plays a piece. And so wrapped up is he in the music that he doesn't notice when the truck drives off and takes the wrong exit.This scene gives the first insight into the other side of Bobby's character. At the beginning he just seems like a rather heartless individual, one who emotionally abuses his girlfriend and one who's only joy seems to be in cheating on her. But here you get the first glimpse that there's something under the surface, something better waiting to come out.However, that's not to say that Bobby is necessarily a bad guy. There are glimpses of warmth in his relationship with Rayette. They have their good moments. It's just that they have more bad that good. But even though they sometimes get along, it's obvious that they're completely wrong for one another. Bobby is a cultured individual from a wealthy family while Rayette is a waitress with aspirations to be a country singer. But alas the needy and emotional Rayette isn't smart enough to see how ill suited they are. Of course, Bobby sees it, but he doesn't really do anything about it. It's as if he just stumbled into the relationship. Perhaps, at the beginning, he found Rayette charming and the working class, trailer park lifestyle romantic, but by the time the film starts it's obvious that the whole thing has lost its allure.And at one point, Bobby goes to walk out on Rayette. He's ready to go home, pick up his stuff and leave. But when he goes home, Rayette is there, listening to country music songs and sobbing, and being the coward that he is, he relents and allows her to come on the trip that he's making &#150; he's going back to see his dad who has had a stroke.However, things aren't much better at his family home. He may have left his melodramatic blue-collar existence behind him but he goes back to the cold, pretentious lifestyle that he wanted to escape in the first place, for everyone in his artistic family is a talented musician. And although he gets on well with his sister and fine with his brother, you know that the relationship with his father must have been strained for him to run away like he did. And what makes it worse is that there's no hope for reconciliation &#150; because of the strokes his father can't talk and can barely communicate. So all Bobby can do is apologise to his silent father for things not working out between them, knowing that, really, his apology is far too late.The only real hope for Bobby is with his brother's fiancé. She asks him to play the piano for her and he does with great skill, so much so that she gets a little emotional. But when she admits this, Bobby laughs, saying that he just picked the easiest piece and that he could play it better when he was eight. She then says that it doesn't matter; she was only interested in the feeling. Bobby says that there was none. It's almost as if Bobby wants to sabotage every chance he has to get close to people. His relationship with his father has made his numb.But it's to the film's immense credit that the film doesn't dwell on the strained relationship. It's only explicitly brought up in the father and son scene at the end, and even then it's incredibly understated. Instead the film just presents Bobby and asks you to make your own judgements. However you feel towards him is up to you. Personally, I find him a pretty sympathetic character. He's man with intelligence and charm but who isn't really capable of getting close to people. Plus, wherever he goes he never seems to find what he's looking for. Therefore, the ending, is both bleak and realistic. (Rayette and Bobby stop off at a gas station. She goes into the café while he, unknown to her, hitches a ride in a truck. The final shot has him in a truck heading to Alaska while she stands around the car wondering where he's got to.) You know that wherever he runs he's just as unlikely to find himself. It's an uncompromising ending to a magnificent film. "}{"Title":"Class, Freud, and Music","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson plays an oil rigger who, after hearing about his father's faltering health, returns to a past he's always been escaping from with a girlfriend from a, let's just say, very different class than his family. Sound familiar? This movie is nothing like what you're thinking of.Back-dropped against a story of a disenchanted man who has to become abusive to cope with his inability to look at himself is a road-journey involving the clash between Tammy Wynette and classical music, both literally and figuratively. Here his a man who escaped the blase world of self-serving pseudophilosophy and strict Classical design to hide in a world of redneck trailer trash, and finds that he rather hates both. Behind the character of Bobby is so much of an alienating world, backed up by ever crazier characters and the worst conceits of both worlds represented by the music. While his girlfriend, the terrible Rayette, listens to the worst country music in existence (and that's pretty bad), everyone asks Bobby why he stopped playing Classical piano... and it's because he doesn't feel for it the way they feel he should.This film contains more than its fill of powerful and perfectly done moments. When Bobby lashes out against the woman discussing class in only the most arrogant of way, the audience feels catharsis. When Bobby sits at the dinner table, finally seeing his girlfriend the way he wouldn't admit to himself she was, the audience feels uncomfortable. And when Bobby tries to escape, the audience feels hope. A movie capable of engaging the viewer so perfectly and exacting everything is certainly worthy of praise.The film itself has the feel that most independent films of today wish they could have. Hand-held cameras compliment crane shots and, most importantly, are used when they should be to incite the perfect in response and symbolism. The acting and writing perfectly compliment the directing and editing, and none of it comes close to the realm of pretension or preaching. It's almost hard to see this film as a movie but an experience, seeing a guy that normally would be hated by Hollywood and see his internal struggles in ways most filmmakers only wish they could reach.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Excellent study of contrasting lifestyles and which are more real.","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I note from the posted comments that the key to the title of this movie is not mentioned. I understand that the theme of the movie was a contrast between the need to master 5 essential musical pieces to become an accomplished concert pianist, which Robert was, and the need to master life's essential relationships, which Robert had not. As Catherine points out to him near the end of the movie, he has turned his back on (1) himself, (2) his work; (3) his family; (4) his friends; and (5) his music. But . . . the movie also examines the issue of which lifestyle is really preferable Catherine and her circle of pompous friends, or Robert's free and easy existence unencumbered by pretense and self-imposed restraints. Can we answer this question without seriously examining all the options. The environmentalist hitchhikers committed to a move to Alaska based on nothing more than a postcard picture. Maybe more research would have been better. "},{"Title":"Jack Nicholson in a superb early role.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My comments contain some SPOILERS, please don't read them if you have not seen the movie yet.The title refers to a standard book of 'Five Easy Pieces' for piano, easy to play pieces that sound more difficult than they are.  Robert (Nicholson) is from a family of musical artists, and himself was a budding piano prodigy, but had basically dropped out of his mainstream by working in an oil field, bowling and drinking with friends, and having a non-committed relationship with a bimbo waitress and aspiring country singer. He met up with his older sister again, recording piano music in a L.A. recording studio, found out his dad was very ill after two strokes.Reluctantly he went home via road trip (famous restaurant scene, chicken salad on toast, now ... hold the chicken salad) to the Puget Sound island home (actually filmed in Oregon and British Columbia), left his girlfriend in a cheap motel because he was embarrassed to bring her home, after a week she showed up anyway and was a catalyst for a key scene, when an 'intellectual' visitor was putting down her kind and Robert went into one of his rages. A misfit of all sorts, Robert also seduces his brother's pianist girlfriend, and played for her one of those 'easy pieces.' He finally has a one-directional talk with his father, expressing some remorse for his life, then headed back to L.A. At a gas stop, remembering a conversation with a lesbian couple headed to Alaska because it 'was clean', he abandoned his girlfriend and car, and hitched a ride north, acknowledging that he is a misfit, unable to hold any kind of relationship with others. Good movie for its significance in Jack Nicholson's career. "},{"Title":"I agree with the Whine Guy","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To attempt to address jimg-9's concern about Robert driving 5,000 miles in a couple of days....look closely when Robert is driving just before he sees his sister....the freeway signs indicate Los Angeles and Hollywood....so I've always assumed that she is in Los Angeles for her work....that's still a long drive to Seattle but not nearly as far as from Texas. Californians might also notice that the piano-on-the-truck scene was shot on a freshly completed stretch of Interstate 5 not far from Bakersfield (much of I-5 in that area was completed in 1969-1970 I believe)which likely means that the whole oil rig portion of the film was shot in that area.I absolutely love this film! Jack N. is a master of complex characters. I can't decide which is my favorite scene, there are so many good ones. Certainly at the top of the list would be the hitchhiker harping about filth, along with the diner scene. I'm not a big country music fan, but the Tammy Wynette songs stay with me as much as the classical music. Karen Black is so realistic, so believable as Rayette. She and Jack both should have won Oscars, particularly since this was the year (I think) that George C. Scott refused his Oscar. The ending is nearly perfect, albeit abrupt. This is essential viewing for those who have the attention span for quality cinema. "},{"Title":"Great movie but...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie but there's one thing thats always bothered me. When  Nicholson's character leaves Texas and visits his sister in the recording studio, then returns to pickup the girlfriend, are we supposed to believe that he drove all the way from Texas to Seattle and back, and then back to Seattle again? Doesn't make much sense..  about 5,000 miles of driving in a couple days.Other than that this is a GREAT movie. The young Nicholson is brilliant and every other performance is superb too. One of the best movies of the 70's. "},{"Title":"Five Easy Pieces (1970)","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film stands, in my opinion, as one of the greatest exemplars of the American cinema, and watching it is like reading a classic American novel, one that reflects ideologies and prejudices, lost hopes and new beginnings through its protagonists and topography. Jack Nicholson's acting is particularly effective and unique, as the story develops in a never-predictable way. Very rich in psychological realism.I would recommend this film to anyone.   "},{"Title":"one of Jack's finest","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie, and possibly THE LAST DETAIL, holds the best performance by Jack Nicholson, probably my favorite actor. Jack is the key reason to see this film, but this is also Bob Rafelson's greatest work. Watching this film the first time, you see Jack as Bobby Dupeau working on an oil rig, living with a white-trash bimbo waitress (Karen Black), flirting with two young ladies at a bowling alley, drinking and going bald. You think this is a film about the rough and deteriorating life of a blue-collar American, but look for a magnificent scene where Dupeau jumps on the back of a truck carrying a piano and play it phenomenally as the truck drives away. You first think this is some surreal sequence that pops out of nowhere and has little meaning with the story.But everything comes closer together as the film moves on. Turns out Bobby has chosen this miserable blue-collar life, because he has been running away from his upper-class family of musicians and everything they represent for years. News of his father dying is what brings him back. And that's when it starts cooking.This film has a few elements of the 60s and 70s that may seem a bit dated now, but like EASY RIDER, it's the theme and storyline that make it eternal. I would have preferred Nicholson receiving an Oscar for his performance here rather than ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST (although that is also a magnificent film).Don't miss the infamous chicken salad bit or a cameo by future one-hit wonder Toni Basil of Mickey fame.Just don't miss this gem of a movie, period!!     "},{"Title":"Nicholson Doing the Crazy Thing He Does","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A drop-out from upper-class America picks up work along the way on oil-rigs when his life is not spent in a squalid succession of bars, motels, and other points of interest.The cast includes Jack Nicholson, Karen Black and Toni Basil... this is a semi-reunion for Easy Rider (both also having Easy in the title). I am unclear about how this casting came about... if the films have a real connection, I do not know what it is. Were they both BBS productions?Nicholson had previously worked with director Bob Rafaelson on Head (which they co-wrote) and they went on to work together seven or eight times. Basil had been the choreographer for Head.I do not know what was up with the ugly hippie chick who believes Alaska is cleaner than other places because she saw a picture. But do not tell anyone, or others will move in and mess it up! Believe me, clean or not, I will not move to Alaska. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just love, love, love, Jack Nicholson! I think he is an outstanding actor, and I can see why he has done so well in his career. He played the character perfectly in this movie. Robert was such an ass and also coward. I liked how the movie was filmed, how it was on site filming. It amazed me to see how Robert looked at his father, and how he almost was trying to reconnect, mend the broken pieces, with his father. But he knew that it was pointless and if he hadn't had a stroke they wouldn't even be talking and he wouldn't even be there for him. I think the title is very descriptive to what the film is actually about. Or at least I think that it means that there are few things in life that trigger happiness and tragedy, its just a matter of which ones consume you and how you live your life. I would recommend this movie to more of an older audience, no children. "},{"Title":"A Self Indulgent Tour De Force","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson plays a brooding jerk who can't seem to capture what he wants supposedly. He's an under-achiever, Neer do well,who has degenerated into a meaningless existence. Stuck in a depressing labor job of oil refinery, we don't understand his motives or goals. His character is basically just reactionary. He's an unsympathetic creep who treats his girlfriend, cleverly played by Karen Black, with disdain. We understand later that he was a gifted pianist who had been raised in an upper class musically prominent family. His sister, father and brother all have pursued and acquired careers in music as he has left the family tradition with indifference. This movie is indicative of the late 60's and early 70's era in which films were trying to exhume naturalism and raw honesty from characters. But to today's standards they look like parodies of what they thought realism was. A number of scenes come to mind such as the Diner scene where Jack goes into a rage against a starchy waitress. This scene is completely out of sync from the rest of the film. In reality this scene appeared too over the top. Waitresses today would normally just retreat and tell the manager. But this makes it appear as if we are having a showdown that would highly unlikely escalate to such an embarrassment. The women would hardly be as accepting to such aggressive behavior. There are other scenes that just seem to ramble on where we get minimal dialogue and have to guess what the characters are doing or thinking. The hitchhiker woman spewing her disgust with society gets relentless and overplayed to a nuisance. The scene where all those intellectuals corroborating over modern psychology in his father's home is unrealistic as well. It looks too staged. When Jack chastises the woman for acting superior it is just too overdone. Yelling at someone in a fireside setting without any significant reaction from others is too weird and doesn't lead anywhere except to viewer aggravation. My biggest qualm would be to the performance of Ms. Aspach. Her performance really bothered me and I think she lacks depth as an actress. As the 70's came near acting changed and you can see it in Five easy Pieces. All the characters seem to have a purpose except for Bobby (Jack Nicholson). He is an unhappy man with a chief feature of being a tramp. He goes and leaves only to avoid his personal problems, but he cannot capitalize or utilize his musical talents in a prosperous way. His admission to his father that he never felt he was a good musician may be self-denial or the truth. But we never really know. By the end we never realize why he was so apathetic toward everyone, but the path he ultimately takes is ambiguous. "}{"Title":"An Iconic 60s Film (I Know I Know - It's 1970!)","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For someone who lived (really lived!) through the madness of the 1960s, this film (without any overt reference to hippies/counterculture) seems to embody a general feeling of rootlessness, and loss of an easy cultural identity. Jack's character bridges both high and low culture, Northern intelligentsia and rural Southern hillbilly without finding a steady anchor in either extreme. Many of the counterculture were - if pressed - looking for themselves in a mad rush for experience / sensation, and - for many - it was a futile quest for something that was really at hand - identity, and family. Here, Jack's character has - for the most part - surrendered to a loss of self, turned entirely cynical about any solution or connection. He personifies much of what I (and others) hoped to avoid while setting ourselves to achieve a separation from all the worst in society, while also exiling oneself from any possibility of finding satisfaction or contentment, as we strove to avoid mere sentimentality, and to be elsewhere (Alaska perhaps?). Jack has given up of course, he is a jerk, but one you come to feel great pity for, although he would only disdain you for the effort. The one time he comes close to revealing his self (as he understands it) is when he speaks to his mute father, obviously finding safety in the other's inability to have any feeling about him, thus entrapping him in expectations and love and concern. It is a perfectly wrought narrative about an existential crisis that has no fix. Funny at times (though always dark and apt to spill into hopelessness), the film leaves a viewer feeling depleted, yearning for escape, but realizing that - eventually - no exit exists. "},{"Title":"very creative--indicative of reality","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is more of a rumination on some of the content of the film than a review of it. This is an intelligent movie, very closely connected to its main character. This is the kind of stuff I think about when I watch it I'm watching this movie, for the second time, right now, and I've just passed the scene where Rayette comes to dinner at Bobby's family's house. I'm at the point where it's the late evening discussion with pompous friends. I think it's a major point in the movie, Rayette's coming to the house, it's the meeting of the two different kinds of people in the movie, the two different kinds of people that Bobby is torn between. Those who are intellectual, but not wholly, really they strive to advance some mental faculty, and, of course, this kind live fairly well. Then there the kind Bobby spent three years escaping to. Blue-collar is the word for his friend, the kind of work they do, and their friends. Bobby loses it with his friends and he loses it with his family's friends. Nothing is satisfying. I must say, the main talker at the after dinner discussion is such a close-minded fool, the character is elitist. I don't think that Bobby is that, and I think he justly calls her out on it.He's really adolescent. I'm adolescent, and everything he does in this film...I have done these things, or I have become frustrated myself enough to role-play them in my head--HHHHH--this is a great film, my absolute favorite and I had to pause it to write this while I had it in me. "},{"Title":"Best of '70 with Great Acting!","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The best film of a great year with powerful performances by all, especially Mr. Nicholson in a great follow-up role to his boozy lawyer in EASY RIDER. This unsatisfied drifter portrayed by Jack has a bumpy road ahead as he tries to find some meaning in life in a turbulent time period. Rafelson's best film. Billy Green Bush and Lois Smith should have won Supporting Gold and Karen Black is unique and like a broken record playing country music.A 10 out of 10. Best performance = J. Nicholson. Stunning ending and this won nothing at the Oscars (out of 4 noms., I believe). I saw this in high school and it still holds up today (even more so). Nice support from Ralph Waite, Susan Anspach, and John Ryan as well. Excellent cinematography and a key film of the time period. Excellent! "},{"Title":"The Good Life","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Five Easy Pieces stars Jack Nicholson as Bobby Dupea, a child prodigy, gifted pianist and son to a pair of wealthy elites. But Bobby has rejected his privileged lifestyle in favour for the more authentic experience of being a trailer park dwelling roughneck. Rather than make money off his talents, he lives with his simple girlfriend and spends his days moaning about his job.Though Bobby has disguised himself as a working man, he can't deny his background and the values he assimilated as a child. He has talent, education and a genuine feel for music, but rejects them all. Like Brando in The Wild One, he just can't get no satisfaction. He doesn't know what he wants, doesn't fit in anywhere and seems to harbour contempt for everything and everyone.There's a key scene in the film where Bobby attempts to order a piece of toast at a highway diner. It's the one time Bobby knows exactly what he wants, but he fails to achieve even this. Later on, Bobby plays a moving piece on the piano. Once finished, he quickly denies his performance. It was an easy piece, he says, I played it better as a kid. He seems to want total detachment from his past and his gifts, and doesn't want to be defined by skills which were forced upon him as a child.The film is structured as an episodic road movie, Bobby learning of his father's ill health and travelling back home to visit the family. Once there, we catch glimpses of Bobby's former life, the film then ending with Bobby running away from his family and his pregnant girlfriend. Like Nicholson's character in The Passenger, he throws his car and his wallet away and leaps off in search of yet another new life.As Bobby tells his dying father, his chief impulse is to escape his auspicious beginnings. He moves around a lot not because I'm looking for anything really, but ... 'cause I'm getting away from things that get bad if I stay. Jaded audiences at the time viewed Bobby's running as an act of defiance. Here is a man who will not be part of a sick society, man! But that's not quite what the film is really about. As too great an expectation was placed on his shoulders at an early age, Bobby has became expert at running away from himself. He can't face responsibility. His distant and domineering father, his pressure to succeed and be a success, they've all affected how he's ultimately grown up, resulting in him becoming unhappy and almost misanthropic.Many directors (the Coens, Alexander Payne, Lars Von Trier, Charles Burnett, Ingmar Bergman, ) would cite Five Easy Pieces as an influence. It would also have an the road movie genre. In these films, partly derived from medieval literature (such as Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales), one or more characters journey through a physical landscape that acts as correlative to the mental landscape that one or more of them traverse in their odyssey of spiritual growth. What's odd is that four early masterpieces of the genre were co-scripted by Federico Fellini Roberto Rossellini's The Flowers of St. Francis, Fellini's own La strada, Luis Bunuel's The Milky Way and Wim Wenders's Kings of the Road. 8.5/10 - Minor masterpiece. See Pier Paolo Pasolini's The Hawks and the Sparrows, The Straight Story and the road movies of Wenders. "},{"Title":"It's Karen Black's triumph...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's a point midway through Five Easy Pieces wherein Jack Nicholson goes to visit his sister (a frustrated professional pianist), they have a solemn dialogue, and the movie comes to a standstill. There's isn't much being said, and the movie doesn't seem to be heading anyplace. However, after Nicholson hits the road on a journey to see his ailing father, the movie adopts a scrappy, infectious pace. It's a rather mean-spirited film about the working class versus those who work hard at their talents--and how the drive to be determined comes at a tough price. Nicholson's angry loner, saddled with a waitress-girlfriend, is alienated from his past but he doesn't necessarily alienate the other characters (he attempts to push them away, though they aren't repelled--they're resigned to his moods). While the actor has several signature scenes here, it is Karen Black who emerges with the standout performance. Regal in her waitress uniform (just as she is in her leopard-print coat), Black is simply amazing as Rayette DiPesto, a little cupcake with crazy hair who practically gets stoned on life. A rumination on life and life's woes, the picture has some humor, but it's rude, cynical humor. Director Bob Rafelson probably didn't believe in all this himself, but he gives the film the perfect look of a loner, chilly and forever in transition. *** from **** "},{"Title":"On the road to nowhere","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to admit that this movie left me rather cold. I think it's supposed to be a deep character study, but the enigmatic main character, Robert Dupea (Jack Nicholson), really doesn't express much emotion except some anger and some depression, and so seems rather stilted. And the supporting actors seem fairly shallow.The tag line for the movie is He rode the fast lane... on the road to nowhere and I would certainly agree with that last part, as the movie seems to lack direction. Dupea runs from job to job, woman to woman, town to town.I thought that the movie may have redeemed itself when Dupea visits his sick father, but unfortunately the father couldn't speak, which made for a somewhat one-sided reconciliation.A high point of the film is the classic chicken salad scene, about getting what you want.I've enjoyed other movies like Easy Rider and Withnail and I which were also set in the late sixties/early seventies, but both of these movies had a strong rock soundtrack to help them along. In Five Easy Pieces we mainly have classical and country music.It has been said that Dupea is an archetypal non-conformist character which Nicholson used as a steppingstone to later roles. Perhaps, but there is a world of difference between, say, Dupea and the well-developed Randall McMurphy character in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Having said all this the movie did receive several Oscar nominations but, perhaps not surprisingly, no wins. I'm sorry but I can only give this movie 5/10. "},{"Title":"summary","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this movie Bobby (Jack Nicholson) is a definition loner. Loner is defined as one who avoids the company of other people and this is definitely Bobby. To begin with Bobby has no love for anything or anybody. He ignores his family, hates his job, and most of all he doesn't care about his girlfriend at all. He expects everyone to give him love back but he gives none out. Catherine points this out to him when he asks her to show him some love.The start of Bobby being a loner is his family. He left them for no apparent reason and started jumping around from place to place. He had a promising career as a piano player because he was good at it and it was his family heritage. He just threw this away along to work on an oil rig which he hates also and ends up quitting. He didn't tell them where he was going or what he was doing so they had no idea what he was up to until the day he went and saw his sister. The only reason he went back to see his family is because his father was dieing and he felt that he was obligated to do so. I don't think that he actually wanted to be there he just felt he should be.The next biggest thing in his life besides his family is his girlfriend who he shows absolutely no respect to. He is constantly cheating on her and bad mouthing her right to her face. She wants the relationship to get more serious by having kids and he wants nothing to do with that because he doesn't want to be tied down. The only reason that they are still together is because she is to stupid and naïve to break up with him. Every time she wants to do it he says something a little sweet and she instantly forgives him and lets him walk all over her again. To be honest this is the perfect girl for Bobby because he can do what ever he wants and she will let him.You can also tell Bobby is a loner because every time something big happens he goes off by himself and gets drunk. For example when things go bad at his house he leaves and goes and gets drunk in a bar. When Bobby and Elton go to work drunk one morning and the boss doesn't let them work they leave and start drinking more. While stuck in traffic Bobby gets out of the car and gets in the back on a truck with a piano and starts playing, then the truck leaves and Elton loses him. This is a great symbol to show that Bobby is a loner because the only person he likes in his life is Elton and he is taken away from him by the truck. Then days later Elton is really taken from him when he is arrested so Bobby is totally alone.We find out at the end of the movie that Bobby is a loner because he is afraid that things will get bad if he stays in one spot for too long. With this mentality that Bobby has it is no wonder he is a loner and why he will always be a loner. He doesn't want to get attached and he expects that people will do everything for him. "},{"Title":"On Alienation The Misfit Drifter or the Concert Pianist?","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In discussing films with extraordinary characterization, Bob Rafelson's Five Easy Pieces is an exemplary example. The film is an intense character study of an alienated, misfit drifter who seems to have no specific direction or place in life. Jack Nicholson brings to life Robert Dupea, a man who has considerable natural musical talent, but has rejected that life and his family who is also musically talented. There are hints throughout the film that Robert had great promise as a concert pianist if only he had stuck with it. He contains many of the creative personality characteristics that would predispose him to musical greatness. Psychologists who study creativity have found that generally creative people contain a number of specific personality characteristics. Robert contains many of them, but has generally abandoned creating anything.I would first like to comment on why I feel the film received the title, Five Easy Pieces. I at first thought that it might be because Robert plays piano five times throughout the film. But in a second viewing, I counted and he only played piano four times, including the time where he mimics playing the piano at the dinner table when discussing his experience playing in Las Vegas. I pondered a little further and realized that the title was likely spawned from the five classical pieces listed in the introductory credits; Chopin's Fantasy in F minor, Bach's Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue, Mozart's E-flat major concerto, Chopin's Prelude in E minor, and finally Mozart's Fantasy in D minor. I myself am not a musician, but other people who do play music have told me that these pieces are somewhat difficult to play. But Robert can sit down and play them with no problem. In this sense, the title Five Easy Pieces is somewhat ironic.One of the main characteristics of creative people is 'alienation'. I will discuss this concept first because alienation is one of the central themes of the film. The alienation that lies in Robert is a direct result of his lack of direction towards any one particular life. In his case, one life would be the average working class type of person and the other would be that of a musician. Robert seems to be caught somewhere between the two. He came from a talented, musically oriented family and was at one point, a promising pianist, but now engages in a common, working class lifestyle where he drinks beer, bowls, listens to country music and chases after women. But it is evident that he does not feel settled in this lifestyle. He is as much of a misfit among the common community as he is among the musical atmosphere of Puget Sound. In essence, he is a nowhere type of man.Robert also displays the personality characteristic of 'naivete', meaning that a person tends to act somewhat child-like. Creative people tend to be quite impulsive and open to emotional display, and are quite often labeled as temperamental. Poet, Earl Birney states that poets might just be people who have not overgrown their love for poetry as a child. Many researchers have theorized that the creator is like a child. Schiller argues that you can not create if your intellect (a uniquely adult attribute) hinders you. Another theorist, Osborne argues that to be creative one must eliminate the mature, intellectual attitude, and that creative people are able to resist premature judgements through the use of brainstorming techniques, producing many ideas and alternatives. Freud said that both the child and the creative person are similar in that both have unfulfilled wishes and desires. Satisfied people do not create. He argued that all people need an escape from reality; in adulthood we daydream (play internally) for wish fulfillment, but the creative person keeps it external by creating something such as a symphony, poem, or a painting etc. At many points in Five Easy Pieces, Robert displays child like behavior. This is characterized most notably in the famous scene where he explodes at a waitress in a diner because the establishment does not have the meal that he desires. He flies into a temper tantrum and sweeps all of the glasses and menus off the table. Another wonderful scene illustrating Robert's naivete is the one when he jumps aboard a truck with a piano in the back and begins playing it during a traffic jam. Creative people, like children are often open to high emotional display, and hence Robert seizes the moment by playing the piano to get his mind off the traffic jam which he has lost patience with. He, like many other creative people is very confident, self assertive, dominant, and independent.The film's narrative neatly unfolds Robert's insecurity, another common creative trait. Many great creators have doubts about the quality of their product and the authenticity of their talent, hence the notion that creative people are never satisfied. It is quite evident that Robert has high doubts that he could be a great pianist. This is probably why he ended up being a drifter, choosing the common, trailer park sort of life. There is a scene near the end of the film where Robert is speaking with his father and in a way apologizing for his own life and not living up to the expectations of the family. He states that they both know that Robert is not any good anyway. This is a depiction of his insecurity. But not only is he insecure about his talent as a musician; he is also insecure about his life in general. He is caught somewhere in between two worlds, the world of the common man and the world of the creative musician, and thus is always running away from things as a result.All of the creative theory aside, Five Easy Pieces is very enjoyable on the level of acting. Jack Nicholson nails the character of Robert Dupea dead on. The character called for a certain degree of arrogance and obnoxiousness which are characteristics that we all know that no one can portray better than Jack.**** out of ****  "},{"Title":"..speak-up, Jack..","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, I've been caught - here is a movie I, too, have heard so much about - and have watched once before - which has come from the '70s, and I'm not mad about. Maybe I am mad, as in angry - I appreciate all the character-studies in this film, it's just that I think most of them don't belong in here. Rob Rafelson was lucky to have directed some of what he wrote, so that he could get his ideas to the screen. I'm wondering what Carole Eastman contributed - better, I hope.I was a music-student, but really don't remember those classical pieces played in the film, till I hear them. I gotta say that one user said they were all Chopin's music - not true, some Bach. I'm still not sure what that gal was murdering in the recording-session. For some reason, I thought Tom Waite was the outsider of the family, rather than the lady who was his protégé'. Try as I did, I couldn't get excited about any of the piano-playing; was truly unmoved at watching Nicholson's hands (if they were his) when he finally played for the protégé'. I think he was right - I'm not that good, anyway.I'm still not really a huge fan of Jack Nicholson, even though he's appeared in many major films. If he's not screaming, he's whispering so whatever he's saying is lost. I barely got through that classic, The Shining. .....in Beverly Hills was much better, but then it didn't take a great deal of acting for it. Nicholson acts-out wherever he is when he's drunk - Hollywood sees a lot of that from him. So, Five Easy Pieces is disappointedly not one of my favorites. I get into it because of the development of characters, but the plot is ill and has nothing to do with the characters. Glory be, Karen Black was the only one I thought did any amount of acting in the whole thing. I was excited to see that Fannie Flag was in it, but I didn't ever recognize her (Fried Green Tomatoes is a masterpiece.) Sally Struthers? She was in there? I HOPE Billy Green Bush was acting - maybe drunk for most of his role.The Lesbian hitchikders? They drove me to distraction - that was acting? I think Rafelson just went-out to some gay bar and listened to the Lezzies clack - then chose the loudest, most obnoxious one. I did like the other one - she was quiet. Those who thought it took the constant yammering from that gal was what drove Nicholson to the classic scene in the restaurant, was it really necessary ? I think Nicholson was just speaking in a pointed voice, being rude and had nothing to do with acting. If it takes that kind of stuff to make people laugh, they don't know what comedy is. Just gave us another angry side of the character.After writing all of this, I'm still trying to like that movie. I've never seen anyone in a film putting so much work into running away from themself. That wild sex-scene between Nicholson and Black should have shown him what a jerk he was, not much else was necessary. Yes, we do live among such people and a lot of us are just like that character. I hope I'm not - The best thing that could have happened for Karen Black in this movie was exactly the way Five Easy Pieces ended. If I understand it right, I think Nicholson got his balls frosted in Alaska, the very place he ridiculed the Lesbians for trying to get to.I'm glad for all of you who really enjoyed this movie - please don't try to convince me it was a break-through for Nicholson - I think it just let him out of his own body, a little. If you've been watching how I rate movies, you'll understand that I can only squeeze-out a 6. Sorry, guys - I really did try to like this movie and shall try harder when it comes-up again in the stack. What happened to Karen Black ?? "},{"Title":"Jack Nicholson Proves He's Here to Stay","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Five Easy Pieces is an intense character study that is almost single-handedly carried by a young Jack Nicholson (Oscar-nominated).  Nicholson is an oil-field worker who also has an uncanny knack for playing the piano.  However instead of becoming rich and famous as a musician, Nicholson has isolated himself from those closest to him and assumed a somewhat normal life.  It is never made clear why Nicholson has chosen the path he has, not even when he returns to see his brother, sister, and their elderly father.  This is a solid performance by an individual who would continue to improve.  Nicholson's multi-layered character carries the film as far as it can go.  Overall a success.  4.5 out of 5 stars.    "}{"Title":"Can a great movie tell a dishonest story?","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find it impossible to rationally rate this film, so I've selected one to make it visible. (I'd like to hear intelligent responses, but IMDb doesn't make this possible.)The answer to the question is Yes!. Though mostly well-written and acted, Five Easy Pieces (like films such as Field of Dreams) is illogical and nonsensical. It's built around a view of life that's patently false.To wit... Educated people are fatuous jerks. Blue-collar people are ignorant idiots.It just ain't so.I don't remember ever having met anyone like the woman Bobby calls a creep. And I've worked with plenty of blue-collar people, none of whom was remotely like those in this film.The person I most-loved in this life was a man in his early 80s who'd spent most of his life at jobs such as welding and farming. He was considerate and good-hearted -- and smart. Though he seemed a little whifty at times (not surprising considering his age), when engaged on something serious, you heard someone bright and insightful talking to you.Five Easy Pieces paints a persistently uncomplimentary picture of human beings. (God knows, we deserve it.) In doing so, it breaks a basic rule of storytelling -- contrasting points of view must be fairly presented. You must not weight your dramatic argument to one side or another. That's cheating -- because the //characters// are supposed to do that, not the screenwriter. But that's exactly what Carole Eastman's script does.Simply stated... How can Bobby Dupea find honest, unaffected relationships with other human beings when such people //don't exist//? But of course, they do (in the real world, anyway). When Roger Ebert praises the film for its unpredictable ending, he gets it absolutely wrong. The writer has created an nonexistent world in which such a resolution is preordained.PS Bobby's performance of the Prelude in e is flat and uninvolving, as he says it is. "},{"Title":"Two Hours For This???","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a two-hour film that could have been made into a 30 minute film. Catherine's little speech could have summed it up You're a strange person, Robert. I mean, what will you come to? If a person has no love for himself, no respect for himself, no love of his friends, family, work, something -- how can he ask for love in return? I mean, why should he ask for it?Even the ending leaves you thinking that this guy has learned nothing, has not grown at all, and is now drifting north, for no particular reason... "},{"Title":"Five Wasted Half Hours","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a hard movie to watch and I would not recommend it to anyone that I know. I'm all for character studies, even of characters that are in one way or another hard to like. Amadeus comes to mind, as does American Splendor. The Lion In Winter is a character study of sorts, of the whole messed up royal family that movie portrays. TV's house is sort of a character study. But those examples had something that this movie did not. Depth.Curmudgeons, jerks, petty people, you really don't have to like the main character to find a movie engaging. That being said, the main character in Five Easy Pieces was one I thoroughly did not like. Yes, he was a loner, but why? How did it initially come about? Hard as it was to watch him be such a jerk to his girl, she was probably ideal for him, since she let him treat her poorly, run off when he needed to, he screwed up- she apologized. Not my ideal, but it worked for them.So? Still, I'm left cold as a viewer, wondering why anyone cares. And yes he can play piano. But he doesn't live the piano man's life and I guess there is supposed to be some conflict, but many people have talents they don't take to the next level, etc.This movie was nothing special, if you ask me, other than a highly recommended and lengthy waste of time. "},{"Title":"Great movie, no one has ever heard of.","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Once in a while, you come across a great movie, with an impressive cast, that yet no one has ever seemed to heard of before. Five Easy Pieces is definitely such as movie, that deserves a whole lot of more recognition.It's a very simplistic movie in its setup; a man, his girl, his family, his friends. Those are the things that sum up this movie and is all this movie basically features and needs. There is of course a whole lot more to it but the movie at all times remains a humble and deliberately small one, that never exaggerates with any of its drama or characters.It's the more realistic sort of drama, that shows not everything is black and white in life. You don't just either are in love with a girl or not and you don't just get along with your family or not. There are ups and downs and pluses and minuses about certain situations and persons. That's what I love about this movie. It shows how things truly are in life and I also just love that Jack Nicholson has always continued to make movies like this. More recent movies such as As Good as It Gets and About Schmidt for example are all movies that can be placed in the same category as this one, in my opinion. Realistic drama's, about real people with a twist of irony and comedy to it as well.The realism helps to make the movie its story and characters easy to relate with. It makes the movie very pleasant to follow, despite that it's still mostly being a drama of course. But it really never gets anything too heavy or melodramatic and whenever the movie threatens to become too serious, there is a funny moment to balance things out again. Of course the movie also definitely gets uplifted by its performances. Jack Nicholson is a great leading man and the movie further more stars a whole bunch of other persons who later in their careers became established and well known names, such as Sally Struthers, Karen Black en Lois Smith.You of course need to be able to appreciate a good drama but when you do, this is definitely a great, little, hidden gem to watch!8/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"If you don't hate Bobby you weren't paying attention!","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This classic from 1970, seen for the first time in 35 years, left me angry at Jack's character Bobby, and at the same time feeling sorry for his pitiful soul as it must surely burn in hell for his absolutely rottenness. Only Nicholson could play such a rotten, evil, ruthless, miserable, low-down, conniving, despicable character as Bobby, as opposed to the heart of gold simplicity of Karen Black's Rayette, the epitome of country/western innocence and charm. Nicholson's Bobby goes from one miserable tirade and temper tantrum to another, as he philanders, cheats, lies and steals his way through this entertaining but often angering film. He hates his life, he hates his family, he hates his great missed opportunities, he belittles all whom he encounters, and in the end goes out of the film just as ugly as when he enters it. You just KNOW that in the imaginary sequel (SIX Easy Pieces?) he surely must end his useless life by his own hand! Ah, Jack, only YOU could have done this character! "},{"Title":"Disappointing DVD version!","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an all time American classic, unfortunately, the DVD version is spoiled by being taken from a damaged film copy, there are vertical lines running through out the movie, which are especially visible on the darker scenes. Being relatively new to buying DVDs I am finding that it is often the case that the DVD has been taken from a poor quality copy, often, it appears to me, from an old video tape, which I find unacceptable... Also, if I try to return such poor quality films to the shop I bought it from, they refuse to take it back, as it isn't their fault (which is, I suppose reasonable), and the DVD actually does play... Do the film companies and their distributors really need to cut corners in such ways? Is this another example of huge corporations dumping on the little guy? It certainly feels that way to me! "},{"Title":"A complex man, with deep sensibilites, but misguided, existentially...","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my all-time American film favorites.  The depth and brilliance of the script, direction by Rafelson and performanes...by Nicolson, Black, Anspach and Smith...have left their indelible impression on my mind and psyche. How can one not be affected by this imaginative depiction of a man, a thwarted pianist, in torment and confusion? The title is, of course, ironic.  Robert's often misguided search for love and his desperate need for it are wonderfully portrayed in the scenes with Susan Anspach, a woman who matches his intelligence and sensibilities.  Although she beds him, she ultimately turns him down as someone to take seriously. One wonders if she hadn't...would  that have given his life another more meaningful dimension?  There are several famous scenes that have now become classic, but to me the most moving are the incidental ones.  For anyone concerned with life and the art of this medium, this film is a must.  See it more than once!! "},{"Title":"Boring, pointless, another bad character study.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    Of all the character study movies, most of them are boring.  However, Bob Rafelson's Five easy pieces was, in my opinion, the most boring of all.  In fact, I didn't really see what he was getting at.  All I saw was Jack Nicholson playing an extremely depressed man, Karen Black dressed up to be made to sexy as his dumb girlfriend and then there was the rest of the cast.  The only good element in this movie is the timeless diner scene which shows just how good an actor Nicholson is.  But otherwise, I think it's more of a biography of about a year in a man's life than a character study.  I truly and honestly don't think it's worth a watch unless you're a huge Jack Nicholson fan and even if you are, you should watch simply to see the hilarious diner scene.  "},{"Title":"That Was An Awful Nice Thing Ya Did!!","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was waiting at the doctors for my D.O.T. physical. I was talking to an old gear jammer.He was telling me a story about the time he was hauling logs into Canada.He stopped at a hole in the wall gas station to check his tires.A young man walked up to him and said he was moving to Canada. But his vehicle crashed and burned ,and he lost everything. The young man asked if he could catch a ride in the 18 wheeler. The truck driver agreed to the request. I was about to ask if he was concerned about being hijacked,but the hot nurse called my name. So i stood up and shook the old timers hand and saidthat was an awful nice thing you did.Sally Struthers,Marlen MacGuire, Fannie Flagg,Karen Black,Helena Kallionietes,Toni Basil,Lois Smith, and Susn Ashpech are hot!!---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"The beginning of the great divide","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not quite the beginning; Five Easy Pieces is one of those films that shows the world as a place where ordinary people are stupid or banal, and the upper class is stifled and half dead. This mythology has helped create a societal schism, a disconnect, particularly among young men who see themselves as misunderstood loners, filled with deep, unexpressed feelings.Nicholson is (was) a prime exemplar of this belief system, reaching his maniacal zenith in The Shining. It is amazing and distressing to see this film 38 years later, with all its arch contrivances clearly revealed. It comes across as a live-action cartoon, with each character manipulated in the service of the message.I've always believed that a film's value is inversely proportional to the number of scenes in which objects are broken in fits of rage. And Five Easy Pieces proves the point.I'd like to have Nicholson pack for me next time I travel. He somehow manages to carry two weeks of clothes, including a cute half-length robe in an overnight bag.A mean-spirited, ludicrous film. "}{"Title":"Easy in Bold letters","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Rafelson's Five Easy Pieces is as interesting as movies get dramatically speaking. It came out at the right time with the right script and hit on all cylinders by being based completely around the characters - specifically that of Bobby Dupea (Nicholson) and how he trying to come to grips as to what to do with his life, or his relationships (Karen Black his girlfriend, his father in a coma-stroke, other family, a prospective new girlfriend, etc). It's an existential crisis film, but one that is loaded with memorable characters and a script that isn't afraid to go into witty territory when it can.If you want proof Jack Nicholson can act - more than that he's the man, or that he's got eyebrows that kill, or that he can bed your sister, your momma, your grandma and the niece with the gimpy leg - look no further. In fact you should drag people to see it if they've ever doubted it. Or, just go see it for things like this one scene - no, not the Chicken Salad one, though of course that's iconic - where Bobby, bored and drunk in traffic, goes up on a truck with a piano and plays classical tunes. It doesn't matter really if he gets sent away with the truck. If anything, he'd prefer that. "},{"Title":"What's so special?","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a prime example of people being too messed up from the 1960s after taking too much LSD. People are reading way too much into this movie. If this movie was made today it would be panned and dismissed. It is boring beyond belief. You keep waiting for something to occur. Nothing ever does. By the time it ends you are thinking I'm going to kill myself if I have to endure another minute. The acting of Nicholson and Black is above average but you wonder what they saw in choosing to do this horrible script. The comment that this is one of the key films of the 1970s is ludicrous. These are the kind of movies from the 70s that should be forgotten. Give me Apocalypse Now, Patton, Godfather, American Graffiti or Star Wars. This movie sucks. One great scene does not a movie make. "},{"Title":"Five Easy Pieces","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For some reason I thought this was rubbish the first time I saw it, obviously I wasn't paying full attention, I am really glad I gave it another chance. Basically Robert Eroica Dupea (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Jack Nicholson) gave up his career as a classical concert pianist and now works in a Californian oil fields, living with his dimwitted but nice diner waitress girlfriend Rayette Dipesto (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Karen Black). He is emotionally repressed and unable to adjust to the work and family worlds, and after quitting his job he begins a road trip to go and see his sick father, when his sister Partita (Lois Smith) says he had two strokes. He and Rayette pick up a pair of lesbians on the way, and after dropping them off in Washington they reach Robert's home on Puget Sound. At the dinner table Robert can't say anything to his quiet father, but he talks to his violinist brother Carl Fidelio (Ralph Waite) and his fiancée, pianist Catherine Van Oost (Susan Anspach), and she and Robert make love. Rayette is getting bored staying at the hotel, and she shows up without notice, and when family friend Samia Glavia (Irene Dailey) gives her strong opinions of his girlfriend, Robert fiercely defends her, the first sign of his repression fading. He also gets into a fight on the floor with his father's male nurse, who was massaging a half-naked Partita. The last scenes of the film see Robert opening up, and crying, to his father, and in the end he leaves Rayette in a gas station getting a coffee, hitching a ride on a truck. Also starring Billy Green Bush as Elton, Fannie Flagg as Stoney, Helena Kallianiotes as Palm Apodaca, Toni Basil as Terry Grouse, Sally Struthers as Betty, Marlena MacGuire as Twinky, William Challee as Nicholas Dupea, John P. Ryan as Spicer and Lorna Thayer as Waitress. Just after Easy Rider, rising star Nicholson is most magnetic, Black is good as his not so bright girlfriend, and the most famous scene of the film, with Nicholson trying to order a sandwich holding the chicken and extra toast, is the best reason to watch. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing, Story and Screenplay Based on Factual Material or Material Not Previously Published or Produced, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama, Best Director for Bob Rafelson and Best Screenplay. Jack Nicholson was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"This movie sucked three very specific ways - so hard, so bad, and wicked bad.","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh my gosh! It amazes me how highly rated this movie is. The absense of a plot line and the jumping from scene to scene with transition made the movie suck. The writer should be hung. Jack Nicholson was horrible in this movie, playing a hard-working, girlfriend-abusing idiot. He was so easy to hate, and maybe that was what they were going for but it still stunk to the high heaven. I would not recommend this movie or even say the movie was good if my life depended on it. That's my story and I'm sticking to it. "}]