[{"Title":"Remember You can't wear a beige shirt to rob a bank!","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take the Money and Run is an absolutely hilarious Woody Allen film, done in a quasi-documentary style, about a career criminal, Virgil Starkwell, who has a very unsuccessful career. His prison breaks don't go as planned, his robberies are a disaster and usually coincide with someone else's robbery of the same place, and his planning of a job would be fine if only he weren't talking to an associate in a restaurant while the police are in the booth behind him. One nice perk of failure while attempting to rob a young woman's purse, he falls in love with her (Janet Margolin). Virgil does admit at one point thinking of foregoing robbery and taking up a career in singing. He doesn't mention the cello, which gave him his start in music - and crime.This is one of those laugh out loud even when you're alone movies of which there are all too few. But this is one. Over a tough, FBI-type narration, we watch Virgil's futile attempts at making money through crime, see his parents (disguised) interviewed, as well as his wife and the various police and investigators he meets along the way.It's amazing to look at this film and then look at Match Point done 35 years later and see the evolution of this brilliant man. Woody Allen is capable of rock-solid comedy as well as provocative movie-making. Although he's had a few blips along the way, one wonders what he'll think of next. "},{"Title":"Laugh-a-Minute spoof of Crime Documentaries a Must For Woody-ites...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN is Mel Brooks-like in structure and gags, but definitely Woody Allen at his comical best.  Its not his greatest picture by any means, but perhaps the best of his early slapstick flicks (SLEEPER, BANANAS).  Virgil Starkwell has a hard time stealing right from the start. When a criminal gets a gumball machine stuck to his hand, you know he's in the wrong gig.  Woody Allen is right at home with this innocent, documentary-style drip on the unintentional hilarity of 60's crime documentaries.  Woody, or Virgil, seems to be playing Woody as usual, something we all know runs through his entire body of work.  This movie is very much like his innovative ZELIG of 1983, a black and white docu-spoof about a fictional chameleon.Jackson Beck's narration is PERFECT in making the outrageous material seem serious.  It no doubt inspired the short spoofs Saturday Night Live would go on to produce for years, investigative reporting seemingly important, yet ridiculous in content.  Virgil's parents are in disguise (Groucho Marx nose and glasses) whenever they are interviewed.  The chain gang escape is one of the funniest sequences I have ever seen.  Woody also moves into romantic territory with the beautiful Janet Margolin, who had a nice, fat purse for Virgil to steal, but also has a quick reaction to his inept robbery attempt and, of course, they fall in love.  She is there for Virgil to live for during his always brief prison stays and to pick out his clothes for a robbery.  There are some familiar elements here, most obviously the beautiful young girl falling for a middle-aged homely Woody.TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN is all about raw comedic filmmaking and mockery. It is not a situational film at all, just a bunch of perfectly cohesive episodes of this perfectly moronic bank robber, who spells gun G-U-B. Wouldn't that throw us all off if we were the bank tellers taking a note during a stick up ?  "},{"Title":"it would be a crime not to see this movie","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" For those of you who think that all Woody Allen's movies are vapid stories of neurotic rich New Yorkers, you need to see his early movies. Take the Money and Run is a good example. Allen plays Virgil Starkwell, an inept criminal. No matter what sort of crime he tries to pull off, something always goes wrong. Probably the funniest scene is when he tries to escape from jail like John Dillinger did. Other scenes include the time when the authorities use him in an experiment, with a silly result.Anyway, Woody Allen's old movies were really funny. The thing was that he created a bunch of outlandish premises and infused his New York Jewish humor. This is what comedy is all about! "},{"Title":"Off and running....","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is Woody's first real movie and it's pretty good.  Surprisingly so, in fact, when you consider the he began as a stand-up comic dealing out yoks that were by necessity strictly verbal.  Some of the yoks here work -- He told me was a gynecologist but he didn't speak no foreign languages -- and some don't -- The prisoners were served one hot meal a day, a bowl of steam.  But the visual gags and Allen's physical performance more than make up for the jokes that flop.  In fact the first joke in the movie is visual, and imaginative  Allen plays a cello in a marching band.  Still, it's a first feature, and it shows.  The camera is shakey and the photography not always first rate.  He was to improve with practice.  Here he has a scene in which he is having a private argument with his wife in the bedroom, but he's shackled to half a dozen escaped prisoners, who laugh at his entreaties and make wisecracks during the conversation.  A similar scene in Love and Death, with a promiscuous Diane Keaton holding the hand of her husband on his deathbed.  The husband says something like, I know you're pure and you've been faithful to me.  The attending priests and doctors begin puffing and humming while trying to stifle their laughter.  It isn't that the later scene is necessarily funnier, it simply takes it for granted that the audience can get in on the joke without being prompted. There are several discernible sources for the story.  The most obvious is I Was a Fugitive From a Chain Gang.  Some of the scenes -- the breaking of ankle shackles with a heavy sledge hammer -- are repeated and played for laughs.  I can't be sure that Cool Hand Luke, which was released the year before, is an influence but it certainly seems so.  There may be something of Bonnie and Clyde in it too.  Woody hasn't got the great all-star cast that he was to assemble for his post-Annie Hall efforts, but what he has is pretty neat.  The snarling James Anderson stands out as the Chain Gang Warden, in the Strother Martin role.  What a face!  Howard Storm as the hold-up victim/arresting officer is a familiar face and a welcome voice.  Marcel Hilaire may not actually BE Fritz Lang but he ought to be!  But aside from Allen, the most important role is that of Janet Margolin as his wife, Louise.  Her talent as an actress was modest, although she could sometimes outdo herself, as, for instance, the sympathetic closet Jew in Morituri, a dramatic part.  Here she's no more than adequate, but she is so attractive that it hardly matters, and the role hardly calls for thespian fireworks.  She was 26 when this was released.  She was always pleasant, a strange, wistful combination of vulnerability and sex appeal, and some suggestion emanated from her performances that suggested she was that way offscreen as well.  Her career and her life ended with a bad death at a relatively early age.  Marvin Hamlisch's score is apt and easy to listen to.  It's an amusing debut for Woody.  You'll laugh out loud at it, unless you're a real sourpuss. "},{"Title":"a truly funny movie","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In an age of tee hee funny blockbuster comedies, this is a FUNNY knee- slapping side-splitting tear-producing pause-the-DVD-so-as-to-not-miss-a-line-movie. Hollywood just does not make movies like this. It's a love story between a crook and a beautiful woman. No, it's the story of a little red headed kid who went on to pull off the worst bank heist ever. No, it's the story of a cons escape from prison. It's all of these. Only Woody could have had Virgil fall madly in love with Louise, want to spend the rest of his life with her, then only later on, decide he doesn't want to steal her purse. Classic. Only Woody would have his bank robber pull off a bank job with a mis-spelled note then have him escape from a chain gang on foot running beside men on bikes. Fantastic movie and fun for all. Prepare to laugh. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining feature-length film debut from Woody Allen.","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take the Money and Run (1969) was Woody Allen's motion picture debut (sans 'Tiger Lily). The film follows the life of a criminal loser, shot in a faux documentary style. Allen used the most out of his small budget and made an amusing film. This was the beginning of his slapstick/farce phase that would last until the early 70's. An interesting start for one of America's most unique film-makers of that era. The script by Mickey Rose and Woody Allen is deeply engraved with screwball humor from their childhood icons such as the Marx Brothers and Charles Chaplin. This film showed the promise of a brilliant director who would become a major player in Hollywood in the years to come. Highly recommended.A. "},{"Title":"Taking Ideas and Using Them.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very early Woody Allen winner has the all-time lovable loser trying to make ends meet with girlfriend and future wife Janet Margolin. Allen, obviously pretty unskilled in most everything, decides that he can do just what the title of the film says and achieve true happiness with his one true love. Documentary-styled footage makes the picture unfold in a quietly uproarious way as Allen uses corny techniques used by most news organizations to tell a story that would have looked very odd without his insight being involved. Allen's films only work because he makes them work usually and that is definitely the case with Take the Money and Run. Once again he shows unlimited potential and would use this movie, more than any other, as a spring-board for much future success in the 1970s, 1980s and beyond. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"an unpolished little gem","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the first truly Woody Allen movie--directed and starring Allen himself. He had previously lent his, at the time, good name to some horrible projects such as CASINO ROYALE, WHAT'S UP TIGER LILY? and WHAT'S NEW PUSSYCAT? While I will be one of the first ones to say that many of the jokes fall flat, the ones that do are so funny and unusual that it's easy to forgive the movie's many short-comings. One of the stupidest and funniest parts of the film was how it was done semi-documentary-style and this parents appeared with Groucho Glasses (with fake nose, mustache, etc. And, when mom says he was a good boy and dad interrupts by saying he was always bad--I knew he'd never amount to anything it was a riot and was so much the opposite of what you'd expect to see in such a documentary. Other great moments include his becoming, temporarily, a Hessidic rabbi, the escaped chain gang sequence and the abortive bank robbery. Rarely have I laughed so hard--it's so funny and it's a shame this spark of raw humor was so seldom evident in his later films. "},{"Title":"The First Ever Mockumentary","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Years before THIS IS SPINAL TAP, Woody Allen exploded into movie theatres with his outright, groundbreaking, zany mockumentary TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN which in its brief run presented the story of one hapless Virgil Starkwell, one of Allen's many anti-heroes, who entered into a life of crime but even then was considered inept to the nth level. In one of the movie's most hilarious moments (which itself is a nod to the type of cerebral Surrealism and cinema of the absurd which Bunuel championed), Starkwell tries to rob a bank in the most polite of ways, but none of the clerks can make up their minds if the word he's written is gub or gum. (It's actually gun.) They do, however, stage a contest in which people may vote for whom they prefer rob this bank. Woody Allen was asked by his producers to change the ending for TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN because it was deemed too bloody (it was, in fact, purportedly close to that of BONNIE AND CLYDE); hence, the ending that survives today. As a whole the movie is a classic of Allen's early wacky comedy and features Janet Margolin as Starkwell's wife and then-partner Louise Lasser in a small role. "},{"Title":"Woody's First Good Film","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen hit gold with his second film, Take the Money and Run, which is a basic film that works on so many levels and is memorable strictly for its charm and good wit.The story follows Allen's Virgil Starkwell, whose life is told in documentary fashion. We learn he had a strange childhood and turned to crime to fulfill his needs. We learn of his romance and sympathize with him as we engage in prison escapes and witness him put in a chain gang. The documentary style might prove to be a gimmick of sorts, but it works because had the story been told any other way it simply would not have worked.Also, Take the Money is an early token of what's to come and what the general audience will expect of Allen; smooth drama balanced by fast, witty monologues and lots of self-humiliation. To see this is to witness the early work of the director who ultimately brought us Bananas, Sleeper, Manhattan, and the Oscar-winning Annie Hall. And if anything, just track it for its over-the-top humor, not as in-your-face funny as Sleeper or as sexually hilarious as Annie Hall, but it's warm and withdrawn, balanced all together by a very good ending (always one of the weaker parts in almost all of Allen's films).Highly recommended! ***+ (8.5/10) "}{"Title":"The Saga of a Clumsy Smalltime Thief","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The clumsy Virgil Starkwell (Woody Allen) is bullied when he is a child. Then he decides to play cello, but without musical talent, the loser joins a street gang and ends in prison. When he escapes, he meets the laundry worker Louise (Janet Margolin) and lies to her, telling that he plays cello in the symphonic orchestra. He is arrested in a hold up and Louise finds him in prison. He breaks out and flees with Louise to another state. He tries to be honest but he is incapable to fit in any job. When he finally finds a job position suitable for his intellect, he is blackmailed by a colleague and returns to his criminal life. But his heists are disastrous and he always ends in prison.Take the Money and Run is the second film by Woody Allen in a documentary style the same way he does with Zelig in 1983, and tells the saga of a clumsy smalltime thief. The last time I had seen this film was on 22 August 1999 and this time I found it still enjoyable, but less than the last time. Virgil Starkwell is an incompetent loser obsessed with bank heists. The narrative and interviews in the documentary style of the 60's and 70's have hilarious moments and is closed by the funny interview of his neighbor that asks to the interviewer how an imbecile like Virgil could plan the heist of banks. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Um Assaltante Bem Trapalhão (A Very Clumsy Thief) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable silliness with original gags","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen demonstrates his brilliant comedic gift with this early film. Not many comedians could pull off a joke where a side effect of a drug is that he grows a beard and talks like a Jewish rabbi. Woody plays Virgil Starkwell, a pathological liar and clumsy crook who falls in love with the beautiful Louise, played by Janet Margolin. You kind of feel sorry for Virgil's lack of direction with his life and root for him to be successful with something, even if it's robbery. Woody's dialogue and variety of characters keep your interest. The movie is also spattered with funny anecdotes like when Virgil's asked if he thinks s*ex is dirty and he answers only if you're doing it right. Woody also comes up with many memorable situations like when he and Louise are arguing about what color shirt he should wear to a robbery. Another time Woody cuts a hole in a jewelry store window and runs off with the piece of glass. Allen had influences from earlier comedians, but he uses that influence to develop a truly original style. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable charmer that lacks consistency and depth.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Now I'm rarely a man to agree with any 'consensus view' of particular films, yet I very much have to go along with the tide as regards 'Take the Money and Run' - only the second Allen film I have commented upon here, though I have seen many more.Basically, the film is enjoyable viewing throughout, but not an entirely consistent, successful comedy. Allen had yet to hone his skills in fashioning feature length films; I have reservations more so for 'Bananas', less so for 'Sleeper' and 'Love and Death'; the two films with which he really hits his stride. This is his first film as a director and thus maybe it is to be expected that we'll see a transitional film. One can tell Allen is trying to work out a formula to translate his largely verbal stand-up humour to film. He really does a pretty good job of this. There are plenty of very good jokes and a generally very lightweight, genial tone to this picture. It is seen through by this, yet is hamstrung by its very effervescence; the film is likeable and won me over, yet it is too scattershot in approach and delivery to really satisfy.Woody himself is an instantly winning figure in his comic persona; that of a physically diminutive and verbally bumbling Jewish intellectual. With in this film the vocation of a bank robber; a displacement which results in much of the expected amusement. There's not yet any attempt to go very deep into this character of his, but this is a pure, light comedy. No real New York or indeed Bergman or Chekhov reference points yet.One is reminded in Allen of David Thomson's insightful comments on Chaplin and the persona he projected to audiences; trying to charm them and win them over by a certain vulnerability and status as 'underdog'. It is very true that in many of Allen's films, like Chaplin, he is right at the centre of the film, and the world outside is not portrayed with any sense of the mechanics of reality. Conflicts are never all that serious or convincing; he draws from a limited pool of character types, in socio-political terms. Allen has done films with other leads; though his usual concerns always find their way through. 'Take the Money and Run' is full of the Chaplin tendency to have bullish, physically imposing figures, or indeed perhaps a wider society, threatening the 'little man'. There is a wish-fulfilment woman in the languid person of Janet Margolin's Louise; as a character more a projection than of flesh and blood or shades of grey. She works well as a slightly wan, attractive comic foil for Allen, who doesn't mind getting her hands dirty, but she's really not Diane Keaton.This film is slight, no question about that... it fails under real scrutiny, yet it is largely very enticing stuff; an early glimpse of Allen getting his filmic technique in order. If you like what the man does - and surely most (wryly bespectacled) film cineastes such as I do! - then you are sure to enjoy this film. Just don't count on it being a triumph in the major key.Rating- *** 1/2/*****  "},{"Title":"Dr. Woody and Mr. Virgil &#x85;","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" After fifteen minutes I wanted to marry her, and after half an hour I completely gave up the idea of stealing her purse.This is intelligently nonsensical and brilliantly absurd, in other words it's 100% pure Woody Allen, here in his earliest display of a promising comical genius in the pivotal year of 1969. Through Take the Money and Run, Woody reinvents humor by combining the heritage of the pioneers Keaton and Chaplin's slapstick, the irreverent wisecracks of the Marx Brothers, the outrageousness of Mel Brooks and even the social commentary of stand-up comedy with a little something incarnated by that funny-looking geeky face that would become an icon of American comedy, and an inspiration for the new generation.Take the Money and Run is both a tribute to the pioneers and an inspiration for the newcomers.The film strikes by a smart novelty it is constructed like a TV mockumentary chronicling the life of Virgil Starkwell, a criminal whose empathy-builders (or redeeming qualities) are his total ineptitude as a bank robber and jail escapist and a tender romance with the beautiful Louise, played by the late Janet Margolin. The film features many interviews of people who played a significant part in Virgil's life, most notably his shameful parents who wear Groucho Marx masks to remain anonymous, a running gag that pays like a tribute to the spirit that most nourished Allen's inspiration. So yes, it's about the geeky neurotic loser who is to Allen what the Little Tramp, was to Chaplin a defining character. And the prologue of the film works, a posteriori, like Allen's perfect introduction to Cinema, as an actor/director/writer (although he shares the latter honor with a guy named Mickey Rose).And if the direction seems to lack the confidence that would grow from one decade of cinematic experience, amusingly, it drives more than it undermines the quality of the film.The advantage of a debut is to have nothing to be compared with and a certain freedom of mistakes and Allen handles this like someone aware of where he's going at &#x85; not necessarily with this film, but with the whole comical material he uses. The film can even be subtitled Everything You Wanted to Know About Woody Allen as it features whatever will forge his touch in the future the slapstick of the early 70's, the introspective character studies of the 70's/80's, the romances dealt with a tender poignancy, and a writing that would have made Groucho Marx extremely proud. I concede that by trying to be everything, the film feels like it doesn't have a way and might have damaged the appreciation of many critics, including Roger Ebert, who didn't think much of Allen's debut (although he never denied his comedic talent) but if I can mention the editing as the technical alibi that saved the film from being an objective mess, I don't think it really matters since every scene works by itself with the same effect as from a good sketch.On the surface, Take the Money and Run is like Monty Python's Flying Circus only telling a story with a clear narrative structure.Indeed, each scene works independently as a sketch one involves the classic bank robbery where everyone points out spelling mistakes, a hilarious escape attempt with a gun made of a bar soap during an unfortunate rainy night, Allen getting ready for a date and trying to look handsome in front of his mirror (clumsily maneuvering his glasses), before a visually hysterical conclusion. And the romantic core driven by Virgil and Louise consolidates what would have felt like a simple assemblage of comic vignettes. Janet Margolin is by the way one of the highlights of the film, as it's impossible not to be mesmerized by her breath-taking beauty and thanks to her interaction and sweetness with Virgil, the film manages to touch our hearts. There are of course other elements that structure the film such as the running gag of people constantly breaking Allen's glasses, and the music, which remains for me one of the most memorable from a Woody Allen's film (along with Love and Death and Hannah and her Sisters.So, on the surface, Take the Money Run is structured by as series of failures that elevates Virgil's status as an endearing loser, constantly bullied and yet getting the beautiful girl and making her so nervous she stutters.But on the content, the film speaks much larger statements about the birth of a new talent for American Cinema, defining Cinema as the ultimate nerd's escapism, at least one Virgil succeeded in.Notice how till the end, Virgil becomes more confident, getting ready to spend time in jail, Virgil talks to a journalist while preparing a gun of soap and discussing his hobbies then he suddenly interrupts the flow of his answer and asks if it's raining out, the image freezes and the music comes back, providing a weirdly thrilling sensation as if the film was Allen's message to Cinema, a hymn for all the nerds who try to escape their miserable condition through talent and perseverance. For Virgil, it's robbery, for Allen, it's comedy, and Take the Money and Run might not the be the funniest or the most successful film but it sure paved the way to Bananas, Love and Death and less than a decade after, a Best Picture winner. And Virgil perfectly mirrors Allen's condition since Allen got himself beautiful women.Despite its modest aspect, the film is made with sincerity by a future comical genius who translated his flaws into a semi-autobiographical classic, to a point it's hard to comprehend the talent of Woody Allen without watching Take the Money and Run and I'm sure even Ebert would reconsider his view because it's precisely for all the films that came after, that Take the Money and Run should be judged with more enthusiasm. "},{"Title":"Not a Bad Beginning!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I admire Woody Allen a lot. I admire his sense of humor and his way of telling stories. Take the Money... was made when Allen was in the beginning of his career as a filmmaker. This film is a comedy, but don't confuse it with an actual silly comedy (in other words American Pie). This film is a good beginning for one of the greatest American filmmakers. Recently, I watched it with my sister. It wasn't boring, it wasn't stupid, it wasn't a fraud. I am one of the few Mexican's that knows Woody Allen (by disgrace), and I am happy when I watch one of his films. In my country, Match Point it's about to be at the cinemas, and I am anxious to watch it Just three words for you, my dear Woody keep on directing. "},{"Title":"Woody's funniest comedy-his first","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN (1969) ***1/2 Woody Allen's first foray into filmmaking is a laugh riot from start to finish in this hilarious mockumentary a documentary focusing on inept criminal Virgil Stockwell (Allen in his funniest role) whose life of crime is nothing but a joke. Cleverly narrated in stark dramatise by Jackson Beck and fast with one-liners and sight gags. Best bit Allen's bank robbery with a grammatically incorrect stick-up not (This is a gub!). Janet Margolin co-stars as his long-suffering but understanding lovely wife (which sets the tone in all of Woody's films) and look out for Louise Lasser's cameo (Mrs. Allen at the time!) "},{"Title":"Great comedy from the mind of Woody Allen!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of Woody Allen's best movies since What's Up Tiger Lily? I've always been a fan of Woody Allen's movies. In it we have Woody playing Virgil, a con who keeps messing up with his crimes and always ends up getting caught in the most funniest ways possible!   He eventually gets married and has a kid.Even in during his marriage he's still living the life of crime!  One of the funniest scenes was the chain-gang scene and the part where Virgil chases his wife around the house with a car!  This is a total classic!  I give it 4 stars!   "},{"Title":"Where it all started...","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take the Money and Run was Woody Allen's first film as star-writer-director and the start of a career pattern that saw classics like Manhattan, Hannah and Her Sisters, A Midsummer Nights Sex Comedy and Curse of the Jade Scorpion. Allen had partly written and had supporting roles in earlier comedies like What's New Pussycat? and the mess that was Casino Royale but this was his first complete film with him as director as well. He was initially skeptical about whether he could pull it off and suggested that Jerry Lewis direct him. In fact, you can see the influence of the more physical type of Jerry Lewis humor in this and much less of the Woody Allen dialog driven humor. There is almost no suggestion of the neurotic Jewish character that Allen later typecast himself in.Take the Money and Run is interesting viewing for all Woody Allen fans because this is where it all started. There are several funny gags as well. Woody Allens taste in women was good even at the start of his career. On the whole, the entire documentary style was an interesting approach, but there appear to be holes in the structure and in many ways this reminded me of one of Jerry Lewis's earliest films as a solo performer - The Bellboy. The similarity is in the concept of piecing together several funny skits, the whole being less than the sum of its parts. "},{"Title":"one of woody allen's better movies","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of Woody Allen's best films. Although usually I prefer his films that take a more serious tone, such as Annie Hall or Crimes and Misdemeanors, this film in all it's goofy-ness is very funny and entertaining. The movie tells the story of a Virgil Starkwell( played by Allen), a criminal with no luck. Woody manages to keep us laughing with very funny gags that usually end up with Virgil going back to jail. The film is so funny and well done you can hardly tell that it is Allen's first time directing. Overall, this picture, in my opinion, is one of the funniest movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Woody plays a bungling burglar.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A must see for Woody fans and definitely recommended for anyone who appreciates silly slapstick type films. Woody here plays an idiotic and bungling burglar that simply doesn't receive any breaks during his life of crime (even though in the end of the film he proclaims that a life of crime does pay!). Very funny and although short, is still a gem. "}{"Title":"Marry a horse, go to jail","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody's finest hour indeed (Toy Story 2, anyone?). This is one of the most hilarious and wonderfully paced comedies out there. The commentary by the narrator is priceless; truly outrageous while spoken in a dignified tone. I miss comedies that had tons of sight gags, but weren't just throwaway, but very, very clever. 'Take the Money and Run' has at least three gags and hidden jokes a minute, and they're all brilliant!In all honesty, I haven't seen that many of Woody's movies, but I can safely say this is the best one. It's inspired me to see what I can carve out of soap! "},{"Title":"Fun but overrated","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Take the Money and Run ranked rather high on the AFI's list of the 100 Funniest movies, which surprised me. Although it's got some hilarious bits of comedy (the bank robbery, of course, is the funniest bit), the humor seems a bit dated, on par with What's New Pussycat or Casino Royale as opposed to Bananas and Sleeper (his two early comedy classics, in my opinion). Janet Margolin (RIP) was a talented actress, but I didn't find her particularly funny in this movie.  She was better in a brief role as one of Woody's high-strung ex-wives in Annie Hall.  Louise Lasser and Diane Keaton were worthier (and funnier) replacements.  A good bet for rainy day laughs, but not one of the funniest movies of all time.      "},{"Title":"Fun and original, with some genuinely funny moments","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This slightly uneven, but often hilarious, Woody Allen outing delivers the goods.  There are some memorable bits, which are significant of his comic style.  The one involving the chain gang, I'm sure, will always be remembered.  Of course, some of the bits are too far-fetched and cartoonish to be funny, but Woody's routines often work and I can't lie that this movie is extremely fresh and original.  I just watched it recently, and was laughing my head off, so I know it's not one of those outdated comedies. I've seen funnier Woody Allen movies, but I would still recommend it for all those who are curious of his early work--like I am.  And for something that was made when he was still an up-and-coming filmmaker, it was done extremely well.My score  7 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Not one of Woody's best, but still...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen has some misfires in this film and the documentary style might not always be perfect in this for a comedy (then again, it is a Woody Allen finding his legs, with his short story and other writings being the most prominent kind of humor. But (and a big but), there are various gags with Allen that are definitely some of the funniest from his early films. One involving him having to play cello in a marching band, another with a gag in jail, and his best scene, the gub stick-up scene which ranks among the funniest scenes not just for a Woody Allen film but possibly in just any modern comedy in the lengths it stretches to. Images like his parents in the sunny glasses and nose get-up is silly, but hard not to at least giggle at. And the sprinklings of the awkward Allen of countless other romantic comedies is present here, in a kind of amusing, rough-sketch form. So that's the thing with Allen's first movie, as long as you don't take it too seriously, it is quite memorable in the bits that do hit you. "},{"Title":"Take this Money to the bank....","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It may be a quasi-documentary about a hard-luck criminal, but the fact that it's Woody there on the screen makes Take the Money and Run makes it a CLASSIC quasi-documentary.Who else but Woody could pull off such ineptitude?  Who else could try to rob a pet store and get chased out by a gorilla?  Who else would get ready to go out and forget his pants?  Who else could sell meagers?  Who else could rip off a gumball machine then pay for a date all in nickels? Who, indeed.Don't worry, I didn't spoil much; this movie is all one big laugh-a-minute from beginning to end.  If you like Woody, take this movie and run.Ten stars.  And be careful; he knows how to use a gub. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's 'Cool Hand Luke'","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of Woody's better films, maybe not up to 'Sleeper', but good nonetheless. Great lines in the narration, too, such as, The prisoners were fed one hot meal per day a bowl of steam.  Parodying 'Cool Hand Luke', watch for Woody receiving the ultimate chain-gang punishment a night in the box with an insurance salesman. "},{"Title":"Take the Money and Run 7/10","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen's first outing as director, writer, and actor turns out to be a hilarious quip of a film that almost always steadily throws the laughs at you.Allen plays Virgil Starkwell, outcast. He didn't really fit in as a child, so he turned to a life of crime. But, as we see him now in his adult years, he has yet to commit a sucessful crime. As he's trying to steal purses in the park, he meets Louise (Janet Margolin), and the fall in love. This time, the love seems true because he isn't 60 years old and falling in love with her. In documentary style film, we find out about more of his escapedes.The documentary style didn't do anything for me in Zelig, but it worked here because it was more of a mockumentary. It had more acting scenes and less interviews. A lot of times, there was no narration, just like a real movie, and that added to the movie some. Allen's comedic style is one I adore, and this is no exception. He is very funny and his comedy is genuine and original. There's been too many crime is glorious movies, but this one made you actually feel for the criminal. That's no easy task.I hadn't heard of Janet Margolin before this, but she was pretty good as Allen's lover. However, a couple times it seemed like she tried too hard in the dramatic parts, but I can overlook that. Speaking of dramatic parts, there were a few too many lulls in the comedy, especially during the romantic collages, but those too can be overlooked if just the comedy is anaylzed.Allen's gags are not outrageous, not controversial or anything like that. Most of them are simple one-liners, though there are a good number of sight gags, most involving his crimes. One particually funny scene is when Allen and his gang are about to rob a bank, when another gang comes in, also wanting to rob the bank. It's a fun 86 minutes that will leave you giggling from beginning to end.My rating 7/10Rated PG for brief language and criminal overtones. "},{"Title":"Often very funny but it never reaches the level that it should","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen's second film as a director, it is often very funny but it never reaches the level that it should. There are some hilarious moments in the film but it is not terribly well structured. It more or less loses its momentum after the jailbreak, meaning that the first half is far stronger than the second. The film feels much more like a collection of sketches than the rest of Allen's early, funny ones. As such, the script by Allen and Mickey Rose is a bit of a mixed bag. Allen shot the film very well as it really looks like a documentary of the period. However, I was much more impressed with his later mockumentary Zelig.The film stars Allen in a very good performance as Virgil Starkwell, a chronically inept criminal who specialises in botched bank robberies. His anti-social tendencies sprang from his childhood when he was a frequent target of bullies, both young and old. This leads to a great running joke in which characters tear off his glasses and stomp on them. At one point, he even gets in on the act himself to spare them the trouble. Another excellent running joke involves interview segments with his parents, played very well by Henry Leff and Ethel Sokolow, wearing Groucho Marx glasses in order to obscure their identities. You would think that it would old but it doesn't! What makes it even funnier is that they spend all of their time bickering over whether or not they failed Virgil as parents. My favourite visual gag, however, is Virgil playing a cello in a marching band and having to constantly stand up and sit down as they move. The psychiatrist's attempt to link Virgil's choice of the cello as a six-year-old to the supposed phallic symbolism of its neck and the feminine qualities of its body is a very effective parody of some people's tendencies to conjure up patterns where none exist.Janet Margolin is very good as the shy, sweet, kind and loyal to a fault Louise, named after Allen's then wife Louise Lesser, who has a small role in the film. She and Virgil meet when he attempts to rob her handbag in the park. Due to her strict and bizarre upbringing, she is very naive and takes Virgil at his word when he tells her that he is a cellist with the Philharmonic Orchestra. Ah, bless. Although she eventually learns about his criminal past (and present), her feelings for him don't change. The two of them get married, have a son and live happily ever. Well, not really. Marcel Hillaire is absolutely hilarious as the German silent film director turned crook Fritz and it is such a shame that he has so little screen time. Any more and he would have completely stolen the show! I'd have liked a film about Fritz the Director, actually. Allen has a tendency to mock pretentious artistic types in his films and Fritz, who believes that his career did not survive the silent era because people could not handle his genius, is one of the funniest examples of that. On the less positive side, the sequence featuring the chain gang had the potential to be hilarious but it generated no more than a few smiles in me, I'm afraid. The idea of the gang pretending to be a film crew in order to pull off a bank robbery is fantastic so I was very disappointed that it was not really followed through, not least because we'd have seen more of Fritz's antics. The scenes in which Virgil tries to kill Miss Blair are funny but the comedic writing was not as sharp as it could have been. The rest of the second half was only intermittently funny.Overall, the film did not live up to the high hopes that I had during the early scenes but they were certainly enough laughs to make watching it an enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Original Mockumentary May Be His Best Comedy and Inspired C. Guest's Later Offerings","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A lot of movie-goers believe Christopher Guest's This is Spinal Tap directed by Rob Reiner was the first American mockumentary. A mockumentary is a type of fictional film in the format of a non-fiction documentary format with fake interviews and sometimes a voice-over narrator. Most often they spoof some kind of overused subject. While Spinal Tap may have been the first rockumentary, about 15 years previously, Woody Allen produced and released Take the Money and Run. Much of what happens in Allen's offering is the model by which nearly all subsequent mockumentaries would follow, including many by Christopher Guest. And it still stands as possibly Allen's best pure comedic effort.In the 1950's and 1960's, a number of documentaries produced both for the small and large screens told the stories of criminals. (Guest would later make mockumentaries about music groups, hometown theatre, and dog shows.) Take the Money and Run, written, directed and starring Woody Allen, spoofs documentaries about criminals for the first-ever mockumentary in the United States, complete with narrator and interviews. The first voice of the film is that of narrator Jackson Beck who made a career of doing voice-overs for such documentaries and television advertisements. The story involves hardened criminal Virgil Starkwell (Woody Allen), his life and exploits over the years as a mediocre thief. As one character put it You know, he never made the 'ten most wanted' list. It's very unfair voting; it's who you know. Similar to Monty Python's Flying Circus, all the characters, especially the narrator, play their parts dead-pan. In other words, they pretend what they're doing is serious, even though, in the end, it's quite silly. For example, when narrator Beck announces they will hear interviews of Starkwell's parents, he says in all seriousness they will wear disguises. Then we see the parents wearing plastic Grouch Marx noses and glasses. This is the kind of humour which permeates the entire film. In another famous scene, Starkwell is spending time in a maximum security facility where he must endure extra punishment for breaking the rules he must spend time in solitary confinement with an insurance salesman.Take the Money and Run at its essence is a series of interconnected comedy sketches, very similar to the feel of Monty Python. Nearly every bit is roll-over-the-floor hilarious. Often the scene begins somewhat seriously until Allen applies a zinger towards the end. Much of the later work of Christopher Guest owes much to Allen's original mockumentary. And apparently, one of Starkwell's criminal associates, Frankie Wolf, is still wanted by authorities for dancing with a mailman. "},{"Title":"Among the best of the pre-Annie Hall Woody Allen films","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" To me, only two films of his are better from this period and they are Love and Death(which is one of his best) and Sleeper. Bananas is also very good with some of the funniest stuff in any of his films(ie. the courtroom scene) but the story and pacing for me were more even in Take the Money and Run. Take the Money and Run is not quite among Allen's best, but it apart from a cloyingly written romance that bogs the pacing down, a rather draggy last 10 minutes and the somewhat passive performance of Janet Margolin is a very strong second film of his(as writer, director and actor), a vast improvement over What's Up Tiger Lily? Take the Money and Run is skilfully made and while there is understandably still a finding-his-feet feel at times Allen keeps things on a tight leash and in command of the material. The dialogue is so funny that you're in danger of missing something from laughing so much, a lot of it is quotable too. Jackson Berk's voice-over is just superb with some of the funniest material coming from the narration alone. But what's going on on camera is every bit as funny, the chain gang and bank robbery scenes as a matter of fact are just hilarious. The mockumentary style of the story is very cleverly done and structured if not as ground-breaking as Zelig, and the pacing very rarely sags(it's only with the romance when it does), never feeling confusing or simplistic. The music fits the film very well indeed, appropriately slapstick in tone, and is catchy, enough though Allen has had better music in his films. Allen looks like he's having a ball and there's nothing drastically wrong with the rest of the acting either. Overall, a strong second film and while not one of Woody Allen's very best it's one of the better films of the pre-Annie Hall period. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Worth the Effort, Just for the Bank Robbery Scene","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is neurosis personified. Woody plays a small-time thief who can do nothing right. He is thrown in prison when he screws up the note that he gives to the teller at a bank. There is a bologna stain that makes gun look like gub. Now we are in for a ride as he tries to negotiate prison. At one point he carves a gun out of a bar of soap and uses shoe polish to make it look more real. Of course, he tries his prison break during a rainstorm and ends up with a hand full of suds. There are numerous scenes like this as the poor schmuck tries to lead a life of crime and fails at every juncture. Allen's great talent is that he takes routine movie clichés and creates a what if? Simply, what if this goes horribly wrong. Woody usually lands on his feet and probably owes that to the similar humor of Charlie Chaplain. This is certainly worth a look, though it is uneven, he puts forth and interesting character study. "},{"Title":"One Of the Best Comedies Ever!","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before we got introduced to movies with the brand of humor like Blazing Saddles or Airplane! there was Take The Money and Run. As reviewed by others in documentary style it follows the bumbling life of Virgil Stalkwell, played flawlessly by Woody Allen. I absolutely love this movie and it has always been a favorite. It has so many funny scenes that you really have to watch it a few times to catch everything as you're not done laughing at one thing before they throw something else at you.I've read some negative reviews here but the majority are like me and think it's a Woody Allen classic. You have to like Woody Allen to appreciate the movie to its fullest. Personally, I think it's his best, before he got stuck in New York, not that there's anything wrong with that. Made with a storyline like prison classics of Cool Hand Luke it's a must-see side-splitter about a bumbling wannabe famous criminal who's sent to prison, but the whole movie doesn't stay there. Don't expect some deep plotted movie that follows any rules, it's made for laughs and that's what you get plenty of. It's great to have comedies that stay comedies. It's still played well by the entire cast and I love the music, especially the theme by Marvin Hamlisch. So take a break and enjoy a funny movie that puts you in a good mood. You don't have to be a hardcore Allen fan but if you are one (as I am) you'll love it even more. "},{"Title":"Funny but overlong","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take The Money And Run is pretty funny (funniest gag, IMO Woody and the switchblade), but it has the misfortune of being sandwiched, in Woody Allen's filmography, between two funnier - and even crazier - films What's Up, Tiger Lily? and Bananas. Just my opinion, of course, but I don't think Take The Money And Run has a comedy sequence as classic as Woody in the courtroom in Bananas. Some people will argue for the (first) failed bank robbery sequence, but wouldn't it be more likely for Woody to misspell Gun as Gum instead of Gub? The film is also too long, even if it's relatively short, and in the last 15 minutes or so it has run out of steam. From an artistic point of view, Allen's biggest leap forward in this movie is the pseudo-documentary format, which is VERY effectively and caringly done, perfectly complimented by Jackson Beck's flawlessly deadpan narration. And Janet Margolin is one of the loveliest women you'll ever see. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"A Thing of beauty","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Oh Woody Allen, you beauty. One of your movies a day keep the blues away. I must have seen more than a dozen Allen movies and this is the funniest of the lot. It tells the tale of an inept robber according to the IMDb survey. made in the same documentary mode as his latter Zelig, this is a much better movie than that due to hilarious events happening throughout the movie and Allen's exceptional acting. He is absolutely adorable as the robber who tries the most outrageous ideas to get out of the jam he is in and which include such originality as making a gun out of soap and black polish. This is among his earliest movies and we can see that Woody Allen was a prodigy, an exceptional talent right from the word go. Absolutely fantastic. "},{"Title":"After fifteen minutes I wanted to marry her, and after a half hour I completely gave up the idea of snatching her purse.","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only real Woody Allen movie of the 60s, it's sometimes a wonder his impressive career ever got started with such inauspicious beginnings. After working in TV as a writer since 1950, his first break into the movies came with 1965's overdone and incredibly dated What's New Pussycat (4). Although he wrote the screenplay and had a role in it, it's not regarded as a Woody Allen film for the very valid reason that he didn't direct it. However, the fact that a great number of people tend to misremember the similarly non-Allen directed Play It Again, Sam (7) from 1972 as a Woody picture is perhaps a reflection on its relative worth.After this there followed a couple of TV movie scripts and 1966's What's Up, Tiger Lily? (5) a Japanese spy film dubbed to turn it into a comedy. Reputedly the idea of behind it was from AIP president Henry G. Saperstein, with Allen hired as gag writer and one of the voices doing the dubbing. Certainly, despite his Associate Producer credit, Allen didn't have a great deal of control over the picture, with an impersonator performing some extra lines as Allen and scenes of The Lovin' Spoonful crudely grafted in to extend the runtime. There are some nice one-liners in Tiger Lily (He lives in that piece of paper?) but ultimately you'd expect something more substantial for what was, after a fashion, Allen's official directorial movie debut. Yet if nothing else, the studio interference on Tiger Lily did make Woody pledge to have greater creative control for his future works. After this we got uncredited rewrites and a role in the appalling Casino Royale (q.v.), a couple of Woody Allen TV specials and the script to the film Don't Drink The Water, a film Allen held in such low regard he remade it 25 years later. It's a messy, patchy start, and Allen wouldn't really begin to see his true potential until the 1970s.So with Take the Money and Run as, for all intents and purposes, the first Woody Allen movie then it's interesting to see his art originate here. It's actually quite surprising, for a film in which he unusually plays someone uneducated and working class, how many of his themes are right there at the start. We get psychotherapy, atheism, relationship comedy... there's even the first signs of someone being forced to kill to protect their own lifestyle. That's not to say that Take the Money and Run gave us Crimes and Misdemeanors (and two partial remakes in the late 2000s) but that the seed of the idea was there from the start of his career. There's also the mock documentary format, reused again in his work, most famously of course in 1983's Zelig. Although taken for granted today, this was still a relatively groundbreaking format for the time.Comedy is subjective, but there are parts where Take the Money and Run may be too broad and self-consciously kooky today, as with all of his 60s work. If you enjoy jokes like being in illegal possession of a wart or a man being turned into a rabbi by taking experimental drugs then it could be for you. But often the jokes are subtler, more inventive and wittier, and sometimes the two forms collide. Witness the scene where Allen, at a job interview, is asked what kind of office he used to work in. Rectangular comes the reply, an amusing adjoinder that works in the incongruous surroundings. Except, as the vignette goes on, we find he's playing a game of What's My Line? with a fellow colleague, and so the initial gag has been rendered meaningless. This happens repeatedly throughout, some pseudo-realistic moments rendered inert by the fantasy trappings. The one time it actually happens in reverse is when Allen is surreally holding a man at gunpoint while having a polite conversation with him... only for it to emerge that the man is a policeman who is allowing him to think he's getting away with it.However, there are also lots of genuinely inventive sequences in this film, co-written with Mickey Rose (who also co-wrote Tiger Lily and 1971's Bananas). A scene with a gun made out of soap caught in the rain, a cellist in a marching band, a domestic chain gang and a scene with an illegible hold up note are all inspired, even if the latter goes on a little too long. Adding to this is the ending, which contains arguably the most perfect punchline in any Woody Allen picture. Credit to this is given to editor Ralph Rosenblum, who convinced Allen to scrap the downbeat ending where the lead character died in a hail of bullets.In all, watching these first forays into cinema is an interesting education into the work of Woody Allen. It's a world away from the likes of Another Woman, and shows just how varied his career was, before he began to stagnate in the 90s. The Woody Allen of today still produces watchable films, but the works of a man in his 70s with a long career behind him naturally lack the zest and hunger of a writer in his 30s who was just starting out. They're also a telling reminder that the oft-misquoted early, funny ones were really just a very small part of his output and far from representative of the body of his work. "},{"Title":"Take the Money and Run (1969)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take the Money and RunThis was my favorite Woody when I was a young fella. I guess the rapid succession of quick little gags appealed to me. Now I'm less amused by it (perhaps partly due to overexposure) but there are some great bits. The whole gub thing is really inspired, and the chain gang scene, and some of the small throwaway jokes like the disguises Virgil's parents wear. Others fall kinda flat, but there's nothing truly awful in the entire movie. Although not one of the greats, it's generally a fun time.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Early Woody Allen","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen's first Imovie is a slapstick comedy with a brilliant series of gags about a failed cello player who takes up a life of crime. Virgil Starkwell is being hunted by the FBI and the movie is a newsreel account consisting of side-splitting skits Virgil escaping from prison using a bar of soap; trying to rob a bank as tellers argue over the meaning of his notes; chain gangs on the loose as everyone overlooks the obvious clanging of the chains. The clichés are endless and exaggerated to the point of hysteria. Interviews with his parents (in Groucho Marx disguises) are part of the narrative. We can see the style of humor that at the time was reminiscent of Mel Brooks. Interesting to compare these with his mature movies such as those set in Manhattan in the 1980's and later on, Crimes and Misdeameanors and Manhattan Murder Mystery, where the word play and script were dominant. Yet the early Woody Allen was a budding genius and very funny. "},{"Title":"So far one of my favorites of Allen's films.","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I started watching Allen's films a few months ago starting with Annie Hall and Manhattan. I got to be honest, I didn't enjoy them or quite understand them two as much as this film of his Take The Money and Run.Story about a man who does nothing but steal things from stores and purses, or whatever he can get his hands on. He tries to do jobs like delivering things, but he always messes up somehow. After attempting to steal, he goes numerous amount of times to jail, and then tries finding a way out. He meets a girl one day and is soon her boyfriend. A whole lot goes on with such great laughs in the film, its amazing! The film is also told mostly in a documentary of Woody's character Virgil, and it tells itself nicely.I would recommend this film for anyone trying to get into Woody Allen. This film has such funny gags and jokes. "},{"Title":"Funny career-criminal mockumentary","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A super vehicle for Woody Allen's favourite combination of stand-up shtick, neurotic perversity and romance. A mock biopic in which Woody Allen's Virgil Stockwell falls into crime through being a loser there's quite a high gag density, many of them surreal my favourite is a precariously extended sequence in which he's apprehended after having failed to spell a holdup note correctly.Pity for Virgil comes in the form of a classical 70s beauty Janet Margolin who is prepared to disregard his criminality, lying and general uselessness as he coos over her and makes her laugh. Margolin has little to do beyond blushing demurely similarly the supporting cast simply have types to play which they do perfectly well. Charming if disposable. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Nobody wears beige to a bank robbery!","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the film 'Stardust Memories (1980),' Woody Allen's character, a film director, is accosted by a swarm of adoring fans, most of whom declare that they much prefer his early, funny movies. Though I'm still undoubtedly a novice when it comes to the director's works, I've responded to Woody Allen in a completely opposite fashion his early movies are certainly amusing, but they simply don't carry any emotion, and so I'm liable to pass them off as being lightweight and insignificant. 'Take the Money and Run (1969)' was Allen's first real film as director (after the re-dubbed 1966 comedy, 'What's Up, Tiger Lily?,' which I haven't seen yet). It tells the life of Virgil Starkwell, an incompetent criminal who nonetheless devotes his entire life to crime. The film makes entertaining use of the mockumentary format, combining normal movie scenes with super-serious narration (by Jackson Beck) and interviews with those who knew Virgil best.The plot of the film is flimsy at best, but it basically achieves its purpose, as a vehicle for a selection of funny gags and quotable one-liners. After a troublesome childhood, Virgil turns to robbing banks as a means of earning an income, but his sheer ineptitude sees him sent to prison on various occasions. The bars of his jail cell, however, are never enough to contain Virgil's enthusiasm for breaking the law, and he conceives numerous daring strategies for escape (some prove successful, while others don't). Virgil's greatest incentive to become an exceptional criminal is Louise (Janet Margolin), the love of his life, whom he met whilst attempting to rob her (after fifteen minutes I wanted to marry her, and after half an hour I completely gave up the idea of stealing her purse). She is surprisingly supportive towards him &#150; even after he confesses that he isn't really a cello player with the Philharmonic Orchestra &#150; and bitterly curses the FBI for never placing her husband on their Top Ten Most Wanted List.'Take the Money and Run' is a relatively funny film, but it seems somewhat incomplete. However, we can detect a young Woody Allen slowly perfecting his craft, and there are definitely elements of the neurotic, relationships-troubled Jewish persona that he later exploit to great acclaim in such classics as 'Annie Hall (1977)' and 'Manhattan (1979).' Whether he is stealing squares of glass from a jewelry store window, having his thick-rimmed spectacles stamped upon by those better than himself or misspelling his stick-up note during a bank robbery, this is a film where Woody Allen provides some entertaining lightweight comedy that'll certainly provide a solid chuckle or two. "}{"Title":"Great First Feature Film","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen is one of film's most able comedians, confident in his timing and the razor wit behind the stupidity of his humor, and he knows how unlikely he looks by nature in certain situations, such as being the leading man or a cool bank robber, or in a chain gang. The first film he ever starred in, wrote, and directed, it's a great demonstration of how clever he is and how frequently he can deliver laughs in under an hour and a half. What's Up, Tiger Lilly? offered Woody Allen images to riff on, thus his formal debut as modernist fool tenders the essential distinction with his own images, crudely spliced for utmost Marxian effect. Groucho is called to mind even before Woody's parents show up concealed behind fake glasses and mustache for an interview.What is most exceptional about Woody Allen's sense of humor is that it's broad, zany, and ridiculous, yet never delivered in that way. So many of the jokes and bits in this film belong to the Naked Gun library of pants-fall-down comedy, yet the jokes are much funnier and never tired because of the subtlety in their delivery. For instance, there is a scene where Allen is working with a sledgehammer while a part of a chain gang, and he swings up and back down to strike a rock, only to find that the sledging part of the hammer is gone. He looks around, and slowly the camera pans with him till he comes across a man dead on the ground from the striking part of the hammer hitting his head. The reason I laughed so hard at this scene was because of its nonchalance. If the Zucker brothers or the Wayanses did this joke, we would likely hear an off-screen bonk and a yelp as he swings the hammer upward. Or similarly after Woody falls for Janet Margolin, the imitation lyricism of their walk in the park seasoned by a soundtrack of one-liners. Nonetheless, Jackson Beck's is the chief voice placed over the images with a laconic Dragnet, providing great continuous irony over men in gorilla suits, ventriloquist dummies in prison visiting halls and jolts of absurdity like Wanted by federal authorities for dancing with a mailman. A Fritz Lang-style despot is recruited to direct a big heist, informing a take-off on You Only Live Once of all things. I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang and White Heat also play a part.Early in his career, he did a number of goofy fluff such as this, Bananas, Sleeper, and What's Up, Tiger Lily? His neurotic archetypal on-screen persona was only developed later, and his humor seguayed to a more refined wryness, but during his zany early days, he wasn't only about pratfalls and slapstick. His humor was still very centered on everyday mannerisms and conversational occurrences that we take for granted. For instance, Allen approaches a man and robs him, but he happens to know the guy, and the two have a friendly conversation about old times in the precise way one would imagine in reality, and the demand for the watch and wallet are mentioned as sidelines, as if he were pointing out that the man's shoe were untied. There's a great amount of social and creative intelligence present in all of Allen's films, even his earliest. "},{"Title":"Different and early Allen movie, but sill more than great!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have seen only 11 Woody Allen movies I think and this is by far the earliest motion pictures he had directed that I watch. It is a great movie as overall, but I have to say the humor was different, the character Allen played was different and if anybody told me that I would like a different kind of comedy directed by Woody Allen, I doubt I would have believed him since I love Manhattan Murder Mystery and Annie Hall so much. They are so similar. And now we have a story about a criminal man who is in fact a complete idiot and there's no robbery he could do right. The story is hilarious and when we add the fact that the movie is shot as a documentary, it turns out that after all, Allen could direct a different comedy in a great way. Of course his trademark to put a relationship into the story is here, but that could be only positive. This time, his wife's character is not given enough lines and screen time unlike Keaton in Annie Hall for example or Hunt in The Curse of the Jade Scorpion, but this is understandable since as I said couple of times already that the movie is different and I could call it a strange kind of satire with very few standard comedy elements. "},{"Title":"1st & Last & ALWAYS","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the first Woody Allen movie I was ever subjected to.  When I was but a wee lad, I thought it funny, and unlike any of the modern, child-friendly comedies I had been exposed to.  Reflecting upon it, a man, I see its flaws and could've-been-betters, but I still think it vastly underrated.  As his first real film, Allen deserves to be cut some slack. I have never been a huge fan of his mock-documentaries -- in fact, I don't think I liked a single one -- but this is by far the funniest.  This is the unofficial first effort in Woody Allen's funny era, and it is still timeless.  Allen is still a bit wet-behind-the-years, but a comedic leviathan-i.t., nevertheless.  Pic suffers from a meticulously crafted comedic structure -- it has no narrative arc -- rather, it hits a plateau of jokes and, towards the end, is an unintentionally depressing experience. The very qualities for which Allen is now mocked and lampooned by far less-gifted individuals -- such as his paranoid everybody-is-out-to-get-me schtick -- are what make pic enjoyable.  A few could've-been-betters I wish to dote on are Allen's tendency to cast his love interests (Louise Lasser being the least funny of the female opposites he has cast over the years); his use of awkward, fumbling performances as a type of incidental comedy (I'm not even sure if this is intentional); and his casting, which would also improve over the years.  An incredible improvement over TIGER LILY, pic is a shining example of comedy without a movie clever (not laugh-out-laugh funny) vignettes stringing together a weak story -- before Allen became a true filmmaker with Sleeper. C+ "},{"Title":"Holy Time Warp","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great laughs in this film. One puzzle. Could someone explain to me how the chase tune used at about 1 hour and 10 minutes into this movie ended up being the Austin Powers theme song? Don't believe me, go listen. It's not just close, it's the same piece of music!!! "},{"Title":"Funny piece of cinema for it's time","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My first impression was that I couldn't believe that this was made in 1969. Having seen Annie Hall and not knowing this was made before had really surprised me. Woody Allen comes clean and gives us a fresh comedy, which now days, speaking 21st century makes something like Date Movie seem like it doesn't exist at all. TTMAR, stars Woody Allen as Virgil, a man with no hopes and hardly any positive life experiences, from his early days such as the scene where the bullies step on his glasses to the later days when in he is in court and ironically the judge steps on his glasses, Virgil simply has no luck in life. This movie is just taking the p iss, every situation from robbing banks, to escaping the prison, to lying to his girlfriend and later wife is just hilarious. TTMAR is an example of the pure comedy genius he is. It's a relaxer a mood uplifter and literally makes you feel better about yourself, because I don't think anybody could be as unlucky as him. Heads up to Janet Margolin, she shone with innocence and her beauty posed as a juxtaposition between the two characters. "},{"Title":"Howlingly funny and inventive early Woody Allen","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A brilliant mock-documentary on the life of a criminal - played by Allen - with some of the funniest lines and sight gags I've ever seen in a film. It's important to remember that 'mockumentaries' weren't common when Allen made this, and it was actually seen as quite experimental in it's own crazy, low budget way.This isn't the deep, brilliant film-maker of 'Annie Hall', etc, but an amazingly smart and funny young Allen capturing the spirit of cinema anarchists like the Marx Brothers.The only small drawbacks; a sometimes cloying musical score and a couple of slow sections around the love story. But these are very small flies in the great ointment.A couple of minor points - there's an interesting debate as to whether the correct aspect ratio is 166 or 185. I remember it as 166 when it was out in the theaters, but that's a looooong time ago now.Also, the budget is cited on IMDb as $1.5 million. Small, but not tiny for its day. I believe the budget was actually much smaller, at least per producer Charles H. Joffe. This was really indie film-making of its day. "},{"Title":"Virgil Starkwell will have you laughing all the way to the bank.","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take The Money And Run is the second directorial outing for Woody Allen and, to this day, remains one of my personal favourites and one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.We get a selection of talking head interviews, narration and on-the-spot footage (as it were) to tell the story of hapless career criminal, Virgil Starkwell (played by Allen). His life begins badly and seems to go downhill but there are some plus points, like his meeting with Louise (Janet Margolin) and the relationship that blossoms. But can Virgil straighten out his act or at least successfully pull off one last, big job to ensure their financial security? There's no point here in dissecting the plot or picking at things like the score or choice of camera shots. This is a fast and furious, scattershot comedy that has the best gag-per-minute ratio outside of the classic Airplane! Not all of the gags are quite so good but the ones that hit the mark do so in a way that make this movie endlessly rewatchable. I still double over in laughter during the gun carved of soap scene and it's just one of many such moments to provide genuine laugh out loud entertainment.Do yourself a favour if you're ever in a low mood, just get a hold of this movie and watch it till your cheeks hurt from laughing so hard.See this if you like Sleeper, Raising Arizona, The Jerk. "},{"Title":"Is Kowalski a midget?","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In a recent edition of 'The Radio Times', Richard Curtis claimed that 'This Is Spinal Tap' ( quote ) 'invented the spoof documentary'. Well, 'Take The Money & Run' also is a spoof documentary, and was made over a decade earlier.It was Woody Allen's first film as director ( he co-wrote it with Mickey Rose ), and tells the story of Virgil Starkwell, a criminal so incompetent he winds up in prison each time he tries to pull a job. In the pre-title sequence, he does a hold-up, only for the gun in his hand to turn out to be a novelty cigarette lighter. Behind bars, he organises an escape, but his fellow inmates call the thing off without telling him, leaving him on his own. He cuts a bar of soap into the shape of a gun and dyes it using boot polish. It rains and he is left holding a mass of soap bubbles.Woody's film is heavily influenced by The Marx Brothers ( 'Duck Soup' in particular ), as indeed were all his films right up to 'Annie Hall' in 1977 ( when he started thinking he was Ingmar Bergman ). Gags both verbal and visual come at the viewer at a rate of knots. Most work, some don't. Woody has some fun at the expense of prison movies such as 'I am A Fugitive From A Chain Gang' and 'Cool Hand Luke'.My favourite moment is when Virgil tries to rob a bank but fails because the staff cannot read the note he has written Is that gun or gub?. While they debate this, the police arrive and poor Virgil is nabbed yet again. What makes the scene hilarious is that the characters involved have absolutely no idea of the absurdity of the situation they are in.Things To Listen Out For; during Virgil's escape from the chain-gang, Quincey Jones' 'Soul Bossa Nova' can be heard on the soundtrack. These days it is better known as the theme to 'Austin Powers'.'Run' began a series of hilarious Allen comedies such as 'Bananas' and 'Sleeper'. I have little time for Woody's later films ( 'Stardust Memories' is one of the most self-indulgent pictures ever made ), but will happily watch his early stuff - when he was at the top of his game - over and over again. "},{"Title":"Wit + Cinematic Anarchy = Classic Woody Allen","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen...the short, red headed, Jewish guy with big glasses and a dirty mouth. Without a doubt, one of the best comedians, writers, and directors of the last century. In this movie, you really got a good look into the mind, or at least the sense of humor, of Allen.Take the Money and Run was one of the first mockumentaries that would become famous with the Christopher Guest films. This is a genre I'm particularly fond. Mockumentaries, when well done, are absolutely ridiculous, but are presented in the utmost seriousness. Unlike most other genres of comedies, they mock the madness that is human nature right out there in the plainest way possible.I think the thing that really makes this movie is the sheer number of sight gags, recurring jokes, and just general Allen-esquire humor that are sprinkled throughout the movie. Who could forget Virgil Starkwell as the lone cello player in the marching band? I know I laughed every time Starkwell's glasses were shattered to pieces by a host of different neighborhood bullies and thugs. Furthermore, who else but Woody Allen would devote a whole scene to a bank robbery that failed due to poor handwriting.Those are only a few of gags and general insanity that make this movie a pure joy to watch. The love story does kind of drag the movie down, but even that brings with it a plethora of humor. This is a movie I'd suggest to anyone with a tongue in cheek sense of humor that likes a bit of silliness. "},{"Title":"May I see your gun?","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have seen plenty of Woody Allen films and certainly I have already seen the ones that most of the people consider to be his very best works (for example Annie Hall, Hannah and Her Sisters and Manhattan) so basically the ones that for me are still to watch are mainly minor works and any time I have the chance to see a Woody Allen film I don't think twice. I will write a simple example September is a film that I can easily find on DVD at a very decent price however it doesn't look very attractive. Take the Money and Run is a film that is kind of difficult to find on DVD and since the Region 4 DVD doesn't exist you can only find the R1 at a higher price yet I always wanted to watch Take the Money and Run. Right now I want to watch every Woody Allen film so soon I will be watching September and certainly when I found Take the Money and Run last week I doesn't missed the chance and yes other Woody Allen films can wait. And I'm glad I finally saw this film; early Allen is not my favourite however is really good and now this film wasn't the exception. Basically we enjoy the story of a life, the story of Virgil Starkwell (Allen), so we enjoy the story of the life of Virgil, a criminal life that never really changed. We see the persons who knew Virgil, we see his parents (we don't see their actual faces since they are very ashamed of their son so they look like Groucho Marx) and many others who knew Virgil. Near the end we see a girl who says that for her was totally unbelievable that Virgil was actually a criminal, certainly he never looked like a gangster. Virgil himself says that to be criminal is a really good job since you are like your own boss in other good things. So we have a case of a criminal who likes his job and who can be seen by society as a normal guy, is perfect to have a case of a brilliant criminal yet with Virgil we see, and certainly enjoy, one of the lamest criminals of all time! So this is the story of Virgil's life then we will see some unsuccessful jobs, his days in prison, his escapes (he was at least lucky enough to never complete his sentences and his one and only love, Louise (extremely beautiful Janet Margolin. To mention all the memorable stuff from this film I will need to bore you however I don't want that then will only mention some. One of those memorable scenes has the line from my title, May I see your gun?, and is definitely one of my favourite moments. We see Virgil robbing well trying to rob a bank, is great because the employees realize that they were being victims of a robbery after some minutes of talking with the criminal! It was so difficult for Virgil to convince the employees that it was a robbery since he couldn't write well the note! And you what, he ended in prison. You will find many hilarious moments (I loved one of the very last scenes and yes it is when Virgil is finally captured by an old friend now part of the FBI) with this early Allen (and also you can call it pre-Zelig), definitely a favourite of mine from those years so absolutely recommended! "}{"Title":"Great Laughs","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take the Money and Run (1969) *** (out of 4) Hilarious spoof of crime films tells the story of Virgil Starkwell (Allen), a man raised in the tough streets who eventually turns to a life of crime. After being released from prison he meets a lovely young girl (Janet Margolin) and the two fall in love but the life of crime keeps calling. There are some really wonderful jokes here and the screenplay perfectly captures those old crime pictures so even at this early state it's easy to tell Allen was someone special. Like most of Allen's early films, this movie has about ten jokes a minute so some work better than others but for the most part all of the jokes here hit a home run. The early joke of Allen experimenting with a new drug is terrific and hilarious when the side effect turns him into a Rabbi. Margolin is very good in her role of Allen's wife but this is Woody's movie from start to finish. This is a very funny spoof at the genre, which perfectly captures the mood and feel of those old films. "},{"Title":"Good Woody Allen comedy","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is Woody Allen's first movie as a writer and director and unlike any other of his comedies. It doesn't open silently with the main titles in white on a black screen and it doesn't have his standard use of old music. No drama either. It's basically just a mocumentary (complete with narration and interviews) about the life of criminal Virgil Starkwell (Allen). It chronicles how he started his life of crime, met and fell in love with Louise (Janet Margolin) and can't seem to stop being a criminal.This was considered a comedy classic when it came out. Today it's kind of weak. Some of the jokes work but there are a large number that don't. The jokes are also pretty silly for a Woody Allen film and it just drags along. This isn't a total bomb--it just isn't as funny as you would expect from an early Allen film. Also, surprisingly, Allen doesn't play a Jewish guy here! That's probably the first (and last) time he did that. It's OK but you can safely skip this one. "},{"Title":"A riot","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So many classic scenes in this...the gub scene at the bank..THE ESCORTING OF VIRGIL TO THE BANK MANAGER'S BACK DESK TO DECIPHER HIS ROBBERY NOTE...Virgil and his carved out soap gun turning into suds after Virgil breaks out of prison with the gun at a prison guards' back when a sudden rainstorm hits ....the movie director filming Virgils bank robbery attempt, that runs into competing bank robbers...Virgil ashamed parents' disguises and false noses , glasses....i roared when I saw this first in my high school year senior of 1969-70....and I roar when I still see it...so do my two teens...a true classic! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly durable","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although Allen would refine his comedy in later films, incorporating more philosophy, this is a surprisingly funny piece which stands the test of time.  While not a comedy classic from beginning to end, there are some timeless scenes.  Also, take note of the music during a scene late in the film, which was later adapted to serve as the theme to the Austin Powers movies. "},{"Title":"15 years between first and last viewing and STILL one of the funniest in Woodys canon.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My second favourite WA film behind the perfect and sublime Annie Hall although poles apart in terms of content. Fantastic visual comedy from the scene which sees Virgil as an inept pool hustler with a penchant for losing the cue ball to his botched attempt at running over his blackmailing mistress in her living room and ultimately winding up as 1/6th of a shuffling chain gang. I first watched this film as a 10 year old ne'er do well at my fathers feet back in '86 (give it up for Beta-Max ladies and gentlemen) and bought and watched it on VHS yesterday hence this snippet/rating. Still a truly funny film from Americas best ever writer-director-actor. Rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"The FUNNIEST film of all time","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Since I first saw this classic on the ABC Friday Night Movie in the mid 70s, I knew it was unique.  Now, almost 30 years later, the film still manages to crack me up.  Allen was at his all time best with this, as well as with SLEEPER.  MONEY, however, has more laughs in the first ten minutes than just about every comedy released in the last decade. "},{"Title":"The start of a love affair","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the very first Woody Allen film I saw and it started what has become a lifelong love affair with the the Great Neurotic.The film is presented in documentary style and tells the story of a small time criminal and his spectacularly unsuccessful career as a hood.Take the money and run is hilarious. It's fast paced, filled with great sight gags (watch for the gorilla in the pet store), has a catchy Marvin Hamlisch score; but what REALLY gets me are the terrific character parts played by largely unknown actors who do as fine a job as any high paid Hollywood star.This is not Hannah and her sisters or Celebrity Allen, but if you're looking to laugh until you  hurt, rent it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Allen film","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was one of Allen's earliest film, and to this day it is one of the funniest.  Man, I laughed so hard at this movie.  There are so many funny scenes in at that you laugh throughout the whole movie.  This is probably the only allen film i have seen where he didnt blabber the whole movie about how miserable his life is.  Though its funny when he does that, it was a good break, watching this film to actually see an optimistic allen throughout the whole movie.  I would rate it as his funniest movie, after Bananas. "},{"Title":"Still a side-splitter","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was in 9th grade when it came out. It was the funniest thing I'd ever seen at the time.  Even now, although subsequent comedies have borrowed so much from this movie that the gags are pretty worn, it's still a laugh a minute.  My 6th grader laughed through the whole thing at just the sight gags alone.Kids nowadays don't know who Groucho was, or how much Allen borrowed from him, so my daughter didn't think it was very funny that Virgil's parents' disguises were Groucho masks.BY THE WAY, THIS FILM IS RATED R, which means I can't show it in my school.  But there isn't a dirty thing in it.  I don't get it.  Is it because of all the ironic references to commies and pinkos that some patriot rated it such?Mag "},{"Title":"Low budget genius.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What do Woody Allen and Bob Dylan have in common? A genius for making genius their own way. While Dylan excels in being Dylan and writing songs that only Dylan can truly let shine in their full brilliance, as well as shunning the incendiary alchemy of both analog and digital studio wizardry, Allen is the same way. He can use a little of this and a little of that and wham bam thank you ma'am! What do you get? A little gem like Take The Money and Run. This film is unpretentious and absolutely hilarious. It stands with the best of the Mel Brooks parody films, a film celebrating a rich history of American drama and comedy. Allen pokes fun at everything and like a Dylan with scathing, razor sharp, satirical humour, expounds on the eccentricities and idiosyncracies of our colourful and quixotic society. He satirizes our (American)love of the maverick criminal and fashions a new legend, the tragic jester hero, a tragic fool like a Rosencrantz or Guildenstern, opening a new realm of possibility for all of us who don't speak so eloquently, don't carry our weapons so proudly, don't coin or brandish one liners with either the poise or delivery of an Eastwood or a Connery. For all of us semi-primates, there is Allen who sheds a golden light on our inequity and our folly. And like a Dylan, prone to laughing discordantly at himself in the middle of a song, Allen never takes himself or his audience too seriously.This movie is one of his finest, it is witty and slapstick, you will snicker and guffaw, that I can assure you. And for those of you already enamoured with Allen and his work, who have yet to soak in this sauna of humour, you have great things ahead of you! "}{"Title":"One of the better Allen's","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This one is really great. Like Virgil, I also like cellos and love women. And whenever there is money at stake, please do count me in... Although this one has not such deepness as Manhattan, it surely is funny to watch and has a lot of one-liners that still will do...  "},{"Title":"Will You Please Get To The Point!?","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Favorite Movie quote - I couldn't believe that this idiot was a criminal! Though far from being what I would call one of Woody Allen's best comedies, Take The Money And Run, in and of itself, certainly contained its fair share of really marvellous moments, both in its hilarious, rapid-fire one-liners, as well as its priceless, well-timed sight gags that more than just tickled this delighted viewer's funny-bone.Here in his first outing as writer, star and director, Woody Allen plays (as only Woody Allen could possibly play) Virgil Starkwell, a completely hopeless criminal-failure from New Jersey who, at 18, decides to become a pool hustler in order to prove his manhood.Through candid interviews from those who knew him well, we quickly learn the real story of Virgil's pitiful criminal past before he is finally captured by the FBI (after countless botched jail breaks) and sent up for an 800-year term in prison.In between all of Virgil's criminal incompetence you'll be glad to know, I'm sure, that, yes, he does take time out for romance as he finds himself wrapped up in the loving arms of luscious Louise.From blackmail, to murder plots, to life on a chain-gang, to committing just about every petty crime in the book, Take The Money and Run, which clearly showcases Woody Allen's signature atheist/pinko viewpoint, is a 1960's farce that is certainly well-worth a view. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the funnies woody Allen film that i have ever seen, with a joke every 30 secons, it is his finest work. The introduction is the best part of the film with the chello in the marching band, which is such a quant idea but so hilarious. Anoth of my favorite bits was the Shirt folder and i just laughted and laughted. I give this a strong 8 out of 10. Please see this film  and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Abt natural, I've got a gub!","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN just may be Woody Allen's purest comedy. That is to say that it is probably the least pretentious film he has made and the one film of his that seems to reach for nothing more than to get laughs on the most basic level. Like the classic comedies of the silent era, the story is set up as a series of gags, stunts and jokes that are largely free of false sentimentality or obvious malice. And happily, it is also his most consistently funny film.The irony is that it is not quite the film he originally started out to make. It is the first film Woody directed (assuming you don't count his comic re-mix of WHAT'S UP, TIGER LILY?), and lore has it that it was intended to be somewhat more ambitious and sophisticated -- and melodramatic. It was always intended to be a comedy, but according to editor Ralph Rosenblum, it also was meant to have a darker edge, including a degree of violence. But Woody, who sought to never let anyone else direct his screenplays after his disappointing experiences with his WHAT'S NEW, PUSSYCAT? script, turned in a first cut that was deemed unreleasable. Rosenblum was brought in to salvage the film in the editing room.In a way, this is Woody's student film -- a beginner's on-the-job training for things that were to come. That is not to say that Woody doesn't deserve credit for the film's low-key brilliance or that the result isn't still ambitious or sophisticated in its final form. It is a pioneering example of the mockumentary, a film genre that would reach its apex with Allen's own ZELIG some fourteen years later. Narrated with stern, deadpan perfection by Jackson Beck, the film is done in a straight-faced documentary format, chronicling the fictional career of low-life criminal Virgil Starkweather. Told via talking-head interviews, and supposed archive footage and re-enactments, the film has a wonderfully dour, amateurish quality that nicely captures the feel of low-budget newsreel journalism and lesser film noir. All of which stands in solid contrast to Allen's barrage of comic zingers, non sequiturs and gleeful slapstick. It reflects a genuine feel for documentary reporting but subverts the genre's built-in pretentiousness with a hodge-podge of comedy drawn from silent comedy, stand up, TV skit comedy and improv.The film does include the seemingly obligatory rabbi joke, which is never as funny as Woody thinks it is, but otherwise most of the gags work perfectly. There are great one-liners (After fifteen minutes I wanted to marry her, and after half an hour I completely gave up the idea of stealing her purse.), wonderful slapstick (six guys on the chain gang and only five bicycles for the getaway), absurdities (Woody playing a cello in a marching band) and clever situations (competing gangs show up to rob the same bank). The humor is sometimes broad and silly (his attempts to hit-and-run a blackmailer -- in her apartment) and cleverly droll (What's a gub?). Woody's experiences as a TV skit writer are obvious, but the documentary format neatly disguises any sloppiness the clash of styles might create as well as blending in any extraneous gags that are inserted just because they are funny. Though his reliance on the TV skit format would prove to be a clumsy, albeit reliable, approach for his next few films, here at least the eclectic parts hang together as a complete whole. "},{"Title":"Amusing but rarely hilarious","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Virgil Starkwell was a product of his environment. Born into a poor family living in a rough community, Virgil soon finds companionship with a rough crowd and gets sucked into a life of petty crime from a very young age. An interest in the cello is not enough to set him straight and his acts continue into adulthood. Love, a powerful motivator, proves to be his undoing as he tries to rob a bank to fund his relationship.We all talk about Allen's earlier, funnier films (even he does) but this probably doesn't extend the whole way to the very start of his film career because this, his second film, isn't up to the standard of Love & Death, Annie Hall and the like. The film is a mockumentary looking at the life and career of failing small-time criminal Virgil Starkwell and as such there is a basic narrative to provide some structure. Supposedly tightened up significantly in the editing room, the film is still pretty baggy at times and doesn't really have the material to carry it to even 85 minutes. However what the film does do well is produce plenty of imaginative moments that made me laugh out of nothing. I think of the scene where Virgil hires a car to run his blackmailer down, the spelling errors on the notes and others that are imaginative twists on what you expect and funnier for it. The one liners (and dialogue generally) is not as strong as Allen fans would hope for because the humour tends towards the sight gag.This isn't a criticism because the sight gags are mostly good but the problem is one of consistency. I wasn't laughing anywhere enough for this to be a memorable comedy and there were quite a few lulls. These came particularly where the film had a section of narrative or dialogue rather than fast visual snippets under the narrator &#150; it is the latter that are the strongest parts of the film but they can't come quick enough and there isn't enough to support it in-between. Allen makes a good lead of course and I found him to be very good at delivering the visual comedy. Margolin is a bit too stiff; not good enough at the comedy or the dramatic stuff. The rest of the support cast does what they are required to do but the film does belong to Allen and his script. Credit should go to editor Rosenblum for making it as tight as possible and keeping the visual gags flowing as best as he can while limiting the weaker dialogue bits.Overall then an amusing film that will appeal mostly to Woody Allen films. There are plenty of imaginative comedy moments but it is not as consistent as it needed to be to consider it on the same level as Allen's finest films (that would follow this in the 1970's in my opinion). "},{"Title":"If Tex Avery made a feature length live action movie, it would be this.","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In Woody Allen's first real Woody Allen movie, he already proves to be among the funniest people who ever lived. Although his later movies were better written (as in they have more well- defined characters, etc.), this is probably his funniest. The movie is full of brilliant sight gags and visual humour with great comedic timing. And humour like this has never been handled so brilliantly since the great Tex Avery.The thing I like the most about it is how deadpan the actors are. Woody Allen plays his role like he would a straight man, despite how weird and idiotic his character is. His parents are very serious in this movie despite wearing silly Groucho Marx glasses. And the narrator sounds like he's actually talking about a serious criminal. All the more proof that deadpan silliness is the best kind of silliness.This comedic masterpiece is recommended to all Woody Allen fans, especially if you're also a fan of that other comedy genius that obviously inspired this movie, Tex Avery. "},{"Title":"Something very special and eccentric and funny.","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The summary is from the last line of Vincent Canby's NY Times review dated August 19, 1969, and 40+ years later it's still apt. Like Airplane, Take the Money and Run is a gloriously absurd, uproarious, rapid fire parody, and along with Sleeper, Zelig, and The Purple Rose of Cairo it remains one of Allen's funniest and best sustained comedies. There's a wonderfully slapdash feel to the film and the documentary style complete with narration and newsreel footage allows the visual comedy to keep pace with Woody's one-liners. Take the Money and Run is often overlooked in favor of some of his more belabored comedies but it's essential Allen, and lovely Janet Margolin is sweet and funny, and so is the film. Classic comedy. "},{"Title":"In the beginning was the gag","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Despite the embarrassingly amateurish home-movie photography of Lester Shorr, Marvin Hamlisch's heavy-handed over-scoring, and the general mishmash thrown-together quality of the editing, Woody Allen's first film is still well-worth watching. At best it is a hilarious onslaught of sight and sound gags, the cinematic equivalent of a Henny Youngman stand-up routine. Hey, if you didn't like the last joke, there's a better one coming. For every gag that falls flat, there are a dozen others that are as funny and satirical as they were back in 1969. In the forty or more years since this film was made, Allen has progressed a long way both as a technician and as an artist, but his unique brand of quintessential New York Jewish genius was always there to begin with. "},{"Title":"Early Theatrical Film from Mr. Woody Allen, a sort of Primer of His Style and Humor.","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" American BROADASTING COMPANY Pictures presents a Jack Rollins & Charles H. Joffee Production of Woody Allen's TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN. Written by Woody Allen & Mickey Rose. Executive Producers Sydney Glazier & Edgar J. Scherick, Associate Producer Jack Grossberg. Original Music by Marvin Hamlisch. With Woody Allen, Marcel Hillaire, Jacquelyn Hyde, Lonnie Chapman, Jan Merlin, James Anderson, Howard Storm, Mark Gordon, Micil Murphy, Minnow Moskowitz, Nate Jacobson, Ethel Sokolow, Grace Bauer, Dan Frazer, Henry Leff, Mike O'Dowd, Jackson Beck, Louise Lasser, Stanley Ackerman, Thomas Engel, Roy Engel, Mickey Rose, Paul Schumacher.####### Everyone has to start out somewhere. It's not very often that one's hits the high mark of a career without some trial and error, some rough spots along the way. The dream of success is rarely realized without the investment of some great period of time and effort. So it is true with the film career of Woody Allen.As his premiere cinematic work, this TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN (1969) was perhaps no Woody Allen masterpiece, but it is loosely constructed and allows for a lot of non-sequitor, off the wall material that Woody had used to such a success in his stand-up days.To start with the story starts off with the appearance of a documentary. Quick cutting from scene to scene, a seemingly endless number interviews and the use of a voice over Narrator are all elements of that type of film. A scenario or plot is minimal as the construction of it may be described in the nomenclature of the Animated Cartoon. In the Animation Studios there is a term for a virtually plot less short. For example, we have that ever popular Road Runner & Coyote series. All that's required is to have the two adversaries, Road Runner & Coyote and 7 or 8 gags to use in the pursuit and unsuccessful catching of the would-be prey. Then the ending was then put in place and, presto, we have a cartoon. This was referred to as a clothesline film, for that method of randomly hanging one gag out after another, much like the gags in this early Woody offering.The filming took very little, if any, studio time; as location shooting seemed to be the order of the day. This not only would work out well as to the documentary style and look of the film, but it would also be frugal toward what couldn't have been a super-sized budget. Filmmaker Allen makes good use of some older, sort of run down street scenes and seedy commercial/industrial strips. His generous use of the Park gave an appearance almost like some of those early Chaplin shorts.Typical of his later output, Woody Allen has taken his craft and turned his attentions on certain favourite targets, such as; sex, physical dexterity (or lack there of), the dysfunctional family and his own Jewish upbringing. And one thing about TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN and some of the other early pictures is that there is not even the slightest smattering of any false pretensions. Later films are more sophisticated, more urbane even; and mostly highly enjoyable. But you cannot top the early films like this and say WHAT'S UP, TIGER LILY? (1966) for shear laugh power. "},{"Title":"Early Woody as a Career Bank Robber Has Some Funny Sight Gags But It Just Drifts","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Long before Christopher Guest mastered the genre, Woody Allen made a comic mockumentary of the life of a failed bank robber named Virgil Starkwell complete with newsreel footage, excerpts from interviews with people in his life (including his embarrassed parents in Groucho Marx masks) and a stentorian voice-over narration by Jackson Beck. This fitfully funny 1969 comedy marks Allen's feature film debut as a triple threat - director, writer (with early partner Mickey Rose) and star, and it shows the earmarks of his later visual style even if the laughs are not always there.Lacking an actual storyline, the movie takes us through Starkwell's life from shoplifting bubblegum machines as a youngster to bank robberies to finding the ideal woman to prison and so on and so on. This is Allen at his purest with focus on often hilarious sight gags and self-deprecating one-liners without his later forays into the complexities of the human condition. In fact, this is probably the only time that Allen has played a screen character without any intellectual pretensions. The closest he comes is pretending to be a cellist with the Philharmonic to the girl of his dreams, a pretty laundress named Louise. The best gags are probably the prison shirt-folding machine, the bank robbery where Starkwell's badly handwritten note is passed around the staff to interpret, the escaped chain gang coming into the old woman's house, the prison vaccine experiment that turns Starkwell into a Hassidic rabbi, and my favorite, the totally impossible scene where he drives a car inside a blackmailing woman's house chasing her around.Of less interest is the romance between Starkwell and Louise, who is portrayed as self-conscious and rather mealy-mouthed. Allen's usual generosity with actresses has not yet developed at this point, and Janet Margolin is forced to play Louise quite passively despite her beauty. For a movie that is supposed to take place between the 1940's through the early 1960's, it certainly looks and feels like hippie-era 1969, especially with the Austin Powers-style music over the chase scenes. Allen's first wife Louise Lasser (yes, Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman) has a funny cameo as an early girlfriend. There are no extras with the 2004 MGM DVD package. "}{"Title":"One of Allen's best films from his early comedy era","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very much fresh off the stand-up comedy circuit Allen stretches his wings a great deal in this gag-a-minute movie that centres on a useless criminal who can't even steal gum from a gumball machine without something going wrong.His character, Virgil Starkwell, is pretty much useless at everything, he can't play a musical instrument despite having his own tutor; he is no good at school;he can't get a decent job and he doesn't know how to date girls successfully. Its no wonder, therefore, that when his parents are interviewed in this moc-doc movie they disguise themselves in front of the camera for the shame their son as brought them.This is Allen's first real movie that is nothing more than slapstick comedy, one-liner jokes, a lot of visual humour coupled with the tell-tale self-analysis of his life. He not only co-wrote the screenplay but also starred and directed the film and it shows too.The acting is very better than the directing but the script is better than both. The film is uneven at times as Allen tries to feed us too many talky jokes and visual jokes at the same time. It seems as if he is afraid audiences might start to lose interest if he doesn't include at least one gag every few seconds.However, it was a brilliant idea to turn this movie into a moc-documentary with a superb narration by Jackson Beck whose voice fits the slightly serious tone & mood of the film perfectly. This helps a great deal because the monotone narration acts a kind of picture frame to the lunatic goings-on within the film itself and helps bring a sense of control to proceedings.Allen, the actor, is as you would always expect him to be. He portrays himself as the wimp all bullies dream about. Those trademark glasses and helpless eyes only make the Virgil character ever more realistic, charming & helpless that you simply cannot but cheer him on even though he is useless at almost everything.This film is far better than the rather disappointing Bananas but lacks the maturity and writing sophistication of his latter films such as Play It Again Sam and Sleeper. I think between 1968 and 75 was very much Allen's slapstick era, and some would say he directed some of his best films before going all serious & morose by the late 80s and early 90s.Take The Money And Run, is just another experimental vehicle for Allen to sharpen his considerable writing and acting talents while at the same time making himself well known through a large audience by using the kind of flat-line comedy he used during his stand-up years.As I mentioned earlier what spoils this film is the reliance by Allen to cram as much mirth into every frame as possible without trying to develop the story just a little more so that we could absorb ourselves not just with the humour but also the characters themselves. Allen soon managed to get this combination just about right with Play It Again Sam and thereafter.This film is very funny for all that. It doesn't propose to be clever or sophisticated, this is the birth of Allen Humour and for a lot of his fans remains one of their most cherished films of all. ***/***** "},{"Title":"Woody Allen Invents the Film Mockumentary","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen comes out blazing in his first film (What's Up, Tiger Lily isn't completely his) with a series of rapid fire comic sequences in this very funny send up of fifties TV police shows and prison films. As Virgil Starkweather he portrays perhaps the most bumbling criminal in film history as he hilariously screws up a series of bank robberies and jail breaks in Take the Money and Run.Interviews with parents (disguised in Marx Brothers glasses), teachers and psychologists are dead pan funny as they examine Virgil's childhood which included playing the cello in the the high school marching band. Sight gags abound and some work some don't but hardly a minute goes by without provoking laughter. The ending is sluggish but Allen has already served up twice as much humor as you would find in the tamer comedies of the period.Allen would return with much more polish and style to the mockumentary when he made the brilliant Zelig years later but Money remains the pioneer of this genre, still capable of providing an abundance of laughs. "},{"Title":"One of Allen's best.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A very funny spoof, and one of Allen's very best films. TTMAR was the first in a string of very entertaining W.A. comedies, this golden era ending with Annie Hall, a pretentious, overrated comedy drama.An early movie of his which is built - unsurprisingly - mostly on visual gags, although there are some verbal ones. Both types work. There is less than a handful of gags that bomb (like the ape chasing Woody), but many that are absolutely hilarious the attempt to kill a blackmailer with a chicken leg; telling a fellow prisoner - who is behind bars - that all is ready for escape while the latter looks at him in confusion (escape was postponed); telling wife/girlfriend - upon hearing she's pregnant and that that is her Christmas gift - that he would have been quite satisfied with just a tie; the six chained escapees hiding out in an old woman's home, and many more. There is a real onslaught of jokes and gags; only total cretins, Allen-haters, or anti-Semites would not find this movie funny. "},{"Title":"Set the Model for Allen's Lightweight 70s Comedies","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen's first crack at directing his own original material is typical of the kind of films he would make into the mid-1970s lightweight comedies filled with sight gags and one-liners, episodic in structure, more like skit-variety shows than feature length films. But it has some awfully funny moments, not the least of which is the one that shows footage of Allen's character from his school marching band days, and he, a violinist, is trying to keep up with everybody else while dragging his chair and music stand along with him.And just out of curiosity, how do other people get around the stupid 10-line rule when posting comments? I've seen many other reviews that aren't nearly that long. I had to type this paragraph just to get my comment accepted.Grade B- "},{"Title":"It's deadpan humor is fun...for awhile...","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lots of deadpan WOODY ALLEN humor in what amounts to a series of sketches about a paranoid bank robber who fails at everything he attempts in life--including bank robberies. There's a hilarious moment during the first robbery where the tellers argue over a misspelled word in the note he slips to the teller. And a later robbery is snuffed when his team is up against another robbery in progress and the customers are asked to vote on which robber should hold them up.It goes on in this vein for about an hour and twenty-five minutes, sufficient enough time because things start to get a bit repetitious toward the end. There's only so long you can play on a one note theme and Woody had the good sense to keep his film short and to the point.JANET MARGOLIN is the unlucky wife, the sort of role Charlie Chaplin would have had Paulette Goddard play in the '30s--and indeed there are some Chaplinesque moments in TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN where Woody gets some mileage out of silent screen kind of comedies--particularly a scene in the prison laundry where the machine seems to have a mind of its own.But the jokes do wear thin. (I tried mugging old ladies for awhile but I got hit in the groin with crutches), etc. Funniest moments in the film involve a prison break while he's on a chain gang, with a group of six men seeking shelter in a nearby cottage and shuffling around as though glued together when questioned by a naive sheriff. Moments like that owe something to Chaplin.It's easy to take, especially due to the brief running time, and there are plenty of chuckles along with some of the flatter jokes. But I would have been perfectly happy to see a comedian other than Woody playing the hapless bank robber. After all, he's not the only comic out there with the sort of timing needed to carry this sort of thing off. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen is a Stud","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I never realized it Woody Allen kisses better and with more chemistry than almost any of the plastic-faced Kens in Hollywood!!! He has an ardor unmatched by the narcissistic cutesyboys. Forget his pedophilic days he's a great director, a great writer and when he's not being self-indulgent, a great movie-maker. This was one of them, as he takes on and down every cliché of mobster movies. Give me my gub should be a saying for the people. That scene where all the bank employees are trying to read and understand his bank holdup note is hilarious, even just to think of. The girl is beautifully dumb with her wide-open eyes. The scene in the jail yard, when he has gotten almost out and is shouting at the whole jail house wondering where his accomplices are (the break had been called off and he hadn't been informed) again will knock you out.Just having seen this movie made when he was a 20 year old guy, it makes you just marvel at how much of a genius he has been throughout his career. The scenes where he learns how to play a cello make you wonder how much of this came from his early childhood. The interviews with his parents every time he goes to jail, and the father's utter dismissal of his thug son bring up the same thought.Whatever, it's a hilarious movie, in a way so naive, so sweet--- made in a time when we were actually a relatively moral country without torture, without illegal presidents, without our Hitler-like invasion of a sovereign country, without our lying culture. "},{"Title":"Not one of his best","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Most of the jokes in this film are pretty lame, and you can regularly see them coming from some distance. I've heard some of Allen's standup stuff from this period, and that is much better, with better jokes and far better timing. This movie is hardly worth seeing, not quite as boring as the Front, but not much better either. Luckily, Allen wised up, and only a couple of years later he embarked on his brilliant career. Some people complain that he is over the top and now repeating what he's always done. Maybe so, but his latest films are still good, and way, way better than this. Curse of the Jade Scorpion, Small Town Crooks, much more fun to watch.4/10 "},{"Title":"Take the Video and Watch","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen's 1969 crime comedy is a mockumentary telling thestory of Virgil Starkwell, possibly the world's worst criminal.Narrated by Jackson Beck, we find Virgil started out life with pettycrime, and never really became successful after that. He meets apretty girl, Janet Margolin, and falls in love, but the call of easymoney keeps drawing him into failed schemes to rob banks. Aswe see his plans go awry time after time, we also hear frompsychiatrists and authority figures, all of whom think they knowwhat is really wrong with Virgil. His parents, ashamed of their son,don disguises to hide their identities...Groucho Marx noses andglasses.Most of the film revolves around Virgil's misadventures in prisonafter his bank jobs fail. I cannot decide which is funnier, the firstprison scene where he gets out on his own after his gang forgetsto tell him the breakout is off, or the second chain gang scenewhere six men escape into a field and try to split up...while stillchained together.The first ten minutes of this film are among the funniest incinematic history. Watching Allen try to play the cello in themarching band is so good, I rewound it to watch again. The film isrich with great lines and dialogue, and boldly steps into the surrealand ridiculous on more than one occasion the best example isVirgil's attempt to run over a woman who is blackmailing him- inher living room. Allen is not yet in those New York films thateveryone rolls their eyes at today, and do not get me started onAlice or September. He is in almost every scene, and he is outto make a comedy, nothing more.Of course, the film cannot sustain the laughs through the wholething. Some scenes fall flat, but are immediately forgotten bywhatever Allen pulls out of his bag of tricks next. Watch for a veryyoung Louise Lasser near the end of the film, who bears a strikingresemblance to Mia Farrow.This film served as inspiration for comedies like Airplane!, andborrows its maniacal pace from the old Marx Brothers pictures.Allen is not quite a great director here yet, his editing is sloppy andthe sound quality is awful, but the characters and writing are great,especially in this day and age when the next Adam Sandler film islooked upon as the Second Coming.Very cheap, not perfect, a little fitful here and there, but still one ofthe great comedies of all time and one that will have you laughingmore often than not. I highly recommend Take the Money andRun.This is rated (R) for mild physical violence, mild gun violence, mildprofanity, sexual content, and some sexual references.  "},{"Title":"Scarcely raises a titter","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is Allen's debut as a director. The film is done as a pseudo-documentary with a portentous newsreel-style voice over. Surprisingly, there are virtually no funny lines. Most of the humour is visual. The film scarcely raises a titter and there is very little indication of either the humour or the psychological depth of the later films. The best scenes have Allen as a cello-player in a marching band, pausing every few seconds to pick up his chair and chase after the rest of the band, Allen escaping from jail with a replica pistol carved out of a bar of soap which dissolves as he marches his hostages across the rainswept prison yard and Allen escaping from the chain-gang, chained  and hobbled with five other convicts.Janet Margolin plays a prototypic Diane Keaton role quite competently. The score is by Marvin Hamlisch and sounds as though it was written for a different film. "},{"Title":"Not that funny! 2/10","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Review This movie was another attempt of humour from Woody Allen, which I found silly and not that funny. The storyline, which is based around a failed cello artist who turns to robbery after failing to be able to hold a job, seemed really over the top and the main character has to be the dumbest criminal in America. After getting caught numerous times, he ends up a regular in jail which puts a strain on his relationship with his wife. I honestly don't think that your supposed to take this movie seriously because the scenes are so far fetched and just plainly dumb. For a movie that was made in the 60's, it did make a healthy profit so the studios must have been happy, but from an audiences point of view, I just couldn't get into it. Not Funny!Round-Up Woody Allen really had his ups and downs during the 60's because some of his movies were really crap but some were a work of art. I have definitely noticed that every one of his films have something to do with sex in them, regardless of the concept, and in this movie, which is based around a wannabe criminal, he still managed to get his leg over. Anyway, on the whole, it's not a movie that I would watch again in a hurry, but it's harmless fun if you just want some noise in the background.Budget $1.5million Worldwide Gross $3millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a failed cello player who turns to a life of crime but fails terribly. 2/10 "}{"Title":"I would label Woody Allen a comedic genius,but.....","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I will give Woody Allen credit for being very adept at the art of slapstick comedy,and this film is loaded with many a laughable moment.What I can't seem to escape is Mr. Allen always almost always has to throw his disbelief of God in our faces by mocking God in some way.After having seen a few of his films now,I'm getting a little fed up with that aspect.We get it,Woody.You don't believe in God,and you find it laughable that there are people who do believe.I would call this a good film if I could get past that point,but I can't,and it's a shame,because Woody Allen could easily be placed in the same class as the Marx Brothers when it comes to his talent.He probably is put in that class by many,but certainly not by me. "},{"Title":"neurotic indeed","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody's first starring role and the only movie of his I've seen that actually features quite a few black people. Particularly in the scenes that take place in poor neighborhoods and/or prisons. And when he's not strategically undercutting himself, the lovey-dovey interludes with Chaplinesque ingenue Janet Margolin bring unintended meaning to the word 'gag' (Margolin actually seems to be Method acting or something, there's great rafts of unnecessary backstory all over her reaction shots). And let the record show that I've seen this twice and both times dozed off around the 60-70 minute mark. And with this all said, here's a bunch of hilarious Woody Allen gags, unencumbered by any obtrusive Ingmar Bergman overtones, fun showmanship from a lovable shmuck, like ya want it. "},{"Title":"Allen Inserts Atheist Bias","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wow, when I was young and very much secularist back when this came out, and for a couple of decades later, I found this movie hilarious and nothing offended me. I can't say that anymore as Allen's bias against religion, which he has made public many times over the years, hit me right in the gut in a number of scenes here.....ruining the fun of watching this anymore. Allen is quick to insert in this story that the misguided couple (he and actress Janet Margolin) are screwed up because their parents beat religion into them. In case you didn't get that message, Allen repeats it several times!Otherwise, it's a funny movie that reminded me of the more modern Christopher Guest mockumentaries in which the film is supposed to look a documentary of sorts but is all fiction. Since this is a one-joke movie, Allen was smart in keeping it short at 80-some minutes because it starts to wear by the end. "},{"Title":"Run from this Taking Money *","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another Woody Allen farce. This time it details the life of a born loser who begins to lead a life of crime but can't seem to do anything right.His parents, while interviewed, wear masks since they're ashamed of his son. Allen and the entire cast should have taken their advice and worn them as well.This film is Woody at his stupidest. Scenes include bank personnel discussing among themselves the note that Allen (Virgil) has handed a teller in order to rob another bank.Even the scene with the chain gang is ridiculous at best. Here is where the movie could have taken off but fails to do so. Robbing a bank only to meet up with several other robbers at the same time is handled poorly. No one really knows what's going on and maybe they're the better for it.Janet Margolin, an attractive beauty, plays Virgil's wife. She wants to know what color shirt he is wearing to the bank robbery.Louise Lasser comes in at the very end and acts like she is still Mary Hartman. "}]