[{"Title":"Still Very Relevant","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Caution-possible spoilers ahead&#133;.. Just watched 'Joe' for the second time. The first time was 30+ years ago on an Air Force Base. I was reminded of that by the Air Force overcoat with Tech. Sgt. stripes wore by the boyfriend/dealer; we airmen had quite a laugh the first time that appeared on the screen because that is a 'lifer' rank. Over the years I have carried several other images from the film. Foremost was the absolutely beautiful and vulnerable daughter of the executive. As someone else commented, you could not take you eyes off her. I did not realize until now that this was a 20-year old Susan Sarandon in her first movie. What a loss that she did not do more movies when she looked like that. I also recall the irony of having a counterculture hero like Peter Boyle playing the title role of a right-wing gun nut. Not unlike George C. Scott playing generals in Dr. Strangelove and Patton. And of course the shocking ending made a lasting impression.30+ years ago it was the most talked about movie that ever played on the base. We thought it was a great film then and I have been reluctant to see it again because I was afraid that it would be as disappointingly dated as Easy Rider. But watching it today I was amazed at how well the film has held up. It is a very strong script with few holes although you have to wonder about the boyfriend immediately getting out of the bathtub when Sarandon gets in with him.Searching for an explanation of why this film is still so entertaining I have to think it has something to do with the perfect physical casting. Boyle was physically believable as Joe (as others have pointed out his portrayal would inspire the Archie Bunker character a few 'years later). Did Ted Knight model his 'Caddyshack' character-Judge Smails after the Dennis Patrick's advertising executive in 'Joe'? They look alike and sound alike. Patrick was totally believable as the wrapped-too-tight upper middle class executive. And Sarandon's doe-eyed innocent with the Raggety Ann doll still evokes a protective response from all male viewers-perfect casting. The nude and drug scenes actually hold up (they were very provocative for their day) and are as explicit as anything to be found in 'Thirteen'. About the only thing that dates this film is that the violence is not realistic or graphic. 'Joe' was about the same time as 'The Wild Bunch', and the tone of movie violence had a just begun to change. Another reason this film holds up is that events in the past couple of years have brought back the relevancy of the theme and context of this film. In the film both types of 'conservatives' are portrayed as full of fear and hate toward the unconventional ways of the counterculture; and filled with envy at their free and hedonistic lifestyle. The counterculture is portrayed as mocking the straight culture; and although paranoid toward conservatives (legitimately so given that this was just a couple months after Kent State) they cannot resist flaunting their lifestyle in an attempt to antagonize. The political landscape is not all that different 30+ years later. I'm not sure conservatives envy young people and liberals as much as 1970, but they fear and hate them more.An excellent film that surprisingly is as relevant now as it was in the early 1970's. "},{"Title":"Some people shouldn't try to cross paths; unfortunately, they do.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Joe is one of those movies where, although you think that it might go along smoothly, ends up hitting you like...I can't come up with an analogy. It showed not only that America's long-standing idea of unity was moot, but also the various aspects within our society. Melissa Compton (Susan Sarandon) is the ultimate flower child, while her father Bill (Dennis Patrick) is a clean-cut executive. One day, Bill accidentally kills Melissa's boyfriend. In the immediate aftermath, Bill gets acquainted with Joe Curran (Peter Boyle), an ultra-right-wing, rabidly racist working stiff. As a result, the two of them end up associating more and more with the hippies, whom Bill finds unpleasant and Joe outright hates. But in the end, everything has dead serious consequences.True, some parts of the movie are a little bit dated, but it's a good juxtaposition of America's two sides during the Vietnam War. And rest assured, the residual effects of all that will probably never go away. "},{"Title":"An Unlikely Friendship","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wealthy businessman Bill Compton (played by Dennis Patrick) accidentally kills his daughter's hippie boyfriend after an argument. Panic-stricken, he retreats to a bar, and meets Joe Curran (played by Peter Boyle) a loud-mouth, angry, bigot who is bitter over how his beloved country has become. Unintentionally, Bill allows Joe to find out that he just killed a hippie. And this is only the beginning. Joe is a classic film of an unlikely friendship. A bond between two men, one of a white-collar background, the other of a blue-collar background. Bill & Joe have one thing in common, they are disgraced over how crazy the world has become. Dennis Patrick & Peter Boyle have both given very realistic portrayals of their characters. Director John G. Avidsen with this pre-Rocky effort, directs this low-budget gem with the same finesse as a movie with a $100 million budget. The script is loaded with excellent character development and very snappy, realistic dialog. In spite of its strengths this film does have its weaknesses. The script falls asleep roughly 3/4 of the way through, but it wakes up just in time for the jarring climax. This film also features a very early and uninspiring performance by a 24-year old Susan Sarandon as Bill's daughter Melissa, along with her hippie boyfriend Frank, portrayed very blandly by Patrick Mc Dermott. One could only be thankful that he was killed off early in the film. In spite of its few flaws this is one of those forgotten films of the 70's that should not be. Even though Joe is very dated to today's standards, the chemistry between Dennis Patrick & Peter Boyle is completely relevant today, and it is the glue that holds the whole film together. "},{"Title":"Hey, Joe...don't it make you want to go to war...once more?","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Norman Wexler, who went on to encapsulate the zeitgeist in SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER and to create deathless, hyper-offensive camp in MANDINGO, was a prince among hot-button-pushers in JOE. When a Madison Avenue type (Dennis Patrick) throttles to death the sneering drug pusher who was the lover of his daughter (Susan Sarandon), he meets an unlikely fan and friend Joe Curran (Peter Boyle), a racist, hippie-hating hardhat type who's as far from the genteel Mr. Compton as warm root beer is from gravlax and eggs. The movie is as flummoxing, and as weirdly elating, as a deeply abusive boyfriend. One minute it's getting you to giggle along with the no-baloney Joe; a second later, he's a Hitlerian psychopath. At times, we're touched by the friendship and mutual respect that crosses class lines; at other times, we're made to chuckle at Joe and his wife's homely ways, and at still others Compton's brand of magazine-derived good taste comes in for a beating. Like another surprise hit of its year, PATTON, JOE has that non-lecturing, read-it-this-way-or-that quality. Nearly every scene has something for an audience to cheer or boo (and oftentimes, those are the same things). The director, John G. Avildsen, has a few real winners (SAVE THE TIGER, NEIGHBORS) in his undistinguished career; this may be tops among them. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing character study","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised by how emotionally invested I became in this film. Peter Boyle is a tour de force as the working class socially conservative bigot, Joe. I actually sympathized with some of his complaints. Of course he doesn't mention the underlying historical socio-economic reasons for many of his prejudices. The film also provides interesting insight into the rapid change American society was undergoing at this time. Recreational drugs, casual sex, and the challenging of parental authority became in vogue and replaced the more time honored traditions of respect for God, country and seniority.  Susan Sarandon fans will be delighted. Joe is her film debut. She also provides viewers with a visual treat near the beginning of the film. Recommended, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the ultimate 60's generation gap exploitation film ...","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... Joe captures the spirit, fears, angers, and prejudices of the time as perhaps no other film does. Joe Curran, as played by Peter Boyle, is a super-malevolent Archie Bunker to the n-th degree. He makes the Carroll O'Connor - Norman Lear TV character seem as lovable and cuddly as Tickle Me Elmo by comparison. In contrast to Bunker, Joe Curran most definitely would burn a cross on your front lawn, instead of just toasting a marshmallow on one he found already burning there, to borrow the words of young Lionel Jefferson, spoken to Sammy Davis Jr. about Archie Bunker. Released hard on the heels of the Kent State University massacre, and the CSNY track Ohio, and the Isley Bros. medley of Ohio and Jimi Hendrix's Machine Gun, it's as hard-hitting as the probably by now mostly forgotten fall 1968 CBS TV play, The People Next Door. Bill Compton's ironic comment about the vacuity of much upper-echelon white-collar work, All we do is sit around all day making little paper airplanes and sail them up people's asses ! is as relevant today as it was then. Equally memorable is the retort of the hippie girl Joe has just had sex with, How could I lie to you ? You just balled me ! Free love as a hippie litmus of truth ? The film is as much a part, and sign of, its times, as Altamont, Gimme Shelter, Putney Swope, and M.A.S.H. and Patton playing on the same bill in many theaters in 1971. Joe Curran's 42 % of all liberals are queer ! is a worthy companion prejudice to Archie Bunker's England is a fag country !   "},{"Title":"Archie Bunker goes to hell","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of John G. Avildsen's first films (he is the man who directed Rocky and The Karate Kid). This was also one of Peter Boyle's first films (yes the Peter Boyle who was Young Frankenstein and on Everyone Loves Raymond). Life magazine even had a write up on this film, released the year after Easy Rider Joe sort of takes a look at American society from the other end of the spectrum, that of a conservative blue collar bigot. In real life Peter Boyle is a very kind gentle man (he said he had a hard time changing his voice into Joe's aggressive snarl). For example, Joe talks of how good it felt to kill Japs in WWII. In real life, Peter Boyle's military service was shortened by a nervous breakdown. Nevertheless, Boyle is chilling in his monologues where he talks of niggers and queer liberals. All In The Family came on a year after Joe was made and Joe is really a nightmarish version of Archie Bunker. All In The Family made us laugh at our fears and prejudices, Joe hits us with them like a punch in the face and makes us sick. This was one of Susan Sarandon's first films and she is good as the wealthy businessmen's daughter whose father is forced to kill her at the end. The bloodbath in the end of this film is horrific and expertly done. It reminds you of the violence in The Wild Bunch. This is the film that made Peter Boyle a star and hardhat a household world. This movie is never shown on tv and is very hard to find on video but it is well worth your time to see it. Maybe that reason that Joe was so popular is that there is a little bit of him in all of us. He represents our fears and hates and inner demons. Maybe were looking at ourselves and that makes it even more chilling.  "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 22","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 22. JOE (drama, 1970) Joe (Peter Boyle) is a racist factory worker who's known to hate hippies and ni**ers. He meets Bill, a businessman who has just murdered the lover of his drug addict young daughter Jill (Susan Sarandon). Jill runs away and joins a hippie commune at the outskirts of town. Bill turns to Joe for help. Their search leads them through the seediest parts of town where both men's inner hatred and loath is furthered tested.Critique This was director John G. Avildsen's first sleeper-turned smash hit (an amazing run which included 'Rocky', 'The Karate Kid', 'Split-Image', 'Weekend at Bernie's'). Film is interesting enough in that it served to encapsulate the themes and ideas of the turbulent 60s (Vietnam War, black power, women's lib etc.). It also has a good performance from Peter Boyle as Joe, one of the cinema's first antiheroes. He's always been good at playing creepy, bossy heavies whose abstract ideas are enforced by his intimidating presence (he would play the Frankenstein monster in Mel Brook's spoof Young Frankenstein). He reminds me of a little kid trapped in a big, dumb, awkward body. Film has a weak script (the meeting of Joe and Bill, for instance, is a bit coincidental), but it has a particularly gruesome, post-Taxi Driver ending.QUOTE Title Song I saw a fella selling junk to children. He gets nervous every time I pass Cause he knows that if I catch him I'm gonna kick his head and kick his fat a$$. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the ultimate 60's generation gap exploitation film ...","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... Joe captures the spirit, fears, angers, and prejudices of the time as perhaps no other film does. Joe Curran, as played by Peter Boyle, is a super-malevolent Archie Bunker to the n-th degree. He makes the Carroll O'Connor - Norman Lear TV character seem as loveable and cuddly as Tickle Me Elmo by comparison. In contrast to Bunker, Joe Curran most definitely would burn a cross on your front lawn, instead of just toasting a marshmallow on one he found already burning there, to borrow the words of young Lionel Jefferson, spoken to Sammy Davis Jr. about Archie Bunker. Released hard on the heels of the Kent State University massacre, and the CSNY track Ohio, and the Isley Bros. medley of Ohio and Jimi Hendrix's Machine Gun, it's as hard-hitting as the probably by now mostly forgotten CBS TV play, The People Next Door. Bill Compton's ironic comment about the vacuity of much upper-echelon white-collar work, All we do is sit around all day making little paper airplanes and sail them up people's asses ! is as relevant today as it was then. Equally memorable is the retort of the hippie girl Joe has just had sex with, How could I lie to you ? You just balled me ! Free love as a hippie litmus of truth ? The film is as much a part, and sign of,its times, as Altamont, Gimme Shelter, Putney Swope, and M.A.S.H. and Patton playing on the same bill in many theaters in 1971. Joe Curran's 42 % of all liberals are queer ! is a worthy companion prejudice to Archie Bunker's England is a fag country !   "},{"Title":"It's your ass now Compton!","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I recall so many things about seeing this movie back during it's original theatrical release - the post Woodstock afterglow of peace and love, along with the pre-Watergate tension of fear and paranoia. It's hard to believe that it's thirty seven years later, and I can still remember the thoughts going through my head while watching the film with my best friend. Like marveling at Peter Boyle's characterization of the ultimate redneck, sure to typecast him the rest of his career (Oh, how wrong!), and how the counter culture jarred the sensibilities of most of the country. To this day, my buddy and I still use Joe Curran's line from my summary above when faced with a dilemma; curious how a simple line like that can stay with you for decades.It's curious to read comments about the film from others on this board, particularly the ones stating that the film has a dated quality and how over the top the characters were. Still, if you were around during that time, the picture gives a pretty accurate portrayal of the polar opposites that existed back then, pretty much side by side as the events in the story reveal. If you really want dated, when was the last time you heard the words Macy's and Gimbel's in the same sentence, or a line like Joe's - Come on, get with the Pepsi generation. For historical perspective, you have that great Nixon poster lingering in one of the background scenes - Would you buy a used car from this man? With minor intricacies like those, director John Avildsen captures many of the subtle but ever present hints of how life was four decades ago.Today's viewing was only the second time I've seen the movie, and I have to admit I don't remember Susan Sarandon in one of the lead roles, but then again, this was her very first picture. The scenes of nudity and free love were something actually quite new and bold at the time, shocking in fact, as film makers began to experiment with their ability to push the envelope of propriety and convention. Joe took a major leap in that regard, particularly since it was a 'mainstream' picture.With the passage of time, the thing that impresses me the most about Peter Boyle was how he overcame the stereotype of Joe Curran to appear in or star in some of my very favorite pieces of work. I mean, how do you go from Joe to that hilarious rendition of 'Puttin' on the Ritz' in Young Frankenstein? And my absolute favorite episode of 'X-Files' has Boyle as Clyde Bruckman, in both a tender and tragic, funny and serious portrayal that turns the tables on Scully and Mulder more than once. And as a career capper, Frank Barone has to be one of the funniest characters in the history of television. Even repeat episodes in syndication are funny as he-- whenever the elder Barone lets loose with one of his observations. He is one actor that this viewer sorely misses already. "}{"Title":"Chillingly Realistic","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" New Yorkers contemporaneous with this film will recall how reflective of its time it is and how well cast and crew captured America, New York City of that era.Norman Wexler's script delineates the different worlds the various sub groupings live in and Avildsen's direction brings out phenomenal performances all around. Peter Boyle's prodigious talent is on display as never before nor since. Clearly it is the best character portrayal the always likable Dennis Patrick ever accomplished.What I will always remember about JOE is the feeling of having been in a virtual state of shock coming out of the theater. Knowing that what the screen portrayed was seething under the surface in neighborhoods throughout the five boroughs of the City of New York.This film needs to be remembered. "},{"Title":"Worth the Wait","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I only voted excellent because this film took two snapshots of Americana one in 1970, and one for every year afterward. Nothing's really changed.Joe is actually a jerk, a big stupid slob who's mad at everybody else in the world for his own idiocy. This ain't really a spoiler, but the key to the film is the big, corporate never does wrong guy making friends with this semi-troglodyte Joe, and he gets some kind of...validation from his bigotry and stupidity and sense of being wronged. Yet, few would argue, that the dealer boyfriend did deserve to die. And those kids shouldn't have ripped Joe and Compton off. And Joe and Compton were actually getting into the hash and the young skin until they got ripped off. A simple film in many ways, except that in 1970 New York City was par to a battle zone thanks to Nixon's care, and all of the money going to the war in Vietnam. As I write this (2/25/2007) there is a very long wait on Netflix for this film - which makes me happy because I think there are people out there who want to learn. This was a pretty good snapshot - not exact, a bit caricaturist - but actually pretty close to how it was back then. And the scary thing is - things haven't changed that much. Sure, there's no more welfare, but that just means the wage-slavery has won out. Amazing how millionaires will complain about not making enough money, then complain that $5.15 an hour is too much to pay their people. "},{"Title":"Hey, Joe! Whadda Ya Know?","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If nothing else - It was so plain to see that 1970's Joe (an all-American, redneck flag-waver?) was a clear blueprint for 1976's Taxi Driver. Yep. With just a few variations on the theme, these 2 films were almost identical in the nature of their story-lines.And, just like Taxi Driver's Travis Bickle character, the character of Joe Curran in this production was hardly an interesting enough person for this twisted tale to base its entire plot-line on the likes of him and his blindly hateful actions.In one way Joe could, very likely, be looked upon as being a disgruntled viewer's step-by-step guide on how to deal with the annoyance of a generation gap, especially when it comes to dealing with hippies.Yeah. And what better way to get those despicable hippies to co-operate with you, than to aim a loaded rifle right at their heads. (Hey! Talk about flower power, man!) Anyway - Joe (now 45 years old) was a very dated picture. And any relevance that it may seem to hold for today's audiences hangs very precariously by a single thread.*Note* - Joe was directed by film-maker John Avildsen who (six years later) would triumphantly go on to direct Rocky in 1976. "},{"Title":"Generation Gap","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a classic movie that dramatizes the plight of a man who cannot adjust to changes taking place in society and feels more and more alienated, which leads to violence. Joe is a worker, and he is dissatisfied and angry, and all he is needs is a pretext to lash out, which is what the story is about. Alone, Joe is quiet; together with someone else, he becomes lethal. And what makes the character of Joe even more chilling is that he fully rationalizes his violence so that to him it's not only not bad, it's necessary. For Joe projects his own violent tendencies onto those who he considers the enemy and therefore considers himself to be in a war, and in this movie, the generation gap is portrayed as a war. But it is a war in Joe's mind only, because the enemy in this case is in his imagination. Nobody wants to fight Joe, but Joe feels he must defend himself. Although this movie was released in 1970, it's message is as relevant now as it was then as society continues to undergo major changes which lead to the kind of intense alienation that the movie effectively dramatizes. "},{"Title":"I saw this when I was 10","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 10, in 1970, with my older sister who was an authentic hippy back in the day (and still is).  Sex, drugs, rock-and-roll, and death.  Pretty heavy stuff for a 10-year-old.  I'll never forget this movie, the title song Hey Joe, don't it make you want to go to war once more?, or be able to look at Peter Boyle in any other light other than the deranged and homicidal factory worker and parent that he plays in this movie.  The pivotal incident in the movie is fresh and ingrained in my memory and will be so forever, as is the penultimate moment as Joe and the executive he bonds with begin to understand the scope of their handiwork.This is a very powerful movie, and I would recommend it (along with a healthy dose of Fritz the Cat comic books, a tie-dyed shirt, some incense, and some rose-colored multi-faceted octagonal glasses), to anybody who wants to connect with the 60's.  This is the real deal.So go see it, and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Bigotry at it's best","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this truly unique and penetrating movie that both personifies a culture clash and its inherent differences,the viewer gets a first hand look at the late 60's,early 70's and what they stood for.A drastic change in the way people dressed,wore hair,talked and thought.A mindset of differing views amongst the populace.The establishment vs. the Hippies.For within this movie are more than just characterizations,but more specifically,an outlook on life,war,habits,religion and peace. The main focal point and protagonist JOE is an unworldy blue collar stiff,who's fierce loyalty to flag and country is aptly on display in his basement,being a showcase of sorts for his gun collection,war memorabilia and medals.Living in a simple neighborhood with clone together housing and working in a factory,his life is relagated to wife's ordinary meatloaf with plenty of ketchup,beer at local bar and more beer at home and in basement ,of course.A rather humdrum existance,except for his views on many a topic of late - war,peace and them Hippies.And of course the blacks.Couldn't be a good bigot without mentioning and uttering the N word as vociferously and with such ease of authority as our rude and crude lead character.Yet,for all his apparent character flaws,I was drawn too.He was the genuine article and real character of sorts. Enter the Hippie element in the form of Susan Sarrandon and very authentic-looking Hippie boyfriend and their pad.Living in the village and surrounded by all kinds of Hippieish stuff like candles,tie-dye sheets and of course plenty of hippie clothes and long hair.Their a couple of drug-induced pushersheroine habit who look and act the part with authority.Slacking their way thru society and on the nerves of upper class white-collar father  Dennis Patrick,who finds comfort and kindship with JOE as the two battle them Hippies,as Sarandon flees the scene to escape her strong-willed and establishment father.So Joe and father have a twofold mission;to find his daughter,and kick a little Hippie butt ,while on trail. The village hunt is exciting and takes me back to my early hippie days,hanging around those hippie placesevery big city had a village of sorts.which were nicely photographed.The movie has a certain air of conscienceness and feel for the early peace movement and its supporters and detractors.As the viewer becomes more and more acquainted with Joe and new buddy white-collar Patrick,we witness a tour of mind and manners,both alcohol and drug fueled for culture clash and intensified search on meaning and lifestyle of the times.Absolutely,one of the best movies to show disparate view on the subject of clashing generations With an unorthodox ending and stark realization of denouement,this is a truly unique and compelling tale of society as it was unravelling before a generations eyes.  5 out of 5 star or 10/10 for brilliant story of mores and manners ,circa late 60's.Dig Daddio "},{"Title":"Disturbing, with a great turn by Peter Boyle as Joe","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Joe is the kind of film that Hollywood certainly doesn't make anymore. It's bleak and challenging, with an ending that comes as a slap in the face. If you want to see a movie like this these days, you have to try hard to find one.It's about two men who have nothing in common except for hatred. They take that hatred to its logical conclusion. It is likely that the screenwriters had seen Easy Rider; the bleakness of both pictures' endings is similar and hits you like a slap in the face. In Joe, however, you're not with the hippies you're watching them from the outside in, through the eyes of two people who would never be accepted as one of their kind a rabidly racist working stiff and a stuffy executive.The movie is worth watching for Peter Boyle in the title role. This is a disturbing role, but I am not surprised that some audience members cheered his performance back in the day. Boyle is a natural in roles like this, and watching this movie, I couldn't help but think that if Joe were around today, he'd be voting for a certain billionaire in the next election. "},{"Title":"Not Just an Average Joe","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bill, a respectable businessman, kills his daughter's drug-dealer boyfriend in a fit of rage after she overdoses. In shock over what he has done, he goes into a bar to have a drink. In the bar is Joe, a man who hates blacks and hippies, and who is giving full vent to his spleen. In one sense, Joe's rant is dated, couched in terms of the events of the late 1960s. But in another sense, his diatribe is a timeless expression of bigotry, one that it is just as fresh in the twenty-first century as it was back then.Bill confesses to Joe that he just killed one of those hippies, because it eases his conscience to admit his crime to someone who understands, though he quickly says he was just kidding. Later, when Joe realizes that Bill actually did kill a hippie, something he has always wanted to do, but probably never would have, he calls Bill up and says he wants to get together. The two of them form a deadly combination, resulting in a massacre of hippies. Inadvertently, Bill kills Melissa, his own daughter.The first time I saw the movie was in 1970. As the years passed, my memory was that Bill and Joe killed a bunch of harmless, peace-loving hippies. But having seen the movie recently, I realize that the hippies are not portrayed sympathetically. Early in the movie, when Melissa enters the room she shares with her boyfriend, he is taking a bath. She gets in the tub with him, and he immediately gets out. It is not clear whether he is merely indifferent to her romantic gesture, or whether he despises her, but either way, he treats her like dirt.Speaking of dirt, that reminds me of their feet. Notwithstanding the bath, their feet are filthy. Back in those days, having dirty feet was de rigueur for hippies, because being unclean was a way of displaying contempt for the rules of society. And just to make sure we know they have the required dirt and grime, when they get in bed together, the camera films them from the end of the bed so that we get full view of the bottoms of four filthy feet.Later, when Bill and Joe participate in an orgy of sorts, we get the spectacle of Joe's naked beer gut coming down on top of some hippie chick as he prepares to have sex with her, after remarking that he doesn't need any foreplay. While this allows us to see how crude Joe is, as if we were not already convinced, it also tells us something about the hippie chick on whom he descends, for a girl would have to be pretty much of a lowlife to take part in such a degrading act.Furthermore, the hippies are thieves, for they rob Bill and Joe of their wallets, which angers them so much that they track the hippies down, at which point things get out of hand and the massacre ensues. In other words, the hippies are unlikable, dirty, and immoral. And while it would be going too far to say that they got what they deserved, their behavior does seem to vindicate much of what Joe was saying about them in the bar. "},{"Title":"A Little Closer Look at Social Aspects","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An odd thing about the movie is that no one comes off very sympathetically. That goes for life styles as well, whether working class, upper class, or hedonistic hippie. Everyone's compartmentalized and disdainful of non-peers. Of course, the movie's crux lies in working class Joe's (Boyle) alliance with white-collar Bill (Patrick) over their mutual hatred of hippies. And that's following Bill's pivotal murder of his daughter's drug dealer boyfriend.The movie was much talked about at the time. After all, the hippie movement was widely seen and heard on America's airways, but not so working class America's reaction. For guys like Joe, it seemed everybody was making social progress except for working class white males. Plus, pot-smoking kids were doing things that beer swilling blue-collar guys could only dream about&#x97;free time, free sex, few responsibilities. Worse, these kids were insulting the nation's traditions, the very ones that afforded them the luxuries they enjoy. The movie may exaggerate some, but the nub of Joe's hatred of those he thinks are ruining the country is on the mark. (Then too, I suspect a similar sentiment lives on in today's Tea Party, though not as pronounced.) The movie also suggests the potential of a broader cross- class reaction. Significantly, Joe's working class anger eventually spreads to white-collar Bill, as together they make war on what they see as a youthful parasitic class. To me, the movie's really about the emerging crisis of the Vietnam era, concerning not only who will shape the nation's present, but its future as well. Now, after 50-years, the hippie movement may have vanished, but the animus against minorities and others regarded as not fully American remains a potent force. The movie may have aged, but this aspect hasn't. In passing-- note in the movie how the feminist movement has yet to have impact. Thus uppity women are not included in Joe's long list of cultural evildoers. Still, it's entertaining to wonder how Joe and especially his dutiful wife would react to housewives desiring more options.The movie itself has a number of memorable scenes. I especially like it when our two crusaders guzzle booze while denouncing pot-smoking kids. Then too, Joe's barroom tirade came at a time when audiences were not used to such uncensored explicitness as gutter obscenities and hateful ethnic slurs. Thus Boyle's fiercely delivered rant was spellbinding at the time, and I suspect still is. But most of all is that subtle sequence of Joe and Mary Lou (Callan) sharing an awkward evening with their social betters Bill and Joan (Caire). What a masterpiece of staging, scripting and performance. It's almost wrenching to watch the two wives try to deal with the class barriers separating them once they've been thrown unceremoniously together. Caire is especially meaningful as she betrays hardly a hint of what she's really thinking, while the eager Mary Lou does her best to please. Yet every time the housewifely hostess does something agreeable, Joe steps on it with an uncaring remark. Comparisons with TV's Edith Bunker and All in the Family (1971-1979) do hit the mark.It's easy to deride Joe's unabashed vulgarity. Still, he's always straightforward about what he thinks. No guess-work there, unlike the white-collar guy who plays up to him once he thinks Joe's going to be his new boss. Plus, Joe works hard at a demanding foundry job. In short, he's that average joe who does the sometimes dirty work that keeps the nation running. In that key regard he deserves respect, maybe not for everything he thinks, but surely for what he does. And maybe if hard working guys like him got more respect for what they do, they wouldn't be so ready to take frustrations out on others. To me, that's one of the most important issues raised in a movie that's as relevant today as 50-years ago when I first saw it. "},{"Title":"A stunning portrait of unbridled hatred.","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The 1970 classic Joe owes a lot to the performances of its leading actors, especially Peter Boyle in his star-making turn in the title role. Joe is a blue collar bigot; he's actually pretty democratic about it, as he seems to hate all those who are different equally. He makes the acquaintance of Bill Compton (Dennis Patrick), a well-off advertising executive who's just accidentally killed the drug pushing boyfriend (Patrick McDermott) of his young daughter Melissa (Susan Sarandon, in her film debut). Joe figures out that Bill is a killer, but even armed with this knowledge, he doesn't exactly blackmail Bill. Rather, he thinks he's found a kindred spirit, somebody who despises hippies as much as he does. The result is an uneasy sort of relationship that forms the crux of the movie, as it develops. Bill isn't as angry a man as Joe, but he does find him to be an interesting individual.The way that a few separate worlds, and worldviews, collide, makes for good entertainment in this effort from screenwriter Norman Wexler and director John G. Avildsen. The generation gap provides further conflict, and seeing Joe and Bill eventually immerse themselves in the hippie universe is no less than fascinating. (The two of them do so as a means of searching for Melissa, who's run away.) They try to prove to each other how well they can adapt to this kind of lifestyle, including taking hits from a bong. Naturally, it isn't long before Joe is reminded of just how much he loathes hippies when he and Bill are robbed, and he spurs the increasingly distressed Bill on to a violent revenge - and a devastating conclusion.Described in many reviews here as an even more volatile version of Archie Bunker, Boyles' Joe is a true force of nature, and the actor is so good in the role that he basically makes the movie. The other actors (such as Audrey Caire as Bills' wife and K. Callan as Joes' wife) are fine, and Boyle and Patrick do work well together.A film very much of its time, Joe is a well paced drama that is definitely worth a viewing. It's likely to stick in peoples' minds after it's over.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"That's the way it was","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was the first movie I viewed, just by chance, after my discharge from active duty in the Army in 1970. Forty-two years later, remembering nothing of the plot, only that I left the theater very emotional (rare for me), I found a DVD copy at a local library.I now realize why I have since not been able to regard Peter Boyle as anything but a frightening character, even in his comic role on the TV series Everybody Loves Raymond. To be fair, his 1976 role in Taxi Driver didn't help, but his face, as seen in Joe, is still the stuff of nightmares for me.That said, I learned that it was the now long-forgotten hostility between sectors of our society, so brutally represented in the film, created by the debacle in Vietnam that affected me so deeply in 1970. Today, even to one who was there, the experience of living in an America so torn, so close to open rebellion, is hard to conceive - even harder to explain. But fresh off the plane, still somewhat glum from the cold stares at the airport caused by my uniform, this film hit me like a hammer. And guessing from the huge profit it made, it did the same to many.It shocked me that I hadn't remembered Susan Sarandon was in this film - she has been one of my favorites - and, as a bonus, the then 24 year-old Ms. Sarandon appears nude. How could I have possibly forgotten that? "},{"Title":"an extraordinarily good film","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After recently seeing, Cry Uncle, by the same director, I decided to seek this out and am I glad I did!? This is an extraordinarily good film. Far, far better than it would seem likely given the ingredients. How many times have we had to suffer the embarrassment of someone playing a middle class Dad mixing it with the flower children aagh! And yet here thanks to a perfect script it is made believable. Not ideal, not good or bad but believable. Peter Boyle, as the working class, hippie and ni**er hater and Dennis Patrick as the uptight suit, play their respective parts immaculately and I can't remember ever seeing the two classes getting together like this without things getting sentimental. Susan Sarandon is effective as a hippie chick but doesn't have all that much to do in her first film. This is a truly, must see film capturing as it does that very short period in western and in particular US times when the counter culture was about to bust itself wide open. "},{"Title":"Joe marks a great performance of the late Peter Boyle and the debut of Susan Sarandon","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Though I saw this movie about 4 years ago long before I started commenting on IMDb, I decided to review it now which is unusual for me since before now I often reviewed something just after seeing it. What can I say? Well, the best performance is that of the late Peter Boyle as the title character who, after finding out about a man's killing the drug-dealing boyfriend of his daughter, wants to bond with him even though he's a Madison Avenue executive who has nothing in common with the very lower-class conservative Joe. In fact, there are plenty of funny scenes of Joe at this guy's party making smart alecky remarks there. Oh, and it should be noted that the actress that plays the daughter who they're looking for after she disappeared from the hospital after overdosing on some drugs is none other than Susan Sarandon making her film debut! This was a pretty hard-hitting movie for the time it was made (late '60s-early '70s) and was compelling work from scripter Norman Wexler (later of Saturday Night Fever) and director John G. Avildsen (later to do Save the Tiger, Rocky, and The Karate Kid). Certainly the ending packs a wallop even today after all these years! Highly recommended for anyone curious about the counterculture of that time. P.S. Among the cultural artifacts seen here are a Raggedy Ann doll, a box of Ritz crackers, a bottle of Heinz ketchup, and, unique for the era, a Nixon poster asking, Would you buy a used car from this man? "},{"Title":"Joe - Long Before Peter Boyle Was Raymond's Dad.","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I finally have seen the real reason why Peter Boyle became famous. It wasn't being the monster in Young Frankenstein or being cranky Frank Barone on Everybody Loves Raymond. For younger people who only know him from TV,give this film a try,it makes Frank look like a saint.Joe is Boyle in his finest acting role and as someone mentioned,most likely gave the inspiration for Archie Bunker on All In The Family. I think Boyle even went back to Joe a little to play Frank. (I say this because I noticed the basement of both Joe & Frank Barone look similar.)I knew nothing of this movie when I checked it out of the library,I just knew Boyle and Susan Sarandon were featured. Yes,Susan does look great here and for a young actress a very good early role. A young hippie wanna be,who escapes her parents home and lives with,the ultimate lost in a drug induced haze hippie,who also sells as much as he buys.After a near-fatal over-dose on too many pills,she is hospitalized while her parents go to collect her things,her mother wont go into the smelly,run down apartment but her father does. While Dad gathers up her things,her boyfriend comes home and the two exchange words and then the father does what we will later hear Joe say he'd like to do to a hippie.Joe is shooting his mouth off about how he hates different cultures/races,hippies and a laundry list of others. When he says,I'd really like to kill one of them,the father (trying to look like he's kidding)says,I just did. Joe almost buys it but then takes it as funny. Later,when the police are at the scene and the story is in the paper,Joe realizes,he wasn't kidding. Instead of nailing the rich guy for money through blackmail,he actually,kind of,does blackmail him. By just wanting him and his wife to get to know him and his wife. Long story short their association is awkward but after Sarandon gets wind of what her father has done,the bottom is at risk of falling out.She runs away again and her father and Joe search for her within the Grenwich Village hippie culture hang-outs and get in deeper than they figured for.How this all plays out in the end you'll have to watch for yourself. Although it's over 35 years ago,the ending is something you wont expect. Unless you've seen the film before of course. Again,I recommend it mostly for those who haven't seen it.10 stars for Boyle not just playing someone completely opposite his nature but for what will show others that he was more than just a TV and movie comedy actor. (END) "},{"Title":"All In The Family Previewed in 1969","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harlan Ellison writes about being in the audience for a taping of the pilot under it's original title, Those Were The Days in 1969. Since the show originated from an English series, it's likely the loudmouth bigot father/worker figure was a highlight of the show.So while Bunker's character might have been amped up due to the super success of Joe, it's a collective image of the angry 60's hardhats who were beating up longhairs in the streets. The film Joe remains a raw, cynical vision of the generation gap and also the class gap, an issue rarely touched upon in Ameruican film with any validity. These scenes are uncomfortable, but have truth. But contrary to one of the strange comments above, uh, a bigoted murderous hardhat ain't no hero. "},{"Title":"Dated, but good","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dennis Patrick plays a man who accidentally kills his daughter's boyfriend and then reveals his secret at a local bar. Joe (Peter Boyle), a bigot who is getting drunk there, at first takes it as a joke, but then the story is confirmed on the evening news. Instead of calling the cops or the like, Joe decides that, since the guy killed a hippie, they must be kindred spirits! He blackmails the man into becoming his pal. At first, the film seemed harsh and judgemental, but, as it revealed itself, it actually became quite a complex portrait of the current society. Yes, I think it does exaggerate a bit, but in amusing ways that don't really detract from the power of its messages. Susan Sarandon debuted in this film, and it's a shock to see how pretty she was around 23. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"C'mon, get with the Pepsi generation","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This very controversial, but very well done film Joe is an unflinching look at the generation gap in the 60's and early 70's. When wealthy executive Bill Compton accidentally kills his daughter's dope pushing junkie boyfriend, he meets working stiff Joe Curran at a bar. When Joe (Peter Boyle) saw a hippie junkie gets iced on the news, he pieces it together and thinks Bill Compton is a righteous dude. Bill(Dennis Patrick) and Joe start hanging out and bro down big time. When Bill's daughter(Susan Sarandon) runs away, events escalate when Bill and Joe decide to infiltrate and hang out with the hippies in the hope of finding Bill's daughter. Peter Boyle is excellent as brash loudmouth bigot Joe who hates one thing more than blacks and queers, hippies. I can't say I agree with Joe's worldview. However, he does possess a ton of charisma. The film is very gritty and uncompromising. Neither the old timers or the hippies are favored. Director John G Avidsen keeps it real, brutally honest and at times funny. Joe is a great watch and I give my nod of approval. "},{"Title":"The 'straight' world meets the 'hippie' world in this 1970 blast from the past","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was thrilled to find JOE on DVD as it's one of the first movies I saw in a theater after I became a teenager. I was stunned at the violence of this film having grown up quite sheltered. Joe was in some ways my own father--his attitude towards 'dirty hippies' being quite familiar to me. I totally saw my own family in Joe's and his wife's home life. The scene with Joe and his wife 'socializing' with the Comptons was pathetic. I had never realized being a hippie could be so dangerous--at 14 what did I know? In that sense this movie taught me valuable lessons about who you can trust.Like many of my generation I truly believed you could tell 'good' people from 'bad' people by the way they dressed, talked, or acted, but the thievery of 'the hippies' bothered me. From that point on the tension, the knowing something really bad is coming, gripped my heart. Comparisons to the Mai Lai Massacre are inevitable. The ending still haunts me after 43 years. "},{"Title":"One Half-Baked, Deeply Reverberating Jihad","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Known for crowd-pleasing stories with definite heroes, underdogs overcoming odds and surrogate fathers, it's ironic that John G. Avildsen's breakthrough came with a film that asks the kind of questions that mainstream film wouldn't ask for awhile yet about the impartial portrayal of racists, junkies and gritty urban living. And it does only ask these questions. It doesn't answer much. Its over-the-top climax is a taut little shocker that eschews winding down for a gaping stunned gaze on your face, but as much as it leaves you pondering where the characters all went wrong, the scenes leading up to it don't quite seem to have led there without major, sudden contrivance.The death of an insignificant, drug-dealing junkie loser would be less than probable to be headlined on an NYC TV news program, let alone front page news in an NYC newspaper. Yet because these implausible things implicitly happen, Joe (played stunningly by Peter Boyle), while ranting in a bar, overhears and somehow recalls the name of another customer who fleetingly and facetiously says he's killed a hippie. Days later, Joe not only remembers the man's very general name but is able to track him down, apparently since he's the only person of the name Bill Compton listed in the whole phonebook for a city of several million people. Nevertheless, this movie wants you to think about the implications of its dialogue, the contrast between two men of different classes, and mainly the war between generational values. It's the kind of movie that gets articles written about its perceived commentary on its time, and works as a time capsule for audiences of my generation, forty years later.The film's credited with birthing the vigilante film, wherein characters violate the law to exact justice, rooted in 1970s anxiety toward government corruption, failure in Vietnam, increased crime. These movies point toward the climbing political orientation of neo-conservatism, men who believe good and evil to be cut-and-dried and legal bureaucracy to be elite nutlessness, so they play judge, jury and executioner. Joe and Bill are two of these sorts, but their crusade is not by any means lionized. Their holy war against the counterculture scene catches them off-guard, such as when they make love with some hippie girls, where we see body shame equated with older, more purist generations and upper classes, and the other extreme of exhibitionism seen as social equality. Yet no young character trusts or even likes any older character, and vice versa.The American flag on the poster art of this film indeed deserves higher billing than the main cast, because more than a portrait of Joe or Bill, the movie's a bleak silhouette of the country, at odds with itself, its famous Dream turned sour. This is an inherently fascinating concept. Avildsen would return to it just a few years later in his masterpiece Save the Tiger, which would swing for the bleachers. Here, however, he and writer Norman Wexler seem more concerned with their heavy dependence on sensationalist advertising and broad, lurid overstatement of theme, despite the intrinsic quality of their film. There's so much more about the '60s, '70s generational gap that goes untapped here---Molotov cocktails and sniper fire in response to multicultural textbook curriculums, racial integration in its infancy, homosexuality still considered a mental illness---instead merely concerning older traditional fuddy-duds and younger radical stoners with their dispositions towards sex, drugs and violence.I thought I'd appreciate this movie immensely. Save the Tiger firmly grasped the perceived moral dilemmas of the era, punctured stereotypes that clenched many into angles where they couldn't---still can't---comprehend the people with whom they share their society, or truly grasp the dichotomies that make up the layers of daily life. Joe seems to be even more about such things than that film. Instead, I found its moments of violence, at the beginning and end, to be done with a mawkishly exploitative edge with superfluous percussion-driven music and repetitive editing undercutting the impact. I found myself admiring the occasional scene of dialogue but finding most of them hard to buy, especially those where Bill takes Joe through his upper-crust world to show him how fake his peers are.Nevertheless, resulting from the national media coverage of the Stonehead Manor murders that inspired its climax, Joe snagged a Straight From The Headlines asset upon release. Without the murders, it's unlikely that this low-budget exploitation film would've found a wide audience, which instead it did, earning millions in domestic receipts. Furthermore, it's likely that the similarities between the real-life murders and the movie's dog-eared premise inspired the Academy to nominate Wexler's passable screenplay for an Oscar. It's also likely that the wider audiences helped launch newcomers Avildsen, Boyle and Sarandon. And that's not such a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Lines in the sand","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" WARNING Read this entry after watching the movie! Like 'Easy Rider' released a year before, 'Joe' tries to illustrate what happens when the counterculture and mainstream (albeit right-wing) America meet a violent end ensues. Although this film is for the most part a slow-moving display of traditional old-fashion American morals versus the 60's do-what-feels-good lifestyle, it is also a commentary on upper-class vs. lower-middle class and their inability to meet in the middle as illustrated when the Comptons meet the Currans. Boyle's Joe represents a generation stuck in the 1940s and 50s where 'Kill a commie for Mommy (or jap or hippie for that matter) is okay so long as it helps and saves America. Joe and wife Mary Jo are clearly the archetypes for Archie Bunker and Dingbat wife, Edith. This movie - which will forever be known for it's violent (but not bloody - no blood is seen at all) ending is uneven however. Joe blasts (verbally) the hippie generation then (literally) lays down with them to infiltrate their numbers to locate Compton's daughter - when clearly he should have been repulsed by the idea but forgoes the separatist idea for the sake of sex. When he is betrayed through thievery (read trust of the older generation to the newer generation), he lashes out through an unrelenting chain of murder. Perhaps it is due to the Tarantinos of Hollywood that the watcher expects blood-streaming death in the end scene, but the bloodless shootings long for any sort of impact or realism. 'Joe' is not a great movie, but it is an interesting display of class and culture alienation and the animalistic underlying extremes to the generation gap. "}{"Title":"Archie Bunker in a very, very, very, very bad mood!!!","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is a classic. it has a couple stories that eventually roll into one. a beautiful rich girl and her hippie drug dealer, not a nice guy, live in a shabby apartment. she overdoses and then her father and mother are introduced in the hospital where she's been taken. the father ends up going to the house and meets the boyfriend. they fight. the father wins. now we skip to the title character, JOE, sort of an Archie Bunker meets Adolph Hitler, and he's at a bar giving a bigoted diatribe that Vic Morrow from his TWILIGHT ZONE THE MOVIE role ten years later would be ashamed of. Peter Boyle is Joe and he's very good as the blue collar bigot. anyhow he's drinking and then, the father of the girl comes in the bar and, after Joe strikes up a conversation, tells Joe a secret. i won't say anything else. it's an amazing movie, really amazing. the directing is top notch as in the acting. this movie is a forgotten classic. and the best thing about it is the ending. this movie might have one of the greatest endings of all time, up there with BLOOD SIMPLE, SIXTH SENSE and MIDNIGHT COWBOY.  "},{"Title":"Full of hatred.  Mean, sick and ridiculous.","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Businessman Bill Compton (Dennis Patrick) accidentally kills the drug-dealing boyfriend of his daughter Melissa (Susan Sarandon) who is a hippie. Loud-mouthed bigot Joe (Peter Boyle) who hates EVERYBODY finds out...and thinks he's a great guy! Joe and Bill form a highly unlikely friendship. Then Melissa finds out her father killed her boyfriend and runs away. Bill and Joe go out to get her.Supposedly this is considered a great film that accurately portrays how the youth culture was at the time. Let's see--they're always on drugs, always deal drugs, will have sex with anybody, speak in ridiculous slang, steal from anybody and deserve nothing more than to be killed. That's the message this movie gives loud and clear. In fact it hates EVERYONE! Joe is a psychotic bigot and Bill is a wimp. It all leads up to a truly ridiculous conclusion that was so utterly ridiculous I though it was a joke! It is well-acted especially by Boyle (who was the exact opposite of his character here) and it is interesting to see Sarandon in her film debut (she's hardly in it though) but Joe is little more than a vile exploitation film that hates everyone and everything. It's easy to see why this is rarely shown today. "},{"Title":"A Fascinating Mess","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Joe was first released in the US in the summer of 1970. Despite respectable notices, reasonable box office and an Oscar nom, it vanished shortly afterwards and remained forgotten about throughout the 1980's, before being enthusiastically reappraised, somewhat unjustly, in the US in the late 90's. Thanks to this lengthy unavailability, its reputation has gone on to see it placed (inexplicably) alongside the likes of Michael Winner's original Death Wish. Although revenge is a theme, a film about vigilantism this most definitely is not.The plot isn't worth synopsizing. Its a flabby, hammy and bizarrely stagey ramble about an accidental murder and the unlikely relationship that blossoms out of it. That relationship and the largely class-based quirks of its two leads are exaggerated into ridiculous caricature; these two, and their situation, bear absolutely no relation to reality.Almost everything about the film is cantankerous and begrudgingly antiquated, which makes the whole thing completely fascinating. Hippies are depicted as snide and exclusive misanthropes, hard drugs either make you sleep or dance around maniacally with lipstick on your face, and most young women are prepared to have sex with strangers in exchange for marijuana at the drop of a fly. Its very much a film of the 60's rather than the 70's, so why some industry luminaries have begun to include it in retrospective conversations about the beginnings of the Hollywood New Wave is a complete mystery. Martin Scorcese of all people even got involved, though probably only to give a nod to the dank, lavatorial hues of the grim urban cinematography, which almost certainly influenced Taxi Driver four years later. But Joe seems very much like a furious tirade against the likes of Easy Rider and Bonnie And Clyde, rather than a continuation of that same insurgent cinematic ethos.It isn't a film of any real artistic significance - despite Joe's incontinent fury at everything in his world, it remains a story about absolutely nothing - but its value as a cultural museum piece is unprecedented. Shot on and around the streets of New York City during the darkest hours of the Vietnam war, and at a time when America (and, significantly, its cinema) was being revolutionized to the horror of the old guard, the film ends up, in its own completely oblivious and accidental way, saying more about that period of history than numerous infinitely superior movies that directly endeavored to capture it.But as a film? Despite a really surprising and effective shock ending, this is basically a Michael Winner film, but not as well made. How does that tickle your fancy? ** Incidentally, if you are, like me, a fan of spotting arbitrary background lookalikes, then check out Harold Steptoe at 12211 in the hippy art gallery. "},{"Title":"Like Archie Bunker with guns...","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" John G. Avildsen directed Norman Wexler's inflammatory script about a middle-aged square, who, after accidentally killing his daughter's pusher/lover, teams up with a bigoted blue collar nitwit (the title character played with a lot of bravado by Peter Boyle) with tragic results. They commiserate and find common ground in their intolerance of ANYTHING they're not liberals; blacks; the young. A time-capsule of the early 1970s, this plays like an R-rated version of ALL IN THE FAMILY with Boyle playing Archie Bunker with guns. The acting is all first rate...not only by Boyle, but by Dennis Patrick, Susan Sarandon and, at least briefly, Patrick McDermott as one of the most unlikeable victims in movie history. A violent, unforgiving film. It's certainly unsettling but what is it telling us? It's OK to have junkies & pushers running rampant as long as they're peace-loving? It's become a classic. "},{"Title":"Taxi Driver with a new set of victims,","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story is simple. A racist blue collar guy recruits a wealthy white man to kill hippies, This is also the first motion picture for Susan Sarandon and the flick that made Peter Boyle an actor who worked a lot and made his name.This film I found greatly upsetting and I remember when it premiered at the Harvsrd Square theater in Cambridge, Mass. when I was still in high school. I never understood why such a movie would be popular with the very group it excoriates. Maybe it was a primer for those who wanted to avoid such psychotic baddies. When I first heard of the film, I had no idea that the composer of the music in it would become a close friend, supporter and benefactor. I also never envisioned being treated as something nasty on his shoe by the star, but these two things did occur.But back to the film. It seems all too real and the rich man turned killer by the protagonist/antagonist played a racist in an episode of All In The Family as well.I can't give away the finale of this movie except to say that it is rather abrupt and, unless you are a sociopath, unsettling to say the least.The N word is one of the most offensive things in this films the swear words are mild compared to some other films. This was, I believe, the film that introduced the future director of Rocky.But Bobby Scott's music as always is remarkable. Scott is a name that should be better known and I do hope people will try to find as much as they can about this Irish/Native American super talent, As for Peter Boyle, I wish I had told him of my friendship with Bobby and that he should not look at me as some sort of annoying gnat. After all, it is my friend's work that is the best thing in this film that gave Boyle his career. Talent is a wonderful thing, but humility should come along with it towards the people who made you a celebrity in the first place. Jerry Orbach thought that way. We could all learn from this. "},{"Title":"Combination satire, melodrama, and diatribe is well-acted...but I was relieved when it was over","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After beating--and unintentionally killing--the drug dealer who has been shacking up with his daughter, a New York businessman leaks his secret to a blue-collar worker in a bar and, just as unintentionally, begins a curious friendship with the rough-hewn bigot. Technically amateurish examination of America's loss of morals circa 1970 is saved from being a wallow by occasionally smart, often funny satire and character development, as well as by strong performances. Peter Boyle's Joe exemplifies the uneducated, underpaid working stiff, though his hate-filled rants at society in general smack of an intentionally controversial bias. Director and cinematographer John G. Avildsen puts Joe up on some imaginary platform where no one dares refute his complaints; however, at a comical orgy late in the film, we also get to see Joe as a cloddish buffoon who's no Valentino in the sack. Avildsen is very wise to show us different sides of this character, as well as Dennis Patrick's apathetic white-collar executive, but nothing is really solved by the 'shocking' finale. Norman Wexler's screenplay was Oscar-nominated, though his jabbing, stabbing dialogue is a great deal more provocative than his simple-minded, unhinged plot. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A Friend of the Producer","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really liked the Movie JOE. It has really become a cult classic among certain age groups.The Producer of this movie is a personal friend of mine. He is my Stepsons Father-In-Law. He lives in Manhattan's West side, and has a Bungalow. in Southampton, Long Island. His son-in-law live next door to his Bungalow.Presently, he does not do any Producing, But dabbles in a business with HBO movies.As a person, Mr. Gil is a real gentleman and I wish he would have continued in the production business of move making. "},{"Title":"JOE (John G. Avildsen, 1970) ***","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A fascinating relic of the turbulent cultural/political aura of the late 60s (taking in the class struggle as well) which, ironically, in view of its outdated and occasionally embarrassing conservative views, makes full use of the permissiveness that prevailed for a while in mainstream cinema and which came about as a direct result of the liberal attitude it purports to criticize! Norman Wexler's incisive Oscar-nominated script is superbly enacted by Peter Boyle (in a powerhouse performance) who manages to make his garrulous, down-to-earth yet hypocritical and opportunistic character (with a barely-disguised fascist streak which comes to the fore in the remarkable violent conclusion) likable, even admirable; indeed, he comes across uncannily like a flabbier version of the young Marlon Brando! Similar to other generation gap movies of its era like TAKING OFF (1971) and HARDCORE (1978) but also nihilistic vigilante films like DEATH WISH (1974) and TAXI DRIVER (1976) - interestingly enough, two of these also feature Boyle - JOE ultimately emerges as an engrossing and powerful drama which could have been a masterpiece if it had had a more experienced director at the helm... "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oh man , this movie is amazing, It's very good it's a story about a man who isn't so accepting of Black people, he sits at a bar drinks on his night out and he rants about hippies who are anti-war , and how blacks and hippies don't deserve to get any welfare checks. This movie is very realistic ,because it portrays a guy Joe who represented a lot of guys back then, and now too. The story goes like this.... Joe is in a bar and he rubs shoulders with a rich guy who just accidentally killed his daughter's hippie boyfriend. And this rich goes to the bar to rethink what he just did, and while he's doing that, Joe is in the bar ranting about hippies and people who are against the war. The rich guy accidentally tells Joe that he killed a hippie ; and obviously joe applauds the rich guy, Cause Joe hates hippies, Amazing movie watch it to see what happens next. I liked this movie , because it was reminiscent of those days in the early 70's, I liked the way movies were shot back then in those days, very good stuff , it's not like today's movies. Basically the movie gives you an inner look into the mind of the lead character Joe . I like the theme of the movie ....... about the working man , who's busting his ass trying to make a living "},{"Title":"still a scary movie","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was 20 years old when I saw Joe, and it was one of the really important movies of that time in at least one respect. It scared the crap out of anyone who saw it who wasn't a clean-cut, Nixon-son-in-law type. For the rest of us -- the I Ain't No Fortunate Son types -- it was really scary when we saw there were people out there who hated us so much they would gladly kill us.Peter Boyle is an amazing actor, but I admit I'm glad his proposed sequel to the movie never got made. Movies really were better before everything got sequelized. He WAS Joe, and finding out later that he wasn't made his portrayal all the more amazing.Susan Sarandon, ah, one of the truly great ladies of our generation, and still lights-out gorgeous at 58. Some of the comments I've read said they didn't know she would be a star, but they couldn't take their eyes off her. Hey, that's how you know someone IS a star. "}{"Title":"Terrifying and hilarious!","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My 2nd favorite film of 1970 (after Five Easy Pieces) was totally dismissed by a lot of idiots, calling in an audience-baiting piece of trash.  Peter Boyle, a well-known liberal, is incredible as the hard-assed working stiff who has a few problems with the younger generation.  He's a frightening dude, but has a great imagination and is very funny.  I was a teenage liberal when this was released, but as horrifying as Joe seemed to me, he also cracked me up!  Susan Sarandon, in her first role, is perfect and a mixed-up stone rich fox.  The dinner scene in Queens is hilarious and insightful for everybody involved.This WAS NOT an exploitation film and the script (which was Oscar-nominated) should have won that year.  The director just didn't WASTE enough money making it to give it enough credibility in Hollywood.  No matter your political pursuasion, then and now, you'll like somebody in this film.  A definite 9 out of 10.  It's on DVD and video.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Dark Side of the Force","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Joe is the movie about the dark side of the force of the 1960's in America, and Susan Sarandon had nice boobs. This movie scared me so much when I saw it in the theatre that I never liked Peter Boyle until Young Frankenstein and was still quite leery of him even after that comedy. Looking back now from today's experience, this film seems current again in being direct and to the point of half the electorate's approval of John McCain's Joe The Plumber typecast and their fear of electing a black man as President of the USA in the coming weeks. A black Prez would be seen as sweet revenge of the niggers but bound to again bring fire to many minds if not the streets, this time by Joe enthusiasts. So, the spirit of Joe in the film is resurrected in the campaign of Joe The Plumber! Still, I love to be American and be terrified at both and by the knowledge that they illustrate what ironically Gregory Peck said our civilized law also is a living, breathing reality! God help us. "},{"Title":"This is where Norman Lear got Archie Bunker from and don't tell me it isn't!!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Peter Boyle is one of the best actors of his generation.  Just admire the intensity with which he embraced the part.  He should have gotten the academy award, but these are the same wimps who gave it to John Wayne (True Grit) instead of Dustin Hoffman (Midnight Cowboy).  This is a great movie, and dated only to fools who can't recognize true talent and quality.  "},{"Title":"Meet Joe Doe","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Joe is an American blue collar,a diehard who despises niggers and fags.He could be French (then he would loathe Arabs and fags)or German (then he would abhor Turks and...)or ..you name it.That kind of guy needs scapegoats to escape the mediocrity of his own life.He's universal.We have all met such a fella in our life.Nowadays,you can often find them in neonazi circles. What's very interesting in Alvidsen movie is the very strange relation ship he strikes up with the bourgeois Sarandon's father.Avoiding the hackneyed blackmail clich very smartly,the director shows us two men socially diametrically opposite who find out they have more than affinities.Such is not the posh wife's casethe chinese dinner in Joe 's flat is maybe the most successful scene in the entire movie. All the stuff dealing with hippies is dated and full of clichs.At least,it allows us to see Sarandon at the dawn of a brilliant career.The same goes for Alvidsen,we hear.As far as I'm concerned not at all.After this imperfect but worthwhile attempt,he sank like a stone and gave works like Rocky ,only for the sake of the buck.Artistically,his career was short-lived,but Joe was unique and should be remembered.  "},{"Title":"Good Social Commentary, Stiff Dialogue","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" My interpretation of the movie is that it strives more to make a social comment at the cost of being realistic. The characters are a little bit over-the-top. And some are horribly stereotyped and lacking dimension the upper middle class couple who are obviously refined and look down their noses at the blue collar class (this is stated with Bill and Joan's visit to Joe's home); the super archetypal Archie Bunker who drinks Bud (naturally!), bald (of course no one refined would be bald!), unworldly and borderline illiterate (he never heard the word culture? He is not familiar with the clich When in Rome...? That's not just uneducated but isolated from humanity.), and crass (without exception blue collar people eat like pigs!). I realize that the Joe character must be an idiot with few redeeming features in order to construct the plot and not evoke any sympathy for his particular plight in life, but it is so in-your-face that it detracts. (You don't need to beat us over the head with what kind of guy he is. Just the movie title is a big hint.) You would think they could have forgone one stereotypical feature to at least make some attempt at believability.Some of the acting is reminiscent of the stiff Dragnet exchanges. For example, I cannot remember the exact quote so I will paraphrase, Get this. The old man says, 'I got all the grass I need, sonny boy.' Is he putting me on? I mean, really. This is so stilted you can almost see the actor's eyes moving across the lines.Also, some of the development is too quick to be effective. For instance in the final sequence when Bill Compton is furious with Joe, all Joe has to say to finalize his personality conversion is, Hey! Don't kill me, kill them! In an instance we witness a complete personality flip in Bill. True, the whole event started with Bill accidentally killing someone and *uncharacteristically* feeling some pleasure about it, so he does have it in him. But he was never presented as someone with the potential of a cold blooded killer. I think it would have been much more effective to draw his inner rage out more gradually; some horrific event involving his daughter needed to occur to complete his transmogrification, not just her running away. To be fair, there was some gradual change in Bill over the course of the movie, but for the most part he seemed to be going along with Joe in order to hush him and use him rather than be him. He never convincingly converted to a Joe even though the movie attempts to tidy this up with their political agreements about society.That said, I do think the final scene has good emotional impact. The message of the movie is clear the generation gap is so wide that it's dangerous. Also, I do like the fact that not everyone is so one dimensional. Some do have at least a hint of good and bad. For example, it would have been too easy to make the victims ridiculously Pollyannaish, but thankfully the hippies, too, have their flaws. They come off more like self-indulgent children rather than self-proclaiming purveyors of social change, which how I personally view them. (Not to deter, but to that point, if the anti-war movement was so sincere about fixing the ailments of society, why instead of partying in San Francisco in 1967 didn't they march out to the poor nations of the world and build homes and feed the poor? Because it was more about self-indulgence than truly helping fellow man.) I think that element gave it some depth--not much, mind you, but it could have been worse.I recommend the movie to anyone interested in that period and who can ignore the Dragnet like features. It may have its laughable delivery from time to time, but its point is very visceral and relevant to the times. "},{"Title":" PETER BOYLE WAS THE BIGOT OF BIGOT'S!!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"                    Peter Boyle was always a great actor and he proved it by his performance as a gun-ho Bigot,  making me hate him everytime he used the N word, I watched him and his big mouth and wanted to punch his lights out. ( Just think, Peter Boyle was a Monk once) (Now a supporting actor in Everybody Loves Raymond) Susan Sarandon making her first debut need a bath right away and enjoyed sharing it with someone else in his own dirty water.   I noticed a large Raggerty Ann Doll(creator, John Gruelle) was the only thing that Susan could actually trust and love and the doll appeared in quite a few scenes. If you really want to know about the way out 70's with drugs, free love and pipe dreams, then, enjoy the excellent direction of John G. Avildsen (Rocky and The Karate Kid)  I always thought that Peter Boyle should have been blown away in the end!!   This is definitely a cult classic well worth viewing and sharing with others. "},{"Title":"A dark image of the consequences of letting go.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a rather unnerving look at an ostensibly functional family confronted by their daughter's druggie boyfriend.  Father tangles with and ultimately kills druggie boyfriend.  Wallowing in guilt he reveals to a drunk redneck what he has done.  Things spiral rapidly out of hand before degenerating completely.  The ending you dread stalks the viewer throughout, but is still able to startle when it finally arrives.  "},{"Title":"Archie Bunker Gets High","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unusual film about a man who befriends his social opposite out of fear of blackmail. Peter Boyle makes this film with his foul mouthed boorish portrayal of a working class stiff Joe in love with the past and fearful of the future and worried about the present. The first half hour of the show features the film debut of a young Susan Sarrandon as Melissa Compton, a weak willed rich girl who slums with her loser boyfriend, replete with a full nude scene. Her boyfriend is the film's weak spot, a poorly portrayed drug addict and dealer who meets his demise following Sarrandon's overdose. We meet Boyle's Joe in a bar as he spouts off and rants about minorities, crime, hippies and drugs, and it is easy to see that the later Norman Lear television character of Archie Bunker is based on a cleaned up version of Joe. The comparison even carries over into Joe's wife and personal life and pastimes. Joe insinuates himself into the life of Bill Compton, Melissa's father, and the two make an unlikely pair as they search for Melissa who has run away from drug treatment and back to the drug addicts she calls friends. Their search leads them to an oar-gee as Joe calls it, a free love fest fueled by drugs a lot of nudity and surprisingly, uptight Bill Compton and Ultra Conservative Joe both join in. They get robbed and this leads to a violent and murderous ending that foreshadows the stark and chilling ending to Taxi Driver six years later. Joe is a funny film that on the surface at least, is anti violence and anti racist. Yet the film's main character, Joe, becomes the very instrument of the upheaval he fears when he enters and joins in the illegal and unbridled sexual excesses he rants against. So in that respect, the film falls short of being a powerful message and leaves you wondering what the final outcome really was all about. "},{"Title":"Let's cover all the counter-culture bases in an hour and 47 minutes...","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***This thing was all over the highway, but it turned out to be a highly successful if somewhat flawed movie.  It's as if director Avildsen tried to take all the counter-culture vs. apple pie themes of the period, and tap into all of 'em.  But save for EASY RIDER, this movie preceded all of the other big alternative hits of the era. We get THE PANIC IN NEEDLE PARK followed by a soon to be aired episode of ALL IN THE FAMILY, and then we'll top it off with a BILLY JACK ending.  Other than the painful to watch dinner scene with the upper-crust Compton's and the ordinary Joe Curran's, this moved along nicely.  So get your fast-forward button ready, and sit down for a viewing of a movie that certainly feels like it's from an altogether different era (i.e.-the late 60's Whose side are you on, Buddy?).   Be sure to watch for the great shot of the Nixon poster I hadn't seen in years. I'm glad these movies were made to document a different time in our country, but to me for some reason, these films seem even more dated than 1950's cinema.  We had a little rally 'round the flag or keep your mouth shut earlier this year during Gulf War II (see Michael Moore's Oscar speech), but it quickly subsided, and we're right back to the celebrity driven Madonna-Britney lip lock headlines again.  There's something about a war going on that just makes everybody stop and think. "},{"Title":"The Secret Origin of Archie Bunker","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While ALL IN THE FAMILY was actually adapted from a Brit sitcom, the impetus for its creation came from this film.  Joe, the working class conservative bigot, is clearly the blueprint for Archie Bunker, the working class conservative bigot buffoon.  JOE is mostly forgotten today and its link to FAMILY mostly unnoticed, aside from the preceptive MAD parody.Oh, and Susan Sarandon fans are in for a visual treat as she obliging strips as soon as she first appears on camera, beginning a long career of getting naked in front of the camera whenever possible.   "}{"Title":"Joe The Pinko's Idea of Mainstream America","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Susan Sarandon, the pure garbage that she is, portrays a woman who is pure garbage. Not much of a stretch there.Boyle, another bleeding heart, has the role of evil Right-Wing avenger.Boyle learns that a man has accidentally killed the piece-of-crap hippy who was slowly killing the man's piece-of-crap daughter (Sarandon) with drugs. The movie tells us that it is wrong to interfere with your daughter's slide into drug addiction, alcoholism and promiscuity. Hey, they have their rights, man.Sarandon takes her clothes off a lot because hey, that's good acting.Boyle hates everybody because hey, that's an honest portrayal of what was once called the Silent Majority.Eventually Boyle abandons everything he believes in. Despite his intense hate, all of a sudden, hey, them hippies look good.Then he goes wild and kills everybody in sight.Speaking as a former hippy, I remember that fathers tended to get upset when their daughters turned into drug-addled whores. I seem to remember that even the liberal pinko Dads didn't like their daughters being used as catatonic semen receptacles, the type of role, by the way, that Sarandon was born to play.Boyle, the great actor albeit liberal freak that he is, expressed great displeasure that audiences sided with his character. Apparently, it is wrong to get robbed and try to retrieve your wallet. Apparently, it is wrong to protect your daughter.Just like Easy Rider, every hippy in this movie is a complete waste.And just like in Easy Rider, the best scene is at the end where the hippies die.Joe gets 9 stars because lots and lots of hippies die.It loses a star because some of them survive.For all those who feel that this movie is an honest portrayal of anything, let this hippy give you the old three-fingered peace sign.And now it's time to tune in, turn on, and drop out.Groovy, baby.P.S. The ORIGINAL spelling was hippy. Blame the establishment for the nonsensical variation, hippie. "},{"Title":"A relic, but an interesting one","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine that Dragnet episode where Friday and Gannon go into a typical 1970 den of hippie inequity, but instead of giving everyone a lecture, they get some. That's Joe in a nutshell.This film of a working-class bigot and a rich guy who's just killed his girlfriend's drug-dealer boyfriend has dated terribly and most of the supporting acting is stilted, but it's still interesting to watch. Peter Boyle, then about 35, plays Joe (the bigot), and he looks like James Gandolfini. In her film debut, Susan Sarandon plays the doe-eyed daughter, and while she doesn't necessarily hint at her future greatness, you can't take your eyes off her. "},{"Title":"Interesting for its time....","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think this movie can be called the movie of misdirected rage.The characters of Joe and Bob were relics of the WWII generation who didn't quite understand their kids opposing the war, taking drugs and listening to rock and roll. But I think their real rage was at the fact that America was beginning her long decline from the heights the war left her at.Joe himself is a low-rent Archie Bunker, ranting at all the things that have made him angry, living his life of quiet desperation, until he teams up with Compton, a guy who wants to avenge himself on the hippies who ruined his daughter.Honestly, most of the movie looks silly, the characters are worse than one dimensional, they're laughable. Peter Boyle was capable of better stuff. "},{"Title":"Joe endures but does Susan Sarandon.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ritz crackers and Heinz Ketchup. That was Joe making clear his wife was not to shop for cheap imitations. If he had few luxuries in his life he would have those he could afford.While Joe might not feel the same about his brand of ketchup today he would surely feel the same about Susan Sarandon. That perhaps is what makes Joe relevant today. He was the real deal. A patriot. While the Left' that Joe fought against may have transmogrified itself into the very Madison Ave. executive Joe admired in 1970, Joe did not have to 'relearn' the truths he knew. LSD was not groovy. Hippies were not an 'alternative' lifestyle but a decadent and immoral one. Joe knew that homosexuality was wrong a dozen years before AIDS proved it. Joe knew that freedom was not free, it had to be fought for and that his world was insecure. Would he even have his job today? Doubtful, it would probably have been relocated to a third world nation. Would Joe have been surprised by 9/11. Not likely. He didn't need to Osama bin Laden to tell him Islam was an alien and hostile religion.Perhaps we should listen more to the Joe's of this world and less to the Susan Sarandon's. "}]