[{"Title":"Ground-breaking revisionist western and pure seventies gold","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This was one of the first neo- or revisionist-westerns and it really is a bit of a shame younger audiences mostly don't seem to know it this is classic seventies gold. Arthur Penn, one of the driving forces behind the so called New-Hollywood (he also directed 'Bonnie and Clyde'), delivered a masterpiece - with a fantastic Dustin Hoffman. It's an epic, tragic tale - but one told with an often very funny voice. Part satire, part honest look at America's dark and untold history, the tone and narrative structure of this film were ground-breaking. And it still looks fresh the script, the acting, the camera, the music everything still oozes quality more than 40 years later. A timeless classic. 9 stars out of 10.Favorite Films http//www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/Lesser-known Masterpieces http//www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies http//www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed http//www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/ "},{"Title":"Sprawling comedy-western with memorable moments.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"60 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" One of the greatest American films of the 70's, a long but enjoyable western epic told with verve and insight. Dustin Hoffman excels in one of his early film roles, throwing himself into its physical demands with obvious enthusiasm and in the process creating one of his most endearing characters.But he had to be on his toes in the face of much scene-stealing by a host of experts, including Richard Mulligan as the screwiest Custer you'll ever see, Martin Balsam as the eternally optimistic Mr. Merriweather, and Chief Dan George as Old Lodgeskins, a noble, wise and very funny Native American patriarch. This, along with Bonnie and Clyde, represented the pinnacle of Arthur Penn's directing career he handles the tonal shifts from comedy to tragedy with unerring control. Beautifully photographed and scored, with a wry, picaresque script by Calder Willingham from Thomas Berger's novel. Memorable images abound, from the rousing stagecoach chase, to an erotic bath delivered by the beauteous Faye Dunaway, to the horrific attack on a snowbound Indian village by the U.S. Cavalry, accompanied by a sprightly fife-and-drums march, to George's dignified ritual of death under threatening skies that doesn't quite turn out the way he planned. A funny, poignant tale, skillfully told, and a reminder of the fragility and randomness of life and love. "},{"Title":"The sodapop kid strikes!","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"51 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I have to admit... I LOVE THIS MOVIE and have since the first time I saw it as a kid. No other western - if it indeed is a true western? - tells the story of the white man's disrespect for the ORIGINAL Americans, without the tear-teasing guilt or the cheesy wigs chasing the stagecoach.It is the story of an amazing man and his encounter with the Cheyenne. We follow young Jack Crab through his LONG life, and WHAT a life. Jack is abducted by Indians, raised by the preacher's ultra sexy wife, becomes the fastest gun in the west, sells dodgy medicine and joins General Custer at Little Big Horn.A MUST SEE if you ask me.And to top it off, the blues great John Hammond provides a fantastic score. A very hard to find album, but worth the effort and money... As is the movie.Have to rate it 10 folks!  "},{"Title":"A Western with a Sense of Humor","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"49 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This will always be one of my favorite movies. I love long, episodic plots such as this. The character of Jack Crabb has such dimension and so grows from one incarnation to another, that he is worth watching from beginning to end. This was Dustin Hoffman in his pre-pretentious I'm such a big star I won't listen to anyone period and he is an absolute joy because he just plays the character as it should be played. I love that he can be cowardly one moment, confused the next, heroic the next. He goes through phases in his life. Of course, the neatest part of the whole movie is the portrayal of the Indians. They are multi-dimensional and wonderful in their acceptance and joy with their world. Maybe everyone should see this movie to see how these human beings have been driven from what they were to what they are now. I have a top ten list of movie moments and on it is the scene where old Lodge Skins goes off to die because it is a good day. As he lies there a drop of rain hits him in the eye and he decides that sometimes the magic doesn't work.The death of Sunshine is also so sad. I visited the Custer Battlefields a few years after seeing the movie, and while the place is interesting historically, I just couldn't look at it in the same way. The narration of the ancient Jack to the overmatched reporter is a delight. I know that this is a novel, not pure history, but Thomas Berger must have known these people and this delicate, beautiful movie is certainly his legacy. "},{"Title":"The oxymoron that prepares us for a tragi-comedy","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"60 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  `Little big' is an oxymoron. `Little big man' the film is another cinematic oxymoron a tragi-comedy.Most of Penn's movies are double-edged swords presenting serious subjects with a twinkle in the eye--`The Miracle Worker' seems to be an exception to the rule. Penn seem to have a strange knack of picking subjects that seem to be governed by forces greater than themselves-leading to alienated situations. My favorite Penn film is the 1975 film `Night Moves' which ends with the boat going round in circles in the sea.This work of Penn and novelist Thomas Berger follows the same pattern. The main character Crabb is buffeted between the Red Indians and the whites by forces beyond his control. Only once is he able to control his destiny--to lead Custer to his doom, because Custer in his impetuosity has decided to act contrary to any advice from Crabb. The religious and social values of both seem vacuous. The priest's wife may seem religious but is not. The adopted grandfather cannot die on the hilltop but has to carry on living. The gunslinger is a cartoon. Historical heroes like Wild Bill Hickok are demystified into individuals with down-to-earth worries.It is surprising to me that many viewers have taken the facts of the film and novel as accurate--when it is obviously a work of fiction based on history.  The charm of the film is the point of view taken by the author and director. The comic strain begins from the time Jim Crabb's sister is not raped by the Indians right up to the comic last stand of Custer. The film is hilarious as it presents a quirky look at every conceivable notion presented by Hollywood cinema the brilliant acumen of army Generals, the Red Indian satisfying several squaws, the priest's wife turned prostitute who likes to have sex twice a week but not on all days, the quack who has turned to selling buffalo hides as he sees it as a better profession even if he has lost several limbs, etc.The film is a tragedy--a tragic presentation of the Red Indian communities decimated by a more powerful enemy, tragic soldiers led by megalomaniac Generals, heroes reduced to fallible individuals, all heroes (including the Red Indians) whittled down to dwarfs.The film is a satire of a dwarf who claims to have achieved a great revenge on Custer, a dwarf who could not assassinate Custer, the dwarf in many of us. It is a great film, but often misunderstood. Penn is a great director, whose greatness cannot be evaluated by this one film but by the entire body of his films. What he achieved in this film outclasses films like Tonka (1958) and Soldier Blue (1970), two notable films on similar themes. Chief Dan George, Dustin Hoffman, and cinematographer Harry Stradling Jr have considerably contributed to this fine cinematic achievement, but ultimate giant behind the film is Arthur Penn.He has presented yet another example of looking at a subject and seeing two sides of the coin that appear as contradictions but together enhances our entertainment.  "},{"Title":"  I Didn't Mean to Kill him, . . . just,  distract him a little  ","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" For many years in Hollywood, Native Americans were not allowed to portray themselves in films. One director commented, they neither know how to play Indians, nor can they act. Once this absurd idea was quashed and Native Indians were allowed to portray their own people, not only was the myth crushed, but some of them received the highest tributes the film industry could honor them with. Such was the case with this unusual story which was touted as the most forgotten hero of the southwest. Jack Crabb (Dustin Hoffman) plays a white boy who landed smack dab in the emerging historical west at the start of the colonization period. Through his own fanciful narrative, we journey along as he survives an Indian massacre, adopted into the native culture, then re-acculturated into the White world near emerging townships, and then through several high frontier adventures which culminates with, The Battle of The Little Big Horn. Chief Dan George is Old Lodge Skins a native American who made himself memorable to American Audiences plays tutor and mentor to Jack Krabb. Faye Dunaway plays Mrs. Louise Pendrake who is both step-mother and temptress to the maturing Krabb. Martin Balsam plays Mr. Merriweather who literally goes to pieces throughout the film. Jeff Corey befriends Crabb as Wild Bill Hickok. Finally there is Richard Mulligan who plays Gen. George Armstrong Custer, both as a serious military man and then as a lunatic officer. The entire film is destined for classic status, depending on history's eventual reflection of modern Native Americans. **** "},{"Title":"Excellent Western","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"40 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" My parents purchased a VHS copy of Little Big Man for me when I was 14 and, because it was a western, I didn't touch it for two years, in spite of their belief in its greatness. When I finally watched the film, I was astounded to find a film that was funny, angry, violent, and moving simultaneously. It turned out that my parents were, in fact, correct. Little Big Man was great.I've gone back to the movie several times since that first viewing and it continues to entertain and affect; for me, a film that has emotional resonance well after the first viewing is rare and, though it does not always point to greatness, it often does.Every element of the film is fantastic. The acting, by Hoffman and Dan George in particular, is amazing, as is Penn's direction. The story picaresque and always fascinating. There simply is no weak component to this movie.I must also commend the film as a literary adaptation. I am not the most supportive critic of the Thomas Berger novel upon which the film is based. I find its thematics confused; it cannot decide whether or not it wants to revise western mythology or further it and, in that way, it fails for me. Calder Willingham's adaptation removes the ambivalence inherent in the novel and thereby writes one of the first and greatest revisionist Hollywood Westerns.Little Big Man is a great movie, as I have said, and it deserves much more notoriety than it receives. This is, I fear, a film that too few people of my generation know. If you haven't seen it, I highly recommend it as an excellent and entertaining way to spend a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Simply great","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"28 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"     Little Big Man represents the highest point in Arthur Penn's career. The film was made soon after his masterpiece Bonnie and Clyde and stands, in my opinion, right beside it as one of the most significant achievements not only of Arthur Penn's work, but also of the world cinema in general. Unfortunately the chain of remarkable movies began with this two wasn't destined to continue, with director's following films proving to be quite disappointing. But nevertheless Bonnie and Clyde and Little Big Man remain as the two fine notables for which Arthur Penn will always be fondly remembered.   Also mustn't be discarded the role of the time when the Little Big Man was made, the turbulent era of the Vietnam War, which most certainly found its reflection on the film, critically paralleled in portrayal of the ruthless and mindless slaughter of the Indians by the American troops.   The film's story is told by Jack Crabb, a very old man of more than 100 years old, the only remaining witness of the events he is telling to an oral histories collector.     We follow his life story as he is kidnapped and raised by the Indians, after a few years escaping from them only to return back again to witness the brutal death of his friends and loved ones from the hands of the American soldiers under the command of vicious and eccentric General George Armstrong Custer who finally has to pay for his inhuman deeds in the battle of the Little Big Horn that is shown in the end of the film and which might be considered as the natural consequence of the brutal tactics employed by the American troops in conquering the Indian territories, and finally represents a significant lightening of the karmic burden for them, achieved by the purificatory and relieving death in the fight with the Indians whose victory symbolize only a temporarily successful culmination of destined-not-to-last-long struggle.    Though in Jack Crabb's life story we basically revisit a number of very familiar for a Western genre fan fields, one of them being the battlefield of the Little Big Horn, the masterful way in which revisiting is done turn it into an unforgettable viewing experience during which you'll most certainly find yourself moved from laughing at the perfect comic moments of parody on some of the most used Western clichés to shedding tears when tragic happenings unveil on the screen, always remaining absorbed by it, mesmerized by the superb acting delivered by all of the actors involved and the film's visually vast beauty.  10/10  "},{"Title":"One of the best indian-western ever!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"29 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I love western, and Little Big Man is one of the best. Like many other westerns from those ages, it has aged well. It`s funny, dramatic, exciting and sad at once. Many don`t like the comedian element in this movie, but I think it`s great and it works well (Like Forrest Gump and Terms of Endearment, who also are great). Check it out, I sure didn`t regret!My rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Way the West Was (really) Won","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Before LBM indians were savages or wooden stereotypes and very unPC. After LBM broke the western mold films went the other way so that twenty years later you get the very PC and treacly mythologizing of Dances With Wolves. DWW other than the similar story is a poor comparison for LBM. Better to see it side by side with that other grand epic of the west, The Way the West Was Won. There the murder of the red man is incidental to the sweeping and righteous rapine of Manifest Destiny. LBM rips the facade from the theme and ravages its details. LBM does that to all the preceding westerns but it seems particularly true of HtWWW. Imagine Debbie Reynolds and Karl Malden as Mr. & Mrs. Pendrake and go from there. The self effacing humor goes a long way to redress the pretensions of 'epic westerns' made before and after.Wryly the Cheyenne say of the Little Big Horn, The Cheyenne won the battle. The Sioux got the glory and the Crow got the land. It's a game response for their long suffering.For me it's always been unfortunate the title character shares the name, Little Big Man with a Lakota Sioux famously implicated in the death of Crazy Horse, the  Ogalala warrior and mystic. ...so I call her Woman Who Doesn't Like Horses. Of course she's lying. "}{"Title":"classmates","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" My classmates and I saw this movie together. It is one of the funniest movies i've eve seen. Dustin Hoffman did great. It was so cool seeing him so young. Anyway, this movie shows all the things that have made America what it is. After this movie i have formed a new respect for Native Americans, and was General Custard that insane? Well i hope my comments have at least caught your interest in this movie.-LM- "},{"Title":"A magnificent film","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is one of those movies you have to see if you like great films.This is a long movie but it is so good you'll never want it to end.I rated this movie a 10 but only cause the scale doesn't go any higher.This is the story of Jack Crabb who begins the movie as a 121 year old man in a nursing home recounting his life.And what a life it was.He bounces back and forth in the Old west between the world of the white man and the world of the Native American.Crabb sees and does just about everything possible in both worlds.The joy and sadness and fun he has along the way makes for one helluva movie.Dustin Hoffman is brilliant in this film.It may be his best performance ever yet it is somehow overlooked when many people think of his movies.It is a tour de force for Hoffman who plays an Indian and gunslinger and drunkard and muleskinner and many other things in this movie. Chief Dan George is nothing short of amazing in this movie.But yet one critic said he wasn't acting,he was just an Indian playing an Indian.Bah! Richard Mulligan was so perfect as General George Custer in this movie that he is who I see whenever I hear the name of Custer mentioned.Faye Dunaway and Martin Balsam create memorable characters too.This movie makes one of the strongest statements I've ever seen about the treatment of the Native Americans yet you probably won't even realize it at the time.This is a movie that you'll replay in your head and then it hits you that there was even more there than met the eye.The humor,tragedy and lush characters will stay with you long after you see this movie.This movie is based on the fine book by Thomas Berger and is very faithful to it.I recommend the book wholeheartedly, too. "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This was a very good film, I think it was Hoffman's third hit film, and I can see why.  Hoffman plays a 121 year old man who narrates his life among the indians and wars.  It's a very good, and sometimes funny film, with great acting and scenery.  It does run a little long, but its still very good.  I would recommend it, especially if your interested in Native Americans.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Definitely a top 100 film of all time","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Not to long ago a  best 100 American movies of all time list was released. To my surprise there were a very small number films on that list did not belong on it. A much bigger surprise was as to why LBM was not on that list. I first saw it 30 years ago when I was 20 and I thought it was the greatest. I rarely see a movie a second time because most of the time I am disappointed when I do so. They don't age well. Not this one, it gets better with time. I have seen it over 25 times these past years and it still fascinates me. It has it all, pathos, wit, satire, comedy, sex, drama, irony, and horror. Basically, it deals with mans inhumanity to man, no matter on whose side you are on. It's one of those films that long after you've seen it, it really gets you to thinking about us as human beings and even wonder if we will ever get along. Great acting, great characters, great story, great script, and just a great tremendous movie! "},{"Title":"insanely overrated; a huge disappointment","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Everyone i've talked to about this film has said to me, Oh, it's just like the book. No, it is not! True, the gist of many of the scenes in the film resemble scenes in the novel, but only in the most rudimentary way. As cinematic as the book seems, it actually presents a major problem to any adaptor who wants to do anything like justice to it in a screen adaptation I would say over two-thirds of the entire book is narration, and most of its scenes, as cinematic as they may seem, are embedded in this narration, and while there is also a great deal of dialogue, these scenes are tempered by passages where key things that happen are rendered in print only through vague description in the narration, of the Oh, and then this happened sort - meaning that anyone who wanted to turn this book into a movie where there is any kind of successful narrative flow that does justice to the book's sustained vision and creativity would have to do a LOT of creative work filling in these gaps, turning Berger's intermittent vagueness into specific screen action that matches in tone the dialogue and action Berger has already supplied. It's the kind of problem one can only envision being solved satisfactorily by bringing in the author himself to do the adaptation. In this respect, the filmmakers have failed utterly - there is not one second of this film that is anywhere near as inspired or witty as anything in the book. As craftsmanship, the film is mediocre; the film looks like it was shot on a soundstage, and gives the viewer no feeling for nature or the absurd, crazy poetry of American Indian life that is so much a part of what makes the book so successful; Berger's superbly sophisticated and imaginative moral absurdism has been turned into crude, ugly, cheap, cartoonish left-wing caricature that resembles the work of Oliver Stone; and, aside from the one glorious exception of Chief Dan George, in his wonderful turn as Old Lodge Skins, the performances are gross, sloppy and impersonal, with Dustin Hoffman terribly miscast, his innocent, square, adenoidal man-child persona subtly but completely wrong for the sketchiness and semi-amoral pragmatism of Jack Crabb, a man who drifts between two opposed lifestyles, American and Indian, forming no loyalty with either &#x96; a character which would require a projection, not of guilt or corruption, but of simple adult knowledge, something Hoffman is incapable of. "},{"Title":"Lightly funny, wry, and with doses of American tragedy...an odd, long, decent film","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Little Big Man (1970)Well, this was destined to be a headliner--Arthur Penn directing (after Bonnie and Clyde) and Dustin Hoffman (after The Graduate and Midnight Cowboy). And it's a comedy in the wackiest way. Hoffman is a survivor from Little Big Horn (Custer's Last Stand) and this is an invented life up to that point, told from memory to man with a tape recorder at the age of 123.And the old (old!) Hoffman is pretty terrific, mostly in the narration, but including some pretty caked on make-up, too. Most of the movie is a young Hoffman as both Indian and White Man (alternating, depending on how he gets miraculously saved from one disaster after another). It's a farce, yes, but there are overtones of tragedy throughout (the annihilation of a race can only be so funny for so long) and there are some truly violent scenes, mostly of Indians being slaughtered by the Army.It might help to know this is a metaphor of sorts about the brutality of the Army in Vietnam, which was raging at the time. It does make it all less frivolous. But it's also just fine as a crazy retelling of the last great famous Indian War, and the events (more or less) leading up to it. Hoffman is terrific in his usual way, and the support around him funny, especially the old Indian Chief, played by Chief Dan George. The two other big stars appear only briefly, Faye Dunaway in a couple scenes, and Martin Balsam in one. It's really Hoffman's film, and Penn's, too, with a grand and complex range of scenes inside and out, night and day, city and wide open country.It didn't strike me as a brilliant film, or even as funny as it could have been, but it's endlessly engaging and there are some witty and funny moments sprinkled all through. It is long, and I might not call it slow even though it feels like it drags here and there, for sure. "},{"Title":"The best of all Dustin's man movies!!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  One of my top 10 favorite movies of all time!!  Chief Dan George's character is the greatest reason to see Little Big Man.  He adds a leavening factor that keeps the movie from rubbing our noses in the Native American plight, but yet still leaves enough sting to remind us of those proud people and what Western Civilation has done to them.Mulligan's nut case portrayal of the self-centered Custer is how I will always think of that general and his deserved end.The beautiful Sunshine almost turned LBM into a human being for good, but her horrid death turns Jack, and ostensibly us, into bitter enemies of the white man and his westward expansion.I both loved and hated this movie.  I recommend anyone to see it who is not afraid to learn how America was truly created. "},{"Title":"nprata by name, prat by nature","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I am astounded by the petty quibblings I have read about alleged historical 'inaccuracies' when the film was meant to be part satire. What was accurate was the slaughter of Native Americans (especially women and children ) on lands allocated to them in perpetuity by the government as part of legally binding treaties. This film is nearly 35 years old and has not dated one jot. 35 years old. Imagine. I watched it when I was 13 and before that, having been brought up on a diet of John Wayne and such like, I thought all 'Red Indians' were savages. But the film educated me and I did a lot of reading. Dee Brown's 'Bury my heart at Wounded Knee' says it all.  "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I love this film, and think it's a classic. More than just a western, more than history, it's an epic but it also has humour, which epics rarely have. Beautifully directed, amazingly acted (Dustin Hoffmans best work, I think) and shot with panache, this movie deserves to come out again on the big screen. If you see it, do the widescreen thing and treat yourself. I cannot say enough about this movie, it's politics and grace. My whole family loved it.       "},{"Title":"My favorite movie.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The story of Jack Crabb, last of the old timers is the funniest, most moving, and enlightening history lessons you'll ever experience. This is a beautiful, sometimes tragic story of the west as told by Little Big Man, who managed to see some of the most important moments in America's history, most notably Custer's Last Stand. Dustin Hoffman gives his best performance. Chief Dan George as his grandfather will make you cry. And Richard Mulligan pulls off an incredible performance as General Custer.The book is often taught in High School; I hope teachers also show the film because it is a rare example of a movie doing a classic justice. "}{"Title":"Remarkable movie then and still.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"27 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  A movie set along a historical period that was made before it's time. I consider it a western that has not been equalled since it's release. Though some historical characters in this movie are flavored with outlandish license it excels in invoking a range of emotions. From happy, sad and disbelief to a silent resignation that it may have generally touched events closer than most would want to acknowledge. "},{"Title":"A challenging film that's entertaining and powerful","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I can see why some folks won't like this film it has a tone that is incredibly uneven, at different times diving deeply into very funny comedy and utterly tragic drama; it has an utterly unforgiving sense of violence and death; it doesn't pull any punches with the concept of the destruction of the Native Americans by the white man; and it's exceptionally long. If someone doesn't engage with the material on a strong level, they're going to feel every second dragging on them. Yet at two and a half hours, I found myself wanting a little more of the character's story, no matter how mundane or even more tragic it would become.Dustin Hoffman - even while donning heavy makeup, red-face, and a settler's accent - is incredibly engaging and mastering his craft with the zeal of a man knowing his own limits and stepping directly to them without hesitation. He embodies the comedy aspects with ease, yet never fully letting up of the layered nuance of the character within. And he's not alone, the majority of roles both big and small don't let the audience down, the director and the casting work on this film deliver a very complete story.The film's story is itself an interesting one, an aged man telling very personal tales of growing up on the frontier under incredibly challenging and varied circumstances, some of them historically famous. The character of Jack Crabb is a bit passive at times, observing the mania of the frontier from the perspective of both sides, having been born a white man but raised during puberty as a Cheyenne, then ping-ponging back and forth over and over between those worlds. Jack Crabb, also known as Little Big Man, eventually comes to witness and suffer at the hands of George Custer, which becomes a greater and greater focus as the film shifts more of its focus from comedic to dramatic. Yet there's also a sense of letting go in this man's life, he has seen great and terrible things, he has had hope and hate, but he continues on. How he gets from the end of the story to his place at 121 years old is not told though, and that I would have liked to have seen at least a little of how he got from that life to the modern one, and what toll that took watching as the worlds he came from changed drastically around him. It might be easy to view Crabb's tale as a yarn spun by an old man wanting attention, there are elements lightly suggesting that possibility, yet Hoffman's acting tells a silent tale that maybe it's all real, and that right there is movie magic.Little Big Man isn't a movie that has only one character though, so throughout the story we meet characters once, twice, or many more times that all have their own story arcs, their own personalities -- some are for laughs, some are considerably more nuanced, and some are downright tragic. The film is rich with characters and consequences and flaws. Choosing to tell a story of the white man and the native man's interactions from a perspective that only very recently has become accepted is a strong choice and one that not every audience member can probably accept even today.The movie also sounds and looks great, shot on location in a wide format and filling each shot without overstuffing it. I'd like to say more, but the truth is that the production felt so right that it did its job perfectly - it told the story without being distracting. I also applaud the choice to have the Native American characters speak in their tongue but we hear English, this is after all a tale being told, not a cinematic attempt at an authentic recreation of Cheyenne life, otherwise half the film would be in another language and it just wouldn't have worked as well. This truly is a film of the '70s, having one foot in the cinematic movie-making of the past and the brutal honesty of that present.So while I think this movie was fantastic, I suppose I cannot recommend Little Big Man to everybody. It is a very good film and yet it will be a challenging film for some; it doesn't ask a lot of its audience but not every audience will be able to embrace the material. There are a lot of great performances including and beyond Dustin Hoffman, and production is rock solid, yet it doesn't quite fit in the world of comedy or drama, and Little Big Man runs too long for the impatient. But the rewards for those who find this film are significant. "},{"Title":"Well, sometimes the magic works, sometimes it doesn't.","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" One of the great films of the early Seventies, one I saw when it first came out and a number of times since. I remember how horrified I was to see the massacre at Washita Creek the first time; one hears of events like that or reads about them, but actually watching an event like that the way it might have happened had a lasting impact on me. Another film of the era that also dramatized the sheer horror of men at war and senseless killing was Patton, which also came out the same year as Little Big Man. These were among the first films I saw that de-sanitized the inhumane aspects of war and genocide and showed them for what they were, truly brutal and insane sides of the human condition.There's another holdover as well; I've used my summary line above quite often over the years, and had forgotten the origin of it until watching the film again yesterday. Chief Dan George was simply magnificent in the picture, he conveyed the Indian philosophy perfectly in scene after scene and is probably my favorite Native American actor. I'm always intrigued by Indian names, and along with Old Lodge Skins, my favorites from this story include Shadow That Comes in Sight (Ruben Moreno) and Burns Red in the Sun (Steve Shemayne). The one very unique idea presented in this picture had to do with the notion of a homosexual Indian as portrayed by the character Little Horse (Robert Little Star). I'm sure I would never have given that a thought after watching hundreds of Westerns, it just never came up before. The other trait that I'd never encountered was the idea of a 'Contrary', the Cheyenne Younger Bear (Cal Bellini) who did everything backwards, sort of the Bizarro version of the Red Man. This was one Western that made you think outside the stereotypes.Now I have to admit, some of the scenes done for comedic effect seemed to go way against the grain of the movie as a historical drama. Perhaps most representative of that was Jack Crabb's 'Soda-Pop Kid' characterization. In fact, Jack's life went through so many highs and lows that it's almost impossible to imagine that all of it could have happened to one person in a single lifetime. Given a choice, I think mine would be getting my back washed by Faye Dunaway. You know, by some strange cosmic serendipity, another 1970 Western featured a similar scene. In The Ballad of Cable Hogue, the roles are reversed and Jason Robards gets to wash the back of Stella Stevens in what must have been an extreme exercise of sheer will power. I wonder which film maker thought of it first.You know, I've seen a few treatments of Custer's Last Stand, and read with interest some of the other postings for this film regarding General George Armstrong Custer. Some were heated in their denunciation of Richard Mulligan's portrayal, but from what I've read about Custer, he was fairly ego-centric to the point of being megalomaniacal. I thought Mulligan brought the kind of audacity to the role that Emilio Estevez brought to his portrayal of Billy the Kid in Young Guns. He oozed a supreme self confidence that totally fogged his judgment leading to one of the great military disasters of American History. Along with 'Sometimes the magic works', Custer's 'poison up from the goo-nads speech' is one of the most memorable scenes in the picture for me.It would be tough to come up with another movie that raises so many conflicting emotions in the viewer, and I think that's a particular skill of a good director. Arthur Penn did a superb job of blending dramatic and comedic elements together in a story that's as thought provoking as it is entertaining. I'd recommend Little Big Man to anyone who would like a different kind of movie, one that takes the stereotypes and stands them on their head in support of an intriguing and downright offbeat Western. "},{"Title":"He is little in body, but his heart is big","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" If you've ever felt that American-Westerns always took themselves a bit too seriously, then 'Little Big Man (1970)' serves as a breath of fresh air. Arthur Penn's sweeping Revisionist Western tells an outrageously-entertaining tall-tale of Cheyenne Indians and white men, Old Lodge Skins and Gen. Custer, the Battle of Washita River and the Battle of the Little Bighorn. Dustin Hoffman, once again proving his versatility after legendary performances in 'The Graduate (1967)' and 'Midnight Cowboy (1969),' plays the 121-year-old Jack Crabb, who recounts his fanciful life story to a gullible historian. 'Little Big Man,' despite being set in the late 19th century, is very much of its time the clever mixture of satire, comedy and tragedy is something that only the 1970s could have produced, and there is a not-so-subtle allusion to the Vietnam War, which was being fought at the time of the film's release the film's depiction of the Battle of Washita River &#150; which, in actually, more closely resembles the Sand Creek Massacre of 1864 &#150; is a clear allegory for Vietnam's infamous My Lai Massacre.It's often been observed that the narrative style of 'Little Big Man' is comparable to that of 'Forrest Gump (1994),' and this is a fair assessment the two films share episodic storytelling told through recollection, unexpectedly-reoccurring minor characters, meetings with famous historical figures and a humble hero quietly shaping the course of history. 'Forrest Gump' being one of my all-time favourite movies, these similarities certainly didn't go unnoticed, and it's interesting to consider where director Robert Zemeckis might have acquired some of his inspiration. With Jack Crabb's enthusiastic narration, all the components of the film combine to produce a glorious mosaic of his life. We experience his highs and lows, his triumphs and defeats, his friendships and antagonisms; his lifestyle is never the same for any extended period of time, and this, coupled with the film's quirky sense of humour, keeps the film moving at a roaring pace.I really enjoyed how Arthur Penn successfully twisted the usual conventions of Western cinema, approaching serious subject matter with a mischievously tongue-in-cheek mentality not long after Jack vows to fight bravely for the Cheyenne Indians, he finds himself exclaiming God bless George Washington! at the first sign of danger; Jack's enthusiastic bid to become a gunfighter fall flat when he discovers he hasn't the heart to actually kill a man; Gen. Custer is revealed to be a cocky, arrogant fool who blunders his own army into disaster; Jack's blind mentor, believing himself to be invisible, leads him through a horrific massacre scene, arriving at the river completely untouched. In any other film, Old Lodge Skins (played with astonishing warmth by Chief Dan George) would have died on top of the hillside. Instead, Penn knowingly goes through the usual motions, culminating towards a devastating climax that never arrives. It starts to rain, and Old Lodge Skins rises disappointedly to his feet, declaring Well, sometimes the magic works, sometimes it does not. "},{"Title":"Sprawling, Uneven, But Quite Remarkable","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Little Big Man is highly uneven, but always fascinating.Arthur Penn directed this picaresque tall tale about a man (played by Dustin Hoffman) who experiences first-hand much of America's ugly history in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Narrated by the man years after the principal events of the film have occurred, the film is episodic in structure, and like many episodic films, some sections just work better than others. The tone of the film is all over the place, some of it quite dark and sombre, some of it jokey and slapstick, all of it very critical about America's treatment of the Native Americans. But Hoffman's strong performance holds the film together, and the movie should be held in much higher esteem than it is. As it is, it's one of the more forgotten films from the early 1970s.Faye Dunaway appears in a comic role as a woman who comes to Hoffman's aid, and Chief Dan George, Academy Award nominated, delivers the film's second strongest performance as mentor and father figure to Hoffman.Grade A "},{"Title":"LITTLE BIG MAN (Arthur Penn, 1970) ***1/2","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Having first watched this in my childhood, my belated re-acquaintance with it didn't perhaps live up to expectations, but it's an undeniably impressive film nonetheless.Apart from a couple of sober sequences of Indians being massacred by General Custer and his men, the film pretty much treats the Old West in a humorous way - trashing many a myth in the process! The Indians refer to themselves as the Human Beings, and it's clear where Penn's sympathies lie; as a matter of fact, Chief Dan George was nominated for the Best Supporting Actor Oscar (and deservedly so) for his wonderful characterization of the old Indian sage who takes Dustin Hoffman under his wing.The 'white' cast is impeccable as well, however - Hoffman (who gets to age to a 121!) and Faye Dunaway are in top form, but it's the character actors who really shine Martin Balsam as the quack medicine salesman (who loses a limb every time he appears!), Jeff Corey as Wild Bill Hickock, and especially Richard Mulligan as a lunatic's idea(!) of Custer. There were other films prior to this one which had dealt with the General's life - Raoul Walsh's THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON (1941), with Errol Flynn, and Robert Siodmak's CUSTER OF THE WEST (1968), with Robert Shaw - but, needless to say, their viewpoint had been far more traditional (and glamorous)! For another idiosyncratic look at Custer, look no further than the typical Marco Ferreri oddity that is DON'T TOUCH THE WHITE WOMAN! (1974) in which Custer is played by, of all people, Marcello Mastroianni! Still, to get back to LITTLE BIG MAN, the 'realistic' widescreen cinematography and a simple yet evocative score emerge as equally vital elements in the cementing of Penn's vision on the screen.The film arrived when the genre was already on a downward spiral, following the Spaghetti Western boom which flooded - and, in the process, gradually eradicated - the market. For this reason, most examples from the U.S. during this period were less nostalgic and opted to show the Old West, more or less, as it really was (these were eventually dubbed Revisionist). By doing so, they were subtly commenting on the precarious state of modern America for instance, the Indian massacre here (a similar one was depicted in Ralph Nelson's excessively violent SOLDIER BLUE 1970) was a direct reference to the 1968 My Lai incident which occurred during the Vietnam War! My viewing of LITTLE BIG MAN will, hopefully, result in my finally catching up with Robert Altman's equally unconventional BUFFALO BILL AND THE INDIANS, OR SITTING BULL'S HISTORY LESSON (1976) - which I've had, taped off Italian TV, for an uncommonly long time now! "},{"Title":"Classic film finally appears on DVD","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Slow paced? Clearly this comment came from somebody with Attention Deficit Disorder or someone raised on MTV. Actually quite a bit happens to this classic satircal western. The writing, direction and acting are marvelous. The transfer to DVD beautiful. It lacks extras which is a pity as (of this writing)Arthur Penn is still around to the best of my knowledge. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 53","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" 53. LITTLE BIG MAN (western, 1970) From his Hospital bedside 121-year old Jack Crabb (Dustin Hoffman) recounts his exploits to a reporter Captured by Cheyenne Indians at the age of 10 he's integrated into their 'alien' society and made the son of Indian 'Old Lodge Skies' (Chief Dan George). Proving his courage despite his short stature he's given the name of 'Little Big Man'. During the Indian Wars Jack is returned to white society. There he works as a shopkeeper, gunfighter, and finally used as an Indian Scout. The latter landing him under the command of General Custer (Richard Mulligan), who's putting together an army to fight the Indians at Little Big Horn.Critique Extremely enjoyable, epic western directed by Arthur Penn. Praised for its depiction of Native Americans, it has biting satirical (and political) touches, saddled with farcical historical accounts of the Indian Wars. The once controversial aspects were meant to represent the ideologies of the time, but it has not lost any of its grit. What I like the most is its unique interpretation of Indians. Never in the long cycles of American westerns were Indians presented as almost alien, coming across as a mythical people whose ignorance of political maneuvers and technology proved their downfall. A very bitter and sad farewell swansong to what war and genocide has taken away. Atypical cast delivers strong passages but you won't forget the 2-standout roles of General Custer as portrayed by the maniacal Richard Mulligan and 'Old Lodge Skies' played by the philosophical Chief Dan George. QUOTES Old Lodge Skies There is an endless supply of white men. But there has always been a limited number of 'human beings'. We won today, we won't win tomorrow. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  It was funny, sad, and action-filled.  I only have one problem with it, that being they should've talked about his life even after Little Big Horn a lot more.  I realize this is fiction, but there were other things they could've included, and followed his entire life. Sure, it may've been longer, but I personally would be willing to watch it all.  There are some movies that don't deserve to be as long as they are. This movie deserves to be longer. "},{"Title":"What a pleasant surprise...","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  One night while channel flipping, I thought I saw a familiar face but too young to be recognized without a second look.  I double check my vision and was convinced that the young boy in the movie was Dustin Hoffman prehaps in his early twenties or late teens.  I saw him at the Academy Awards (98) this year and his complexion has changed a bit given the thirty years difference. From Little Big Man to Rain Man, Hoffman will be forever be immortalized as a Hollywood legend.  Little Big Man is an exceptionally well done movie (the cast, the direction, and the great acting of Hoffman, chief Dan, and of course the sexy Faye).  This is more than a movie, it was an adventure of a lifetime.  You are pitched into his world and feel his every joy and every agony as he progresses through every stages of his life.  Some say cats have nine lives but I think Little Big Man must have at least a hundred.  This movie centers around the hostilities between the White Men and the Indians with climatic event The Last Stand.  Without giving away the movie, I must say the line Run Sunshine run!!  Run!! captivated my soul.  The movie is like a good book you just can't put it down.  I recommend this movie to everyone. "}{"Title":"More than just a Western!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" One of the most beautifully filmed movies ever. Arthur Penn's Little Big Man is a lesson in man's inhumanity to man, mixing historical events and characters with fictional ones.I first saw this film in Junior High School, about 1978 and we actually watched it during history class over three days. It was a 16 mm print shown on the classic Bell and Howell school projector.I was moved from the beginning to the end. It is indeed a western, and yet that's not all there is to this story. If people dismiss this movie as 'just another western', they are missing out on one of the finest films ever made.I applaud the use of REAL Native American actors in little Big Man. There were so many Hollywood films and TV shows with Native Americans often portrayed by white actors of Jewish, Italian and German heritage.The US. Government soldiers were murderers and are often portrayed as buffoons. Rightly so. The policies of the U.S. government were so twisted, sick and murderous, I hate to say it, but Custer and his gang deserved what they got at Little Big Horn. What stupidity. Custer is played as a clueless power hungry madman by the wonderful comic character actor, Richard Mulligan.The use of the 'gay' Indian was genius. The Native Americans accept people of 'two spirits'. They are looked upon as valued members of the tribal family, not shunned and disowned for who they are.The Native Americans were here first, and we stole their land and broke every treaty we ever made with them. The white man gave them alcohol which turned many into horrible alcoholics. That condition affects many natives on the reservations to this day. Depression, Poverty, Hopelessness. Having your land taken from you at gunpoint, and your people slaughtered. We'd be depressed, too if they had done it to us! I highly recommend this film as a historical western/comedy/tragedy.Don't dismiss it. It's worth seeing. And owning. "},{"Title":"A transcendental movie","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This miraculous movie transformed me into a human being. It is meta-fictional- or more plainly- a story behind the story. This movie simply gave me the eyes to see the world in a new way. It is a courageous work of art. It was my first introduction to the great gift of theater-the art of changing a person through insight into a different reality, using the simple and honorable art called acting. It also gave me the first introduction into the fine acting capacity of Dustin Hoffman. I love every inch of this movie. This is a movie which revels in irony, being the story of a man who travels between white and Indian worlds rather fluidly. It is playful and beautiful. It is the tale of impossibility which is our United States. A character like Jack Crabbe is impossible and yet fictionally true. This is the phenomenal beauty of this lovable and bitter tale of the Indian experience in a white world. All I can say is ya ta hey, as it is said in Navajo. I get the glottal stops wrong in 'ya 'ta hey, because I'm white. The Jews say L'Chaim. Same difference. i think IMDb changed my review-yet again-nov 9 2007 "},{"Title":"OK now what about Soldier Blue?","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  So finally Little big man is released on DVD, great news, it ranked as one of my favorite realism westerns along with Cullpepper cattle company, Pat Garret and Billy the Kid (Peckinpah) and of course The ultimate ballad of the West 'The Wild Bunch', but a movie that made a lasting impression on me was Soldier Blue.  Very underated, excellent acting from all, costumes, sets, all brilliant, but banned in the USA........?  Come on guys, time to wake up, smell the roses and get this great American Movie released in its true uncut form on DVD.  Ok so it may upset a few of you to see what people are truly capable of.  The Brits are nailed at every opportunity on film, The Patriot, Braveheart, Rob Roy, Joan of Arc to name but a few.  Little Big Man explored and dashed some of the Myths of the US Cavalry and the Icon that was Custer.  Surely its about time to lift the ban on Soldier Blue, made in the same year as Little Big Man and exploring similar themes? "},{"Title":"My first contact with the first nations","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I was 15 years old when I saw LITTLE BIG MAN for the first time.  It was a revelation.  Suddenly, the  white man began to be the bads...and an Indian dead wasn't a dead one.  Also, I hear for the first time about a  new philosophy.  More, they make it with a good comedy, instead it's a drama. The father of Little Big Man was terrific in his play. (Sorry, but English isn't my first language...) "},{"Title":"A standard that the entire film industry should strive for","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Great story telling! First and foremost this is a great story. It is entertaining. It's educational. There's great acting, great direction, realistic sets, wonderful cinematography and creative editing.It runs you through an amazing gamut of emotions. In the course of one's life, most movies are really pretty much a waste of time, but it really would be a loss to miss this one. "},{"Title":"Sometimes, the grass ain't green and the sky ain't blue...","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Long before FORREST GUMP, there was LITTLE BIG MAN. Jack Crabb rubbed shoulders with some of the Wild West's most famous (and infamous) characters. Dustin Hoffman, as Crabb, is at his very best here. It helps that the movie is also beautifully written and directed. At once dramatic and funny and poignant, LITTLE BIG MAN is one of those rare movies you want all of your best friends to see. Do them (and yourself) a favor and track down a copy the only one who'll be disappointed is that guy who just doesn't like anything... "},{"Title":"THIS IS NOT HISTORY PEOPLE","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I wish some of the other reviewers of this movie would read the book before commenting on the historical aspect of this film. Berger sets out to demythologize the Old West, and does--much the same as the film. Before we discuss delicate, beautiful people, lets get real about our history, and not a work of fiction. While European American settlers may not have been saints, NEITHER WERE NATIVE AMERICANS. Both sides were brutal--Old Lodge skins even says (in the book) Live not as whites or Indians, but as people.If a mere movie can taint a person's perception of a quietly affecting landmark like the Little Big Horn, I have to question the depth of the observer. "},{"Title":"A Far Superior Film To Dances With Wolves","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This masterpiece of Arthur Penn (who also did Bonnie and Clyde) is a far superior film to Dances With Wolves but probably a lot less known.There are several truly heartbreaking scenes in this film that made me almost completely break down. *Spoilers ahead!* One is is the reservation slaughter sequence. And another is the ending in which the Chief was awaiting his death but it didn't come; pretty soon his kind would die since it would be nearly wiped out.I personally don't know why this film wasn't more popular especially after Dances With Wolves was released. Also, there doesn't seem to be much talk among modern critics (it was rarely reviewed in Rottentomatoes.com or rarely talked about in IMDb's messages.) This is one of the greatest films of the 70s that should get the attention it deserves.  "},{"Title":"Indians are still a delicate subject...","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I have a short comment to make about this amazing masterpiece why is it that most people give it an 8 leading to a 7.7??I cannot see any major flaw that would deserve such treatment. Thus the only explication that pops to mind is that Indians and their treatment in US history is still seen as a delicate subject by most US IMDB voters...This movie is a sheer masterpiece and deserves nothing less than a 8.5+ rating!My personal rating is obviously 10. "},{"Title":"Greasy Grass","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I am working my recent Ohio State B.A. in American History Degree into this movie Battle of Greasy Grass is the Native American name for the Battle of Little Big Horn. It is now 2015. I never watched this movie before.I majored in History at OSU because I love history of movies, theatre, actors and actresses. In my History Degree, I have further studied their lives against historical events such as wars, depressions, etc. At Ohio State, I have studied Native American History, Civil War History, Western History, etc. Custer was a miscalculating, inept army officer busted down from General to Lieutenant Colonel. As is shown by Errol Flynn in They Died With their Boots On, Custer was a flamboyant God's Gift to Women. The Plains Indians (Cheyenne, Pawnee, etc.) were a unit I studied, including Custer's Little Big Horn.Custer and U.S. Grant were both West Point graduates; Custer was last in his class. Was he that stupid? In this film, he wears a bright red scarf and yellow suit in the final battle, saying to the Native Americans, Here I am. Come and get me. At any rate, Grant was president, and jealous Custer wasn't. Grant died from throat cancer, but Custer was cut down on the battlefield.U.S. Grant I wrote a biographical paper on him. He was no more alcoholic than other 19th century men, who drank more alcohol because it was purer than drinking water. His childhood hobby was raising horses. As a West Point cadet, he met his wife, Julia Dent Grant, his roommate's sister. He became a Civil War general and later U.S. President. When Grant was terminally ill with throat cancer, he wrote his autobiography to give Julia an income after his demise. Mark Twain had it published posthumously, giving Julia a substantial royalty check.American West After the Civil War, army generals were posted to the western frontier. Custer had even fought at Gettysburg. It was thought that God wanted Americans to expand west to the Pacific Ocean.So here comes naïve young man Jack Crabb (fictional) into this melee of Cheyenne, Pawnee, settlers, army adventurers, gamblers, gunslingers, snakeoil salesmen, prostitutes. Jack is a sly dog. Did he really have five wives, four at once? Jack meets new Mrs. Robinson Faye Dunaway. A gay Native American man wants to be Jack's Wife Number Six.This is a very funny movie, powerful and philosophical. History courses are now taught from Native American point of view. Little Big Horn was disastrous for the army, with Custer's reputation suffering.Historical fact At Little Big Horn, many tribes gathered for their ginormous annual Sun Dance religious ceremony. They were still warriors. They knew Custer was coming. Custer figured they would be a small number, and he would slaughter them all. Thousands of Natives were at the Sun Dance, and they cleaned Custer's clock. They were very organized and calculating. Custer did not live to savor any victory. "}{"Title":"Hoffman brilliant in unique western mix","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" 121 year old Jack Crabb (Dustin Hoffman) recounts his life in the old west. He claims to be the sole white survivor of Little Bighorn. He and his older sister Caroline are the sole survivors of Pawnee. They are taken in by the Cheyenne. Caroline escapes but Jack is adopted. He is captured by US troopers, apprentice with a snake-oil salesman, becomes a gunslinger after reuniting with Caroline, meets Wild Bill Hickok, marries and bankrupted store, follows Custer, reunite with the Cheyenne and then tricks Custer into Little Bighorn.This is part tall-tales, part satire, part historical reimagining and more accurate than most old western. It is smart and funny. It takes sharp jabs at the old image of Indians. Dustin Hoffman is brilliant in this new world western epic. It does take random turns which is part of its charm. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but uneven","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I've probably seen this at least 6 times since it came out some 40 years ago, so obviously I enjoy it. But LBM is all over the map, sometimes it's satire, sometimes tragic, has quite a bit of silliness and at other times is quite violent. I think it is way too long, at least .30 minutes could have been edited without affecting the story line as we follow Jack Crabb and his various lives as an Indian brave, religious zealot, gunfighter, town drunk, medicine show con man, hermit, cavalry scout, etc.The best part of this was Chief Dan George as the Cherokee chief. He is superb as he plays his character with the perfect blend of sly humor and enough seriousness that doesn't make him a cartoon caricature as most of the cast of LBM are portrayed. "},{"Title":"The revelation of what life should be, as told by the human beings.","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" The American Indian, Native American, predecessors living here before the arrival of the Europeans, whatever name is acceptable by those who had already discovered where they were rather than those who simply renamed what was already there. This is a sensitive salute to the people of the land, spiritual in their own natural way, that may not have needed Christians from Europe to tell them how to live their lives and worship. To these human beings, the white man is a dangerous fool, yet they are not above showing those truly interested in how their traditions had shaped their lives long before they were basically decimated by the military moving their way into territory already taken through nature, not through a paper deed.For Jack Crabb, the 110 year old survivor of Custer's Last Stand, he means to tell the truth about his findings, having been brought up by the Cheyennes after all but him and his sister were massacred by the Pawnees. Dustin Hoffman essays this part with sensitivity and grace, convincingly aging from teen to octogenarian, tells his story to the seemingly exploitive reporter, played by a younger, but very recognizable William Hickey. Jack was basically raised by the Cheyennes until captured by the military and turned over to a minister and his much younger wife (Faye Dunaway, looking striking here), then ending up with a traveling medicine salesman (Martin Balsam) before heading back to see the people who raised him, especially the wonderful adoptive grandfather, played warmly by Chief Dan George in a well-deserved Oscar Nominated performance.You can see why the natives referred to the Caucasians the way they do, and over a century later, you may want to shake your head at the evil that many white men do in the name of conquest, power and greed. This is a film to make you really think of where our world has gone in just a short period of time since our ancestors separated from England and took over what is now known as North America. The lives of the Cheyennes are a noble one, from the adoptive brother who resents Hoffman for having saved his life and owes him a life, after which he feels he can freely kill Hoffman without being considered evil, to the sweet and honored homosexual native who stayed at home with the women yet was never shamed for it by the warriors in his tribe.There's also the various women in Hoffman's life, from his very masculine sister (who seems to long to be ravished by a man, any man), his Swedish wife who ends up being kidnapped by Indians in a raid on their stagecoach (and ends up in the most ironic of places), and Ms. Dunaway, teaching Hoffman the values of chastity yet not quite following that rule herself. Then, there's the single or widowed young Cheyenne women who all openly lust for Hoffman in their quest to become mothers, and this leads to the battle lead by George Armstrong Custer (played by the usually comic Richard Mulligan in a way that will totally surprise you) where everything comes together that changes the destiny of history for the natives given land by the government but suddenly forced to fight to keep it.Sometimes, the film seems like it was edited in a way that cut out several key scenes, probably deemed necessary at the time by its extreme over-length. Even at almost 2 1/2 hours, it never seems to drag, unlike the similar Dances With Wolves which flowed from situation to situation and always seemed to be concluding before heading into a new area of its story. The wonderful Jeff Corey has a nice small role as Wild Bill Hickcock, and like Dunaway, Balsam and Mulligan, you always hope they will turn up in later scenes to further spice things up for the wonderfully hero essayed excellently by Hoffman who even here as a young actor shows the chops of a veteran. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie...Not True to History or the Book, but Still Great Stuff","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" If, by chance you have not read the book, read the book after you see the movie. The book is thick and full of well researched history, and it takes the reader on a journey through time through the eyes of the fictitious Jack Crabb. See also too, The Return of Little Big Man, which picks up where the first story leaves off. Seeing the movie first will set the scenes and the characters in your mind.Even though the movie had to shorten the story out of necessity for time, it is a great story. Some of the historical sequencing is out of sequence (for example, Wild Bill was actually shot in August of 1876, after the Battle of the Little Big Horn). The characters are all great, especially Custer. Though I am sure that Richard Mulligan's crazy, comic Custer is a world away from the true Custer, it is a wonderful performance. This movie, though it has its humorous moments, is really about the history of the 1800's and the savagery and white man as the conqueror of the West beliefs that were a part of that history.The book is better than the movie, but the movie is great. "},{"Title":"Pacifist Jack, caught between warring Cheyenne and US cavalry, survives multiple disasters and massacres.","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Strange as it may seem, I was impressed with how similar the basic plot construction is to that of the well-regarded '41 film Sullivan's Travels, which has nothing to do with Native Americans nor genocide. What they have in common is the main character(Jack, in the present case) plunged into an alien culture, then several times going back and forth between these cultures. For a time, they seem a lost soul, unsure of their identity as a member of one or the other culture. They also have the commonality of ironic coincidences as a recurring determinant of their drifting lives. There are, of course, some major differences in the character of the film. Clearly, the unexpected reappearance of numerous characters in Jack's life is a central theme of this film, which may well, as one reviewer suggested, symbolize the Native American's view of the universe as an endless series of recurring cycles.Some reviewers make the extravagant claim that this is the first film to clearly portray Plains 'Indians' as relatively desirable people, if not without some foibles. In contrast, their European conquerors were, on the whole, a crazy, greedy, arrogant, hypocritical bunch. But there were previous well known films that presented western 'Indians' as 'good guys', including the John Ford films Fort Apache and, most relevantly, Cheyenne Autumn,released 7 years earlier. The latter two dealt with conflict between the Cheyenne and US cavalry, in which the cavalry, along with most European settlers, were presented as 'the bad guys'. Of course, Soldier Blue, also released in 1970, was another presumably Vietnam War-inspired take on the massacre of Cheyenne by US cavalry. In some respects, it more resembled Cheyenne Autumn, while in other respects, it more resembled the present film. The '51 Across the Wide Missouri also presented an intimate portrait of Plains 'Indians'. Like Old Lodge Skins(OLS), Chief Bear Ghost in that film had had his fill of deaths from warfare, and was resigned to accept the fate of his people as eventual wards of a country governed by Europeans.One of the striking ironies is that OLS and Jack, who have suicidal thoughts at times later in the film, are the only ones spared in Custer's second annihilation of a Cheyenne village. OLS's belief that he can make himself invisible, in plain sight to the cavalry, appears to work. However, his later belief that magic can also make him die when he wants doesn't work. Both he, perhaps as a symbol of 'Indians' in general, and Jack will presumably live to see the Plains 'Indians' subdued, but not quite exterminated, forced onto reservations lacking their vital bison. Thus, OLS recognizes that the Indian's victory at Little Big Horn is their Pearl Harbor equivalent. Like the later Japanese, he knew that they were ultimately doomed in their struggle with the US military. Incidentally, I doubt it mere coincidence that Jack's Cheyenne name means Little Big Man, and that he is the only apparent survivor of the 7th cavalry massacre at Little Big Horn.I haven't seen any comments on a possible relationship between Younger Bear's seemingly irrelevant period of of being an obsessive contrary(doing the opposite of every normal thing), and Custer's later assumption that Jack, as his mistrusted scout, will advise him the opposite of what is favorable in relation to the 'Indians' at Little Big Horn. As a result, Custer is wildly overoptimistic in his assessment of his chances against the 'Indians'. But, instead of blaming himself for mistrusting Jack's information, he wants to shoot Jack. Custer, as well as Bill Hickok, can be interpreted as representing the bullying, overconfident, trigger-happy US military in the Vietnam War, as well as the 'Indian' wars.The presentation of European vs. Cheyenne women in Jack's life is perhaps the most unbalanced aspect of the film. The European women are all extreme types. His older sister Caroline is presented as rather mannish, the Cheyenne first assuming her to be a man, and not interested in having sex with her after discovering their mistake. Later, she reemerges in Jack's life as the leader of a vigilante group out to do justice to Jack and his quack medicine business partner. Later, she appears to attempt an incestuous relationship with Jack, before teaching him to be the best gunslinger in the West. But she can't change Jack's effeminate pacifist personality, thus eventually deserts him.Meanwhile, Jack comes under the influence of hypocritical, adulterous, nymphomaniac Louise, totally miscast as the wife of a bible-thumping 'Indian'-hating preacher, later to reappear to Jack as a widowed prostitute. Then, there is Olga, his rather stupid Scandinavian wife for a short while, before stolen by Cheyenne, to become the shrewish wife of Younger Bear. In contrast, his 4 Cheyenne widowed sister wives are presented as good women. Unfortunately, all were soon massacred, perhaps also symbolizing the infamous recent My Lai massacre in Vietnam. "},{"Title":"Beyond 'Cowboys & Indians'","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is a film that only seems greater the more times I see it.To those who've seen it and loved it, I strongly suggest picking up Thomas Berger's book, upon which the film was based. As you'd expect, the book is superior. It's able to go into much more detail, and thereby provide a much stronger satirical dimension. Berger was in fact mocking both Native American and European-American outlooks, showing how each side was superior in some ways, laughably inferior in others.To those few 19th Century throwbacks who feel this film is somehow 'propaganda' against the White Man, I suggest picking up a good book of American history. You'll discover that, if anything, this film glosses over the genocidal butchery and repeated betrayals of trust that were perpetrated against the Native Americans.To be sure, none of us living today bears the guilt of those times - we have our own atrocities to apologize for. Nor can we judge the people of those times by our own standards. Europeans believed implicitly that the natives were racially inferior, and therefore didn't see their extermination as murder. In the novel, this is more obvious - Berger tries to show us the White Man through Red Man's eyes... and vice versa. He's not passing judgment, but seeking understanding.The film has less ability to delve into these subtleties, but is superb in its own right - a true epic, that holds up both visually and dramatically. And which is anchored by a truly brilliant performance by Dustin Hoffman. It's a very different kind of 'western,' which showed that the genre could remain both relevant and entertaining while shedding it's childish 'cowboys and Indians' roots. "},{"Title":"How the West Was Lost","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" 'Taming the wilderness.' I don't know where this phrase originated, but the concept itself has its roots in classic Enlightenment thinking. (I'm referring to the 18th century Enlightenment; not that we've had that many). To a revisionist who may believe that the American Indians for example, had their land stolen from them, the phrase might be better put as 'interfering with the wilderness'; maybe 'tampering' or even 'destroying' the wilderness. The great Age of Discovery which they never taught us in school 40 years ago was this the white man discovered he was not alone in the world. Other races existed who did not share his belief in private property and the Christian religion. The white man made the mistake of attempting to convert these foreign people who lived in their foreign lands to the white man's way of thinking and as 'Little Big Man' points out, this was an extremely foolish thing to do. Directed with a wonderful command and authority by Arthur Penn, 'Little Big Man' could be construed as a scathing indictment against weighty subjects such as empire building. It does, for example, illustrate the madness which results from a colonial mentality. But mainly the film concerns itself with the shoddy treatment of indigenous people once they are exposed to the white man's supposedly superior civilisation. This film had a profound effect on me when I saw it as a youngster, I think for a perfectly straightforward reason. It is entertaining, thought-provoking and makes one pause to wonder how and why this now- disgraced concept like 'taming the wilderness', ever originated in the first place. Told entirely in flashback, 'Little Big Man' tells the story of Jack Crabb, whose life encapsulates the period when the American Indians were being massacred out of existence, and how whole-scale chaos resulted as white Americans continued their incursions into 'unsettled' western areas of the vast American continent. 'Little Big Man' portrays the way of life of the American Indian as vastly superior to that of the venal and corrupt Europeans. Indians on the one hand, are the 'human beings' at one with nature, brave, humane and wise. Whilst the Europeans as the interlopers are on the other hand, grasping, greedy, unintentionally humorous, hideous, ugly and gross. This may sound perfectly politically correct today, but when the film was released, it came as a surprise to a lot of people. I love this film and think that it properly belongs in the canon of post-classical American cinema alongside such titles as 'Taxi Driver' and 'The French Connection' . Only I think that 'Little Big Man' is better , and other s might think the same way if they ever make the effort to get to see it. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece with minor flaw","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Little Big Man is not without its flaw - it is a tad overlong.But, in fairness, it has an immense amount of story to cram in - Jack Crabbe's shaggy dog autobiography crams in a fair number of mythic moments from the Wild West of legend.The strength of this film (and of the book on which it is based) is in the skillful way it balances humour and tragedy. There is much laugh out loud material here - Faye Dunaway's intimate soaping of the young Jack, snake eyes, feet up on the chair (in fact the whole gunfighter sequence is hysterical up to the point where it abruptly comes to an end), Martin Balsam's erosion, Richard Mulligan's idiotic Custer, Chief Dan George's glorious Old Lodge Skins, the perfect blend of dignity and humour. And this very, very funny material is juxtaposed with sequences of such terrible emotional seriousness that you sit there open eyed and tight lipped, appalled at the way human beings can treat each other. The Washita River massacre sequence is, of course, the most effective of these, brilliantly presented in dreadful silence apart from the fife and drums of the murderous cavalry. Watch it without your heart breaking if you can.Dustin Hoffman has played many wonderful roles, but this must be among the best, although everyone in the cast is brilliant.This is a film for everyone you can enjoy it, but you learn something about yourself and your fellow man as you do so. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Splendid and spirited adventure.","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" LITTLE BIG MAN is a playful film with good spirits about a man who throughout his adventurous life is drawn between the Red Indians and the white man of the American West. Arthur Penn directs it greatly and keeps the humorous and upbeat elements of the film close to the more serious and thoughtful parts, and although it never dwells too deeply in the spiritual or soulful lives of Indians, it presents charming and moving scenes which connects us further to the main character Dustin Hoffman so wonderfully plays. Another fine thing about the film is that it doesn't seem to take itself too seriously albeit the rules and techniques of epics and biographies, and that's an achievement. So for its rather long duration it never gets boring, and Arthur Penn directs careful scenes of dialog and emotion just as good his famous reputation as an action director. The last shot is great, as the narrating main character, now an old man, wants to be left alone and puts his head in his hand, pondering deeply and concernedly. "},{"Title":"In response to Fuldamobils' comments","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Hi Like most other viewers I think this film is great. Fuldamobils comments about the book being used in High School ring true as we watched this film as part of our History class covering the American West and that was in the UK not the states! I had seen the film before so you can imagine a 13 yr olds response to 3 easy lessons but the added significance made me realise that entertain can and often does have a message to tell. It may not be historically correct and the timeline a little skewed in places but as a picture of the Amercian West and the actions of the time it acts as a superb stepping stone towards learning more about our past.Some classmates saw it merely as a slightly funny film but it maybe not solely started me on my journey of enjoying cinema of all genres - big thanks Little Big Man! "}{"Title":"picaresque","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This film has always seemed a brilliant re-working of Huck Finn. The hero, like Huck, alternates between a corrupt white imperialist society and a much more genuine, natural world. Instead of the river, he finds a native American culture, which views people acceptingly as human beings. The Christian culture, just like the neocon fundamentalist culture today, is rapacious, hypocritical, and addicted to violence. (a gunfighter who can't kill a person!) At the end, Crabbe simply stares, beyond words, into a void, much like Kurtz at the end of Conrad's Heartof Darkness. The world of illusions is just too ridiculous.Yes, a great film, just like Bonnie and Clyde, which also has an anti-establishment twist to it. Is Penn still working? "},{"Title":"It's a good day to see this movie","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and loved it. I've seen it many times in the theater and on television and found it a fascinating tale. I did not read the novel so the movie wasn't a disappointment or a departure from the book for me as I understand it may have been for others. Just a great story of the tale as told by Jack Crab about his life in the west and his many brushes with history in a kind of Forest Gump meets Zelig meets Dances With Wolves. It was a twist on history as we knew it but one scene closely resembles an actual event that took place in 1870 when General Sheridan ordered Major Eugene Baker and the 2nd US Regiment to attack an encampment of the Blackfoot Confederacy at the Maria River Massacre in Montana where the Cavalry actually attacked the wrong encampment of who they were looking for and killed 173 mostly women and children while the men were away from camp and took 140 women and children prisoners. Another scene of the movie deviates from an actual event in the portrayal of George Custer as mentally deranged commander leading his men to suicide by Indian while having a nervous breakdown. Custer made a fatal mistake but it didn't happen that way and in reality he likely would have sought political office and possibly being popular, ambitious and well connected would have sought the Presidency in 1888 or 1892. The over-the top performance by Richard Mulligan as the mad Custer is superb. A great cast in this film with Dustin Hoffman as Crabb and a great supporting actor in Chief Dan George as Old Lodge Skins. Faye Dunway and Martin Balsam in cameo roles are great. A great collection of characters in this film like Little Horse the flamboyantly gay Indian and Crab's nemesis Younger Bear who suffers from some kind of affliction that makes him do some things backwards. This movie is an intelligent dark comedy from director Arthur Penn and is one of Hoffman's finest roles. A little drawn-out in parts. I would give this a 9.5 on a scale of 10 and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"An epic tale of an ordinary man finding himself in extraordinary circumstances.","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time. It could not be made today; There are too many things that are and aren't politically incorrect. If Blazing Saddles, Unforgiven and Forest Gump had a baby, it would be Little Big Man. Dustin Hoffman, Chief Dan George and Faye Dunnaway all give fantastic performances. Rarely is a movie made that shows all cultures involved and all individuals to have good an bad traits. The evil that was done to the Native Americans is shown, but not all of them are shown as noble. There is a full range of emotions. You will laugh, cry, be vexed, be in awe, feel guilty, and angry. This is Dustin Hoffman's greatest role. He is an every man that just winds up in situations that portray that part of our nations's history. "},{"Title":"my heart soars like an eagle","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Little Big Man marked a turning point in movies it was the first movie that showed the Old West from the Indians' point of view. Dustin Hoffman plays Jack Crabb, who at 121 years old is telling his life story. When he was a boy, his family was moving west when Indians attacked them, killing everyone except Jack and his sister. His sister escaped, but Jack stayed and was raised by the Indians. When he was a little older, he ended up back in the Caucasian world. Throughout his life, Jack bounced back and forth between the Indians and white people. Finally, he and Gen. Custer (Richard Mulligan) had a showdown at the Battle of Little Big Horn.It's true that Little Big Man got some things wrong, but it was the first movie that showed the Indians' point of view. Also, prior to this movie, Americans had always remembered Gen. Custer as a great man; this movie showed that he was nothing more than an Indian killer. Chief Dan George should have won an Oscar for his role as Jack's Indian grandfather. In my opinion, Bonnie and Clyde, Alice's Restaurant and Little Big Man were Arthur Penn's troika of masterpieces.Oh, and Faye Dunaway is really hot as Mrs. Louise Pendrake, who teaches Jack how to live in the white people's world. "},{"Title":"Comfortable, funny and fun - a great Western experience.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Funny here, a bit of sadness there, peaks of exciting action and some thought-provoking tales, but, all of it, a comfortable, fun experience.My favorite movie of all time!  I definitely recommend taking the time to live and relive this epic film.   "},{"Title":"An excellent movie, Hoffman was great","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Aside from a little more excitement, this movie couldn't have been better. It is a great story with a very interesting character, a white boy raised by Indians.  Hoffman was his usual excellent self; he basically was the movie. Chief Dan George was also good.  This really deserved to be on AFI's top 100 movies.  "},{"Title":"the first western from the indians' point of view","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Arthur Penn uses every technique that is common in westerns, from the roaming landscapes to the mythology of the old gunslinger.  However, this film is the first western to be told from the Indians (instead of the oppressive white men).  With a good mix of humor and drama, Penn captures the audience for the entire 2+ hours.  "},{"Title":"Jack Crabb's Tall Tales Not as Funny as Before","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" My tastes have changed over the years. The last time I saw this was the edited-for-TV version and now recently, uncut on TCM. I liked it before; I didn't like it this time. It's like watching M*A*S*H in that it lulls you into thinking it's a comedy and then it gets very bloody and graphic. Gunfighter battles and Indian massacres. At least one part of the story is true Custer did wipe out 210 innocent Human Beings (as the tribe calls itself) for almost no reason at all. However, most of the colorful parts of the movie seem to be tall tales. (Example he makes love to 4 Indian squaws at once.) It reminds me of Cecil B. DeMille's The Plainsman in that the storyline is illogical. He meets up with the same colorful characters over and over again Mr. Merriweather (Martin Balsam). Mrs. Pendrake (Faye Dunaway), who becomes a whore. Olga, his fiery red-haired ungrateful wife, who becomes an Indian squaw for his sworn enemy Indian brother. Wild Bill Hickok, who dies unexpectedly. Chief Dan George, as Grandfather, was nominated for an Oscar and deserved it. At the end an outstanding dazed and confused portrayal by Richard Mulligan as an egotistical and crazy General Custer. (Was the real Custer really that stupid?) Too long and too contrived for me. Dustin Hoffman's acting is very uneven. It's brilliant at times yet unpolished and unfunny. "},{"Title":"Great western","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Dustin Hoffman is Jack Crabb, a 121 year old man who recites his colorful life story to a journalist. Jack and his sister survive an attack by Pawnee Indians in which their parents' are killed. They are rescued by a Cheyenne warrior, but his sister escapes and he is raised by them and given the name Little Big Man for obvious reasons. Hoffman is as good as he was in The Graduate, with the same cool demeanor.At sixteen, he is recaptured by the U.S. Cavalry and turns against his adoptive family in order to fit in with his fellow white men. He gets civlized by a Reverend Silas and his sexually voracious wife Louise(Faye Dunaway). Jack hits the road with a snake oil salesman and happens upon his sister who believes that he should be a gunslinger and when he meets Wild Bill Hickock and witnesses a shooting, he decides against that career.Next up, Jack marries a Swedish woman named Olga and opens a store with a guy who turns out to be a crook and so the store closes. George Custer tells him, go west young man, and on the way, their stagecoach is captured by Cheyenne Indians and Olga is taken away. He reunites with his old tribal chief but leaves to find his missing wife. He joins up with Custer's 7th calvary and witnesses the slaughter of women and children by the heavily armed U.S. forces and turns against them. It all leads up to the famous battle of Little Big Horn. Little Big Man is a true epic western, and one of the best. "},{"Title":"The Extravagant Adventures of a Pale-Face ...","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" The word 'revisionist' is almost insulting in the way it misleads about the film's true significance, yes, Little Big Man is a revision of the Western myth but not of some undeniable historical facts, and this is why it's an important western. Indeed, there is something cleverly hidden in the rich and extravagant content of Little Big Man that contributes to build its legendary status and it's no surprise that it was directed by Arthur Penn who catalyzed the New Hollywood generation through Bonnie and Clyde, the iconic milestone in the depiction of cinematic violence, Little Big Man would be the one to finally show one of the darkest sides of the American heritage, finally breaking another taboo by saying its ugly name  genocide. Genocide &#x85; too modern a terminology, but extermination is no better word either &#x85; the film does break a fallacy that depicted the conquest of the west as a fair battle to bring civilization into wild territories, a sort of linear movement underlining the eternal battle between nature and civilization. Geography takes an important place, because the vast landscapes highlight the virginity of a territory ready to receive the unction of civilization. While in other places, native populations could benefit from the wilderness of thick forests or unreachable mountains, and domesticate its hostility as a valuable ally, like in Herzog's masterpiece  Aguirre the Wrath of God; in Little Big Man, the only allies of Indians is their unity. But considering the endlessness of the white 'supply', the Indians knew that would never outnumber the whites, the fight was lost in advance. Little Big Man's wise resignation into this fatality is incarnated by its most emblematic line  Today is a good day to die.But I can hear some voices emerging and listing a few other westerns that tackled the same issues many years later, starting with the more acclaimed Dances With Wholves. Although I can't deny the historical value of Kevin Costner's film, it's still minor compared to Little Big Man because it doesn't fall into the other extreme by depicting the Indians as the good-hearted victims, or the noblest people incapable of being corrupted or simply flawed. Little Big Man for the first time, depicts the Indians' point of view, through a Cheyenne tribe, calling themselves 'Human Beings'. The power of the film is that we never take this word as bizarre, since it's normal that they'd consider themselves as the center of Earth, after all, people make themselves their own reference. And as we discover them through the adopted Jack Crabb, we start to see the world through their eyes, and when Crabb gets back to 'his' world, this is where the feeling gets ironically odd and -I guess- what contributes to this impression is the overall comedic element that enriches the film's tone. Comedy have never been better used to elegantly sweep off some dated cinematic clichés, from the female prisoner who wish she would have been 'raped', to the Cheyenne who turn outs to be gay, the film doesn't spare any stereotype, and more than a revisionist or a modern western, it also resonates as a true homage to the genre that produced so many iconic figures embodied by Jack Crabb, Dustin Hoffman in his most underrated performance. The movie told in flash-back from a 122-year old raspy-voiced Crabb, relates his fantastic journey through the historical facts of the Old Wild West, Jack Crabb would become an Indian fighter, a preacher then a medicine-quack assistant, a gunfighter, a married businessman, an Indian fighter, a mule skinner, a cavalry scout, and even a hermit and all the ups and downs that would govern his life illustrate the highs and lows of the American Dream  the preacher's wife becomes a prostitute, the feared killer defeated by a boy, and General Custer a ruthless killer blinded by his own maddening ambition. More than a simple picaresque adventure or a Western Forrest Gump, there is a disturbing truth depicting the so-called ideals of a country as an assemblage of ego-manias that would create an implacable force, and pay an amoral price for the conquest. No wonder the film uses the tone of parody, it depicts the ideals of the conquest of the West as a parody of principles. Yes, from an old man the story sounds incredible, but no less than the way a population could get away after so many crimes committed. And despite all the humor used, there's no way to get insensible from the mix of comedy immediately followed by some extremely disturbing images of massacres. This was the conquest of the west, an amoral triumph, and a heartless victory, the triumph of a linear force against a cyclic logic. And this is probably the basis of the white Victory, the linear force of progress versus the cyclic force, culture vs. nature. For Indians, life is an eternal cycle that not even death can impede, nothing remains eternally dead, and life is only a series of new beginnings. This appears in the very narrative of the film, where Jack meet the same people a second time, it's even underlined in some repeated scenes or lines that amusingly flirt with running gags like the eternal come-back to the grandfather's tee-pee, Old Lodge Skins as the only character who never moved, yet gained in wisdom and lucidity as time went by.The Oscar nominated Chief Dan George as Old Lodge Skins is the soul of the film, incarnating the moral value of a wicked world alienated by a progress that steamrolled the heritage of a millenarian civilization, a spirit that would never die because a cyclic force is always aware of its roots, and although you're not able to step back and take a lucid look to your past, future will always be a never-ending one-way dark tunnel, from which never will your heart soar ... like a hawk &#x85; "}{"Title":"Truly Weird","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" The factors that made me watch this movie was that of course it was a western, but above that, it was a western with Hoffman as the lead. The image of Hoffman with a Mexican hat riding a horse and shooting people was too tempting to miss. But the movie completely shocked me. This is perhaps, the most weirdest western I have seen. It can be described as a comic tragedy western with loads of Red Indian adventure. The movie starts with a (hold your breath) 121 year old man narrating his lifetime to a historian. The movie is told completely in flashback which includes the important life changing moments of the protagonist(Hoffman's) stay on the planet. The movie moves from arid plains to gigantic hillocks, and from deserts to snow clad regions. The movie is beautifully photographed with great long shots of the picturesque American West. This movie is also an attempt to change the image of Native American tribes portrayed in typical Westerns. They are portrayed as wild savages who eat anything that can breathe and who are the real enemies of America and the whites. But in this movie, their side of the picture is shown. How they are exploited by the American army etc. The 'softer' side of the Native Americans is shown very beautifully. Acting wise, this is a one man show - Dustin Hoffman. He effortlessly plays the main character in different life stages and in different turbulent conditions. The comic as well as the tragic scenes are played brilliantly by him. This may be one of his most weird roles ever. Chief Dan George as the Tribal leader is impressive. Faye Dunaway steals the show in a small but effective role. If you want to experiment and watch a totally different movie, watch this one.Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"A Picaresque Epic Revisionist Western That Gives a Long-Needed Insightful and Substantial Account of Native Americans","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Any film gets points for being released in 1970 and including a moment of a baby being shot in the face. But what's more is that it is a fascinating film all around. Arthur Penn's Little Big Man, an example of anti-establishment films of its period, is a ceaselessly absorbing endeavor to frame an epic in the fashion of a tall tale. It essentially succeeds. When it doesn't, when there's a bungle of mood or an overemphasized mockery, it becomes a part of the broader, richer, more plentiful scope of the film's yarn format. We're apt to go along; all engaging storytellers weave exceptionally long-winded ones from time to time, and loop back to be clear we got their favorite bits.It is the bona fide neighborliness of Penn's film that makes it, most importantly, such an insightful and substantial account of Native Americans, the West, and the American dream. There's no loud percussive pandemonium, no sermonizing, no deep-voiced narrators making certain we got the gist of the last massacre. All these adventures occurred long, long ago, and they're described by a 121-year-old man who simply wants to keep the story weaving by relinquishing it. The tall tale is the most mutable of narrative formats. Its teller can stop and reflect to emphasize a point, he can hurry ahead ten years, he can forget a whole era in recalling the folklore of a single man. He doesn't delineate the account of a time, but its suggestion. This picaresque epic gives us the suggestion of the Cheyenne civilization before white men brought true barbarism to the West.Dustin Hoffman pushes new bounds of his own versatility as the title character, who gets around reasonably enough. He reaches all the corners of Western legend. He was brought West as a settler, raised as a Cheyenne, touched base with gunfighting and snake oil peddling, staked out for the cavalry, dabbled with the hermit life, was married twice, survived Custer's Last Stand, and sat at the foot of an old man named Old Lodge Skins, who disciplined him in the clear Cheyenne notion of nature.Old Lodge Skins, played by Chief Dan George with such cool and confidence, doesn't evangelize the Cheyenne outlook. It is part of him. It's all the more a part of him since Penn has allowed the Native Americans in the film to speak real, colloquial English. Thanks to John Ford and John Wayne, and yes, the Lone Ranger, most movie Indians have had to depict themselves with an um at the end of every other word. The Natives in Penn's Revisionist Western have dialogue echoing the informal fullness of Indian tongues. When Old Lodge Skins merely indicates Cheyennes as the Human Beings, the phrase is to the letter, and significant, and not played for laughs.Regardless of Old Lodge Skins, nevertheless, Little Big Man doesn't quite come off as an Indian, or as a white man either, or as anything else he attempts. He sees, hears, retains, and endures, which is his role. The protagonists in the film are two concepts of society the Indian's and the white man's. Custer orchestrates his bloody massacres and is massacred in proper sequence, and we know that the Indians will ultimately be vanquished as a natural civilization and shoved aside onto reservations. But the film's motion is periodic but patterned, and so is its conviction about Native Americans.Penn has maintained the tall tale structure for a purpose. All the characters who are introduced at the outset of the film return in the latter half, gratified in their own ways. But Old Lodge Skins is the only character who ends up not just in one piece, but augmented. His survival is echoed by the film's form. Most films, particularly ones with violence, have their climax at the end. Penn puts his near the middle. It is Custer's butchery of a Native American village, and Little Big Man sees his Native wife killed and his baby's face pumped with lead. Penn can conduct brutality as pragmatically and diplomatically as any American director. He does here.However Custer stays dead, and Old Lodge Skins doesn't quite die like he is sure he will. So he leaves his customized setting of death and coaxes Little Big Man home with him. Custer's society will ultimately triumph, but Old Lodge Skins' will prove superior in strength, will and intimacy with the real world. I doubt it is hit-or-miss that we don't smile when Old Lodge Skins mentions the distinction between Custer and the Human Beings. "},{"Title":"Little Big Movie is worth watching","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Anything that makes history interesting and tells a lesson, even a comedy, is important to knowing the history of this country. Little Big Man in my opinion tells the truth showing the Native American side of what happened after the civil war in the west and portrayed the great George Armstrong Custer for what he truly was. Maybe the best scene in a great movies was Chief Dan George's prayer at the very end. It made me re-think some of my theology. The Cheyenne are called the Human Beings. It was about time that these people were portrayed as something more than ruthless savages.  "},{"Title":"A tall tale that resonates with truth.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This amazing film begins by interrupting the conversation of a wizen old man and a stock liberal professor who is conducting research into the old west.  As the pompous scholar begins to explain to his elderly interviewee about the `real' American  West, the man becomes indignant and begins telling a fascinating tale.  It is a very human story that he shares and unlike the professor's close-minded, simplistic view of the conflict between the American Indians and white men (a popular modern viewpoint that anything Indian was numinous and good and anything white was evil), it is a revealing of the fact that there was good and bad on both sides.Thankfully this was produced before the forces of political correctness could bowdlerize it.  Today this would be watered down to avoid the epithets and stereotypes that add color and authenticity to this wonderful film.  It is a obvious precursor to `Dances With Wolves', but also to a movie where the influence is less patent like `Forrest Gump' where famous persons are infused into a historical comic-drama.   Numerous interesting characters infuse the picture the epicene (though lustful) sister, the wise, yet pixilated Indian grandfather (played brilliantly by Chief Dan George), the unconscionable General Custer, the libertine Mrs. Pendrake (Faye Dunaway may possibly be the sexiest woman to ever appear on screen) and of course Dustin Hoffman's own character.  A funny and sad study of a wild time in history mixed with modern sentiments.  A tall tale that resonates with truth.       "},{"Title":"Seeing this moive is just like reading someone's autobiography","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Honestly, ¡Little Big Man is a thought-provoking film that enthralls the audience immediately once they begin to see it. We can categorize it into an autobiographic film because via an interview, the leading character, an old man, told his lifelong story and time rolled back to long ago when the protagonist was still a little boy. This approach makes the audience feel like they are reading a person's memoirs. However, the director didn't simply share an ordinary story with the audience, describing the difference between Indians and white men. He was telling history and discussing what human beings are. He brought up several serious issues in this movie but presented them in a humorous way, leading the viewers to consider such topics as the conflicts between barbarism and civilization, the relationship between nature and human beings, impurity and purity.With the leading character¡¦s shifts between Indians¡¦ and white men¡¦s societies, the audience was ushered into a forum to ponder over some questions. First, what does Little Big Man mean exactly? How on earth did the protagonist view himself in the two opposite worlds? Was he a white man or a human being? How did he adapt to the two completely contradictory environments? In the experiences of shifts between two societies, did he win any recognition from people around him? Was he confronted with confusion about his identity and destiny? What was the leading character's perception about the two individual societies? Where would he locate himself eventually?Being a white man in Indians¡¦ society, the protagonist was an exception at the outset. However, we can see that he was accepted by most of the Indians regardless of his background. By this, the director reminded the audience that in the eyes of Indians, the leading character is a human being rather than a white man. Unlike white men, Indians didn¡¦t distinguish him based upon so-called races. The director attempted to destroy a prejudice that the public holds toward Indians---brutal and uncivilized. Conversely, Indians are more harmonious and tolerant than white men. Through this arrangement, the audience was educated to judge things in a more objective perspective instead of following the previous stereotype.Also, the title Little Big Man could include several meanings. It shows the protagonist was not only treated as a human being but also recognized as an adult Indian warrior and revered as a brave hero after he saved his partner¡¦s life. Perhaps until that moment, the leading character could see himself as an insider in Indians¡¦ society rather than an outsider. Or we can say that it was the first time that he could find his position in this group. The leading actor, Dustin Hoffman, successfully displayed a subtle change of his facial expression at this scene. What the director wanted to stress here was the importance of an individual¡¦s position for oneself in society. Without the clear recognition from a group, a sense of emptiness or loss could occupy an individual.As for the role of the old Indian chief ( Grandfather), the director shaped this character as a symbol of wisdom. Contrary to the arrogance and ignorance of white men, throughout the whole film, there were lots of scenes full of dialogue between the old chief and the protagonist, in which demonstrating the old chief¡¦s wise and philosophical instructions. No matter what happened, the chief always kept calm, observing and analyzing things on a position of a third party. Via this character, the director said what he thought.Regarding the titles between the chief and the leading character, Grandfather, a title full of insight, contains closeness and respect. My son refers to love, understanding and tolerance. Probably, the director wanted to convey such a message that we human beings are all the children of Mother Earth. We are so close to one another; there is no distinction among us. On the contrary, it was not the case with white men¡¦s society, where only Christian white men could be called ¡§human beings¡¨. The director pointed out the egoism and narrow-mind of white men and spotlighted the contrast between two societies. For Indians, human beings are human beings; nevertheless, for white men, human beings are defined according to religion and civilization.In addition, the director satirized the barbarian side of the so-called civilized human beings by designing a scene in which white men attacked Indians accompanied by march music. With the melody of the march, white men terminated Indians brutally, including females and children. In this scene, pleasant music was applied to cover the crime of the bloody massacre and to mute the crying. Furthermore, this part was presented in slow motion, which strengthened the sarcastic effects because the longer this scene lasted, the stronger it impressed viewers. So who was actually barbarian?Apart from this, the director here also tried to unveil hypocrisy of white men. For example, the figure of the missionary¡¦s wife illustrated this. Under ostensible Christian discipline and purity exist desire and immorality. The director directly justified the saying¡X¡§To say is one thing; to do is another. ¡§ Therefore, for the protagonist, he saw cruelty, hypocrisy, dishonesty, and arrogance in white men¡¦s society. Those dark sides of human beings encountered him. In fact, in each shifts, he made efforts to adjust himself to either of the two societies. Yet, he still couldn't avoid falling into a situation of perplexity and didn¡¦t know what he should do next and where he belonged. It seems that only staying with Indians, especially with the old chief, he found his identity and peace.One scene in which the director profoundly exposed the leading character¡¦s despair and loss was the moment when the leading character stood on the cliff alone and attempted to commit suicide. Dustin Hoffman elaborately interpreted the ups and downs of the mood and feelings of this role. His persuasive tears could easily captivate the audience. Another factor that contributed to the success of this film was Grandfather. The prominent actor acted as if he were a real Indian chief. His excellent performance gave this movie depth and extra charm.By the way, the position of female was another focus for discussion in this film. In Indians¡¦ or white men's society then, women were subject to men, still not equal to men. This movie showed us that Indian women depended on their husbands for survival. As for white men, the term ¡§women¡¨ could be used to insult people for their cowardliness. Apparently, the director pinpointed another social phenomenon that gender discrimination still prevailed at that time.To be frank, although Little Big Man touched a variety of serious issues ranging from races, civilization, humanity, desire, gender problems, etc¡K this movie had rather high commercial value and market. The director employed an easy and humorous approach to appeal to the public for an examination of these topics. Basically, the intention of the director could be achieved and this film, no doubt, could cause a sensation via the mouths of the audience.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Western","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This may well be the greatest western ever made.  It is complete with fine acting, inspiring camera work, and excellent writing which features humor, excitement, and historical commentary.  The movie does an excellent job of aging Dustin Hoffman's character through the years.  My favorite scene is when the stage coach is attacked, and Hoffman and a Indian jump over the horses pulling it.  This movie is also probably responsible for our modern image of Custer.  This is an excellent western and wonderful all around movie.  "},{"Title":"Truly great film which should be given more attention","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The mix of sensitive and lush portrayal of the native americans (while not too preachy), superior acting all around, interesting and riveting plot, top-notch cinematography, and deft bits of humor make this one of my top ten. Some may find it slow, but like many slow-ish films, it really is worth it. It's a moving experience.Have to mention the great portrayal of Custer, as a foppish and creepy nut-ball. Very funny  "},{"Title":"Midway between Davy Crockett and Dances With Wolves","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is a likable piece of satire which, for the most part, doesn't take itself too seriously. A lot of the other IMDb reviewers take it awfully seriously, which I would chalk up mostly to sentiment I'm guessing they saw it when they were young, and found it wildly likable. The story is of Jack Crabb (Dustin Hoffman) reminiscing about the Old West, from his boyhood as one of the first white settlers, to his ancient old age, when the Old West and Indian culture had disappeared.His life alternates between white people, who are dopes and hypocrites, and Indians, who aren't much better. The exception is Chief Dan George, who is astonishing. I'm guessing it was his performance that caused the New York Times reviewer of the day to call this an important movie. It may also be that this was one of the first major motion pictures which did not depict the Indians as either savages or noble savages; but with the exception of Chief Dan George, they are mostly goofballs, which I suppose is a step up from savages.There's hardly a whit of reality to this frontier romp. Faye Dunaway is a delight as the nymphomaniac wife of a porcine preacher. Richard Mulligan, as General Custer, gives a weird anti-war speech which is about Vietnam, not the Little Big Horn. Jeff Corey, as Wild Bill Hickok, tells Dustin Hoffman he doesn't have murder in his eyes, but then again, that's okay, nobody does in this movie.But the performance of Chief Dan George! What a terrific piece of work! What timing! What realism! He has a speech on the difference between white people and Indians that is one of the most profound things I have ever heard in a movie.Otherwise, this movie is mostly for laughs. I had the sense Tim Conway and Don Knotts were hovering just off camera, suited up and ready. Hoffman gives a sustained gimmick performance which is pretty likable. "},{"Title":"My vote for best western of all time goes to Little Big Man (1970)...","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" There's some classic folklore regarding Little Big Man. Legend has it that Dustin Hoffman sat in his dressing room prior to filming and screamed at the top of his lungs for an hour in order to gain the raspy voice of a 122-year-old man for the voice-over soundtrack of the film.I don't know if that's true or not, but regardless of the methods he may have used to gain his coarse voice, it works like a charm. Until the very end, I doubted whether it was even Hoffman doing the voice-over at all. And speaking of the ending, it is purely and simply one of the greatest ever made.The story is something that Hollywood likes to do a lot; only this time it's the best version. Having just watched The Last Samurai, I realized the similarities between both films -- a man is taken in by his potential enemies and treated as one of their own. Then, when faced with the possibility of war, he must choose which side to fight for. And, as I said in my review of The Last Samurai, both films similarly bash General Custer.In that movie, samurai warriors captured the hero. In Little Big Man, the hero is captured by Indians -- or, more correctly, saved. After being massacred in a sandy desert by the Indians, a young boy named Jack Crabb is kidnapped by one of them and the Indian brings him back to their camp.As a small child, Jack is raised as one of their own. As he grows older, the Human Beings affectionately name him Little Big Man. As anyone can guess, he doesn't fit in with the Indians, but the Chief of the Cherokees (Chief Dan George, who died 11 years after the film was made) takes a liking to Little Big Man. Jack refers to him as Grandfather, even up until the end of the film.Much to the chagrin of some Indians his own age, Jack begins to grow into an adult -- he looks a lot like Dustin Hoffman, too. When he hits adulthood, Jack leaves the Indians and heads out into civilization, where he meets Mrs. Louise Pendrake (Faye Dunaway) and his sister, Caroline (Carole Androsky), who fled from the safety of the Indians one night years before, leaving Jack by himself.Jack, as an adult, even joins General Custer and is present at the infamous Custer's Last Stand, where he has to choose whether or not to fight against his own kind or become a traitor to the Indians.In between we follow Jack's adventures as he tries to make a living a number of different ways -- by helping an old man sell fake medicine to townspeople, to going out into the wild to find his kidnapped wife. (He eventually ends up finding her years later, only to see her as a wife to one of the Indians. She doesn't even recognize him.)This is an amazing, beautiful movie, filmed and released at the height of Cowboy and Indian movies. The message isn't gooey and sentimental like it could have been handled -- it seems very real. We become so affectionate towards Jack's character that when small things happen to him we feel sad or happy, or even laugh at the small humorous quirks. (Such as the irony that Mrs. Pendrake becomes a prostitute after having preached to Jack years before about the importance of avoiding Satan's temptation.)The director, Arthur Penn, stands back and lets things play out in old fashion film-making style. No quick cuts or awkward camera angles during action sequences -- this feels like a real old-fashioned western movie, even though it was released in 1970, the decade when the westerns started to increasingly diminish.The political correctness of the film is easily overlooked. For once it seemed as though Indians were not portrayed as the type of tree-loving mythical warriors in such films as the terrible Pocahontas (Disney version). No, here we get a lot of Custer bashing, which probably had to do with the fact that the Vietnam War was going on at the time of release. Custer's attack on the Washita was perhaps intended to trigger thoughts of the Calley massacre at My Lai, the trial of which was going on the same year as the film.And I seriously doubt whether Custer was quite as crazy as Richard Mulligan portrays him in Little Big Man. Egotistical, yes, but I don't think he suddenly started calling people Mr. President at the Last Stand and tried to murder them.But the film is also a subtle satire of the west. Besides, the film will sweep your thoughts away into other terrain before you have time to get mad over some of the inaccuracies and stereotypes.Example? The acting is marvelous, and full credit goes to Dustin Hoffman, who carries this film from beginning to end. I don't usually think of Dustin Hoffman as one of the best actors ever made, but I think that's because he so often disappears into character. He rarely plays himself. In Tootsie he plays a woman, in Rain Man he plays a mentally challenged individual, and in Little Big Man he plays a sort of hybrid between an Indian and a cowboy. He doesn't know what he is, and his journey to find out is what holds us, as an audience, so interested in the story.My two votes for best westerns ever made would go to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969) and Little Big Man (1970). Both films are very different. Both are very amazing.4.5/5. "},{"Title":"Simply THE best Western ever made","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I first saw this movie in a little out of the way theatre in Paris when I was a teenager whith school problems and, as they were running it all day long (in english), I tended to spend all my days watching it over and over again. I found then and I still think so, that this movie, with it's unique look on the American Indians, puts to shame almost every so-called classicals western. As an aside, I'd like to point out that, on those (rare) times when the film was shown on TV, the French translation is without doubt the worst ever. "}{"Title":"Should be in the top 250 of all time.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This is my favorite western. The acting is superb (if not a little overdone since it is a satire, of sorts). Hoffman is in peak form as young Jack Crabb and who wouldn't love Chief Dan George as Old Lodge Skins, his mentor. It's a great movie and a must-see for anybody who can appreciate great cinema. "},{"Title":"Penn's flawed screed not little enough.","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Midway through Arthur Penn's Little Big Man one realizes that General Custer is not the only one affected by delusions of grandeur. Caught up in the Zeitgeist of the era Penn's ambitious attempt to debunk legends and bring attention by way of metaphor to the Viet Nam War, defined by the actions at My Lai, it lumbers along for well over two hours and loses a considerable amount of impact along the way.One hundred and seventeen year old nursing home resident and only white survivor of the Battle of the Little Big Horn Jack Crabbe (Dustin Hoffman)narrates his picaresque journey of being raised by Indians and encounters with General Custer, Wild Bill Hickock and lesser stock types (greedy gun runner, lustful Sunday School teacher) to give a true account of the American West. In Penn's heavy hand however he allows the bias to bubble over and we end up with a series of half truths.Based on the novel by one of America's finest novelists and satirists Thomas Berger, Penn and writer Calder Willingham use it as a sledgehammer to drive home the point about clueless and ruthless White Europeans who have come to settle the land and drive the peace loving and sensitive Native American from their land. Custer is portrayed as a vainglorious inept commander seeking higher office and Wild Bill a nerve rattled gun slinger. The rest of the White folk are portrayed as exploiters and ninnies while the bucolic splendor of reservation life when not being destroyed by guess who is a pantheistic utopia.Big Man is filled with excellent characterizations as Hoffman, Richard Mulligan, Jeff Corey, Faye Dunaway and Martin Balsam play it to the hilt. But it is Chief (It is a good day to die) Dan George who steals the show with a noble grace even in comic moments.Harry Stradlings cinematography is exceptional in capturing the ambiance of the harsh landscape and recording the brutality of Indian village massacres. LBMs problem lies with Penn losing his satiric edge and allowing his venal need to hammer his point home with a series of Calvery atrocities and white man exploitation. Penn certainly has historical facts to back up these genocidal acts but it is only half of the story and he takes far too long in telling that side. "},{"Title":"A film to remember for life","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I first saw Little Big Man at the age of 8 or 9 and I fell for it immediately. Now, some twenty something years later, I've seen it a couple of times and it still just gets better and better. Not a typical Hollywood film you would get for a Monday night at home and forgot what it was all about the following day. No, Little Big Man is a film that you will remember for life ... Dustin Hoffman is unforgettable in his role as well is Fay in one of her best role - in my opinion. Dustin does his role as a storyteller in extraordinary way with his unforgettably beautiful strange voice which you will never forget. If you want to see a good and beautiful piece of art, watch this movie... "},{"Title":"enlightened western classic is quirky, funny, heartbreaking and full of action and colorful characters; it all leads up to Custer's last stand","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" When Little Big Man was released in 1970 it was amidst a changing landscape in both the movie industry and America itself. The studio system in Hollywood had faded away and traditional genres like the western were dying a slow death. To make big money with a western you needed star appeal as was the case with films like True Grit and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Needless to say Little Big Man was not a huge box office success, but it is a beautiful and unique American classic as well as being the first mainstream western to portray Native Americans as real people and not stereotypes. The story depicts events on both sides leading up to the battle of little bighorn as told through flashbacks by Jack Crabb (Dustin Hoffman at his best), the 121 year old soul white survivor. Jack is like a fly on the wall of many momentous events from the wild west, almost like a western version of Forrest Gump.At the beginning of the film the old version of Crabb (Hoffman, in an incredible make-up job) tells an interviewer to turn on his tape recorder and shut up and he'd tell the story of the human beings. The human beings he is referring to are the Cheyenne Indians, a tribe that Jack knew well as he had been raised by the Cheyenne after his family was wiped-out by another tribe. This is where his serpentine story starts as we are introduced to all the Cheyenne characters with which Jack's path will cross time and time again. Jack is raised by Old Lodgeskins (the incredibly good Chief Dan George) who gives him his name and teaches him the ways of the Cheyenne. Jack is captured back by the whites as a teenager after an Indian battle, raised by preachers wife Louise Pendrake (Faye Dunaway), and from this point on he goes back and forth between the whites and the Cheyenne as his story unfolds.Jack continually will come across people from his past and each time it happens it changes the direction of his life; he meets a snake oil salesman (Martin Balsom, perfectly cast) with one eye, and each time he meets him again he's missing another body part&#x85;you're getting whittled down pretty good Mr. Meriwether&#x85;then he ends up being abducted by his long lost sister who teaches Jack how to shoot and thus he becomes a gunslinger and is befriended by Wild Bill Hickok (Jeff Corey). Eventually he ends up joining the Army, the 7th cavalry under George Custer (Richard Mulligan, manic and hilarious), who is portrayed as an egocentric oddball, which probably isn't far from the truth. Custer claims he can tell a mans occupation by just looking at him and says a job-seeking Jack is a muleskinner (he's wrong of course), when Jack finally humors him and says he is right, Custer gleefully bellows hire the muleskinner before riding off.There are two climatic scenes and both involve the 7th Cavalry and Custer,the first is the attack on the Washita River of Cheyenne women and children. This scene is alternately hilarious and heartbreaking as Jack gets Lodgeskins to make a run for the river by convincing him he is invisible (funnier than I can convey in words), and after escaping Jack watches helplessly as the soldiers murder his wife and baby.The second climactic scene is the battle of Little Big Horn, as Custer is convinced anything Jack (now a scout) tells him will be wrong and sneeringly tells his horrified aide that Jack is the perfect reverse barometer. It's hard to put into words just how insightful and ironic that scene is right before the battle &#x85;the voice-over of Jack says I had him now, but what I had wasn't a knife&#x85;but the truth&#x85;while the pitiful Custer is all pomp and arrogance, too proud (and stupid) to realize Jack is telling the exact truth, and the poor aide can see the whole thing coming but can do nothing as Custer's bloated ego leads them all to their doom.One of the great things about Little Big Man is seeing the recurring characters all having their destinies fulfilled, whether its Lulu becoming a prostitute and then going to live with her aunt, or Meriwether losing his limbs one by one, or Hickok getting gunned down in Deadwood holding his aces and eights, or Custer being turned into a greasy spot on Medicine tail coulée.Well, then there's old Lodgeskins, who had often made mention of it being a good day to die. At the end he wants Jack to walk with him up the hill to die but then it starts raining and he opens his eyes&#x85;am I still in this world? yes, grandpa answers Jack jesshhh, I was afraid of that. Old Lodgeskins has been through hell, but he's a survivor.Jack Crabb is a survivor too. And a choirboy, a snake oil salesman, a gunslinger, a merchant, a drunk, an Indian scout&#x85;and yes of course, a muleskinner. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  One of my all-time faves.  Similar theme to Dances With Wolves, but without the sappy sentimentality.  Little Big Man has the added dimension of also being a commentary on Vietnam and the Holocaust.  Also, LBM doesn't stoop to stereotyping the Native Americans as Noble Savages... they are just as diverse and prone to envy, greed, lust etc as the Whites.  It's an epic, and yes, it is very long, but never less than gripping.  Exceeds DWW in every respect, in sense of humor, range of emotion, and tragedy.  Very imaginative direction by Arthur Penn, great performances by Hoffman, Chief Dan George (if I recall correctly, the only Native American to be nominated for an Oscar), Faye Dunaway, and the rest.  Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Too cartoonish","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Little Big Man is a fun, picaresque western with some fine visual sequences and plenty of good acting. But it's a major step down from the book, one of the finest American novels of the '60s. The difference is in the handling of the characters. The movie presents Custer, Wild Bill Hickok, Rev. Pendergast and his wife, the patent medicine seller, and the rest as comic turns, not as full-fledged people in their own right. Maybe this is how Penn, with his theatrical background, instinctively saw the material, and it gives the movie too much of a Blazing Saddles feel. The script (or perhaps what Penn uses of it) boils much of the dialog down into one-liners (doubtless, the task of condensing such a sprawling story into a movie of less than three hours didn't help). Even Chief Dan George, as Old Lodge Skins, the best developed character here, often comes across as merely a lovable schlemiel. Much of it's funny, but it doesn't cut very deep.The book is more human, giving each character Jack encounters three dimensions and avoiding the trap of rendering any of them either all good or all bad. The moment in Penn's film that best evoke the book is the scene where Custer catches Jack approaching to kill him and instead of killing his stalker, lets him go. Throughout this wonderful novel, characters do unexpected things that seem at first to be totally out of character, and thus serve to remind us of the complexity of human beings. As someone suggests here, the film may intend to say something about the random, unpredictable nature of the universe. The novel does something a lot more difficult and down-to-earth It reminds us that it takes a lifetime to know even a few of our fellow humans. And especially for Jack, who has to navigate two distinct cultures.So if you liked the movie, by all means read the book. You'll finish it loving this tall tale way more. "},{"Title":"Wild Tale of the Wild West","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Raised by Amerindians after his family was killed, a nursing home resident recounts his experiences in the Wild West, torn between religion, con men and gunslingers and culminating in Custer's Last Stand. It is a wild tale, and narrated by a cantankerous old man, the film treads a fine line between presenting a revisionist version of history with the protagonist witnessing various important events a la 'Forrest Gump' and the deluded ramblings of an elderly man a la Salieri in 'Amadeus'. Whatever the case, it is an engaging tale for sure. Much of the film's success is due to Dustin Hoffman's performance. He never really looks like a teenager but he certainly manages to act like it, convincingly aging over a century over the course of the film while retaining a boyish curiosity. A strong supporting cast includes Oscar nominee Chief Dan George as his mystical Amerindian surrogate parent, Richard Mulligan as a daunting, smug General Custer, plus Martin Balsam, Jeff Corey and Faye Dunaway. Director Arthur Penn throws some neat touches in the mix, such as the audio cutting out during a battle and only gradually fading back in. Encapsulating as the film may be though, the tone is admittedly all over the place with very lighthearted comedic touches (the Amerindians working out that his sister is actually a girl) in between grim and serious drama (his wife being kidnapped). The film works best though if taken as something more whimsical than down-to-earth or serious. The film's compression of the Old West experience into one human lifetime is certainly remarkable. "},{"Title":"Hail to the Chief!","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" An historian interviews cranky 121-year-old Dustin Hoffman (as Jack Crabb), who promises to reveal truths about General Custer, The Battle of Little Big Horn and Indians (Native Americans). He narrates a biographical story, beginning with his adoption (abduction) as an orphan boy, by Cheyenne Indians. In the care of wise Chief Dan George (as Old Lodge Skins), Mr. Hoffman is raised as Little Big Man due to being small in stature. During times when Whites and Native Americans clash, Hoffman identifies himself as either White or Indian, switching sides and saving his life. We eventually get to the Little Big Horn battle, which provides sub-textual insight relating to Native Americans and the (then) present US battle...Period films usually fail to truly capture an era or setting; however intended, they more often reflect their year of production. This is certainly evident in much of director Arthur Penn's work. It is successfully seen in Bonnie and Clyde (1967), but less happily a factor in Four Friends (1981). Little Big Man receives a full pardon in seeming to be about 1970; it's framed from the present, and narrated from that point, throughout. The story is historical fiction, with an emphasis on comedy. It's a grand production, but too fragmented; the segments tend to take away from the focus. Still, it's a fine reorganization of thought on Native American Indians, with a stellar performance by Mr. George as the wise Indian chief...Foolish White man is nicely represented by Richard Mulligan (as George Armstrong Custer). White woman is essayed by glamorous-looking Faye Dunaway. Although she's a Christian, we see Ms. Dunaway's character always making herself available for sex. In her first (of two) episodes, Dunaway is startlingly seen giving son Dustin Hoffman a bath. This part of the Jack Crabb role probably should have been played by Alan Howard, who otherwise plays Hoffman as a teenager (but it wouldn't be as funny, today). Also interesting is the inclusion of gay Cheyenne Indian Robert Little Star (as Little Horse), who apparently has full civil rights, including same-sex marriage. Native Americans were way ahead of their time.******* Little Big Man (1970-12-14) Arthur Penn ~ Dustin Hoffman, Dan George, Faye Dunaway, Richard Mulligan "},{"Title":"Little Big Man partly filmed in Billings,Mt.","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I remember very well Little big man being shot here in July 1969.Hoffman rented a house from a prominent local doctor.Went out one evening to where they were shooting and got a first hand look at why these Big Budget Movies cost so much to shoot,One scene that's in the movie that lasts about 8 seconds took over 4 hrs to get right.Veteran Stuntman Loren Janes and J,N.Roberts came over to our Motorcycle Dealership one evening and showed behind the scenes footage of Jane's stuntwork on movies like How the west was Won and Nevada Smith. He stunt doubled for Steve McQueen in almost all his Films.Movie was good but I thought it was too long needed some cutting.One local resident here that was a wagon driver had numerous scenes and thought he was going to have a good amount of screen time. Every scene he was in ended up on the cutting room floor. He was pretty devastated to say the least..s.m. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended.","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" One of the great movies of all time. Sensitive, funny looks at the old west with a different and more honest perspective. Did I say highly amusing? This movie covers the lifetime of the main character, played by Hoffman and covers many phases of both his life and the opening of the west from sod buster to gambler to Indian wars. This is a movies that can be watched repeatedly and you'll find something new every time.An acting tour de force for Hoffman. Chief Dan George is marvelous as are many others. You'll laugh a lot and probably cry a little too.Watch it if you haven't. Watch it again if you have. "}{"Title":"His western story; old man reminisces","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" A historian wants to know the story of a 121- year old man, Jack Crabb.He tells how he became a member of the Cheyenne tribe, how he became the apprentice of a snake-oil salesman, how he knew Wild Bill Hickok and General George Armstrong Custer.Little Big Man (1970) is a western directed by Arthur Penn.The movie is based on the 1964 novel by Thomas Berger.Dustin Hoffman is amazing as Jack Crabb, both young and old.Faye Dunaway is very fine as Mrs. Pendrake.Chief Dan George is great as Old Lodge Skins.Martin Balsam is terrific as Mr. Merriweather.Richard Mulligan does great work as Custer.Jeff Corey is very fine as Wild Bill Hickok.Caroline Androsky is very good as Caroline Crabb.M. Emmett Walsh is seen as Shotgun Guard.The movie is a different kind of a western movie.It's something never seen before.The movie is full of drama, like in those battle scenes.Then it can be funny, like when Mrs. Pendrake gives a bath to Jack.Or when Jack has to bed his Indian wife's three sisters.And his gunslinger name The Sodapop Kid is just hilarious.I recommend you'd listen to the story of Jack Crabb.This is a big story of a little man. "},{"Title":"Rambling but fun","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" The Thoman Berger novel about the life and times of a white man raised by Indians is turned into an entertaining epic Western by Penn. Hoffman is well cast as the diminutive title character who goes through the religious, gunfighter, and drunk periods of his life and keeps running into the same cast of characters, including General Custer. Dunaway is a missionary with thoughts less than pure who adopts Hoffman along the way. Chief Dan George is fine as Hoffman's philosophical grandfather. The rambling, episodic nature of the story makes it hard to become totally immersed in the film, but it is fun for the most part, if a bit overlong. "},{"Title":"Hoffman is a Little Big Man","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Both hilarious and deeply emotional, which is not easy to do. Dustin Hoffman is spot on perfect and carries this movie on his back the whole length. The supporting cast adds just enough for Hoffman to work off them and also bring some very memorable characters. I have heard complaints about historical accurate and to that I say, are you serious? In no way is this film trying to be accurate and anyone that would assume after the first five minutes that historical accurate was what the director was going for is an idiot. I'm honestly surprised I hadn't heard more about this film before I saw it, it is a classic and everyone should see it, if for nothing else then a great laugh. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the magic works, other times it doesn't.","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Little Big Man is the story of a survivor. Sometimes he is heroic in his will to keep on keeping on, other times he just gives up and becomes a drunkard. Sometimes the magic works, other times it doesn't according to the Chief Old Lodge Skins (Chief Dan George). Sometimes you can row, other times you have to go with the tide. There are no universal truths in life. Besides his skill for surviving, Little Big Man is a good person. He proves it many times during the film, specially when he is unable to become a gunfighter like his pal Wild Bill Hickock, or kill General Custer who was responsible for the death of his wife and child. But the film could have been better if it had followed the style of the book, by Thomas Berger instead of trying to be a comedy and demythify the western. Nevertheless it is a very good film. "},{"Title":"black comedy in the old west","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  A 120 year-old scout from Gen. George Custer's army looks back upon his life in the old west and the events that led to the massacre at the Little Big Horn.  Satirical look at native and settler life in the frontier is evenhanded rather than preachy.  Fine performances from all, first rate direction and cinematography. (Rating A) "},{"Title":"A totally disarming and unique Western","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is one of the strangest Westerns I have ever seen. Think about it--Dustin Hoffman in a Western!! Despite this very odd casting, the film works and works very well due to an amazing script that defies most of the previous film clichés about the Old West.The film begins with Hoffman and his sister being discovered by a Cheyenne Indian following a Pawnee Indian massacre of a wagon train. Despite stereotypes to the contrary, the Cheyenne mean them no harm and welcome the orphans into the tribe. The sister insists they only brought her to the tribe to rape her and she seemed a tad disappointed when they didn't. This wasn't at all politically correct, but was pretty funny--as were many other moments throughout the film.Hoffman spends many years with the tribe and is accepted and loved. However, eventually he is rescued by Whites and returned to civilized life--at which point it's pretty obvious that Hoffman was better off with the tribe. In fact, repeatedly throughout the film, he returns to the Indians and he always seems both happier there and to feel they are indeed the civilized ones. This way of re-framing things was the best aspect of the movie--getting the audience to appreciate the Indian culture and ways--seeing civilization is not just determined by inventions and modern conveniences, but attitude and moral development. This re-framing was especially unique because it so often showed life from a fresh Indian perspective--particularly how the killing of Custer and his troops at Little Big Horn wasn't necessarily a massacre like it is so often portrayed. Because of this style and attitude, the film is very similar to DANCES WITH WOLVES, though I think it's a better film because of its injection of humor and because it was more accurate historically. In DANCES WITH WOLVES, the Indians are a bit over-idealized and you also have far less insights into their thinking.Overall, a very strange Western due to its style an unusual perspective, but nevertheless one of the great films of the genre due to excellent writing, acting, direction--heck the whole package! "},{"Title":"Little Big Man was a good movie although the middle was a bit dull.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Little Big Man was a very good movie. The plot is interesting and the acting is good, Dustin Hoffman was great as Little Big Man. I like how there is some actual history involved like Custers Last Stand and the genocide of the Indians. I also liked how the movie although mostly a comedy was also serious at times. The movie is a bit strange at times especially during the sex scenes and some stuff is really outrageous but its entertaining. My only complaint about this movie is that there were points were it got kind of long and boring,about half way through mostly, I kept on thinking that the end would be soon but then it would go on with his adventures. Besides the slightly dull points i thought it was a good movie and would recommend this movie to anyone wanting some good laughs or any history buffs. "},{"Title":"Aimee Eccles....hottie","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This is one of my alltime favorite movies. I'm always surprised that more people aren't aware of it. And the woman who plays Jack Crabbe's Indian wife......woo woo woo!!!!!!!!!!! A wife who looks like that plus she wants you to do her three sisters? Wow! "},{"Title":"Very accurate account of history","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Many comments state that the depiction of history is inaccurate.  If the viewers had actually studied the real history of U.S. vs. Native American relations, they would have realized that the history portrayed in this movie was very slanted toward the white side.  Custer was actually crazier than he was portrayed in the movie.  He graduated at the very bottom of his class at West Point and was promoted only to get him out of the outfits he served in. American soldiers were blood thirsty idiots that killed as many Indians as they could and at every opportunity they could kill them, because they viewed them as animals and not human beings.  Native Americans were ambushed by the U.S. federal government at every turn and they ordered as many Indians killed as possible.  The main inaccuracy of this movie was in its hinting that any white Christian or not had any sympathy for the Native American.  "},{"Title":"One of the GREATEST movies ever made.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This is far by far, one of...if not the, greatest movie ever made. It has everything a movie can offer. Comedy. Action. Drama. War. Romance. Everything. This is one of those movies I can never get tired of watching because it is so good. It is a classic. A masterpiece. If you not not seen it, watch it right away.  "}{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman in seriocomic western on events surrounding Custer...","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Highly entertaining saga has Dustin Hoffman as the lone elderly survivor of the attack at Little Big Horn, recounting his life history to a skeptical historian--and it's quite a story, beginning with the massacre of his family in an Indian attack as a ten year-old boy and his growing up among the Cheyennes who adopt him and call him Little Big Man when he proves he's a worthy human being among them.The handsomely produced tale, filmed in gorgeous color on what appear to be actual locales, follows him throughout episodes always spiced by wicked humor. Especially funny is the sequence where he's delivered to the doorstep of a minister and his wife (FAYE DUNAWAY), a woman who quotes the Bible but has more earthy matters on her mind when she sets eyes on Dustin and assumes the duty of bathing him while promising to avert her eyes at the proper moment.The humor is beneath even the most serious scenes, so that we know the tall tale is being offered as a tongue-in-cheek treatment of Indian/white relationships, as well as a re-evaluation by Hoffman of what General George Armstrong Custer was really like. Custer is shown as a vainglorious type of man who dislikes having his decisions reversed, as what happens when he decides to spare the life of Hoffman at their first meeting--and later, lives to regret it.Although the running time is well over two hours, the story never lacks interest, with nice use being made of the Garry Owen tune that Custer loved. It's used most effectively in the final battle sequence at Little Big Horn which is really something to see.No expense has been spared to give the film realistic looking settings and a fine cast of players. JEFF COREY is amusing as Wild Bill Hickcock, looking very much like Victor Jory behind his beard and mustache and RICHARD MULLIGAN makes a believable Custer. CHIEF DAN GEORGE is excellent as a wise old Indian who turns out to be something of a prophet with his eerie dreams, and KELLY JEAN PETERS is a spirited Olga, Dustin's first wife.Summing up Highly entertaining treatment and a different, less Hollywood view of the American Indian with a brilliant performance by Dustin Hoffman--and the age make-up is terrific. "},{"Title":"Decent Western","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Jack Crabb (Dustin Hoffman), looking back from extreme old age, tells of his life being raised by Indians and fighting with General Custer.This film starts off strong with a relative young William Hickey. Unfortunately, Hickey quickly fades away and is forgotten. Why could he not have been a bigger part of this story? But that personal bias aside, this is a solid film. I am not a big fan of the western genre, but this is not your typical western. Rather than good guys or bad guys, it is one man's story growing up with the Indians before later encounters with George Custer. Apparently this story is based (more or less) on a real story. "},{"Title":"A classic that holds up wonderfully. Where's the DVD?","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I borrowed a copy of the VHS tape from a friend recently, and persuaded my wife to watch it with me. I worried that it was too long and would bore her (she's not a particular fan of Westerns nor of Dustin Hoffman), but it didn't at all - we both watched it with great enjoyment.The first western film with a conscience, presenting the Indian side of the Story of the West...I hadn't seen it in a while, and feared that it would be dated and moralistic. But it wasn't. The story moves along with no down time or dead spots, the dialogue is wonderfully written, and the cast is superb! Hoffman, Dunaway, Balsam, Jeff Corey, all were outstanding. Richard Mulligan gave (I think) the best performance of his life as Custer, and Chief Dan George simply stole the show.WHERE is the DVD? This movie is crying out for a DVD release! And in widescreen, please - the video I saw was panned & scanned, which just didn't cut it.One last thing the soundtrack. Very bluesy, very appropriate for the film, and really good. It reminded me of O Brother, Where Art Thou? in that it was very authentic. And I found myself whistling the fife and drum tune of the cavalry for days afterwards... "},{"Title":"Indians over Whites","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Little Big Man (Dustin Hoffman) is a centenarian white narrating on his 19th century life alternating among cohabitation with American Indians and whites.  This film is a portrayal of the human (word emphasized throughout) qualities of Indians and a Vietnam-era satire on the mindset of western settlers and U.S. Cavalrymen of the time.  There are touches of regular humor in the Indian village scenes, but with the Indian-despising whites the humor is all laughing at them, not with them.  Faye Dunaway's sexual chameleon character and her bearded, American gothic, damnation-preoccupied husband are the religious (and later, for Faye, certainly, secular) side, gunslinger hero Wild Bill Hickok appears in the film somewhat irreverently, and, of course, there is Custer's Last Stand, which largely serves to end the film.  Who cares if this megalomaniacal pompous satire is not what Custer was like either-- better than in They Died with Their Boots On, in which Custer is presented as directly opposing the gold mining forces he practically led preceding the mobilization of Terry's force before the Last Stand.  Well one thing--it is not a historical fact that Custer was planning to run for President--they could have left out that literal comment in Little Big Man's narration -- but the Last Stand was definitely hilarious here.  Highly recommended, all the way. "},{"Title":"Good stuff","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Come, see Dustin Hoffman when he was a good actor.A classic movie with great directing and acting all around.  Slow paced though - like Dances With Wolves on qualudes. "},{"Title":"Liked it","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I like this movie very much. It's got a singular flaw which keeps it from being really top rank, but it does a lot of stuff really well. For one thing, it manages not to be self-regarding about it's protagonist. Crabbe fails at everything, is always the passive one, the victim, the patsy. The only action he really takes, at the very end, works because Custer is a whack-job, not because Crabbe has really been effective.It's sardonic and absurdist, but only heavy-handed in spots. unlike say Penn's MICKEY ONE, which is so heavy-handed it's basically camp. Because the whole thing's grounded in the tall tale genre, it comes off light, amusing. Even the twists on the formula, the attempts to make Grand Statements, feel like plays on the genre. Martin Balsam, for instance, the con man who loses a piece of himself with every scam, is obviously in some sense a symbol of The Evils of Capitalism -- but he's also the kind of figure a tall tale might exaggerate, and so he's more acceptable than just some avante-gardey grotesque shoved in there. (The voice-over really works well in knitting that together -- it's one of the more effective uses of voice-over in movies, I think.) Because the movie's in some ways a bleak joke, the performances are fairly one-dimensional. Dunaway is quite soft/sexy as the church wife and then hard/sexy as the whore -- Mulligan is way over the top, but this time through I liked him better, mainly because I viewed him not as Custer, but rather as what passes for Evil in an absurd world. Hoffman's doing Hoffman -- you never really buy him as anything but a perpetual outsider, but that's all he's supposed to be, so it works.I think the movie's big flaw is that it gets overly-sentimental about the Native Americans. I think it can't quite keep up it's sardonic tone when we're with them, and I think it throws off the rhythm of the movie. I think the real secret direction of the movie is that there is no moral center to the world, just nihilism, but I don't think consciously it really wants to go there, and so backs away and romanticizes Native American life instead. But it doesn't feel believable -- those moments are heavy handed and didactic and strained. Suddenly what was complex is now simple whites = bad, Cheyenne = good.It's interesting that the movie is at it's best away from the Native Americans.Well worth seeing, although I last saw it in a revival theater and the print, a lousy television print, was dreadful. Look for a widescreen release, which may reframe director Penn's compositions properly. "},{"Title":"Forrest Gump in the good old Wild West.","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Forrest Gump in the good old Wild West, that's the best way to describe this movie in just a few words. The character of Jack Crabb sees and joins all the sides of the Wild West during this movie. As an Indian, a gunslinger, a drunk and as a scout for the cavalry under the command of General Custer during the battle at Little Big Horn. The story is told lightly with some relieving humor but also still with some successful dramatic moments.I'm probably not the biggest fan of the Western genre, around but I found this movie to be enjoyable and entertaining. The story perhaps consists out of too many coincidences to really find it believable but at least it makes the movie light and entertaining to watch. The movie is perhaps a bit of an underrated and certainly forgotten movie that deserves recognition and to be seen by all.Dustin Hoffman plays a good and likable main characters that truly carries the entire movie. Some smaller roles are for Faye Dunaway and a truly great acting Chief Dan George, who also got an Oscar nomination for his role in this.Most likely the fans of the Western genre will like this movie the best but to everyone else, this movie is also an entertaining one to watch.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Cursing Columbus","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I saw Little Big Man when I was eleven, and oh, how I loved it. I was outraged at the treatment of the American Indians and full of contempt for the US cavalry.Only when my enthusiasm for the film &#x96; which I saw numerous times &#x96; induced me to study the historical facts of the matter did I realize that this film (along with Soldier Blue from about the same time) was actually about the My Lai massacre in the Vietnam war and had very little to do with the 19th century Indians of the Great Plains. The Cheyenne Indians in Little Big Man as portrayed by Arthur Penn are kind and peace-loving believers in co-existence, and they wouldn't be out of place on Haight-Ashbury in the 1960s San Fransisco. We are even led to believe that warfare, to the Indians, consisted only of slapping the enemy with a stick (counting coup) and otherwise leaving the foe unscathed. On the other hand, the film offers no excuse for any of the white people we encounter. Main character Jack's foster father, the Reverend Pendrake, is a religious fanatic, his wife is nymphomaniac (and later turns up in a whorehouse), Jack's sister Caroline is equally sex-starved, his wife is a harpy, and to top it, Jack encounters con men, deranged generals (Custer) and what not. Caucasian culture is depraved and cowardly and murderous, as opposed to the Indians. Little Big Man beautifully depicts the hippie-happy dream of life among the Prairie Indians. For historical facts, such as the thousands of years of warfare among warring tribes on the plains, mutual atrocities and genocide among the natives, we have to look elsewhere. Little Big Man just leaves us to curse Columbus, and contemplate the great place America could have been without the white man. "},{"Title":"Messy, but enjoyable","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This is a quite enjoyable film.  Likely everyone knows the basic story, not too bright Dustin Hoffman raised by Indians.  The plot seems to just follow Hoffman around while he gets into one ridiculous situation after another.  It's a long flick, but it manages to move along pretty well and has some very interesting supporting characters.If there's any real negative, it's the silly political correctness about Indians being mystically connected to the land and the Cavalry being black hearted villains out to slaughter any woman or child they can.  Still even with that foolishness, Richard Mulligan's version of a nutty Custer, though historically innaccurate, is hilarious. If not taken as history, this is a pretty good bet for a rainy afternoon.  Even better, see it on a double bill with They Died With They're Boots On, also poor history, but great Custer flick.  "},{"Title":"This movie's revisionist history totally distorts . . .","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" . . . the true facts of the American West. It doesn't matter how fetching Faye Dunaway looks in her birthday suit, or whether tent dwellers beat the Mormons to polygamy and gay marriage, this is no excuse to rewrite the facts. A while back certain European countries started the Conservation, Ecology, and Green Movements we enjoy today. They also invented zoos and fire fighting techniques. You can imagine how shocked and saddened they were to hear Pocahantas say that thoughtless warrior relatives of hers had hunted the cuddly woolly mammoths of North America to Extinction, or how horrified they were to learn that descendants of these miscreants were currently decimating the vast hordes of bison and buffalo with intentionally-set prairie fires and human-instigated stampedes off cliffs. Therefore, Continental zoologists refined trans-oceanic sailing, so that they could come to America on HMS Beagle to save the wildlife (just as Jake Sully did on the Moon Pandora in AVATAR). LITTLE BIG MAN makes Wolverine hero George Armstrong Custer look like a total buffoon. If Autie, as his buddies called him, really WAS such a Doofus, he would not have been able to win the Civil War and Free the Slaves. But Autie followed in the footsteps of Washington (defeating the Redcoats), Jackson (crushing the rabbits), and Santa Ana (taking down the Bowie\Crockett Slave Cartel) by Letting Freedom Ring at Gettyburg and Beyond. Though the Confederates were on the wrong side of History, at least they honored the Rules of War. Not so the Bison Killers. Assigned to safeguard Buffalo Bill's conservation efforts during America's Centennial Year (1876), Autie was waylaid, ambushed, and rubbed out by the same clan that had chowed down on the last woolly mammoth. Horrid mutilations followed. Michigan wept at the loss of her most humane native son. If you love Monty Python's Bible bashing, LITTLE BIG MAN's achievement in Snarky character assassination may appeal. But the scientific accuracy of the ICE AGE cartoon features looks like the last word from Wikipedia when contrasted with this travesty of a film! "}{"Title":"A little disappointed","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Just saw this again after many years and after reading the novel.  I remember liking this movie back in the 70's although, even then, I thought it was too long.  I came away this time feeling a bit disappointed.  There were a few invented scenes and characters which i understand, but the obvious attempt to make the military look silly at the time of Vietnam (which I'm sure I enjoyed 30 years ago) did not occur in the book.  Although Jack is never a fan of Custer, he DOES develop a respect for him, mainly by seeing how he handles himself during the final battle.  It's also my opinion that Dustin Hoffman's best work was definitely ahead of him.  Richard Mulligan & Dan George were much better, Mulligan surprisingly so.  A good movie, but a novel ruined again. "},{"Title":"A white man who blends in really well with the Lakota people","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I found this film to be awesome as with any film starring Dustin Hoffman in it.  However this one is very unique in itself in that the way that Jack Crabb blended well with the Lakota people reminds me a lot of how Lt. John Dunbar blended well with the Lakota in Dances with Wolves.  The only difference is that Jack Crabb literally grew up with them from childhood while John Dunbar adopted the Lakota ways after living with them for a while ever since leaving the abandoned fort.  But in the long run, it's no wonder why this film won the many Oscar awards as it did (the same with Dances with Wolves)  The reason why I gave this one a 7 and not a 10 was because as with any Hollywood made film, it had its usual misconceptions.  For example, if a white boy grew up to live with a group of people who's culture differed from his own, the people themselves would never ask him to join them in a major battle like that as was the case in the film with the Battle of Little Big Horn as an adult.  That just didn't make any sense. Well........... anyways............ that's why I gave this one a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This Film is Disturbing and Very Difficult to Watch","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"18 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I was a kid in 1970 but I vividly remember when Little Big Man was first released in theaters. There was a buzz about the film, in particular Dustin Hoffman's performance as the star.I've probably seen this film close to 10 times and it continues to bother me more and more each time I see it.I will say this; Dustin Hoffman's performance is truly great. His character Jack Crabb is every bit the accidental hero. Likable, down to earth, awkwardly good looking and portraying perhaps the greatest identity crisis in film history, Jack finds himself caught in the middle of the Indian Wars of the 1870's with no side to call his own.The potential of the film is great as well and I wonder how it might have been made 20 or 30 years earlier without the anti-American spin.This film is difficult for me to watch because of the blatant racism and USA-bashing hate that flows throughout the film. Like the pro-Klu-Klux-Klan film Birth of a Nation and the pro-Nazi film Triumph of the Will, the cinematic quality of Little Big Man is far outweighed by the racist propaganda message it tries to deliver. In particular, Richard Mulligan's performance as General George Custer (who in real life was an iconic hero and a truly great man) is a sickening perversion of history. Richard Mulligan's Custer is a bumbling, pompous ass who turns into a raving lunatic at the battle of Little Big Horn. A performance that is as offensive as portraying Adolph Hitler as a hero of World War II.The film also openly urges the viewer to hate white Americans. In Jack Crabb's own words, Do you hate them now? Do you hate the White man now? White people are referred to as not human beings whereas the Indians are referred to as Human Beings. Little Big Man is a mockery of history and fact that uses a cute performance to promote racial hate, white-phobia and America-bashing on the lowest level. Virtually all of the events in the film are wild exaggerations of bad behavior to make evil monsters out of all white people. Equally exaggerated are the benevolent, kind, peaceful, helpless Indians who are slaughtered for fun and kicks by the Americans.I find this offensive and difficult to watch because I am against any media that exaggerates and lies to promote the racial hate of any other group of people, be they white, red, black, green or purple.If it's okay or funny to portray a great man like Custer as deranged, murdering, ranting and insane, I wonder how well it would be reviewed if Martin Luther King were portrayed the same way in a film.JW "},{"Title":"Little Big Man","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" From director Arthur Penn (Bonnie and Clyde), this was another film that featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, and I knew the leading actor who had only just become popular with The Graduate. I also knew it was something to do with the oldest man in the world at a time, although I found out it was fictional, but it didn't matter, it was definitely a film I wasn't going to forget about. Basically Jack Crabb (BAFTA nominated Dustin Hoffman) is now one hundred and twenty one years old and recalling his younger days in the 19th Century, and he is the only surviving person involved in the Battle of the Little Bighorn. So going into flashback, we see young Jack and his older sister Caroline (Carole Androsky) being captured by the Indian Cheyenne tribe where they live in their village. While Caroline escapes and rides away, Jack stays behind to be raised by the tribe and leader Old Lodge Skins (The Outlaw Josey Wales's Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Chief Dan George) as if he was one them, and given the name Little Big Man. Grown up, Jack winds up caught by the US soldiers and ditches his Native American upbringing to save himself, and he is put in the care of Reverend Silas Pendrake (Thayer David) and his wife Louise (Bonnie and Clyde's Faye Dunaway). Mrs. Pendrake is attracted to Jack, but he doesn't give into temptation, leaves the home to become apprentice to snake-oil salesman Allardyce T. Merriweather (Psycho's Martin Balsam), selling fraudulent products. Tarred and feathered they end up tied up by some angry customers, and one of them turns out to be Jack's sister Caroline, who starts turning him into a gunslinger to be known as the Soda Pop Kid (because of his choice in beverage). After he tires of this and Caroline deserts him, he opens a general store and gets married to Swedish woman Olga (Kelly Jean Peters), but this business goes bust and they ride out west with Gen. George Armstrong Custer (Richard Mulligan). On their journey however Olga is captured by the Cheyenne tribe, forcing Jack to go in search of her and rejoin the Cheyennes and an overjoyed Old Lodge Skins. Leaving once again he next becomes a muleskinner in Custer's cavalry, and agrees to help in a battle, but he sees them kill innocent women and children and turns on soldiers, and discovers pregnant Sunshine (Aimée Eccles). After saving her and the baby's life, he returns to the tribe, she becomes his wife, along with her three sisters, and he is shocked too discover that his rival Younger Bear (Cal Bellini) is now married to Olga, who does to truly recognise him anymore. After Jack has had sex for babies with all his wives for babies, winter sets in and Custer plans a surprise attack on the tribe, while Old Lodge Skins has become blind, and all his wives and child are killed in the process. Heartbroken he becomes the town drunk in Deadwood, where he is recognised by Wild Bill Hickok (Jeff Corey) who gives him money to clean up, and to be shot a minute after. Bill's dying words were asking Jack to was to see the prostitute he was having an affair with, it turns out to be Mrs. Pendrake, who he gives the money to before leaving again. Thinking he has no reason to live he plans suicide, but then he spots Custer and his cavalry, and plans to get his revenge for his family's deaths, but he instead agrees to help him once again. Jack leads the troops into the Battle of Little Bighorn, and during it we see Custer turn on Jack planning to shoot him dead, only to be killed by Younger Bear. When he goes back to Old Lodge Skins, the elderly man has come to the end of his life and is ready to die, but he does not, and accepts that he has more time to go yet, this is where the story ends. Also starring Robert Little Star as Little Horse and William Hickey as Historian. Hoffman is fantastic throughout the picture, Chief George is endearing as his elderly and wise grandfather, and all the supporting cast members do really well as well. This film really captures all the moods and situations we have come to expect in Old West films, with beautiful scenery, the classic looking towns, and exciting frontier battle scenes, a great epic western. It was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for John Hammond and UN Award. Dustin Hoffman was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 21 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"I love this movie, but...","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Let's be fair here.  Why is it that only native peoples can refer to themselves as Human beings (Actually, many native tribes' names for themselves ran along similar lines)  Such a bold title would be xenophobic and racist if done by whites, but is ok if done by anyone else.  Also, Custer WAS an idiot and borderline madman, but the depiction of him riding into the Indian camp with the intention of wiping out women and children is incorrect and libelious.  Custer found that wounded troopers were being scalped and mutilated by the natives...which is when the indiscriminate shooting started.  The friendly native folk were reknowned for their adherence to torture and mutilation, by the way.  And how many times does Hollywood discover the good native peoples anyway?  Was it here?  Dances with wolves?  The honorable Indians from 50's films?  Tonto?   "},{"Title":"comedy and drama aspects don't mix well","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I watched Little Big Man for the first time in October 2001, thirty years after it was made. I'm not against a little comedy with my dramas, but the comedy has to be organic if it's going to work. Otherwise it seems out of place. Most of the comedy in Little Big Man seems out of place, especially early on. For example, when our protagonist talks about his religious period, his snake-oil salesman period and his gunfighter period, the film seems like a pure comedy. Then he returns to the Indians and the film turns mostly dramatic. A good example of organic comedy is when the Indian wife of our protagonist invites her three sisters to share her husband and he has sex with each of them while his wife is off having their baby.Also, I didn't understand the ending. Old Lodge Skins goes to the top of a mountain to die, makes a fine speech, lays down on the ground, then doesn't die. It starts raining, and he walks back to the camp with our protagonist. The meaning of all that escapes me. "},{"Title":"Pure Propaganda","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This movie was utter tripe on one level and a stunningly deep movie on another.I guess to like it as much as it was liked when first released, one would need the same drugs that were available back in the late 60s and early 70s.When did Hollywood get a conscience ?!?!?!?Oh yeah, I KNOW it's Just A Movie and All In Fun and all that garbage, but let's look again at this for a moment.Sure, Custer was an egomaniacal, genocidal lunatic with all the social skills of a Grizzly with chronic flatulence. Certainly, the Native Americans (Don't you just LOVE Political Correctness?!?!) were treated bad at the hands of greedy, evil, sadistic, and depraved white Anglo-Saxons (no change there then).And yes, this movie was made during the times of Watergate and the Civil Rights unrest.But it returns me to my question When did Hollywood get a conscience?? More importantly, why did this conscience take so long to emerge?For the 6 decades previous to this movie, the Indians were always bloodthirsty drunken savages and the U.S. Cavalry were the good-guys. (Okay, so they were probably responsible for more deaths than Mao!!)One only has to see this movie once to realize that, great though it is in its own right, the truth is that it was and always will be a propaganda movie.  Made by the very same class of people that it purports to disdain  fat rich business people with the morals of a black-widow spider and all the scruples of Emperor Caligula.  "}]