[{"Title":"We Hate This, That's the Catch","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"177 out of 274 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is great film-making. I have never experienced greater skill with sound editing. The acting is terrific, the writing crisp and intelligent. The conception deeply nested. Why has the viewing public discarded this film? Interesting question.Usually the answer is that the film is a poor evocation of the book. It is, of course; films are fundamentally different beasts than books, so the closest one comes is to have congruence of story. But the story is the least important element of either fine books or movies. No intelligent viewer looks for sameness in an adaptation.I think the reason is simple. We are happy to accept war as heroic. Deep down, that's what we believe; whether as an inescapable fact of evolution or of chauvanistic indoctrination. Against this backdrop, we apply the stuff of our apparent convictions that war is funny (MASH, the escape movies) or grossly brutal and confusing (Platoon, the first part of Pvt Ryan-- which then reverts to the noble). We just cannot accept the view that war comes from stupidity and selfishness, because it convinces that we, all of us every one is at root stupid and selfish. This movie is so good, it convinces of that fact, and that's why no one wants to watch it. So no one is convinced. That's the catch.  "},{"Title":"Don't buy or rent the VHS or Laser editions of this movie!","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"134 out of 210 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" CATCH-22 was filmed using a widescreen aspect ratio of 2.351 (an image almost two-and-a-half times wider than it is high). Every inch of the picture area was used by the cinematographer for important information. If you watch the horrible, cropped pan-and-scan version, which is all you can get on either VHS or Laser Disc, you are missing close to 40% of the intended picture area and a great deal of important stuff! I've seen this desecrated version and, be warned, you will not even understand the final flashback revelation because it is not even in the frame!! People who can't stand those black bars on the top and bottom of the screen are going to miss the entire point of this movie!! Rent or buy the DVD, which is widescreen and restores all this critical image area. Do not judge this film if you can't see it all. I have to wonder how many of the previous reviews here are based upon the unbelievably butchered VHS version. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"53 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" When I first saw Catch-22 I couldn't believe it was made in 1970; the structure of this film is so modern it could have been made yesterday. Frame for frame a masterpiece of storytelling unfolds before your eyes; a satire, a comedy, a tragedy superb and unforgettable. The surreal humor captures the craziness of war in a way - I think - no other movie does.The film was released at around the same time as the somewhat similarly themed M*A*S*H, and while Altman's movie was a hit, Catch-22 bombed at the box office. In retrospect I would say that both films have aged very well, but Catch-22 offers a much more cinematic experience and has a narrative that is as modern as anything that's being released today. One of my favorite movies of all time.Favorite films http//www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces http//www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies http//www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed http//www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/ "},{"Title":"Funny yet disturbing. . .","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"91 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I recall hearing Catch 22 author Joseph Heller state that he started writing the book by writing the ending first and then working on the beginning and so on, back and forth. I'm not sure if he was telling the truth, but the book is certainly based on his own experiences as a bomber pilot in WWII and the book/movie's nonlinear, stream of consciousness structure is an obvious demonstration of the randomness and madness of war. An earlier post said that this movie reveals that at heart wars occur because people are selfish and stupid, and I think that is correct. Even though this movie is funny it reminds us of this unpleasant fact, so we avoid the movie altogether.Made back in the early 70s during that brief period when Hollywood actually made intelligent and artistic first-run movies, the film is an excellent piece, from its all star ensemble cast to its writing and pacing. The movie is also a sad reminder of how shallow and simplistic and adolescent movies are today. Even fine films like Saving Private Ryan have much less complexity and trust their audience less to contemplate the possibility of an amoral and senseless universe. The mythic characters, comic book pacing, and sacred three act narrative structure and tight endings--even sad ones--that tie up all the loose ends and make us feel good about ourselves and our country are the order of the day. And with this new administration look for more movies that pat ourselves on the back rather than question. ..  "},{"Title":"But wait, there's a catch....","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"52 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The first time I watched this movie, I was about 13 years old, and I loved it. Over the years I have watched this movie on more than one occasion and I still loved it. It inspired me to read the book, I watched it again, and guess what, I still loved it.The movie like the book has a non-linear time line which may confuse some people, but if you concentrate you will have no problems following the story (even on the first viewing). The structure of the film is what gives it such a high re-watch value, each time you watch you'll find something new about it.The stellar cast, give performances which vary in quality, with some of the smallest roles being extremely entertaining, but overall the ensemble delivers the goods. The direction is tight given the complex structure and the amount of material covered in the book.This film always gets compared to *M*A*S*H*, which is also a good film, but I find Catch-22 provides more laughs while delivering, the more serious, anti-war message.If you haven't watched this movie yet, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Can a crazy person realize he's crazy?","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"49 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  An all-star cast is showcased in this WWII farce centered around a B25 bomber squadron in the Mediterranean.Alan Arkin shines as Yossarian, a bombadier who realizes the hopelessness of ever completing the number of missions required to be rotated out of harm's way; his commanding officers (Balsam and Henry) are constantly upping the number once anyone gets close.  Yossarian decides his best bet is to try for a medical disqualification for flight under the grounds that it's insane to fly these missions, and since he's flying them, he must be insane.   But the flight surgeon (Jack Gilford) declares anyone who realizes the insanity of the situation must, by definition, be sane, and therefore must continue to fly.Lots of interesting side plots, such as War Capitalist Milo Minderbinder's (Jon Voight) excursion into, among other ventures, Egyptian cotton and Natley's (Art Garfunkel) discussions of lasting societies with an old Italian.Austin Pendleton is perfectly cast as the son-in-law of General Dreedle (Orson Welles), a hulking figure of a man whose personal B25 is equipped with whitewall tires.  When the General orders a moaning (after glimpsing the thigh of the General's female assistant) Richard Benjamin to be taken out and shot, Pendleton's character admonishes him, Dad!  I don't think you can do that! then whispers why into 'Dad's' ear.A thoroughly enjoyable movie that may take more than one viewing before all the subtle humor begins to sink in. "},{"Title":"Beyond perfect","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" There are several films I consider perfect. Not all are brilliant.   There are quite a few I consider brilliant, and only a few of those are   perfect. Catch-22 is not only perfect, but if there is a stronger word   than brilliant, it's that too.    The camera shots, the editing, the sound, the pacing, the casting, the   flawless acting, the incredibly complex staging of many scenes all   done to perfection. Mike Nichols directs films sparingly, but his list   of titles reads like a who's who of the greatest classics. Catch-22 is   his masterpiece, as far as I'm concerned. You may not know that he   earned an Oscar (not for this), a Tony and an Emmy all as best   director. He may be unique in this regard, but I don't know.    The book was absolutely wonderful. No movie can be an exact depiction   of the book--it just doesn't work that way. However, this movie   delivers the story, spirit and theme, not to mention the egregious   comedy of the book better than I ever would have imagined.    I could write a whole book on what I like about this film, and I won't,   but after all my sweeping superlatives I need to cite a few concrete   examples.    1. The mess hall conversation with Martin Sheen and others very   complex, with overlapping dialog, wonderful facials and voice   characterization by Sheen and a few timely cuts, not to mention the   incredible rapid fire lines delivered by Arkin.    2. The runway scene with Doc and Yossarian in which the essence of   catch-22 is explained the sound--the roar of the engines that almost   but not quite drown out the dialog in spots, the incredible inverted   shot of Doc handing Yossarian his hat and responding, it's (catch-22)   the best there is! Then, the incredible visual of the planes taking   off--staying with the shot, showing the sheer beauty of it and pausing   from the story for a minute, so we can catch out breath. I would say   Nichols is Hitchcock's equal at providing incredible visuals and being   innovative at doing it.    3. The scene about Nately's 60 shares of M&M Enterprises. The cut to   the close up delivery of, then they'll understand. Exquisitely   chilling line.    4. The endless stream of priceless cameo scenes Orson Welles - Take   that man out and shoot him. The movie is outrageously funny, the   script and dialog are incredibly witty and intelligent, the acting is   inspired, the theme is clear without touting itself at all.    A final aside for those of you who were not in the military, I   wouldn't be surprised if you thought the whole military depiction was   just silly beyond words, but I can assure you that it's only one or two   degrees of hyperbole. I had my share of Yossarian-like experiences in   the navy. "},{"Title":"Sanity trying to make sense of the insanity of war","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Despite it's 42 years since initial release, still one of the best films ever made and directed about the insanity of 'creating' war - and the mindlessness and trauma suffered from its consequences of both those conscripted to engage in it and neither more nor less than the civilian victims of it's long-time aftermaths. Warfare's far-reaching ramifications touch us, individually and globally, even into the 21st Century and beyond. Being philosophically cogent of war's deep-seated egoistic, bizarre and greedy nature of those who foment it may not get you a Pulitzer, but perhaps you may garner a 'Catch 22' medal from those of us who've managed to live through them. Mike Nichols et al, within this film, remind us of war's senselessness and of it's bitter and long-effected remains. Superb, finely crafted, and in my sense, a must-see for 2nd and 3rd generation adults. "},{"Title":"Bravo...Loved it","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I am in love with this book, so when I saw that there was a movie I flipped out and ordered it right away... and it was fantastic. I love the actors and I love how Nichols directed it. However, I was disappointed of the changes they made, where's Dunbar? He was like my 2nd favorite character. He was Yo-yo's best friend.... Also, they said it was Hungry Joe who was cut in half by McWatt, but it was really Kid Sampson, I could see how they didn't want to have too many characters to keep up with (in the book I felt like that was true) but still, Hungry Joe was...amazing, he was hilarious. Also, I'm not sure if I liked how Nately died, opposed to the books version. I suppose it made more since to kill him off when Milo's deal (the bombing thing), but it was when he died in combat mission that really broke Yossarian. I think Jon Voight did an fantastic job of Milo, he was really how I pictured Milo, I was really excited about that. The poignant walk through Rome that Yossarian takes, was so, perfect as well. But all in all, this was an excellent portrayal of the book, I totally imagined this movie (the settings, what Yossarian looked like, everything pretty much) as I was reading the book. "},{"Title":"Brilliant screenplay","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Directed by Mike Nichols, the screenplay by Buck Henry is totally brilliant. The novel by Joseph Heller is itself brilliantly written, with nuances and subtleties many readers miss. Henry caught the gist of the novel and got it on screen, using the device of returning again and again to an airplane with a scene we don't fully see, showing us a little more each time, then fading to white as we get the voice over of the next scene. We get the circularity of the novel and the scattered sanity of Yossarian as he struggles to keep his shredded reality less tattered if not totally intact.The cast is incredible. Nichols gives us an all-star cast without the drivel of such disasters as A Bridge Too Far and The Longest Day. The cast includes Alan Arkin, Martin Balsam, Richard Benjamin, Buck Henry, Bob Newhart, Anthony Perkins, Paula Prentiss, Martin Sheen, John Voight, and Orson Welles, among many, many others.Henry had to make a movie out of the novel, so he made some hard choices, excising characters and situations that some find disappointing. My suggestion is to see the movie as the movie without comparing it to the book; on the other hand, I'm astounded at how well Henry captured the essence of Heller and his work. Jon Voight is chilling as Minderbinder, who is in my very humble opinion the lynchpin of the movie. When Minderbinder tells Yossarian, Then they'll understand, the full impact of World War II (and who's the real enemy) shatters Yossarian's weakening sanity.For me the end of the novel and the end of the movie are unsatisfying, but the ride is still worth it.Trivial notes concerning the people involved in the movie. Mike Nichols also directed The Graduate, with Anne Bancroft and Dustin Hoffman. Charles Grodin (Arfy Aardvark) was supposed to play Benjamin, but couldn't agree on a salary with Nichols, so Bancroft suggest Dustin Hoffman to Nichols - she'd heard about Hoffman from her husband, Mel Brooks, who had just signed Hoffman for his movie The Producers. Hoffman bailed on Brooks and did The Graduate instead. Norman Fell (Sgt. Towser) played Benjamin's landlord in a short scene (also involving Richard Dreyfus) in The Graduate. Bob Balaban (Capt. Orr) was in Midnight Cowboy with Jon Voight (and Dustin Hoffman, of course). Buck Henry wrote a TV series for Richard Benjamin (Major Danby), who is married to Paula Prentiss (Nurse Duckett). Orson Welles (General Dreedle) did the voice-over narration for Mel Brooks's History of the World. Mel Brooks and Buck Henry developed Get Smart. Bob Newhart (Major Major Major) and Peter Bonerz (Capt. McWatt) were in The Bob Newhart Show together. And Susanne Benton (Dreedle's WAC) had a completely unrelated role in the totally unrelated A Boy and his Dog. Hollywood is a small town. "}{"Title":"War is insane","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" It's 1944 and the World War II.The reluctant bombardier, Capt. John Yossarian gets a permission to leave the war, but he gets stabbed.Now we see all the crazy phases of this crazy war.We see men in the air wanting to be anywhere else but there.Mike Nichols is the director of Catch-22 (1970).It's based on the novel by Joseph Heller.I haven't read the book.I probably should.The movie is a real good satirical look on the war topic.Catch-22 makes a statement that war is not good.But it can make a good movie.This movie is filled with loony characters.And those actors and fine comedians portraying those characters are just priceless.Alan Arkin plays Yossarian, who tries to prove that he's lunatic so he doesn't have to go flying and bombing.Martin Balsam is the lousy Colonel Cathcart, who wants to increase the number of flights.Bob Newhart's entrance into the movie is memorable.He plays this nervous and stuttering Mr. Major, who becomes a Major.That's Major Major.Very easy to remember.The legendary Jack Gilford is terrific as Doc Daneeka.Art Garfunkel, who we know also from his singing career, does his movie debut playing Captain Nately.Gina Rovere plays Nately's whore.Bob Balaban is great as Capt. Orr, who was in Sweden when we last heard of him.Charles Grodin does another great role as the pipe smoking Aardvark.The legendary big man Orson Welles plays Brigadier General Dreedle, who would execute the soldiers if he could.Austin Pendleton is wonderful playing Lt.Col. Moodus, his son-in-law.Susanne Benton is Dreedle's WAC.Norman Fell is First Sgt. Towser.Peter Bonerz plays Capt.J.S. McWatt who slices one soldier in half with his plane and then crashes himself to the mountain.Bruce Kirby, father of the late Bruno Kirby, is Doctor.Collin Wilcox plays the part of Nurse Cramer.The movie is full of funny and zany stuff.It's hilarious when Arkin's Yossarian and Grodin's Aardvark are in the cockpit together without any parachutes and Yossarian is panicking while Aarfy stays calm smoking his pipe.And we see Yossarian getting a medal from Dreedle without any clothes on.And of course the bunch of horny soldiers staring at Dreedle's WAC.Or when Chaplain Tappman goes to see Cathcart and he's sitting on a toilet.Mike Nichols told Steven Soderbergh on the DVD commentary that it was inspired by something the young Elizabeth Taylor experienced with the MGM chief Louis B. Mayer.It's often also very serious, like when Yossarian tries to help the dying soldier Snowden.The movie moves somewhere around surrealism and dreamlike state.You see in flashbacks all the events that have taken place.Except that those flashbacks seem more like a dream that Yossarian is having.Places can change quickly, or the screen can be filled with whiteness and Yossarian finds himself in the plane and hears through the intercom said by Dobbs Help him! Help him! Yossarian Help who? Dobbs Help the bombardier! Yossarian I'm the bombardier,I'm all right.Dobbs Then help HIM, help HIM! And there lies Snowden covered with blood and you also see the guts falling out of his body. It reminds me of Franz Kafka and his character K from The Trial, when Yossarian walks in the dark streets of Rome and he sees dead girl killed by Aarfy.Then in Aarfy's room he says they're coming to arrest Aarfy but they arrest him instead of going AWOL.The movie bombed both critically and commercially, which is a shame.Catch-22 makes a clear point that there is no point in war.And it does it brilliantly. "},{"Title":"Alan Arkin's finest hour...","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Alan Arkin has spent his film career portraying characters out of step with their surroundings. It's a kind of world-weariness that's etched onto every line of his oddly expressive face. He is also the only actor I've ever seen whose eyes remain fixed in a catatonic gaze, all the while he is howling with rage or utter disbelief at the sheer absurdity surrounding him. Yossarian is QUINTESSENTIAL Arkin. He knows that the concept of war is completely insane, and eventually comes to realize that the big brass has it's own private agenda. He and the other men in his squadron are mere pawns in this exercise, and Yossarian wants NO part of it. His numerous and failed attempts to convince his superiors that he is unfit to fly are both hilarious and poignant in their depiction. Yossarian is playing a game he cannot win, for the deck is too stacked against him. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Heller on Earth","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mike Nicholl's (1970) film of Joseph Heller's book 'Catch 22' - published 9 years earlier - is set in a US bomber unit during the latter part of the Second World War in Italy. Heller himself served in Corsica as a bombardier on B-25 Mitchell bombers, the aircraft which feature in the film. He flew 60 missions. Buck Henry, who plays Lieutenant Colonel Korn in the film, wrote the screenplay.We find our hero, bombardier Captain John Yosarian (Alan Arkin), as entrenched and battle-crazed as the other confused and confusing members of this unusual army air force unit. In conversation with Colonel Cathcart (Martin Balsam) and Lt. Col Korn (Buck Henry) as the film opens, the substance of his conversation is lost beneath the roar of aircraft taking off nearby. As he walks away from the conversation, he is murdered by a civilian who is apparently gardening, near to the base of the bombed out operations tower.The course of the film takes us on the nightmarish journey leading up to this apparently motiveless crime. It has to be understood that where human beings of any age or nationality are forced to remain in circumstances that are sufficiently challenging and unremittingly life-threatening, they evolve a series of unique and often incomprehensible strategies to protect what's left of their own sanity. As the film develops, we begin to get a feel for how each individual in the unit fights their own personal battle to preserve their sanity in this intractible situation. Among these people, Yosarian seems to be rather special. Not the sharpest tool in the box, yet he alone seems to keep some fragile sense of what is intrinsically absurd in his surroundings and what is simply the product of the confusion in the minds of the other members of his unit. Or maybe we just get sucked into Yosarian's own particular madness and see all the others from his own beguiling perspective.Along the way, we get to know the company Doctor (Jack Gilford) who is the first to try and explain 'Catch 22' which turns out to be the meaningless apparent solution to a conundrum that seems to underpin everything the army thinks or does. It's as meaningless as the old rhyme 'Mother may I go out to swim ?' 'Yes, my darling daughter.. Hang your clothes on a hickory limb But don't go near the water !'Doc Daneeka hates flying, so flies on paper as an absent passenger. But when the plane he is logged as flying in crashes, even the suggestible Sgt Towser (Norman Fell) is so switched off and tuned out that he can no longer believe the evidence of his own senses. He is no longer sure what he is permitted to acknowledge as real and happening.Major Danby (Richard Benjamin), leads the flight briefings apparently under the impression that he is fronting in a TV commercial for soap-powder aimed at suburban housewives. While mess-officer Milo Minderbinder (Jon Voight) manages to avoid combat duty by bartering most of the operational equipment for contraband, returning later having cut a deal to bomb their own base.This film is a tremendous portrait of ordinary people in really extraordinary circumstances. By the time we see Yosarian endearingly using the army's twisted logic to gently seduce an Italian girl who has become more accustomed to bartering intimacy for cigarettes and stockings, we realise that we too have somehow finally cracked. "},{"Title":"Dark comedy satire at its best","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  The ever talented Alan Arkin strikes again. Catch-22 ranks among his all time best films. It's a hilarious dark satire about an American World War II soldier (Arkin) who hopes to escape from the pressures and insanities of the combat front lines. He devises a scheme to have himself grounded as crazy so he can leave the war. However, his plan may backfire due to the so called catch-22 law. Arkin gives a hilarious performance as the harried soldier and he is supported by a huge all star supporting cast who all turn in equally good performances. "},{"Title":"Catch 22","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" A very intelligently made film, despite not having read the book. I didn't expect it to be so humorous with the talents of Jon Voight, Charles Grodin, Alan Arkin and Art Garfunkel dominating the narrative with enthusiastic wit. There are of course the representations of capitalism, fascism, communism as one would expect from an anti-war film, but its how they are represented that makes the film tick.Watch it for yourselves and delight in its sardonic humour and realise what Catch 22 actually means, a term so commonly used without real understanding.I will certainly purchase Joseph Heller's novel in the near future and hope its better than the film, as this is one film that could be better than its adapted source. "},{"Title":"Best and most under-rated American movie ever?","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The opening of this movie is one of the most awesome I have seen since 'Dr Mabuses Testament' some 45 years ago. The planes taking off, the lighting, Yossarian on the ground, the noise. The whole setting is so sombre, but spectacular that one is rightly wondering what is to come. And that is one of the great features of this movie, the lack of warning of what will happen next. Another feature is the irony and gallows humor that comes through, so much so that it could been mistaken for a British movie, because there is no relapse into the normal Hollywood clichés. The biting and harsh lines and logic, and (in)sanity of war is more pertinent than ever. This movie is a must-see, in particular in todays world with its warped values of profiteering, corruption, abuse of power, lying, cheating and claims of being guided by 'higher' forces. Get it, see it, see it. I can understand why it wasn't an Oscar candidate, because that would have required large audiences of some sophistication, and where would you get that in the US (in particular today)? "},{"Title":"underrated but important film","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"30 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I don't think even Orson Welles could match the brilliance of Heller's novel, but Mike Nichols made a wonderful film with mostly a top-notch cast. Alan Arkin is perfect as Yossarian. He is justified paranoia incarnate! Anthony Perkins embodies Chaplain Tappman as no would could and Jon Voight oozes the shallow charm of Minderbinder. The opening is incredible from the cinematography by David Watkins to the sound quality. In a book of this scope, you simply cannot include all of the incredible characters, but M.A.S.H. came out earlier in the year and stole the thunder from all anti-war films, comedy or not. This film didn't receive a single Oscar nomination, even for acting, in a tough competitive year, but come on! This is a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"43 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I, for one, had NOT read the novel before viewing Catch-22, and I absolutely LOVED it!  I believe it ranks as one of the best films ever made!  It certainly ranks with Carnal Knowledge and the Graduate as the best pieces of work Mike Nichols ever made.  Alan Arkin gives by far the best performance of his entire career.  The rest of the cast is nearly perfect.  It is a long movie, and moves at a very quick clip.  Like 2001 A Space Odyssey, it begs to be viewed again and again.  I love the close-up photography, which adds to the sense of claustrophobia & combustibility of the insane war situation of the characters.  There are no panoramic vistas of Italy here. In fact, Italy has probably never looked so ugly in a movie.  I love the way the action moves from scene to scene based on the thoughts of the characters, rather then strictly chronologically -- a technique Quentin Tarantino has utilized throughout his more recent career.  Unlike most of the rest of you, I love the pacing.  I love the hilarious, fast-paced first hour of the film, and then I love the slower, somber, horrific second hour. Later, I read the novel, and while it's certainly true that everything in the novel could not possibly have been used in the movie, I prefer to judge the movie strictly on its own merits.  It seems as though most of you prefer to compare the two.  I always like to see the movie first.  Case in point I believe I liked the World According To Garp so much because I had never read the novel before -- I had no preconceived notions of what the characters looked like, or how they should behave.  Then, when I read the novel, I realized that all the action of the book could not possibly have been used in the film, but the film gave me a good, solid basis from which to begin reading the book.  Was the movie is good as the book?  Of course not.  Is it ever?  Was To Kill A Mockingbird as good as the book.  Again, of course not.  But didn't you love the movie anyway.  Same with Catch-22. NOT comparing it to the book, but comparing it strictly to every other movie I've ever seen, it ranks as my favorite war movie of all time, my favorite comedy of all time, my favorite film of 1970 (a year full of good movies), and one of my favorites, period.  It is a classic.  Rent it.  Watch it over and over again.  It's well worth it!  "},{"Title":"Excellent, Mike Nichols best","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I agree with the comments made by Andy, it was definitely Mike Nichols best work. Allan Arkin was insane and the rest of the characters were casted perfectly. Seeing Orson Welles on screen nearly through me from my seat. I caught this film on PBS totally by accident and in the middle of the film. I had no idea what I was watching. I called the station and pleaded with someone to tell me the name of the movie. They did and the following day I ran out and bought it. I'm a filmmaker and love those type of films. I thought the pace was excellent quick and jerky in the beginning then settling in the middle and then up again at the end. Especially when Yossarin made his escape. I love the clever way in which the pilot, I forget his name was practicing and planning his escape.I also agree with Andy's point about the book. I read the book by Joseph Heller much later and felt the film and the movie were two different entities, not to be judged the same.There is no way to escape the great lines in this film. Especially the explanation about what a 'catch 22' is by Doc Daneeka to Yossarin. It was delivered with such length, patience and a matter of fact way that made it hilarious to me. That was some of the funniest stuff in cinema history...That's some catch that catch 22! It's the best there isss! "},{"Title":"one of the best war movies of all time","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" You might say that Catch-22 shows the insanity of war from an insane viewpoint. Yossarian (Alan Arkin) is an American soldier on an air base in WWII Italy who is constantly trying to get out of flying the missions. Unfortunately, he can only get out of flying the missions if he is declared crazy, and he will only get declared crazy if he turns himself in. But if he is trying to get out of flying missions, then he is obviously not crazy, so there is no way to get out.Among the other characters are the Machiavellian Milo Minderbender (Jon Voight), the crude-mannered Col. Cathcart (Martin Balsam), the nervous Maj. Major (Bob Newhart), the robotic Sgt. Towser (Norman Fell), the dorky Danby (Richard Benjamin), the socially awkward chaplain (Anthony Perkins) and the menacing Gen. Dreedle (Orson Welles). The movie leaves nothing to the imagination, particularly in the scene where a pilot's innards get blown out (not a scene for the fainthearted). But overall, Catch-22 shows that in war, there eventually are no good guys, especially when your orders are to bomb a town with no strategic value whatsoever.A few scenes are sort of just for laughs. One could say that the medal-awarding scene strips all facades off of war. But it's certainly a movie that anyone even considering fighting in a war should watch. "}{"Title":"A searing and visually pleasing adaptation, one of Mike Nichols' best films","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" In 'Catch-22' director Mike Nichols and screenwriter Buck Henry, along with a large ensemble that includes the likes of Alan Arkin, Art Garfunkel, Martin Sheen, and Orson Welles, takes on the challenge of adaptation Joseph Heller's renown novel. And through stunning visual work with crisp and deadpan dialogue, the 'Catch-22' is effortlessly able to capture the immense spirit of Heller's novel and at the same time stand alone as a master film.'Catch-22' takes place on the Mediterranean Island of Pianosa and the film has a strange narrative time order, which mainly includes flashback. Yossarian (Alan Arkin), a bombardier during World War II walks out just after a meeting with the high command and is stabbed. While lying on the surgery table, he begins to remember the strange events of the war, including the catch that doesn't allow him to go home catch-22. In order for a person to be grounded from flying the set number of missions, which is constantly being raised by the mean spirited Colonel Catchart (Martin Balsam), he must declare himself insane to Doctor Daneeka (Jack Gilford ). The catch is that by declaring himself insane and requesting to not fly anymore missions, he has proved himself sane! Through recalling major events, such as the painful death of the new gunner Snowden, his romantic entanglement with a prostitute in Rome, and other crazy wartime events, Yossarian slowly unravels the story. The world seems to be slowly disintegrating around him as a his friends either go crazy or are killed in combat, and at the same time mess hall officer Milo Minderbinder (Jon Voight) is constantly taking away plane equipment in order to make a profit. The difficult task of adapting such a complex plot from the novel was solved handled breathtaking skill. While some characters, major or minor, do not make the transition from Heller's novel to Henry's screenplay; the spirit of the novel is captured. The surreal feeling of wartime and the bizarre and comedic events that take place are stunningly well delivered.The cast does a good job of taking their characters and elevating them. Yossarian is arguably one of the most enjoyable characters in literary history, and Arkin gives a very well rounded performance as a man extremely paranoid about the war, but for good reason. The supporting cast, including Sheen, Voight, Welles, and even Henry himself as Colonel Korn gives able to support to the events of the story, although the main events really encompass around Yossarian.'Catch-22' was released in 1970, three years after Mike Nichols' popular film 'The Graduate' for which he nabbed a Best Director Academy Award. It also came four years after his adaptation of Edward Albee's play 'Who's Afraid of Virgnia Woolf?', Nichols' debut piece that showcased his ability to handle sharp dialogue and direct a poignant story and ensemble from another popular literary work. Nichols, fresh off the success of these two films along with a directing Oscar and another nomination, directs 'Catch-22' with a strongly appeasing visual style and a remarkable subtlety. Even during the more hectic scenes, such as a raid on the airbase, Nichols is able to continue his momentum throughout. The film, as mentioned many times in this review, looks absolutely stunning and Nichols' is also able to effectively command his large ensemble. Buck Henry, who collaborated in the writing of 'The Graduate' manages to not only capture the extremely significant and memorable dialogue of 'Catch-22' but at the same time capture the pure depth and at times, cynicism which author Heller portrayed.In the end, 'Catch-22' proves a success in its storytelling and visual style. While the film overall fell in the shadow of the popularity of Robert Altman's 'M*A*S*H' which also took major Oscar nominations instead, the film nonetheless stands out amongst its time, proving itself an extremely tight and well done adaptation of a complex piece of literature.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Film Adaptation of the Book Possible","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  The book Catch-22 is my favourite novel, and is extremely deep and intricate. It has great moments of comedy which slip quickly into tremendous moments of horror. That novel as it is could never feasibly be addapted into a live action anything.However, upon viewing the film, I was quite impressed and happy with it. I'm not an unrealistic person, so I understand that they had to cut out scenes and characters and subplots to condense it for the film. Overall, of course, it lost some of its greatest moments which are in the ironic humor of the narrative style of the book. But it was not a bad film at all. In fact, I thought it was one of the best adaptations I have seen. I think almost everything you see on screen happens in the book.   Apart from that, it was extremely well casted. The characters were just as I have envisioned them in my head while reading the novel (except that Major Major shrank about a foot... but that's not matter, because Bob Newhart was great anyway). The cinematography was beautiful, the acting was awesome (Alan Arkin was perfect), and the flashbacks to Snowden were done stylishly and surrealistically. Basically, it's a good movie. But it's an even better movie if you've read the book, and you know exactly what is going on in some of the characters' heads and what is going on outside of the scenes we see in the film. Overall, I think this is the best anyone could have done with this adaptation, and I applaud the filmmakers for that.    "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated Adapation","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This film suffers from the fact that so many have already read the book and look to pick apart every scene that doesn't synch up.  I read the book and I think it helps to watch the movie if you are at least familiar with the themes of the book, but I still think the film stands alone in its genre, somewhere behind Stranglelove, MASH and Full Metal Jacket (all movies influenced by the book).  A lot of the acting comes out cartoonish, but I think they were cartoons in the book as well.  That was a theme of the book and the film; the artificiality of people playing roles in war.  I thought Voight was excellent as Milo and Perkins played a perfectly reserved Chaplin.  This was Arkin's film, and I though he carried it off.  I also found the Snowden flash backs as an interesting choice for the movies pivot.  I've seen the film with people who did not read the book, and some unaware of the book, and I think most had very positive impressions of it.  Yes the book is a more fulfilling experience, but that is almost always the case.  I understand that the film disappointed when it opened and all the stars ended up despising each other.  I think that reaction tainted the film for several years.  I think that the film has appreciated with age and really stands today as a great underrated piece of work.  I think at some point if will be rediscovered and be placed among the best black comedy/farce/war movies of its time. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of novel","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  One of the best movies adapted from a novel.  The director has managed to create a movie that captures the feel and intent of the novel accurately. At the same time, the film has it's own identity. It is not a mere dramatization of the novel. Both book and film are absolute masterpieces and both are two of the most scathing condemnations of war.The film shows the insanity of war as a solution to conflict in a very funny and almost surreal way. "},{"Title":"Yossarian Lives!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Joseph Heller mentions in his introduction to the S & S Classics edition of Catch 22 that John Chancellor went around pasting stickers saying Yossarian Lives all around NBC studios in New York after having read the book.One finds this enthusiasm understandable upon first reading of this classic novel (and it is a classic though it is a mess -- which is part of its charm).  It is simultaneously funny and tragic, and this material fits naturally with the cinematic talents of Buck Henry and Mike Nichols.  They achieve the same tone as Heller's book, but with requisite condensation (even if this film had been twice as long, it wouldn't have been able to capture everything in the book, which is not a condemnation).The book runs in circles chronologically; so does the film.  The book repeats the Catch 22 theme on almost every page (it is certainly the focus of most dialogue); the film isn't as rife with its references but is more explicit when invoking the Catch.The tragedy of Snowden is a dramatic focal point for both; unfortunately, the film builds it up more (due to its comparative brevity) but falls short in explicating the relevance.Fortunately the adaptation works incredibly well on several levels.  In terms of characterization, Alan Arkin IS Yossarian, Anthony Perkins IS Chaplain Tappman, and Bob Newhart IS Major Major (albeit briefly).  The dialogue, which closely follows the novel for the most part, works as well orally as in the written form.  And the insanity of war, which underlies all of the book, is well represented.As a creative work, this film is impossible to divorce from the book, which is difficult to say about many adaptations.  As a creation of its own, it suffers some without knowledge of the base material, and as an adaptation of that material it is bound to disappoint fans of the original.  There's that Catch again.  Viewed with a balance between the two positions (if that's possible), it works extremely well and shows its depth with each viewing in the same way the book does with each reading. "},{"Title":"Madness at its best.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Brilliant, quirky, unpredictable amusement.  Thought provoking, shocking and hilarious.  A stellar cast carries the tone from serious to lunacy with astounding grace.  Cult Classic.  Not for everyone.Possibly for fans of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Where the Buffalo Roam, Fargo, Trainspotting, Drugstore Cowboy, Bonnie and Clyde, Blue Velvet, Man Bites Dog, Kicking and Screaming. "},{"Title":"all time classic anti-war movie","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  one of the all time classic anti-war movies and one of the rare examples of a movie adaption of a book that actually remains true to the story's action and dialogue.  No film (or book) has ever come closer to exposing the absurdities of military thinking and actions than catch 22.  Yossarian's plight is beautifully told as he struggles to come to terms with the fact that he is the only sane person in an increasingly insane situation.  At times absurd and surreal the film never loses track of the underlining sadness of the novel and its the poignant portrayal of the mens fate that is the films greatest strength.    "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Along with M*A*S*H, the best war movies ever made. The antics of the main characters, and the side plots, really get to the root of the diversity of men grouped together to perform an unpleasant activity. "},{"Title":"Captain Yossarian","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Captain Yossarian is a bombardier stationed in Italy. The captain is a very unhappy man. He does not want to fly missions anymore. Yossarian is quite outspoken about the number of missions required, and He speaks to several people about his problem, including a doctor and a chaplain. The doctor tells Yossarian early out that Yossarian is a victim of catch 22. Basically, catch 22 means you are damned if you do and damned if you don't. It does not matter what you do to remedy a situation, the situation remains the same. Catch 22 received no awards, and the reason this is so is because of its treatment of World War II. That is my opinion. I read the very nice and well-written biography of Alan Arkin on this website, and in I read that the Mike Nichols film was not well-received. The movie was in the theaters in 1970.Possibly the most unsavory character in the movie is Milo. Milo is fundamentally a Fascist. After all, the Lieutenant begins making deals with the Germans and evolves into a turncoat. Billed as a comedy, Catch 22 goes through a definite change of tone in the course of the story. After the highly satirical air raid, which is in no sense a drill, the film begins to take on dark overtones. The movie becomes serious, but then aseptically humorous when Yossarian meets with the Major and Lt. Colonel after a problem in town. Besides his aversion to going on the countless bombing missions, a possibly brighter side to his personality is Yossarian's interest in women. One of his better choices is a beautiful Italian who the captain sees walking by a café in the town where the squadron is stationed. The classical piece Thus Spake Zarathustra(which is also a novel) plays as Luciana walks Capt. Yossarian. Although she is not a very important character, the two have a funny conversation about bombing fish. In a movie such as Catch 22, where so many things happen, there are large gaping holes, or would be, if one minimizes any character that has more than one scene. Everyone is involved in the movie, and taking one character out is like moving a domino.Martin Sheen of Apocalypse Now acts in Catch 22, and Art Garfunkel, and Anthony Perkins from the thriller Psycho. Bob Newhart is Major Major Major and the Lieutenant Colonel is played by Buck Henry. The unsavory Milo is played by Jon Voight and Walk Of Fame actor Orson Welles is the Colonel who decorates Captain Yossarian for the successful fish-bombing mission. "},{"Title":"Better than M*A*S*H*....","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I could never really quite get into MASH and that baseball game is wasted on me. Mike Nicol's Catch 22, though, that's different. It's instant. Straight away it just clicks as being a film that is warped enough to be well outside anybody's box. I know that MASH is Vietnam and this an Italian airbase somewhere in the Med in WW2, but from here-on in, there are big similarities.Alan Arkin has never been better and though I haven't read the book and probably never will, you can tell straight away that he was born for the role. His only other performance that comes near was his Oscar winning one as grumpy old uncle in Little Miss Sunshine. As the US air-force captain hell-bent on proving his insanity, Capt Yossarian has to try and convince everybody, especially himself.The film is on so many delicious levels that it can be seen many times and a different stance or joke is revealed that you didn't see before. I'm on my third. Dreams, nightmares, psychosis, nudity, superb, adventurous cinematography AND Orson Welles, that's one helluva combination. The stunts are worthy of expensive 'proper' war films and it must have been a very brave film for Nicols to even contemplate making.There's one hell of a cast too, aside of Arkin and Welles - Anthony Perkins, Richard Benjamin, Art Garfunkel, Martin Balsam, Jon Voight and Martin Sheen - that's an invite list to the Oscars!My policy with such off the wall movies is not to try and understand them, unless it comes to me. Logic and reasoning can be an awful barrier to enjoyment, sometimes! For this reason alone, I'm not even going to try to explain the plot here.You'll want to watch Catch 22 for its WW2 satire, the imaginative direction, the well executed stunts and maybe above all these, the cast - and the humour that is so unreal, it's almost happening outside of one's mind and body. "}{"Title":"Great moviemaking","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Books are books, and films are something else. Though I enjoyed reading Joseph Heller's novel, I was impressed with this adaptation, when I first saw it in a movie house, especially for its splendid use of the Panavision format. Although now I miss the wide-screen, the impression of high quality filmmaking has not diminished after the years, when I have seen Catch 22 in video.The adaptation by Buck Henry opens the discussion on films based on books Henry has preserved Heller's spirit, that is --for me-- the most important thing to do when one adapts a work from another source. And Mike Nichols' excellent direction asserts the autonomy of the cinematic author, who is free to create a different work of art from a literary source.I must add that all the discussion seems rather strange, for no one knows how Heller's book will be appreciated in the 21st century...For me, Marcel Dalio's cameo as the Italian blind man makes sense for the whole film, with his reflection on political and economic empires. Everybody is very good in this film (among the best, Jack Gilford, Alan Arkin, Orson Welles, Jon Voight and Bob Balaban), and my only regret is that Paula Prentiss' funny recreation of Nurse Duckett is seen only briefly.   "},{"Title":"You are a very weird person, Yossarian","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"35 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Like many movies, the reading of the book for background information is really helpful here, but not mandatory. For 1970, it has the biggest and best crew of stars probably ever offered on film. It's unfortunate that most university graduates from pre-1980 have heard the expression Catch-22 but haven't watched the movie or read the book.During one part of the story, Yossarian, the lead bombardier, finds out that they are going to bomb an Italian village that has no stragetic interest to the US war effort. He decides to drop his bombs on the Mediterranean Sea, and since he's the Lead Bombardier of his Army squadron, everyone else has to follow suit. The General, General Scheisskopk (check out what that means in German, folks) wants to court marshall him, or shoot him. His Colonels dissuade him from doing this, give Yossarian a medal and promote him to avoid the negative publicity which would happen if this information got the press.This movie has many ironic experiences shown, including the horrors of war. The cinematography is excellent and the movie is well worth watching. Yossarian is the anti-hero who goes through many adventures that young people should see before entering service.Jack Hamann  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Satire Of WWII Insanity With Amazing Scenes And Incredible Performances","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Yossarian is a US Army bombardier serving in Mediterranean Italy during World War II. Despairing of the horrors, lunatic bureaucracy and general insanity all around, he resolves to get grounded by claiming to be crazy. But there's a catch; to be grounded you must be diagnosed as crazy, but if you ask to be grounded then quite clearly you're sane ...Much like Naked Lunch, this is a good movie of a good book which is fairly unfilmable. Joseph Heller's 1961 novel is an amazing achievement - arguably the first novel to deal with war as both horror and comedy, using an episodic stream of consciousness approach which enhances both sides of the material to great effect. The movie, made at the height of the US-Vietnam war, has something of a hippy sensibility, but is very successful in its surrealism and satire. It's almost impossible to imagine it being made nowadays; scenes like the one where Yossarian pretends to be the son of a visiting family when the real son has inconveniently died shortly before are too daring and avant garde for a modern studio picture. The movie piles on craziness after craziness without ever seeming heavy-handed, but for every funny moment there are carefully crafted shocks, culminating in Yossarian's post-curfew walk through a city where crime and depravity have become so common that no-one hardly notices anymore. The film's trump card is a stunning cast of great actors in early stages of their careers; Voight, Garfunkel (billed here as Arthur), Sheen, Grodin and Balaban are all terrific, Newhart is very funny as the harassed Major Major, and Welles steals his scenes as the world-weary General Dreedle. The best two performances for me though are from Arkin and Perkins, perhaps the two most interesting American actors of their generation, who seem to make almost every nuance and gesture somehow add to the characterisation and impact of each scene. Nervous comedy is probably about the hardest thing to play, and this is a masterclass from both. Nicely shot in the Sonora desert by David Watkin, with an amazing main set built by Richard Sylbert. Written by Buck Henry (who plays the cigar-chewing Lieutenant-Colonel Korn), who also collaborated with Nichols on their previous movie, The Graduate. It's worth noting the influence of the seminal 1923 Czechoslovakian novel The Good Soldier Svejk by Jaroslav Hasek, on both the movie and Heller's book. Not everything in the film works as well as it could; the absence of a score for me is a problem, the situations are so extreme that they require patience and an open mind, and as with all non-structured writing it does sometimes slip into an episodic feel, rather than a flowing story. It's an amazing statement on what war is really all about though, made by a big studio (Paramount) during a short interval when Hollywood had the courage to back filmmakers and artists to try something imaginative and different. If you've only vaguely heard the term Military Industrial Complex and can't see why there are always so many nasty little wars going on all around our world, this is a good movie to try and catch for some answers. "},{"Title":"It Keeps Coming Back","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I don't know why it is.  I read the book about 5 times.  It was one of those rites of passage in my youth, founded in the sixties.  When the movie was going to be made, I thought, Oh, Lord!  I didn't have to see it.  I was disappointed in it before I went to it.  I believe I was perceptive enough to know that there is no movie director on earth who could do justice to the book.  It would be a failure.  In most ways it was, at least in my eyes.  The thing is, though, that every time it shows up on TV or I find my old VHS copy sitting worn on the back of a bookshelf, I can't take my eyes off it.  The surreal meandering, the craziness of the signature title, are presented well enough to hang on to my reluctant attention.  I think one of the things I love is Alan Arkin's expressions of pain.  When he opens his parachute to find an M & M Enterprises coupon, it is laughable  We're going back.  We're going to turn the plane around and go back.  Then the same thing becomes ugly when he looks for the morphine to help Snowden in his dying state and the same thing happens.  The characters are well drawn and the acting is excellent.  Every scene is a Catch-22, piled up one after the other.  Meanwhile, Yossarian is dreaming and yearning and afraid to die.  It's the cohesion that's missing; it's some of the really significant characters that give the insane order to the book.  Still, next chance I get, I will watch it again, because, as the Doc would say after Yossarian says, That's some catch that catch 22.  Yep, it's the best there is.  For now, this is the best there is, and it will do until some other poor soul tries to do it again. "},{"Title":"Under-Rated, Forgotten Film Worth a Few More Viewings","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I don't know how to describe this movie a dark comedy, an action film? A drama? Some parts are so serious and dark while other segments are mindbendingly hilarious.The main character, Yossarian, is trying to get out of flight duty because his superior keeps raising the number of missions. One by one his men are getting killed or going crazy (or both). There are suicides, friendly fire attacks with propeller blades, a sexual assault and a man who practices crashing his plane in the ocean. So Yossarian tries to escape and discovers the catch (Catch-22) A man can only be taken off flight duty if he's crazy. But if he reports himself crazy, he must be sane enough to know flying is a bad idea and is therefore deemed sane and forced to fly. Hence, there is no way out.The cast is phenomenal Bob Newhart, Orson Welles, Anthony Perkins, Martin Sheen, Art Garfunkel, and Jon Voight. As well as others, of course. Voight particularly shines in this film as a capitalist who overtakes his unit and tries to cash in on the war to the point of being a dictator. He not only sells his men's parachutes but even makes a deal with the Nazis where he will bomb his own base.The sound and music is minimal. But this pays off for the movie because the few instances of music are more prominent. The directing is good, although I'm confused by much of the colorization.The most confusing part is trying to figure out why the same scene is replayed over and over again (each time revealing a few more moments). In the end, I think this makes more sense. At least it did for me.Check this film out. Where else can you find accepting a medal buck naked from Orson Welles? You certainly won't find that in The Stranger or Citizen Kane... "},{"Title":"Greatest commercial movie of all time","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" A gorgeous production from beginning to end. Mike Nichols and Buck Henry managed to capture the spirit and the humor of the original text while paring it down to a commercially viable two hours. If they had followed the text to full length, then it might have been the greatest movie ever made.But some people have a hard time with it because it is non-linear; well, it can be confusing to bounce back and forth in time, but great films aren't necessarily easy. This is one of those films that grew on me with repeat viewings, as I became better able to pick out the finer points from the rush of dialog and imagery.Also, some people don't appreciate black comedy. It's difficult to comprehend exactly how insane our society is. It's difficult to accept that we can be the bad guys. In fact, many times we are and just can't accept it psychologically. There's a natural tendency in human beings to trust in authority, to believe that the ideals ensconced in our culture (such as the Golden Rule) are held dear by all. However dear children, the guys at the top do not feel constrained by general norms of decency or even pieces of paper like the constitution. For those who are not well aware of how propaganda is used to control us, I suggest checking out Plato's allegory of the cave (it's in The Republic).Anyway, back to the movie! Lots of nuggets are there to pick out social commentary, subtle plot design, site gags, a lovely homage to Fellini. If you have seen it and did not much care for it, I suggest A) you read the book if you haven't already and B) see it a few more times! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" It's awfully refreshing to see a film like this; and depressing to realize that even on a tiny screen, with jarring commercials every twenty minutes, it's still a good sight better than most movies coming out today.Director Nichols is a master of creating mood on screen; every scene, every shot even, is carefully aimed to mirror the mood of protagonist Yossarian. When he is not in the scene, the tone shifts abruptly to one of absurd humor (particularly the glorious scene with Bob Newhart as Major Major, which is even funnier than it was in the book). It takes a real talent to synthesize this type of comedy with the pure psychological drama of Yossarian's character, and Nichols pulls it off - the constant flashback scenes, which would be ludicrous in a lesser film (and were even pushing it in the book) are entirely believable and powerful.Of course it doesn't hurt to have a cast stacked with first-rate actors, even in minor parts. Alan Arkin (Yossarian) captures the realism of his character perfectly, and everyone else is just larger-than-life enough to reflect Yossarian's state of mind perfectly. Particularly notable is the great Jon Voight as the manic wheeler-dealer Milo.If at times the script becomes overpowering and confusing, that's due to its understandable attempt to capture as much of the book's chaotic energy as possible. A viewer who hadn't read Catch-22 may be left cold by some of the scenes, though, and that may be the movie's only weak point.Still, this is what happens when every ingredient of a film comes together - a cinematic experience that works on every level. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Gem of 1970","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Catch-22 is one of the funniest black comedies I have ever seen. It's full of great sight gags, more daring versions of run-of-the-mill army jokes, satirically realized characters that are written to take devastating aim realistic versions, et cetera. Aside from all of that, the reason that it is all so funny is because of the surrounding point of it all Alan Arkin's character simply cannot escape the binds of the military regulations and rules, which come in the form of an endless stream of subtle catch-22s. The premise of course is founded upon the catch-22 that Arkin faces when trying to be declared insane so he doesn't have to fly anymore missions, a hilarious boundary of opposing yet still compatible reasons, but throughout the film, a flow of smaller catch-22s decorates the plot. I haven't read Joseph Heller's novel, but having seen the film, I can say it's a brilliantly delivered satire.The film's zipping pace adds to the tongue-and-cheek tone of the movie. Mike Nichols almost always brings an acute intensity to the style and pace of his movies, and so in this film, the story is told through overlapping scenes, fixated cinematography comprised in several scenes of one long take, blaring and constant sounds, and grippingly animated performances from the cast.Alan Arkin, Anthony Perkins, Bob Newhart, and Jon Voight deliver most of the laughs, all of them somehow assigned to different roles for humorous delivery. Arkin and Perkins, though their characters are very different, are the livewire physical comedians, Newhart is the gawky neurotic butt of schemes and chains of cause and effect, and Jon Voight is the dry exaggeration of the coldly, proudly capitalizing American entrepreneur.Catch-22 was made in 1970, beginning a decade of the most potent crop of films there would be until the turn of the 21st century, the later spurt of cinematic high points lasting a lot shorter than a decade, for now in America, our films have developed a peculiar pituitary disorder in which the maturity has receded greatly and reduced itself to a childlike state. Let's face it. There really aren't too many great films right now. More legitimately put, you can't just walk into any movie nowadays with the sure feeling that you'll enjoy yourself. You have to choose wisely and carefully now to make sure you don't spend two hours watching a contrived, formula-deformed disaster. Catch-22 is the perfect example of the creative intelligence, sophistication, and razor-sharp talent that went into movies in the 1970s. "},{"Title":"HELLO OUT THERE - WIDESCREEN PLEASE!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is a film that really needs to be put on the home video market in a widescreen format. With this much talent both in front of and behind the camera, there has to be someone who can make this happen for this movie. Catch-22 has a strong enough following to warrant such a release. I'm sure devotees of the book have their own opinions about the movie (never read it) but, as cinema, I was glued to it at 2am and could not get myself to go to sleep till it was over. I am big on seeing the film makers intended aspect ratio and the current video version of this film is terrible. "},{"Title":"Some hilarious scenes in disjointed movie","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Captain Yossarian (Alan Arkin) is a WWII bombardier desperate to quit the war by claiming to be crazy. However Dr. Daneeka explains that there is a catch-22. People who are willing to fly the risky life and death missions are crazy. He is bound to release crazy people as long as they make a request. However if they ask, then they don't want to fly and therefore by definition are not crazy. Colonel Cathcart (Martin Balsam) is the callous commander who keeps increasing the missions required to go home. Tappman (Anthony Perkins) is the incompetent Chaplain. Captain Major (Bob Newhart) is given the squadron command seeing that he's the only Major around except Major is just his name and not his rank. Dobbs (Martin Sheen) is the bomber pilot. Milo Minderbinder (Jon Voight) is using various items in convoluted trades with wide ranging places taking the silk parachutes from the planes.This is very similar in tone with MASH. This is much more surreal. They're both anti-war black comedies. They both came out around the same time and of course, Catch-22 got crushed by the better MASH. The story feels like a bunch of disjointed skits. Some of it is hilarious. Alan Arkin is especially funny in his mania. Some of it is less funny. I would like a more straight forward story concentrating on fewer characters or maybe only Yossarian. I'm not a fan of the various 'dream' sequences since they usually stalls the movie. Later, it devolves into a series of Kafkaesque dream scenes. Most of it doesn't really work but it does recover somewhat. "}{"Title":"Catch-22 Review","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Catch-22-** (out of 4) All the components of a great film are there a brilliant novel by Joseph Heller, Buck Henry in charge of writing, Mike Nichols behind the camera, and a cast any director worth his salt would die for. Of course that all looks good on paper, but it never quite comes together. The black humor of the novel comes out rather awkwardly on the screen, the vignettes not coming together the way they do in the book. The film is a hot mess, a smashing together of Heller's novel into slightly funny scenes that have little flow. Arkin is a great actor, but not the right Yossarian. Arkin is too distinctly New Yorker and looks way too old in the role. Of course Henry's writing does nail certain scenes and the cast is fun to watch, but it is never as great as it should be. It would even be a stretch to say that it is even half-good. "},{"Title":"Nichols disappoints. Arkin doesn't.","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I had many questions in mind when I watched this film, the first among them being, Why was this movie made? and a few more questions followed- Didn't Mike Nichols read the script and suggest any revisions? and Couldn't it be a little more funnier, may be not as much as the book but funny nonetheless?.Adapted from Joseph Heller's one-of-the-kind satire novel, the movie failed to live up to the hype and humor the book created. Mike Nichols, fresh from winning an Academy Award for 'The Graduate' somehow lost his brilliant directing skills to a poorly written screenplay. Yes, there were jokes and funny moments, where you'd guffaw no matter what, but those moments were too few as compared to those in the book.MASH, the book, by any standards, couldn't match Joseph Heller's novel. But when it comes to Motion Picture and presenting it, Mike Nichols lost it to Robert Altman's MASH.And no one else would have made a better Yossarian than Alan Arkin. Jon Voight and Balsam were impressive too. "},{"Title":"Everyone's right - read the book first","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Pretty much all of the comments here are dead-on.  I never have read the book, although it was one of those that was on my parents' shelf for years, but I happened across the movie on cable yesterday and was drawn in by the quality of the cast.  I like to consider myself something of an intellectual in movie-going, but without having read the book previously, I found myself lost and confused more often than I would like to admit.Nevertheless, I found humor and pathos in the appropriate places and picked up on the anti-war theme immediately.  It helps, too, to understand the historical context of the time the book was written and the movie made, during the Vietnam War.The characters, except for Yossarian, did not seem to be fleshed out adequately, probably due to the necessary condensing of the story, and the recurring scenes with Snowden became frustrating and predictable, again probably a function of my not having read the book.  I will be heading posthaste to my local library to check it out - hopefully, it will give me a better perspective on the story and, perhaps, a better appreciation for the movie (which I actually enjoyed this time around) next time I see it.Again, just to clarify, I DID enjoy this movie and would recommend it highly to anyone.  However, I would caution the viewer to be prepared to think, not merely to be entertained, and I would strongly suggest reading the book first.  "},{"Title":"Anti-War? Nope. Anti Bureaucracy!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  It's always been my opinion that Catch-22 wasn't an anti-war book, after all, before Snowden, Yossarion was a fairly diligent soldier.This is a film about disillusionment, and a film blasting bureaucracy, rather than war. Among the examples is Major Major Major Major, who was put in a position he didn't want / deserve because that was simple how the system worked.As an adaption of the excellent novel is it alright, several of the best bits are merely glossed over and some parts could have been sacrificed in favor of more worthy scenes, but it does it's job well. This is probably intended for those who've read the book already, as I expect many will be confused otherwise. The highlight is John Voight as Milo. Even if he'd been in every scene I'd say he was underused. "},{"Title":"making sense of catch 22","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Catch 22 is one of those films that you walk into full of expectation, and come out of either laughing like crazy or bowing your head in dissapointment. That all depends on your taste, and unfortunately whether you had read and enjoyed the original. Despite all it's attempts to clarify what's going on, this film requires and deserves some background reading before watching.Once you get past that obstacle, this can turn out to be a very enjoyable film. It has made full use of it's amazing cast (orson welles, alan arkin, jon voight, anthony perkins, martin sheen to name a few) and excels in it's use of special effects which for 1970 were fairly astonishing. But some parts in which you find yourself in tears when reading just became confusing. Such as nately's whore's numerous attempts to kill yossarian, for simply breaking the news of nately's death to her. This was reduced to a single attempt, which had to be clarified minutes later and thus effectively destroying the joke. As was the case with a few others in the book. What the point was of introducing major major major major in the film at all i couldn't see as he played no real part in the plot of the film.But the film's greatness becomes apparent on the second or third time round, when you notice the small background visuals and humour that you've most likely missed on the first. The film also brings things new to the story, such as the effect created by the numerous attacks yossarian witnesses as he walks round rome at night, which effectively reduce him to tears. Whether or not you take to this film is of course a matter of taste, but is worth a look for any open-minded film goer.       "},{"Title":"a seriously funny movie about insane reality","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" In 1970, MASH and Catch-22 were the main contenders in the unofficial bout of military satire movies, and while MASH ended up making far more at the box office and keeping its acclaim so high that Robert Altman had a sweet career in the 70s (and, arguably, made far greater films), I might be in that minority that prefers Mike Nichols' funny but dark and pretty frightening adaptation of Joseph Heller's novel. I can't say with certainty if it reaches up to the reputation of Heller's work (I would imagine it's probably better and with more detail and further wit), but director Nichols and screenwriter Buck Henry nail what is by now the obvious and continually horrifying fact that the nature of wartime brings on such an insane situation that the sanest one is the one who wants to prove to the nut-house that he's the loon. As in Dr. Strangelove, Catch-22 is populated by eccentrics and crackpots and just strange people, but there's a reality t it that keeps it from going too far into farce.The difference for Nichols, I think, was Vietnam. There's that underlying current of that war being even more maddening and pointless than WW2, and there's many scenes where the humor just evaporates and we're left with Yosarrian (Alan Arkin) completely bewildered by a military command that is chaotic by design. When we see a character like Bob Newhart's Captain Major or Jon Voight's character's chocolate cotton (not cotton candy, cotton) or Perkins walking in on Martin Balsam on the toilet, it's funny or amusing or, as in Yosarrian's thing for acting 'weird' and going nude for a medal or just for the hell of it, hilarious in that deadpan manner one expects from the director of the Graduate. But the tone shifts, not suddenly but with a good jolt, when the pilot shops the guy in half and then flies into the mountainside. Not to mention the whole final third of the picture, which becomes darker and more troubling; the satire turns from nutty and sometimes dream-like (i.e. recurring vision of 'saving' the guy dying in the plane) to tragic and ugly. In fact, this is no less an important depiction of the macabre nature of the beast that is war than Apocalypse Now.If it's not really a totally great film or a masterpiece, it's almost one. It starts a little shaky with its tone, I should note, as one has to adjust to some of the rhythm of the dialog like the first mess-hall scene with Martin Sheen and Art Garfunkel, or just the tone of the film-making which goes to creative lengths to make cinematic the tone of picture, sometimes in just one shot (the best being when Voight and Balsam walk and talk, and the plane crashes down without the characters flinching). There's touches of real brilliance to the direction and the writing and certain set pieces like the medal awarding or the ending. But at the same time Nichols is also best as an actor's director, and he's assembled a host of familiar faces to film buffs, or just casual moviegoers Arkin gives a genuine pathos to the protagonist Yosarrian; Sheen and Voight and Charles Grodin and Bob Balaban and Anthony Perkins and Balsam fit great into their supporting roles, filling them with equal parts grounded reality and wackiness that verges on that line of serious and parody; Orson Welles, for his two scenes, almost steals the show from the large cast.It's a mostly superb and underrated work by a director off and running early in his career, working from a highly regarded work of black comedy to as honest an extent as possible (or, rather, it doesn't feel cheating to what would be an adaptation), and it puts you into a whole other perspective of that Great war, with foreshadowing to contractor-profiteers and fake missions on civilians and power-hungry brass with total immunity. Maybe nothing very new, sure, but it's rarely so entertaining and powerful. "},{"Title":"A Great Anti- War Film That Still Stand's Out!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" CATCH-22 From The Novel By Joseph Heller, is a fantastically made black comedy anti-war classic, From the great Mike Nichol's The legendary Alan Arkin, plays Yossarian, a bombardier, in world war 2, who has had his fair share of anxiety, tries everything possible to get himself sent home, amidst the chaos he's not the only one going to pieces, they are several wonderful character's too many to mention ,which make's this film great is the superb Widescreen Photography from Richard Lester's usual Director Of Photography, David Watkin, who light a lot of scene's in natural light,The Rest of the all star cast include's a pre Midnight Cowboy, Jon Voight,Bob Balaban, Future Director Richard Benjamin, Paula Prentiss,(Mrs Richard Benjamin) Orson Welles,the mighty Martin Balsam, Art Garfunkel(in His debut) Charlie Sheen, in an early role, Jack Gilford, as an neurotic doctor, CATCH -22, Is Ideal viewing along with MASH, "},{"Title":"Catch it","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Of course, its nearly impossible to consider the film apart from the book, which is a great pity. I had the good fortune to see the film first, and it made a vivid impression. I was swept away by it. To this day, I have yet to see another where the director has evidenced such a total mastery of the medium. But, unfortunately, in so far as its wider reputation is concerned, the film seems destined to remain forever in the book's shadow, to be either overlooked, or considered a pale imitation. This does it a great injustice. I like to imagine that the book was never written and, instead, the film was based on an original screenplay. In this parallel universe, Catch-22 reaps a swag of Academy Awards, and goes on to take its place, alongside the likes of Citizen Kane and The Godfather, as an enduring American classic.  "},{"Title":"Funny, insightful and supremely well cast.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  In regards to rotopex's comments below I don't think anyone should with hold their opinion because they have not read the book or studied the history of the time it came from. It's sheer hubris to assume that only those who have done so can offer any worthwhile criticism. I come from the school of thought that says a movie should be judged entirely on it's own merits, separate from any work that it may be based on or inspired by. It is very interesting to hear what modern viewers who have not read the book think of this film.That being said, Catch-22 is my favorite book of all time. I've read it more times than I can count. I highly recommend it to anyone.The movie Catch-22 is a pretty good film. The cast is fantastic. The whole thing seems a bit rushed so it helps that every player is so naturally capable of establishing themselves in their parts. You are not likely to confuse Orson Welles for Charles Grodin or he for Art Garfunkel. All of them delight and the script gives them some great lines to delvier. The directing is tight and does a good job of trying to show things from the main characters fractured point of view. The ending is great and still delivers quite the jolt.On the downside, like I said, in many parts the film does feel rushed. Sometimes you would like it to maybe linger in some scenes and hear more from some characters. Some of the dialogue has not held up well over the years and may seem facile or obvious to modern, more jaded audiences.In the whole, it's a smart, funny and well rendered film. "},{"Title":"A Rather Bland Anti-War Film!","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Following along the lines of M.A.S.H and this film, Catch-22, both war movies from 1970, Hollywood was at the point where it began making anti-war movies following America's unpopular involvement in Vietnam. While M.A.SH was actually a rather fun movie following a second viewing, I really couldn't get on board with this film. Not to say it was a terrible film. But it just wasn't an appealing film, despite the pedigree of the cast and the director. There are some amusing moments for sure, but most of the comedy didn't register with me and the one word that comes to mind is blandness. Not bad nor good, but just mediocrely bland. I totally understand the themes of the movie and what the film is trying to say, so I do appreciate the film making it easy to apply its themes.Mike Nichol's film is about a military captain named Yossarian who had enough of fighting in the Mediterranean front during the second world war. Other that driving his fellow army members crazy, he decides to do anything possible to be labeled insane so he can be sent home and away from the war.One of the positive things about the film is the rather stacked cast. While I had script and direction issues, the cast was not the problem. Alan Arkin turns in a delightedly zany performance as Yossarian, and I can guess this is one of the films that put him on the map. Other stand out performances were Jon Voight's performance as one of the soldiers, who had a memorable scene near the end near the airfield. I also liked Orson Welles brief but formidable performance as the top general.Overall, Catch-22 doesn't live up to the promise I saw in it based on the pedigree. Keep in mind, this is only Nichol's second film after his promising 1967 debut, The Graduate. He does get better with his future films. His direction was subpar and the writing was weak, but thankfully the cast saves the film from being a complete failure. I admit I had some laughs and was easily entertained by Alan Arkin. I do like the ideas the film suggests, but it should have been told in a better way. Oh well, not all films can be perfect ones.My Grade C "}{"Title":"Crazy, anarchic and compelling&#x85; An interesting take on Joseph Heller's novel&#x85;","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is a film I saw many years ago&#x85; I didn't really understand it then and so I thought I'd give it another look (having matured a bit in the meantime). I must say it's very weird, anarchic at times and has a lot to say politically&#x85; it's also quite compelling. Based on Joseph Heller's famous novel which, I have to confess, I've never read so you'll be getting my opinion of the film as a stand-alone piece. But enough of my prattling; let's have a crack at a synopsis before I give you my thoughts.Whilst flying missions in Italy during World War II, Capt. John Yossarian decides he wants out and tries to get himself certified insane&#x85; But there's a catch&#x85; Catch-22 to be precise. I won't tell you exactly how it works here; but needless to say, it's a pretty cunning way of keeping the boys flying. We also meet all of his crew and the locals they associate with when not on duty. There are also those who are out for themselves; Col. Cathcart, Maj. Danby and 1st Lt. Milo Minderbinder to name but a few. All this is interspersed with flashbacks to Yossarian's efforts to help a young airman who is injured on a mission. I really don't want to say too much, it's one of those you have to see for yourself to get a grasp of. Also, the Spoiler Police will be selling off all my stuff.This is an interesting film that has a lot to say about many things; not least war and capitalism. I won't go into the political questions it raises, but needless to say the point is put across quite forcibly. Decent performances all round, particularly from Alan Arkin as Capt. John Yossarian; he did a first rate job here! Honourable mentions go to; Martin Balsam as Col. Cathcart, Richard Benjamin as Maj. Danby, Art Garfunkel as Capt. Nately, Jack Gilford as Dr. 'Doc' Daneeka, Buck Henry as Lt. Col. Korn, Bob Newhart as Maj. Major Major, Anthony Perkins as Chaplain Capt. A.T. Tappman, Paula Prentiss as Nurse Duckett, Martin Sheen as 1st Lt. Dobbs and Jon Voight as 1st Lt. Milo Minderbinder. Finally a special mention for Orson Welles who played a brilliant cameo as Brig. Gen. Dreedle.Although I found this film entertaining, I did find it did drag on a bit towards the end. About 20 minutes shorter and it would have been ideal (for me). It's all very well shot, but I'm afraid it suffers from having the feel of some 'Frat-house' comedy which didn't really endear it to me too much. That aside, I did find parts of it were quite compelling although I did struggle to have much empathy with any of the characters&#x85; even the lead. For its day though I thought it was quite groundbreaking and quite an eye-opener (in more ways than one). At the end of the day an interesting adaptation&#x85; I'll have to read the book sometime.My score 6.9/10.IMDb Score 7.1/10 (based on 10,995 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score 87/100 (based on 23 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score 62/100 (based on 9,365 user ratings counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"A valiant effort","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Joseph Heller's angry novel - pointing up the futility of war by cranking absurdity up to a comic level - becomes a large scale Hollywood movie which works hard at capturing the essence of the book but, perhaps, sinks somewhat under its own weight.It is well worth watching nonetheless - spectacular, and featuring a vast and starry cast, yet still intelligent and relatively small scale in terms of the intimate story of Yossarian's nightmarish war experience, it is held together by a passionate and committed performance by Alan Arkin as Yossarian, a victim (as are many of the characters) turned attempted protagonist.But I think I would recommend the book over the film. "},{"Title":"Get back in the car, you smirking slut!","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Dr. 'Doc' Daneeka Sure. Catch-22. Anyone who wants to get out of combat isn't really crazy, so I can't ground him. Yossarian OK, let me see if I've got this straight. In order to be grounded, I've got to be crazy. And I must be crazy to keep flying. But if I ask to be grounded, that means I'm not crazy anymore, and I have to keep flying. Dr. 'Doc' Daneeka You got it, that's Catch-22. Yossarian Whoo... That's some catch, that Catch-22. Dr. 'Doc' Daneeka It's the best there is.People don't want to watch movie showing the stupidity of war. They want heroes so they can go to sleep at night thinking all those dead soldiers meant something.Unfortunately, war is just failed diplomacy, or someone showing how big his cajones are. What's the purpose of an Army if we can't use it? Why are the Japanese now dropping bombs. Because a defensive Army is useless in showing cajones.Alan Arkin is magnificent as Capt. John Yossarian, who just wants to go home. He knows he's crazy to keep flying, but knowing that means he's not crazy, so he has to keep flying, which is crazy.The cast of this movie is one of the best I have seen Martin Balsam, Richard Benjamin, Art Garfunkel, Bob Newhart, Paula Prentiss, Norman Fell, Charles Grodin and more giving us laughs aplenty from Buck Henry's superb screenplay based on Joseph Heller's novel under the direction of Mike Nichols.And, of course, there is Olimpia Carlisi, reason alone to watch. "},{"Title":"As an anti-war film it's second only to Dr Strangelove","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This film is excellent. Its all about the insanity of war, the insanity of realising its insane and the insanity of trying to do something about it. The film opens with one of the greatest shots in any film I've ever seen, featuring Yussarian, the main character, having a conversation with 2 people who are at that point unknown. While this is happening a whole squadron of planes is taking off. Its a continuous shot, goes on for about 2-3 minutes and is just....well, it's great. And don't worry, you aren't supposed to hear the dialogue.The film starts and ends brilliantly, but there is kind of a trough in the middle. Although even this trough has moments of utter brilliance, mainly featuring Yussarian's nakedness (not that I like that kinda thing...) and low flying planes. Not together. That would be disastrous.I would be tempted to say that this is better than Dr Strangelove as an anti war film, but Strangelove doesn't have that dip in the middle. However, at the best moments of each film (in this case the explanation of Catch 22 and the somewhat crazy ending) I'd say this is better. And I can't really think of higher praise than that. "},{"Title":"Wow... why is this supposed to stink?","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Technically brilliant, beautifully shot, amazingly cast, and really darn funny... remind me again why this is supposedly no good? Oh yeah, it's not as good as the book. Get over it. This movie is due for a bit of revisionist criticism, now that more and more folks are starting to realize how much they overreacted about the greatness of MASH... now maybe they can look this one over again and realize, hey, it's pretty good. Heck, it's even great. (The DVD transfer is beautiful and the commentary with Mike Nichols talking to Steven Soderbergh is fun, if a little too gushing. At one point, it sounds like Soderbergh has wet himself with glee.) "},{"Title":"A good Adaptation of a Great Novel","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Catch-22 is of my favorite American novels.  The satire is biting and the story is brilliant.  There is no way a big budget Hollywood studio could capture all the novel's nuances in a feature length film.  The novel's flow, for one is not one that is easily captured in film format.  Given the fact that this film was backed by a major Hollywood studio, employing a hot shot director (no disrespect to Mr. Nichols intended) and excellent cast, this film was about as good as it could have been.  Perhaps if it was filmed under more independent circumstances (an indie film) such as the film adaptation of Kurt Vonnegut's Mother Night, the results would have been more pleasing to many fans of the book.  For those who have seen the movie but not read the book, I certainly invite your input to this public forum.  However, I think you do yourselves a major disservice by not reading this classic - the themes, if not the events are forever timeless. "},{"Title":"War is insane","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out ,when I was young, before I spent 4 years in the Military.I rented  it on DVD  recently and now it makes much more sense.War is sometimes necessary but War is always insane!! This movie more than any other shows that.This movie is hilarious, gruesome and impressive in its portrayal of War and the crazed people who run them.It is great!! If only I had payed more attention back in 1970. "},{"Title":"Readers will at least be able to visualize the characters","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Having just finished the book this evening, I RAN out to rent the video.  I don't want to say it was a bad movie (it wasn't), but it omitted some of the most important parts of the book (for instance, it skipped letter writings as Washington Irving, the Chaplin's sidekick and the letters home, Yo looking for kid sister, and most importantly Nately's whore at the end). All in all though I was at least able to visualize the characters I had just read about and put everything into perspective.  Think of this movie not as a full account of the book but sort of as a summary of Heller's story. "},{"Title":"Read it first","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Being a massive fan of the novel by Joseph Heller, I've avoided this film for years &#150; I'd heard it didn't get good reviews and I just thought it was an unfilmable text and would ruin the whole experience for me. But I have to hand it to the filmmakers, they've made a good attempt at focusing on just a few characters from the over-populated novel&#133; but that's ultimately I guess where it fails. The novel works because there's many, many well developed characters, and to put this on film would be very difficult. The results of which the film seems disjointed, it has no feeling &#150; the audience can't connect to any one. Crucial relationships aren't shown developing (I'm thinking of Yossarian and Orr) and other aspects of Yossarians decent into rebellion/clarity that are featured in the book are ignored. On the plus side &#150; the photography, especially the opening shots of the bombers taking off - is really quite beautiful, all the principle actors do a good job, and finally, I think the viewer should read the book first. Then they will see how the film tries it's best to complement it.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best War Movie","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  If you think Pulp Fiction was a complicated structural movie. You've got to see Catch 22. This one is more complicated & the way its present still like the 2002's production. For war movie, this one had a open minded motif. Solider is not only a hero. They are crazy. Extremely crazy. Why? See it and you gonna have the answer. "}{"Title":"Some catch that catch 22.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  People are people, regardless of where you put them. If  a junk food junkie wins the lottery their idea of a good time is still a burger and chip and likewise a cultured person who has hit rock bottom still listens to Wagner in his cardboard shelter. When you go to war people don't all become noble or savage. But people adapt and twist themselves in order to fit the new order and way of things.This film is about people adapting to the lunacy of a war, the stupidity of it all. M and M promotions are the logic of the lunacy, when they've traded the parachutes and the men are up in the planes without parachutes, then it is all explained away by the fact that if you don't get shot down you'll make a profit and if you do, well that's the free market.The first world war had generals repeating the same insane plan, over the top, again and again, regardless of the obvious lunacy of it all. This film is all about the same type of mentality, the same twisted logic that can make the likes of me and you fly over cities killing thousands of people below, whilst someone else tries to kill you. The chances of survival are less than 50% and all the time the number of missions you have to fly are increased. It is about what happens to people when they are at war and the stupidity that drives it all on. Think of football on Christmas eve in no man's land in the first world war, followed by the same people shooting at each other the next day.And the one way out of this is protected by the rabid, but logical, catch 22.A great, dark movie, I gave it 8 out of 10 and called myself Yossarian after the pilot who seeks a way out of the war. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I've read the book couple of times and i must say that this movie is a great window to it. Even the screenplay isn't written that funny as the book is it still makes me laugh all over again. Alan Arkin is , of course after seeing the film , the only Yossarian that there can be. Movie is filled with great performance and dialogs. DVD is well made even i am not a professional to judge that. Don't let the decades interfere to the greatness of this film.Long live the M&M ! "},{"Title":"sophistry of logic and lunacy of war","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Nichols caught sophistry of logic and lunacy of war on film.  He does not take you by the hand through Heller's realm.  We are scarcely guided by music.  It will not come AT you.  Except for the ominous roaring of the bombers, the excellent cinematography, and all-star cast (with justice). Many fabulous background details, surrealistic flashbacks, and stupefying conversations where MASH (1970) is good Catch-22 (1970) is brilliant and it's still under-valued after 31 years.  Probably because we're used to being flooded with easy-to-digest crap. Cpt. Yossarian tries to be recognized as being crazy, but he is probably the only sane soldier in the world.  Orr is he?  After the eighties and the early nineties, todays audiences should again be able to appreciate non-straightforward cinema.  Could this be 'Alan in Wonderland'?  'A very few good men' maybe?  'Dr. Verystrangelove'? Aware of the fact that it would probably take 9 sequels to catch all the contents of Heller's anti-war novel, Henry and Nichols together with David Watkin make a fine selection and create a masterpiece.  Why o why can't we vote 11 (  "},{"Title":"WHERE IS THE DVD?","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  With a cast like this one, I can't imagine why there isn't even a DVD edition in the planning stages. This is a solid entry into the anti-war genre and contains an excellent performance from Alan Arkin. He is capably supported by the rest of the cast. There are images in the film that will stick with you long after you're finished watching it. Very funny, but also very sad. HEY PARAMOUNT!!! WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? THIS MOVIE LOOKS AWFUL ON VIDEO!!! "},{"Title":"Mike Nichols and Buck Henry tried their best, but it ultimately fails","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Catch-22 is an incredibly ambitious adaptation of Joseph Heller's classic anti-war satire of insanity, but it comes off rather disjointed and aloof. The ending seemed anticlimatic for me, I wanted a lot more. The excellent ensembled cast headed by the always watchable Alan Arkin tries  to give the film a lift. There are some startling surreal set pieces but as a whole the film never really comes together.  "},{"Title":"Worst Ever Adaptation Of A Novel","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  What were they thinking? In all fairness, it would be nearly impossible to render Joseph Heller's classic anti-war novel into a feature length film. But what really annoyed me was that entire characters, and may I add rather significant characters such as Dori Duz and General Peckam were left out altoghether. As a result, the movie makes no sense. In the novel we can understand Colonel Cathcart's motivation for raising the number of missions. Here, it just looks like he is doing it for the sake of doing it. I give Alan Arkin credit for trying, but please read the book and skip this incoherent mess. "},{"Title":"MASH fans might like this one","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  An American bomber pilot in the Second World War tries to avoid flying missions by declaring himself insane. Satirical, anti-war film is filled with absurd characters and subplots blended with serious drama. Heavy handed and overly long but strong character development and stylish direction make it worthwhile. Fans of the Joseph Heller book will be disappointed. (Rating A-minus) "},{"Title":"Catch as catch can.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Joseph Heller's attack on every aspect of modern society comes to life on screen in this antiwar,capitalism,religon,pride,self importance,new deal,consumerism movie. Alan Arkin plays a man who realizes that his enemies aren't the one who the government tell him but are who ever is trying to kill him. And that being the rule of thumb he comes to the conclusion that the US Army is his enemy. This and other hilarious outtakes on the insanity of war, including Milo Minderbinder's bombing of his own fortress for profits for the army. Watch this puppy to many times and you might just begin to realize that there isn't anything in the world that isn't a catch 22. It's enough to drive you to the point nipple shaving insanity. And stop calling me shirley. "},{"Title":"Catch-22","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I 've seen the movie mostly because of the cast appeared on the screen and of the interest I find in Mike Nichols' movies. I feel I have to say that I was a bit disappointed about the structure of the film and the way the director handles the plot lots of mixed scenes, scenes put in an undetermined row, characters with nothing to give and shots that bore rather than help the film evolve. It's kind of a confusing film, although it's quite entertaining and funny. The only great part in the movie is the character of Alan Arkin (Yossarian) which is very funny and his intention to avoid the flights gives birth to numerous hilarious scenes and quotes. Anthony Perkins and Orson Welles put some glamor in the movie, only thanks to their names and not their performance and Jon Voight can be seen only for a couple of minutes. I have to admit that I pushed the FF button several times, especially near the end of the movie... Yet, I cannot escape from recognizing to Mike Nichols the intention to show the gradual isolation of a person who fights to be considered as a crazy soldier in order to quit flying. He's step-by-step left out of friends and allies and his only goal is to escape from the camp at any cost, in order to retain his human identity and put an end in his war-time period. And I think that's the central message every spectator should get from this movie... "},{"Title":"not bad, but you need to read the book first","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The book catch-22 is in my opinion one of the greatest works of the 20th century, not only as a satire on war but also as a comedy in itself. There are not that many books that make the successful transition to celluloid and this is one of them unfortunately, some of the best comedic dialogue being left out of the film and some of the choices of actor being perhaps not exactly inspired. However, given the depth of the story itself the limitations of what can be achieved in the length of a film must be taken into consideration and bearing that in mind the end result is not as bad as it could have been. If you read only one book this year, make it catch-22. I promise you will enjoy it. "}{"Title":"A nice try, but can't CATCH the essence of the book","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This tale would have been perfect for adaptation as an HBO mini-series, i.e., a format where they could have really fleshed out the characters and, more importantly, all the little details that made the book an instant classic. Giving credit where due, this is probably as best as could be managed given the time constraints of filming a conventional movie. But so much was missed, and in this book especially, it's all the little details that really make it work. For one, there's a slew of minor characters like Big Chief White Halfoat and Lt. Scheitzkopf <sp?> that really make it shine. That, and all the hilarious side plot developments, such as the trial of Clevinger (court martialed for, among other charges, being a dope and listening to classical music) and the way the commanding general changes from the pugnacious, bombastic Dreedle (take that man outside and shoot him!) to the punctilious General Peckem, who doesn't care if his bombers actually hit the enemy so long as they make a good bomb pattern, to the final absurdity of General Scheitzkopf, whose rapid promotion is due to his sole military talent, marching his men around in parades. All these characters and the wealth of details that make their story come to life (the chaplain and his insecurities, Col. Cathcart, whose talent for bullying his men is exceeded only by his desire to kiss up to his superiors, and so forth) really deserve a full telling, the sort that would require a minimum of 8 to 12 hours of screen time, and no filmmaker, regardless of how talented, could have packed it into the space of just a couple hours.7/10 "},{"Title":"doesn't touch Heller","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I read the book, saw the film - the film doesn't touch Heller. It has the main events happening and the recurring theme of Snowden's death haunting Yossarian but... it doesn't come close to the intricacies of the novel.Buck Henry has tried his best to make the film as funny as the book but instead of the satire of Heller, humour it transformed into something more outright, I guess so that people who wouldn't 'get' it in the book can laugh at the film. However, I began to think of things as tragic when in the novel they were funny (like McWatt flying into a mountain). Where's the dead man i  Yossarian's tent? I even laughed in advance remembering the incidents in the book. So, I must say that this is a very poor adaptation of Catch 22, it loses the essence, the satire that was Heller's purpose for writing it. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!  Alan Arkin should have won a Best Actor.","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This film did not try to recreate the book, and so it succeeded. I am happy to say that this film just keeps getting better year after year. It's hard for me to fathom that it came out 40 years ago! For me, it was another reminder (how many do I need) of the absurdity and futility of war, every war. Thank you Joseph Hellar, thank you Mike Nichols, thank you Buck Henry. And what a fantastic cast! Too bad that the film came out in the same year as MASH. But, I must say, that I find this film far superior to MASH. Whereas MASH did a good job at keeping things light, Catch 22 managed to show the absurdity of war while not shrinking from some gritty, realistic moments. Alan Arkins' scene of discovering the truth of Snowden's death (including bloody guts exposed to the cold air) is a scene I will never forget. "},{"Title":"realism","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I'm interested by other comments comparing Saving Private Ryan, and Catch-22, and I have to say that in comparing the two the thing that cannot be emphasized enough is that SPR was widely hailed for realism, because it was grim and graphic. With this realism, however, is imparted a subliminal endorsement of the notion that war is somehow noble and necessary. Since the picture is real, the underlying endorsement of the virtue and honor in war is rarely challenged. This was a frame of reference, a political third rail since the Reagan administration that has been exploited again and again to take the US to needless wars. Catch-22, on the other hand, is the true realism. In reality War is a tool for corporations. Milo Minderbinder is a reminder of this. As to casting, the most genius casting was the use of Psycho Anthony Perkins to portray Chaplain Tapman, who has a strange inability to comfort the troops. It is best to try and understand the primary meaning of Catch-22. Yossarian wants to get out of the war and claims insanity. The dr tells him he is clearly not insane, because he wants to go home. If he were insane, of course he would not ask to go home. So Catch-22 is at heart a requirement that Yossarian participate in a fundamentally insane activity, and in order to avoid it he must become insane, at which time, he will not seek to avoid it. War, then, becomes a kind of mass psychosis, and the rule of society is that you must participate. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  For fans of Joseph Heller's brilliant satire on war, Mike Nichols' effort was disappointing. A lot of the most interesting (and funny) parts were left out (including the absolutely hilarious court-martial of Yossarian) and most of the characters were not allowed to develop to their full potential. Major Major Major Major was a let-down, as was the exclusion of Nurse Duckett. Colonel Cathcart's character (pardon the alliteration) had much more meat in the book, and where was that sequence of the Washington Irving letters? Alan Arkin managed to look believable as the only sane man in a crazy world, and kudos to him.Probably it would have been a better idea to forget creative licenses and stick to the chronological order of events as in the book. Although one must grant that maybe it's not the easiest of books to film, just as it is not the easiest of books to follow, as its readers will vouch.  "},{"Title":"The 1970 film version of Heller's classic novel Catch 22, left much to be desired.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Although Alan Arkin did a notable job as Yossarian in the 1970 film version of Heller's classic novel Catch 22, much was left to be desired.  Take, for example, the story.  A good number of the adventures that take place in the book never conspire in the movie.  Key events (such as any explanation of why the movie ends the way it does) are completely ignored.  The most humorous scenes in the book are replaced by more obscure scenes depicting senseless violence (such as Milo's attack on the base).  Not to mention the incessant Snowden flashbacks that become more of a chore than a cinematic element.  The success of this film seemed to bank on three things. People's love for Joseph Heller's novel of the same title, the all star cast, and initial hype.  All in all an attempt.  I'll leave it at that. "},{"Title":"Darkly comic satire with amazing cast never gets out of the gate...","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Tackling Joseph Heller's celebrated bestseller about WWII insanity must have seemed a monumental task, and director Mike Nichols and screenwriter Buck Henry (reunited from 1967's The Graduate) should be commended for trying at all, yet the results of this adaptation are bungled, especially when you consider another satire of war, Robert Altman's MASH, was released the very same year (and probably stole much of this movie's thunder). There are some isolated moments of irony and insight, but Nichols' penchant for capturing the beauty of lunacy collides here with clunky vaudeville skits, surreal bits, and incredibly noisy action. The cast includes Alan Arkin, Richard Benjamin, Paula Prentiss, Orson Welles, Anthony Perkins and Jon Voight, but none are shown to any bright advantage. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"It's Let Down By The Acting Style","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I've just returned from the user comments page on DOCTOR WHO ( 2005 ) which is a comparable page with this one on the film adaptation of Heller's CATCH 22 . Some people detest everything about the new version of the sci-fi show while some people can forgive the flaws since it's not meant to be a carbon copy clone of the 1963-89 show . And so it's the same with this film version . Some people obviously detest this Hollywood version of the anti war black comedy while some people can forgive the flaws I for one have never read the acclaimed novel so I'm only judging the film on its own merits ( Interesting though in no way a shock to realise that the movie's most vocal critics are fans of the book ) but the one thing that is unlikable about the celluloid version of CATCH 22 is the acting style - It's overblown and cartoonish , comical and surreal . In fact it's like watching a live version cartoon a sort of WAIT TILL YOUR FATHER GETS HOME or THE SIMPSONS with battle scenes . Notice too that I didn't say  acting  but  acting style  I'm not really blaming the cast but the director Mike Nichols for this . The whole movie would have worked better if the comic characters had been played more straight while the serious characters had played up to the comic elements a bit more . As it is only Art Garfunkel's performance as Captain Nately seems suited to his character as is to a slightly lesser degree Jon Voight's Minderbender . Unfortunately everyone else in the cast seem confused as to how to approach their characters Despite this flaw I can certainly understand where film got its reputation from . This is unrepentant cynicism about war . Imagine you'd departed as a draftee to Vietnam in 1969 with the last war film you'd seen at the cinema being THE GREEN BERETS and the next war movie you'd seen at the cinema being CATCH 22 . How the world in general and cinema in particular must have changed to the individual . As I previously said the directing is very heavy handed but in amongst there are very memorable scenes amongst the comic strip performances like Minderbender explaining a scam to his CO as a plane lies exploding on the runway or the final shocking scene involving Snowdon . Scenes like this stop the movie from being the disaster some people report it as . But the acting style stops it from also being the masterpiece some people claim it is "},{"Title":"Two stories in one frame. Very well composed scenes","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"22 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" A bombardier is desperately trying be thrown out from the B25 squadron based at Italy on the basis or insanity. The commanding officer keeps increasing the number of missions. Another man is trying to come out rich from the war. A general walking around with a Mistress and distributing medals. Another man holds conversation about the history and future of all great civilizations with an old Italian. A very nice film based on the novel by Joseph Keller of the same name.There are lots of things which grabs your attention. It seems narration is incoherent in the novel(I have not read it) and Mike Nichols has tackled it beautifully. He made this film right after Graduate and so he is in great form. Some of the shots are long and very well composed i.e the first shot. The scene starts from the runway and camera almost goes inside a room. Phenomenal!! Humour is very weird. Its not regular comedy. almost every scene has something or the other going on the background. So basically you are watching two stories at any given point in time i.e when Capt. John Yossarian is sitting on a tree and the whole egg episode. Finally I liked Orson Welles on the screen. He is damn funny when he says are you waiting for a kiss? move back. Extremely relevant and intelligent film. Acting is top class. Camera and music is brilliant. Someone wrote in his review that after watching a film like this you understand the futility of patting one's self on the back films like 'Saving Private Ryan' and 'Band of Brothers'. I think that's one of the best statement I read about an anti-war film. I think this movie is about people who make war and not about war. This is in the same line as 'Paths of Glory' and 'Full Metal Jacket' which holds people responsible for our sorry state and not just point fingers or glorify war hero's. A must watch for film student and self educating type people. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Catch-22","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Catch-22 is a movie I've wanted to watch for quite some time. In fact, I've owned the DVD for years, I found it in the $5.50 bin at Wal-Mart way back when. For one reason or another I've never gotten around to watching it until today. The film is a satire of the absurdity of war, it's commercialization, and of bureaucracy in general. The story, in a nutshell, involves a bombardier who doesn't want to fly anymore missions and desperately tries to get grounded on the grounds of insanity. But, this turns out to be easier said than done.The cast is one of the most eclectic I've ever seen Alan Arkin, Art Garfunkel, Bob Newhart, Martin Sheen, Jon Voight, Orson Welles, Bob Balaban, and Charles Grodin, to name a few (it's interesting seeing some of them in such early roles). They play characters with quirky names such as Major Major, Chaplain Tappman, Milo Minderbinder, and General Dreedle, each with their varying degrees of insanity. The Major who is forced to take over as squadron leader (an unwanted job) refuses to let people in his office to see him while he is in. They can be sent in to see him after he's left, however (which barely scratches the surface of a great sequence of dialogue). The Lieutenant who trades much-needed supplies with other countries, including the enemy, believes they can come out of the war rich. The General who doesn't understand why he can't shoot an insubordinate officer. The Captain who has crash-landed into the sea four times but always manages to survive and fly right back out there, which has a great payoff in the end. With everyones' use of insanity to cope with the horrors of war, I couldn't help but to draw comparisons to M*A*S*H, the film more than the TV show.Catch-22 was adapted by Buck Henry from a novel, of the same title, authored by Joseph Heller. The story is, effectively, told in a non linear fashion and with recurring flashbacks. As with other satires, many of the situations in the film are absurd, some brilliantly so. And I loved the who's on first nature of the dialogue, going in circles, never quite reaching a logical conclusion. However, I'm interested in reading the book sometime. A couple of the characters felt underused in the screenplay, especially Newhart as Major Major and Welles as General Dreedle.It's director is Mike Nichols, who also did the classic film The Graduate. Though not his best work, it's certainly not his worst either. He opens the film with a beautiful sunrise slowly coming up over a mountainous horizon. All we hear initially is the occasional dog barking or bird chirping. Then, the sound of jet engines roaring. Much of the films opening dialogue is all but drowned out by these sounds of planes starting, taking off, landing, even crashing but the characters carry on, unphased, as if nothing is happening. Nichols' portrayal of humor and violence, often simultaneously, is quite jarring.Though not quite as good as I was hoping, some of the hilariously insane situations and ingenious dialogue make it well worth a watch...Check out my other reviews at notexactlyaquote.tumblr.com "}{"Title":"Smart and breakaway anti-war film that bravely incorporates elements of a comedic nature on top of an already disorientating experience.","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Let's just say Catch-22 is a lot less straight forward than director Mike Nicholls' previous film, The Graduate. In fact, whilst studying the rather simple premise of an individual sick of the war he's fighting in and desperately wanting to get home, Catch-22 moves off down a road that blurs the boundaries between reality and non-reality; incorporating dreams, fantasies, visions and other such things that I'm sure are mere hallucinations invoked by hapless soldiers wanting to escape from where they currently are. Yes, it's deluded and yes, it's muddled but it echoes its characters' predicament and the general mindset they seem to force themselves to resort to at times of great stress.I'm assuming it's common knowledge but films to be Taxi Driver and Apocalypse Now may well have taken a mite of inspiration from Catch-22, two films that looked at the effects of war (one back home/one actually on the front line) and distilled those effects as well as the world around them that they gaze at through the lead character's sub- conscious. Catch-22 does this to a degree but what distinguishes it is its approach to this idea and how comedy as well as out and out farce can be incorporated into such a foundation.Catch-22 works for the best part of its runtime, combining a feast of familiar names and actors with the idea that war is Hell and its lead just wanting to get out but additionally, the ideas of a comedic and avant-garde nature as we see things unravel from an already distorted perspective. It's worth mentioning here that the lead is a United States Air Force bombardier named Yossarian, played by Alan Arkin, and it's also worth mentioning he is stabbed very early on in the film and consequently, his already desperate perspective and desperate wish to just go home is further hampered by a teetering on death's door.So point of view is an important ingredient to the film, explored on a large scale through its lead but there are glimpses or ideas of being toyed with on a smaller scale when a burning bomber crash lands on a runway as higher-ups, whom have already been established as perhaps having their heads in the clouds anyway, in the foreground walk on by casually. This is maybe some sort of statement on the propaganda behind warfare and how you enable yourself to 'see' only what you want to 'see' and that the gritty, realistic lead character 'sees' just about everything but those with blinders on that don't allow their best soldiers to leave fail to 'see' the bigger picture of what's going on.The Catch 22 of the title is an inescapable clause, buried within the United States Air Force foundations. It goes something along the lines of only being able to quit and go home if it's deemed the war has made you go crazy but you cannot officially be deemed crazy if you file to be labelled crazy in the first place. It reminded me of the line in 2005 film 'Proof' during which Anthony Hopkins stated 'crazy people don't sit around all day debating whether they're still sane &#150; they've got better things to do.' Yossarian has to balance this simple yet infuriating equation of a catch-22 nature as he copes with his being stabbed and sorting his way through a series of flashbacks-come-memories of previous bombing missions that feel real to him.One of the reasons I think Catch-22 gets across its bizarre atmosphere is due to the number of times during which Yossairan hears someone tell him to 'help the bombardier'. 'But I'm the bombardier' he replies &#150; 'then help him!' says the voice. Such a contradictory and confusing exchange of words only echoes the regulations of catch-22 itself, an odd and contradictory set of words that do not amount to anything bar keeping you in your current situation. This echoes the exchange between the voice and Yossarian I feel Yossarian hears these words whilst he lies on the slab, in a state of semi- consciousness as the medics talk around him. The exchange does not help Yossarian's situation but they do keep him in the fixed situation he's in half dead and on an operating table.There are flashes of white in the film. The idea that you 'step into the light' and enter the afterlife. This is a mere representation of Yossarian's near-death experience as he recovers from the ordeal but they act as a series of distracting transitions that add to the confusing nature of the film and Nicholls quite impressively toys with the use of colour and visual tricks to further distract us from the bigger picture and study of what's going on. There are other comic touches, simplistic but very effective, like one such soldier carrying the rank and name of 'Major' and additionally, the absurdity of having Vietnamese flags fluttering on the front of a military jeep. Orson Welles makes an appearance that gives the film yet another surreal kick. Catch-22 delivers on the grounds of a tale of one man wanting to escape his current situation and get back to some sort of normality; it's a funny, twisting and quite creepy film that healthily delivers on all those fronts. "},{"Title":"Lost in Translation","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The popular Heller novel is brought to the screen with an impressive all-star cast but something must have gotten lost in the translation because this one is painful to watch. Arkin is fine as a flier who tries to have himself declared insane so he doesn't have to fly. In fact, most of the cast is pretty good, with the exception of Balsam and Henry, who are annoying. Henry also gets the blame for the disjointed, rambling screenplay. Nichols has a made a number of good films and one enduring classic, The Graduate, but when he is off he is infuriating. Here, he is way off, creating a lackluster mixture of uninspired comedy and indulgent, pretentious drama. "},{"Title":"Not the book, but still a great movie...","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Sometimes an unfilmable novel has to be removed as far as possible from its source & considered on its own merits. CATCH-22 falls into this category. Director Mike Nichols and writer Buck Henry take Joseph Heller's mind-trip of a book and create a film that, while not nearly as all out funny as it's contemporary M*A*S*H, is still a very worthwhile movie. Nichols biggest triumph is his choice of Alan Arkin as Yossarian, a GI in WWII Italy who'll do whatever it takes to get discharged. Of course claiming to be crazy means he's not...but everyone else surrounding him is. Arkin is great for this type of role...exasperated beyond belief, knowing full well that he's the only sane person around. Nichol's isn't always successful blending the comedy with the horrors of war and there are a few really jarring scenes, but on the whole he's made a great movie. There are scenes of outright comedy (crusty general Orson Welles and his inept son-in-law giving the troops an idiotic pep talk is a real highlight and any scene with Bob Newhart is priceless). In addition to Arkin, Welles and Newhart, the large cast includes Jon Voight, Martin Balsam, Martin Sheen, Anthony Perkins and, making his acting debut, Art Garfunkel. They're all dead on. Paula Prentiss has the only prominent female role. "},{"Title":"Kubrick still speaks to war's stupidity and waste more effectively.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" In my opinion, Catch-22 (and in their own ways, even movies like M*A*S*H and Platoon) are excellent movies and valiant attempts to speak to the stupidity and waste of war. Even so, my experience has been that Kubrick's three anti-war films (and one of them, an anti anti-war film)--Paths of Glory, Dr. Strangelove, and FMJ--are all superior in this respect. We shouldn't too quickly dismiss Coppolla's efforts or even more recent depictions of various forms of wartime disillusionment such as The Killing Fields, Black Hawk Down, or Hotel Rwanda. But Kubrick's three attempts are formidable classics which, in their cinematic evolution, have set the prototypical bar high for all filmmakers to discern what is most important to express concerning the problems with war and exactly how to express it most effectively. "},{"Title":"And that has made all the difference","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This is your only spoiler warning.Where do I begin?  Mike Nichols goes for the grandiose in ways that make other war movies inferior by a landslide.  The first 20 minutes of 'Catch-22' are so flawless that it seems a shame when the movie slides into Orwellian nihilism.  By the end, it is 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest', that is the sad part.  Better yet, the dialog is near Shakespearean in rhythm and interaction that it supersedes the monochrome characterizations.  Finally, this and 'Apocalypse Now' are all you ever need to know about audio experience.  Phenomenal.Directors make three movies.  The first is the experimental one that gives them notoriety.  Then there is the commercial film that garners them the financial power to make the third film--the personal one that is close to their soul.  Nichols worked in reverse order here, the 'Graduate' was his commercial film, here is his experiment--and get ready for something deeply complex yet hilarious.Immediate peers--'MASH' and 'Slaughterhouse 5'--'Catch-22' is the best.  'MASH' is sophomoric and unsophisticated.  For the sake of better contrasting, 'MASH' is 'Weird Science', '22' is 'Breakfast Club'.  Altman is not as unbound as Nichols and is too concerned about entertaining the audience at the expense of the message.  '5' is poorly constructed due to Hill's interference, a more competent director could've succeeded.General peers--the 1970 crowd--aren't as powerful either.  'Tora! Tora! Tora!' is a giant documentary.  'Kelly's Heroes' continues in the footsteps of 'MASH', rarely offering the same glimmer of creativity that '22' holds.  'Patton' is the closest to '22' because both are Love of Glory movies.  Yet 'Patton' is a character at war study while '22' is war itself being studied.  I already covered 'MASH'.Abstract peers--all other war movies--are mixed in their comparisons.  'Memphis Belle', 'We Were Soldiers', 'Blackhawk Down', and 'Windtalkers' are John Wayne movies--the glory and grit of battle.  'Platoon' and 'Casualties of War' are bleeding heart movies that aim for the heart of the audience.  'Full Metal Jacket' and Saving Private Ryan' display war as a noisy excursion of human morals.  'The Thin Red Line' is war as an extension of nature.  'Catch-22' is unique because it appeals to the LOGIC of the viewer and certainly is the most cerebral of all I've listed.  'Apocalypse Now' and 'A Bridge Too Far' are better only because they know that everything ends on a whimper.Overall, I was surprised by this movie.  Hearing Nichols' commentary on the DVD was a bonus.  If only it had kept the energy of the opening throughout the whole movie.  (75%) "},{"Title":"Dead Fish out of Water","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  And so this movie goes.It stinks BIG TIME.I don't give a hoot how splendid Joseph Heller's book was,is,is was or is gonna be, did be,will be,will cause,cause is or anything such nonsense.A huge bomb and waste of credible cast to showcase the silliness of early 70's type black humour.Like M*A*S*H and KELLY'S HEROES and a whole slew of 60's funnybone war spoofs,this one doesn't work. Recently saw for the umteenth time and still find distractingly annoying,unfunny,dated and very overly cliched.That's it in a nutshell. The story is everywhere,yet nowhere.The pace is alarming,yet aimless. The acting is strained and trying for humour that's been done before, much better and better timed,with flow and purpose that add to movie instead of trying to fly over,above and circle around with compass of unrelated scenes,only trying to compete with each preceding one,on a base nincompoop level of jive crap personified.No wonder,time as not been good to such extravagent excess.Too many big name stars,too little real storyline,and way,way too much in the way of unfunny, tacky, tasteless jokes on parade to only distract from an already pointless adventure in b~~~~g nonsense.My only real question is why wasn't Burt Reynolds in cast.He woulda been perfect.I mighta even liked this movie somewhat if his type of silly acting and parody was being showcased. Nevertheless,this movie will set some kind of record,as being one ofHollywoods biggest comedy tragedies,literally,figuratively and quite disappointly in movie history reality,also.This can of worms belongs in dry dock,waiting for the right time to die at sea.If it already hasn't. "},{"Title":"Bottom Line","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" If you have read the book, you will likely find this to be a barely acceptable yet exceptionally disappointing experience. Of particular note is the poor acting during the pivotal scenes involving Yossarian's recollection of Snowden's death. When watching these scenes it feels as though the lines are being read from the script, devoid of real feeling. Alan Arkin's portrayal of Yossarian, in these scenes, leaves much to be desired in that his performance fails to evoke human emotion and is generally not very believable.The film succeeds in presenting the overall message of Joseph Heller's Catch 22 but fails to live up to the same standard of his literary masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Too Literal and Not Anarchic Enough","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mike Nichols tries for a literal interpretation of Joseph Heller's amazing epic comedy, and the results crash and burn.Catch-22 the book is, of course, unfilmable as it is. A movie version would have to be 12 hours long just to fit in all the characters and plots, but there would still remain the daunting task of finding a visual language that approximates Heller's surrealist, hilarious, nightmarish authorial voice. The best any movie could shoot for with a screen adaptation would be to capture the tone of Heller's novel, and that's where Nichols fails most. His Catch-22 tries to impose a linear, logical structure on a novel whose very point is the utter insanity of war. Therefore, the movie feels like a series of underdeveloped episodes that don't relate to one another, and characters that live on the page in almost three-dimensional detail are relegated to a mere minute or so of screen time each in the movie.I can't stand it when people rip movies apart by saying that they're not as good as the books on which they're based. Movies and books are completely different mediums and require completely different kinds of artistry. And I think it's possible to do a screen version of Catch-22 that would retain everything that is wonderful about the book while bringing to it the unique additions of cinema. But Nichols' film isn't that version. I wonder what Robert Altman could have done with Catch-22 if he'd ever taken a crack at it. His goofball, anarchic and cynical directorial voice would have been perfectly suited to Heller's novel. I've always thought that MASH, the Altman film released the same year as Catch-22, was more like the Joseph Heller novel than the film actually based on it.Grade C "},{"Title":"Good movie, but does not do Heller's novel justice","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Now, I had read a lot of mixed reviews about Catch-22, and to be honest, I wasn't really expecting much from a 2 hour movie based on Joseph Heller's greatly complicated, deeply involved 500 page masterpiece. And, based on that, I didn't get much. However, if you've never read the book Catch-22, or if you totally disregard this movie as being based on anything whatsoever, it's really not that bad of a film. In fact, it's quite an amazing film. It's got an amazing cast, some wonderful cinematography, and of course a great story. I would give this movie a higher rating, but I did read the book, and it does not do Heller's book justice. I would be surprised if any movie could be as amazing as the book - without being about 6 hours long. I know that it is impossible to include EVERYTHING, but to cut out such great characters as Lt. Scheisskopf and Major _____ de Coverly is just disappointing, as well as the great story of moving the bomb line before the Bologna attack to make it seem like they already attacked it. I am very pleased with the repeated Snowden scenes, just as the book deals with them. All in all, this a great movie - but not enough for such a great novel. "},{"Title":"STOP OFFERING YOUR OPINION","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  If you have not read Heller's book and have only just discovered this movie since 2000, stop offering your opinion.  You are not in the position to offer anything more than I like (blahblahblah).  Read the book so that you know what you are talking about or educate yourself on the cultural climate of the times out of which the book was written and talk to people who saw it in 1970 and know the impact it had. Make the effort. "}{"Title":"Why? Why why why?","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Perhaps the worst adaptation of a book I have ever seen. Please, if you have never read Catch-22, do not think it is anything like this. This is perhaps THE example of the book being better than the film. It's a shame the talent of so many skilled artists was wasted on this thing. "},{"Title":"The craziness of war... and people too.   An outstanding film.","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I own Catch-22 on DVD. It's my favourite movie of all time.Don't be put off by thinking it's a war film. Although it's set on an American air force base in the Mediterranean during WWII, the film is really about the characters, who are played by an excellent (and star-studded) cast.The main character is Captain Yossarian (superbly portrayed by Alan Arkin), a bombardier who absolutely hates being there and, although practically driven crazy with fear & desperation, appears completely sane when compared to the lunatics that surround him.The photography is awesome and the sound tremendous crank-up your speakers to get the full effect of the roaring engines of the B-25 bombers as they taxi past the camera. I'm no expert but the way this movie is edited is exquisite I love the flash-backs that are sprinkled through the film, each giving you a little more than the last. Plot aside, this film is worth watching as a work of art.From the intriguing opening scene to the crazy abandon of the final scene, this movie is a though-provoking masterpiece of satirical, black-humour that is deserving of more than one viewing I seem to get more out of it each time I watch it. It's not a brainless comedy and does require the viewer's attention to get the best from it but I wouldn't call it heavy-going either.I can't comment on how true it is (or isn't) to the book as I really didn't get on with it but, as a movie it's superb. It was nominated for awards but didn't win any, which is incomprehensible to me. "},{"Title":"Another war satire.","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" M*A*S*H did it better, but this still has reason to run.By placing the action in the Mediteranean, you get excuses to avoid combat situations and fill it up with gorgeous ladies. This was more about the actual military situation rather than war itself. But the concept of war got a good raking all the same.Did any career men get insulted by they way they were portrayed? And did they recognize too much of themselves? Arkin was PERFECT in the lead. He did the whole 'bewildered' routine in excellence. His dry delivery made it all the better.The cinematography was great and the script deserved a golden statue.Seeing young Jon Voight, Martin Sheen, and Bob Newhart was a trio of pluses.I kept waiting for Donald Sutherland or Alan Alda. "},{"Title":"A Modern Fable","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Catch 22 is a fable for our times--the early 21st Century--when the US is waging war to bring western democracy and capitalism to the middle east.Milo, speaking for the policy makers, articulates almost all of America's foreign policy concepts in the War on Terror.Those who go against the party line (e.g., Yossarian) are deemed dangerous and anti-American.The sad part is summed up by the line, All we want you to do is...like us! This seems to be the plea the United States makes to the world as we go abroad to spread our Way of Life to Those Who Don't Have It.In the end, we naysayers are like Yossarian, rowing alone against the tide. "},{"Title":"A great movie, but lacks honesty & realism of U.S. military's people of colour","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I read Heller's book and saw the film when they were new. This film has only gotten better 35 years after its original release. I find nothing dated about it in the way it was shot - the filmwork is impressive. Being set in Italy - and with some outstanding Italian actors, both female and male - increases the film's historical, cultural and visual depth. Gli italiani know a thing or two about empire and its fall, which comes through articulately in this flick. The evident craft and care in this film point out by their presence how vapid, vulgar and ruthlessly commercial so much U.S. cinema still is. I do have to add it's a shame the movie - and apparently Joe Heller's book - hasn't a single representation of the Black American and other men and women soldiers of color American Indians, Latinos/as, Asian & Pacific Americans. I had to re-think and lower my rating due to this fact. The absence of any depiction of the US military's disproportionately large numbers of service persons of color makes a great film noticeably less effective, less biting, and less believable. Americans of color serve their country and confront all the horrors and ironies depicted in Catch 22 - plus some extra, core layers of the same around issues of race, ethnicity and white domination in U.S. society including our military. Those aspects deserve to be conveyed. Still this remains an articulate and even harshly beautiful film. Deservedly it has become a classic - a cautionary tale of the brutality and futility of war & empire. "},{"Title":"Long, but decent.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  CATCH-22RATING *** (OUT OF ****)Catch-22 is an unmistakable comedy, and therefore shouldn't be compared along the likes of Saving Private Ryan and Schindler's List.  It's a little confusing and disjointed at times, and certain flashbacks are annoyingly repetetive, but overall it's decent.  For everyone else, there's always Full Metal Jacket! "},{"Title":"Great Movie. A movie in the rare genre of war comedy.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Catch 22 takes place during World war 2 when the USA is in Italy. I guess the overlying principle would have to be (hence the name) a catch 22. As explained in the movie early on. Catch 22 is the fact that you can only stop flying missions before you make the requirement by being crazy. However, if you report that you are crazy, you are well enough to fly. And the only way to show that you are crazy is to report yourself. The comedy mostly centers around the fact that most of the people in the movie are really not sane themselves and they are mostly doing things for their own self interest. "},{"Title":"keeps good company with Bunuel, Kubrick, Orwell.","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I've noticed many comparing this film to MASH. For me though, it's a completely different sort of movie. A better comparison, and perhaps a sort of cousin, to the film is Bunuel's 'Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoise.' A Neo-Surrealist satire, Catch 22 has it's problems (namely, a clash between the broad-stroke comedy in the characterizations of the first half of the film and the subtleties of the script itself;) but these are negligible considering the heights it scales. The film is a mood piece, a comedy, a satire, a dream and a critical essay but most of all it is a gem of ambitious American New Wave cinema. I'm interested to find out if other viewers also got a feeling of Orwellian paranoia towards the end of the film as the social structure seems to inevitably swallow the individual's sense of sanity, morality and rebellion. Another 'cousin' to Catch 22 is, of course, Dr. Strangelove and there's a similar sense of pervading madness about both films. The Manchurian Candidate belongs in the same family tree as well. It's not hard to see a shadow of Catch 22's influence cast across David O. Russell's 'Three Kings' either. "},{"Title":"Buck Henry should be taken out and shot, if it were legal.","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" How is it possible to take ALL of the humour and heartfelt moments out of Catch 22? I know in every adaption of a book to film we expect things to go missing, but this?! It's a travesty! Where is Dunbar? Where is Chief White Halfoat? Where is Huple and his cat? Where is... on and on it goes, and not just missing characters but the portrayals of characters that do appear. Where are the things about these characters that make us care? Like the Chaplain's wife and children whose faces he is forgetting, Orr and his crab apples, horse chestnuts and rubber balls (the director gave me no reason to care that his plane had gone done), Major Major and his history of being Caleb or the story of him being beaten from the basketball court? I did not shed one tear watching this movie, I have shed thousands reading the book multiple times. Yossarian lacks much of the fear and neuroses he has in the book. Alan Arkin's bored statement of I am the bombardier sounded as though he had answered a call where someone asked if the bombardier was home. Nately's whore never falls asleep, Major De Coverly has no chance to kidnap random Italians or be injured by the old man (Due to Buck Henry's decision to exclude him).The book is indescribably moving while being heartbreakingly funny, this movie does it no justice at all and should probably change its name to avoid the risk of contaminating Joseph Heller's masterpiece.None of the relationships between characters are explained (unless you consider rank) so the back and forth, non linear style which works so well in the book becomes a mish mash of nonsensical imagery/plot line/aborted screenplay attempt which the fans of the film tell you to appreciate as surrealism.If you would truly like a suggestion, all I have to say is read the book. "},{"Title":"Misses The Point","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Based on the incredibly popular novel by Joseph Heller, sporting Mike Nichols as director, and featuring a first rate cast that included a host of brilliant actors, CATCH-22 was one of the most highly anticipated films of its year. And it proved one of the most critically-despised box office disasters of the early 1970s. Almost every one loathed everything about it.The story concerns a group of WWII bomber crews and support staff stationed on an island off the coast of Italy, on which they make bomb runs--but this is merely the peg on which Heller hung his savage satire on American bureaucracy. The film version, sadly, keeps the peg but manages to miss the rest.Part of the problem here is that the humor of the novel is deeply tied into the way in which Heller tells his story--and it simply doesn't translate well into film. That aside, Buck Henry's adaptation is an absolute disaster instead of rapid-fire, it is slow-crawl, and instead of sharp-fanged it is gap-toothed. Mike Nichol's direction is an equal miscalculation, for he approaches the material with an odd sense of detachment that effectively kills even the little bit that Henry's script had going for it to begin with.Given all of this, the surprising thing about the movie is how well-cast it is and how good some of the performances are. You simply couldn't ask for a better Yossarian than Alan Arkin and the novel's Doc Daneeka might have been written with Jack Gilford in mind; Richard Benjamin, Art Garfunkle, Paula Prentiss, Bob Newhart, and even Orson Wells are among the many who give the film what little force it has. But ultimately, even the best performances in the film can't get the show off the ground. It is dead on arrival.The film is presently available on DVD, but the DVD package isn't anything to write home about; the film is well presented, but the commentary track is merely so-so and the rest of the bonuses are ho-hum. Although not, mercifully, as ho-hum as the extremely misguided film itself.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"Full of stars but dull","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Recap A bomber pilot tries desperately to be grounded and escape missions, as his commanding officers repeatedly raises the requirement to be rotated out. He tries to be declared crazy only to be denied as only sane people want to be declared crazy to escape war. Stuck in his outfit he is forced to see the war go crazy about him as it turns into a private enterprise of his mess officer...Comments Full of very known actors, quite a few that I found it hard to recognize (as I think of them as they look now), it is fun to see how they looked and what they did (a lot) earlier in their careers. The movie also has a few points to make of war, and cynicism in general.The main benefit however is a few scenes that are quite funny. These are gems in a desert though, as the movie is far too slow, stretched out for its material. Mostly it became pretty dull, to be honest.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great book, good movie.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I must honestly admit that when I found out that someone made a movie from this great book, i hardly could believe it. The way the book is built up, making a movie of it seems almost impossible. Still, this is done in a very amusing way. At times it seems very clear that they are struggling to catch all the special moments in the books (which I believe to be impossible), and it at times becomes a bit too much and rather confusing.Still, well worth a watch, particularly if you've read the book. Good acting from Alan Arking, which I find perfect for the role of Captain Yossarian. Also a lot of funny moments and clever twists to catch the essence of the book, which they succeed fairly well in. "},{"Title":"Virtual insanity","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I read Joseph Heller's Catch-22 at school of my own volition after watching the movie, and at the time, neither made sense. Having now seen the film subsequently, I appreciate it a lot more but you really need to pay attention such are the subtle scene interchanges, characters that fade in and out of shot mid dialogue and the underlying narrative can at times be hard work to follow. But if you can remain focused, you should be rewarded.It's intriguing watching Arkin battle the myriad of crack-pots with whom he comes into contact, all the stars of brass coming and going like revolving doors, each of them displaying a manic neuroticism that in turn makes Yossarian look decidedly stable. Perkins, Voight and Benjamin to me appeared all subtle variations of the same personality, whereas Grodin was the standout point of difference, displaying trademark ambivalence. Surprisingly expansive cast also includes Martin Balsam, Orson Welles, Art Garfunkel and Buck Henry. The ladies' roles (Mrs Benjamin - Paula Prentiss, and Collin Wilcox) are minor and little more than bit parts.There's a couple of scenes that will resonate, not least of all Yossarian's recurring vision in the cockpit of a stricken fighter, or the sight of the lusty (and starkers) nurse swimming toward him from the pontoon, but it's still an effort to absorb the copious two hours of dialogue. Perhaps more conducive to a few viewings over time to fully appreciate the layers. Made at the same time as MASH and Suppose They Gave a Way and Nobody Came which were of very similar ilk if you enjoyed Catch-22. "},{"Title":"The best is astonishing, but as a whole it's barely a shadow of the book","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Catch-22 (1970)This should have been a brilliant movie, brilliant. It is based on one of the touchstone American novels post-WWII. It has a series of actors any other director would die for, or kill for Anthony Perkins, Martin Balsam, Bob Newhart, Alan Arkin, Paula Prentiss, Richard Benjamin, and even Art Garfunkel, who sings better than he acts, surely. And there is Martin Sheen and Jon Voigt, too. And heck, throw in Orson Welles (yup).Oh, and directing? Mike Nichols. It's 1970, the middle of Vietnam, and a year after M.A.S.H. which may have unduly influenced the tone here. Nichols had only directed two features before this--Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolfe(which won Best Picture) and The Graduate (which should have, and which is one of the best New Hollywood movies).Parts of the movie are utterly hilarious--when the movie theme from 2001 breaks out (simply because the main character, the infamous Yosarian, sees a woman), it's not only funny for its excess, it's a jab at Kubrick's over-seriousness. Give Welles credit for showing up, and for doing a humorless job. In a way, he gets what Nichols wants better than anyone. The one ongoing flaw to the movie is the acting, which is too often silly. It's like they are having fun, and if Heller's book is funny, it's not because the characters are being funny. It's because what they say and do is absurd. That's completely different. Martin Balsam is one of the worst for this, making a comic role out of a surreal one.So when the movie is simply absurd or surreal--a kind of deadpan frightening ludicrousness that might actually have been true--it's terrific. When it turns to slapstick, even slightly (fumbling, making smart cracks, or just laughing at themselves), it fumbles. When it turns to utter seriousness, as in Yosarian's night walk through the old town, seeing in succession the horrors not of war, but of life itself, it's deeply troubling and moving. And brilliant. Yes, the movie can often be brilliant. So it's a halting experience, patched together, with too many pauses between episodes. Disappointing, but a revelation about the impossibility of infallibility. And for heaven's sake, read the book if you haven't. "},{"Title":"Catch a falling star.","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Catch-22 is probable the pinnacle of success for most of this ensemble cast.Joseph Heller's book was a satire on capitalism but the movie morphed into an anti-war sentiment thanks to Hollywood writers like Buck Henry.Catch-22 is notable for two ground-breaking scenes in American cinema The first was the shot of Col. Cathcart (Martin Balsam) on the toilet right in front of the camera with no apologies.The director and editor did not prepare the audience for the shock and revulsion of the second shot, where Capt. Yossarian (Alan Arkin) leaves his pilot's seat to check on the bombardier.When Yossarian lifts the wounded man's flight jacket, his guts literally fall out. As a result, more than one movie-goer lost his lunch, and his date, watching this film. "},{"Title":"Lacks character development &#150; but those familiar with the book will find much to love here","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  During the second world war Captain Yossarian decides he is fed up with flying missions of ever increasing numbers and tries to get grounded on the grounds of insanity.  However Doc Daneeka informs him of a catch &#150; all he has to do is ask to stop flying, however if he doesn't want to fly he must be sane and hence must fly!  This mother of all catches is catch-22.  With this still in his mind Yossarian finds a world of death, madness and profiteering of both a financial and political nature.  The war has gone mad!Based on my favourite book this had the potential for me to hate it or love it.  The book is fantastic as both a character comedy and a satire on war &#150; I have read it over 10 tens and still love it.  This helped me with the film because I know the characters so well.  The `story' is very fragmented and moves quickly, if you don't know the characters then you may find yourself having trouble keeping up.  However the film manages to bring most of the characters to life &#150; although many are either only mentioned (hungry Joe) or have brief scenes (Major Major).  This is excusable as the film concentrates on the point of the book &#150; the insanity around war &#150; and carries that off well.The film jumps around between scens and though time &#150; however Nichols manages to tie it all together well and creates a sort of structure out of a difficult situation.  The cast are brilliant and full of now-famous faces.  Arkin is a marvelous Yossarian &#150; hats of to casting!  He's world weary sort of manner is a credit to the character.  Art Garfunkel has never been a good actor, but he seems to fit as the naive Nately.  In fact all characters seem to fit &#150; Gilford's Doc is bang on, Blasam and Benjamin are great as Carthcart and Danby and Newhart's Major Major is as it should be &#150; if only he was given more time.  Martin Sheen is good in a small role with a nice cameo from Orson Welles.  The two main actors are Perkins and Voight.  Perkins' Chaplin is stuttering and shy as he should be and Voight's Milo Minderbender is absolutely insane inside a sane body &#150; his full story isn't told but much of his madness is included.The quick flow of this film means that the characters and settings come and go quickly &#150; that's why this never manages to be as good as M*A*S*H*.  If you've read the book then you can fill the rest in yourself, but without that knowledge then you may not fully get it and be left cold by the speed and lack of character development.However Nichols has done well.  The book was always going to be difficult to adapt and stripping it to the bear characters and key events it has managed to keep the point &#150; that war is madness.  Not a perfect film &#150; but for lovers of the book this is a great chance to meet all those great characters in the flesh (sort of). "},{"Title":"The Good and The Bad...","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Catch-22 was released around the same time as (the superior) M*A*S*H with pretty much the same aim Show the stupidity and waste of war...Catch-22 had a promising up and coming director, the writer of the Graduate and a sterling cast backing it up... But somehow it fails. The casting here is absolutely and utterly PERFECT. Alan Arkin IS Yossarian, Charles Grodin IS Aarfy, Anthony Perkins IS the Chaplain! The whole cast is absolutely PERFECT here! Unfortunately the film is lacking the depth from the amazingly complicated novel... although somehow remaining faithful to it at the same time!What's left is merely a series of seemingly unrelated comedic events... Kind of like the book, except it somehow misses the books heart. Catch-22 will have you laughing out loud, amazed at the perfect acting and making you feel happy, sad and shocked as it pleases... But two days later you won't remember a damned thing about it!An unfortunate failure, but definitely worth seeing!  "},{"Title":"Amusing but also fairly shallow anti-war movie.","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" It's not really a movie that forcedly tries to be funny but nevertheless a movie that's filled with silly and quirky characters and situations. This combination makes this a sort of an original as well as amusing funny movie.But because of the many characters in the movie, none of them really get developed strongly enough, simply because there is no room for it. It makes the movie a bit of a shallow experience as well. That is what happens when you have a movie filled with an all-star cast.But the movie is an extremely well made one, with some outstanding actors, which definitely saves the movie and still makes this a greatly and amusing watchable one. The movie is filled with many long and complexly constructed scene's. It's a very well directed and constructed movie, supported by some good camera-work and some great dialog, that for some reason doesn't always remain chronically. Mike Nichols once more really shows his skills with this movie!The well known actors all helps to uplift the movie. I especially liked Anthony Perkins who was surprisingly good in a comical role.It's a movie about madness and the whole pointlessness of war. It shows this well and in an amusing way. The story is cleverly written but again, it's also pretty shallow all. The movie gets is message across but I feel that it's not as powerful or effective than it could had been. The movie does get better about halve way trough, when things start to take a more serious shape.Still it's of course a perfectly watchable and amusing movie to watch!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Well shot, badly written","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Shifting, mind-bending flashbacks and unbelievably complex filming sequences move Mike Nichols into the Director's Techniques Hall of Fame. Consider the first sequence, with B-29s taking off on a small island while Yossarian, Cathcart and Korn are all acting out an unheard scene in a burned out building somewhere in the shot. Notice the planes flying in the background with Yossarian in the foreground. The entire shot is amazing.As for the movie, well, the tone is right and the mood is right - it's very similar to Orson Welles's attempt at Kafka's The Trial. It's not Nichols's fault that the script is mostly flat and plodding (Buck Henry also conceived of and wrote for TV's Get Smart - not a damnation in itself, but just worthy of note). It's partially his fault that most of the characters come across as cartoonish throwaways - like Nurse Duckett, McWatt, and Bob Newhart's Major Major Major Major.But it's definitely his fault that the audience is unprepared for the wackiness of things like the Minderbinder Cartel when it first appears, or the Nately's Whore storyline. By about halfway through, the movie turns into a expressionist nightmare, just like in The Trial - again, not a bad thing in itself (watch the background events as Yossarian walks through the streets at night) - but we are unprepared for it, having already gone through the majestic aerial scenes and the absurd prostitution scenes. "},{"Title":"My opinion on the movie Catch-22.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  In my opinion, this was THE worst interpretation of a novel that I have ever been subjected to. The facts were changed in some of the characters, the acting was horrible and the movie did not represent the book accurately at all.  I detested the movie and, unfortunately, must watch it again for the purpose of taking notes.  If a person should feel so inclined as to produce a movie based on such an intricate piece of literature, then they should be made to at least put forth the barest minimum of accuracy.  This movie was horrid, and in my opinion does not even warrant being rated! "}{"Title":"A valiant attempt","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  It was inevitable that a book of the magnitude of Catch 22 would pale into insignificance in movie adaptation. Tom Wolfe's magnum opus - Bonfire of the Vanities - suffered the same fate.How could Yossarian's caustic scepticism of all around him be captured as well on celluloid? Or Cathcart and Korn's conniving? Or the well meaning chaplain's impotence when confronted with authority? And so many other things. The answer is of course it couldn't.Instead I tried to view this film as though I'd never read the book. After one viewing I found myself rather warming to it. It isn't as grand in scale, how could it be. But instead of slating it for being nothing like the original work, I just settled down to enjoy it as a film in its own right.On subsequent re-readings of Heller I found myself picturing Alan Arkin as Yossarian. And I believed it too. And Art Garfunkel captured the innocent patriotism of Nately. I like this film because it didn't try too hard to be like the novel, and as opposed to Bonfire, it doesn't fail as entertaining cinema. "},{"Title":"The book was a lot better.  This stunk","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  To most people who don't know this, Catch-22 was in my opinion, the greatest book ever.  The plot was excellent, the characters superb, and the humor factor was more over-whelming than anything I have ever heard, seen, or read.  But this movie was nothing like the book. Despite an all star cast, including Bob Newhart, Anthony Perkins, Jon Voight, and Alan Arkin, the revised plot stunk like 10 day old mayo.  This all star cast put forth a mediocre at best performance, and the changes were too radical for it to be related to the book.  All the humor, plot twists, and fun was just sucked out of the movie.  I would still rather read the book then watch the movie.  This suction of the good parts and emittence of a putrid gas that makes the movie, well, stink, a great book has been made vapid and pointless in another hollywood movie that had no business being made so bad. As I look on your 100 worst movies of all time, I am quite disappointed that I have not seen this rubbish heap on that list.  I am extremely disappointed that its overall rating was above a seven.  This movie was pointless, insipid, and prosaic.  A loser all the way.  "},{"Title":"In an insane world sanity is of little use.","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The film is set during a campaign by the United States Army Air Corps, to oust the Nazi Germans from the then fascist Italy during World War II. Alan Arkin plays the main character Captain John Yossarian, in this surreal black comedy. Catch-22 is undoubtedly one of those Marmite films, as in you will either love it or hate it and the reasons for loving or hating it will be just as complex as the storyline itself, outlining the decent into the insanity that is the war machine. Shot from the perspective of the anti- hero Captain John Yossarian (Arkin) a bombardier aboard a B-52 warplane. Has seen to much war and death in particular the death of a gunner, whom Yossarian barely had time to get to know. Seems to haunt Yossarian throughout the film with increasing gore and intensity that in my opinion is (by shear design of (Nichols) to show us the wounds that we associate with warfare all the while Yossarian is wrestling with wounds that cannot be seen.With an all-star cast and wonderful cinematography from David Watkin whom was nominated for a British Academy of Film and Television Arts for this film. Wonderfully utilising the Panavision lenses to capture wide shots with beautiful precision with the copious number of long takes, this imparts upon the film a sense of realism that would certainly be lost with more edit/cut points. As anti-war propaganda goes this film is poignant in its overview of callous commanding officers who seem to care more about making it into newspaper articles than keeping up the morale of the men under their command not to mention how Catch-22 illustrates the corruption that war breeds in men. Financial corruption highlighted by theft of US Army Air Corps property to sell for profit. When this film was released, the United States of America was fighting a Cold War with the United Soviet States of Russia, and a dubious conflict against farmers in Vietnam so far to say that war was at the forefront of US politics. Then along comes a film that satires the bureaucracy of war, add into the equation that post-traumatic stress was being researched in earnest, due to the mental states of the Vietnam Veterans returning to the US. A few sore spots and tender nerves have been commented upon in this film. However, with a non-liner story line this point is somewhat lost, so is an underlying theme of American Corporate greed, putting profits in front of the lives of soldiers which seems to ring true in the Theaters of War today. Catch-22 is really a film of two parts, comedy for the first half of the film, refreshingly not typical American slapstick but dark and cerebral, and often sexually orientated. Not surprising there since the main stage for Catch- 22 is an Army Air Corps base where the only women are the nurses, there are only a handful there, and they know it. Throwing sexual tension into a mixture of insane orders, insufficient equipment due to it being sold for a profit, and egotistical commanding officers. The second half of Catch-22 gets all serious pointing out in no uncertain terms the effects on the mental state of service men that are continually ordered to fight and kill, and watch their friends getting picked off. With inflexible commanding officers and a general (wonderfully played by Orson Wells) who just seems to just want to shoot his subordinates. Our intrepid anti-hero, Yossarian, cowardly he is in the respect that all he wants is, to get out of the war and go home and to get laid. Yet Yossarian displays strength of character seldom seen when he refuses to bomb a town that seemingly has no strategic value to friend or foe. For so many atrocities in war have been followed by the excuse I was only following orders, for an officer to disobey orders for not making logical sense, however, in some circumstances the reasons for some actions cannot be fathomed by the subordinates, as the lower ranks or public are not always given all information due to operational secrecy. However, Catch-22 is not a film about military law if that is what you are after then this I would suggest A Few Good Men or G.I. Jane. Having said all that, Catch-22 is a film of technical precision, with beautiful set pieces and a darker take on the heroic face of war, and how desperation can lead a rational person to commit seemingly insane things, even though the rational thing to do is the insane thing. If you are of the frame of mind that can fathom this film then you will thoroughly enjoy it. However, if not then this film will seem akin to The Emperors New Suit. For me personally it is interesting to watch such a film and the comments it makes. Such comments could well be made today however, today's film makers seem to want to stay as far away from these issues as possible, and just show us giant robots that duke it out. In High Definition, Three Dimensional, Computer Generated Imagery, with about as much substance and depth as the images themselves or what the High Society was up to during the major conflicts that defined the past two hundred years. "},{"Title":"Just try reading the book!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Many people have watched this movie and walked away from it dazed and confused. However, if you get the chance, go to the library and find the book. Then try to read just Chapter 1 in the book, then you will understand THE BOOK AND THE MOVIE ARE SUPPOSE TO MAKE YOU DAZED AND CONFUSED! The whole point of this classic movie (and book) is simply this- War is crazy. Killing our fellow human beings is crazy. Flying a perfectly good airplane into an area where people are throwing every imaginable thing in the air to try to knock you down is crazy. And, most important, dropping bombs on cities that have no strategic value whatsoever (to quote from the Major Danby early in the movie) is crazy. Enter Yossarian, a guy who sees how crazy all this is and decides he's had enough. He try's to convince the Army that he is crazy, and therefore, shouldn't have to fly combat missions anymore. But, as he soon finds out, he isn't crazy after all- EVERYBODY ELSE IS! "},{"Title":"An absolute shambles. A disgrace of an adaptation. Robs the story of its humour.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Catch-22 was always going to be tricky to adapt, because its a panoramic novel whose value is in structure, and the way one chapter is devoted to each character name, whereby we learn little by little about the main character Yossarian and various important aspects of the air-force base. But the absolute minimum I expect an adaptation of Catch-22 to capture is its essence, that spirit of cynical black comedy. You've got to remember, its an uproariously funny book.So aside from the failed attempt to tell any coherent version of Catch-22 in a two-hour movie, the main thing which makes Mike Nichols' attempt such a blasphemous insult to the novel, is its robbing it almost completely of its humour.Another movie was made in 1970 which uses black comedy to expose the insanity of war. Despite that movie's bearing no resemblance to Catch-22 plotwise, Robert Altman's classic MASH is a closer adaptation of the spirit of Joseph Heller's novel, than the movie which bears its name.The atmosphere here is sticky, hot, dusty and unpleasant - so we're not removed enough to be able to laugh. The performances are shoddy - particularly poor Art Garfunkel (he's only a musician, sir, leave him be! - and i will) and less excusably, virtually deserving a defamation suit from Joseph Heller's Yossarian, who no doubt would be amused by the whole thing, Mike Nichols' Yossarian, Alan Arkin. Terrible, weak performance. He looks like he's constantly smirking - yet he's not funny! No! All wrong!Catch-22 is interesting because of how rare it is that you find a movie this bad, and interesting because Orson Welles is briefly in it (only one or two scenes), though i'd warn Welles fans to steer clear of this. Even completists.Needless to say, anyone who's read the book, this movie will not only not live up to your expectations, it will actually ruin your memory of the book, and make you believe the book was not as good as you thought. Well, you thought right! The book is terrific, funny, clever! Read the book again! I can't warn you any sterner than this.3/10 for hiring Orson Welles.  "},{"Title":"It's better than no movie adaptation...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  A lot of people hate this movie because it's a real Reader's Digest form of the lengthy novel. I know, because I used to be one of them. Entire characters are cut out, so are entire chapters; so is most of the book. It's probably better to have read the book first, that will definitely make the movie easier to follow. Of course, if you have only seen the movie and didn't hate it, you should also read the book, which as far as I'm concerned is just as much an American Classic Novel as anything by Hemingway, Steinbeck or Twain.      Part of the reason I changed my mind about this movie is because of the superb casting Alan Arkin as Yossarian, a very young Martin Sheen as Dobbs, Anthony (Psycho!) Perkins as the Chaplain, Orson Welles as Gen. Dreedle and Buck Henry as Col. Korn - please look up the full cast under the IMDB entry for this movie and see for yourself. I also came to like this movie more and more by watching it several times over the years and noticing all sorts of nice little touches, such as when several pilots give Col. Cathcart the thumbs up sign as they take off on a mission, while Yossarian flips him off.        All in all, this is actually a much better adaptation of Joseph Heller's classic novel than most people give it credit for.  Of course, it would be great to see this movie remade in a version about twice as long to fit in a lot more of the book. It would also make a great mini-series on TV, assuming that anyone out there still wants to see one of the strongest anti-war statements of the twentieth-century.  "},{"Title":"partial","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  While the movie had an all-star cast and good acting, it was still only part of what the book was. They left out a lot, and messed up the order of events. Good to watch if you haven't read the book, but if you have, you won't understand the movie.  "},{"Title":"Gen Peckham thinks these reviews are too prolix","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Of course the film version of CATCH-22 is inferior to the book!! Perhaps a Mini-series could have done CATCH-22 justice, but the M-S hadn't been invented in 1970. I can't think of any member of this cast who does not do complete justice to the role they were given, and is not perfectly cast(except Bob Newhart as Major Major, and that's just a height thing). The casting director did a wonderful job. Martin Balsam as Col. Cathcart, Buck Henry as Korn, Orson Welles as Dreedle, the list goes on & on. General Dreedle's WAC made me sweat and moan, just like Yossarian!! Bob Balaban was great as Orr, & I've loved watching his roles over the years, like in CLOSE ENCOUNTERS, & SEINFELD, & thinking of the job he did as the sodden, grinning dwarf in CATCH-22.  "},{"Title":"As a movie, it works, as an adaptation, it doesn't","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  OK, a friend told me not to compare the book with the movie.  So, I will only say that the book was the hardest book in the world to adapt, and this was an ambitious film for trying it.  The movie works.  It also doesn't work.  (Catch-22)  The reason that the movie itself doesn't work is that it works all too well.  It gathered the style of being a catch-22, and made itself stressful, muddled, and confused.  Stream of conciousness does not really work in a movie.  But on a second viewing, you begin to realize that this is the purpose of the movie.  So, it in essence doesn't work because it works all too well.  The movie is funny, but by the time you laugh a new scene has started.  The scenes last about one min. each, because Henry tried to cram as much from the book into the movie.  But he left out individual favorite scenes that have nothing to do with the movie.  Maybe this would work if it became the length of a miniseries, and included every aspect of the book, but that would be a monstrosity and too big.  The book is impossible to transform to a movie.  I hope Hollywood reads this, and maybe give it a secod chance, but for now we are left with a movie that you don't know what to say about it.     ?/10 "},{"Title":"I want to catch a .22","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Well, I suppose I'll have to comment on this one too, folks.  I know you're all big fans of my work and online summaries, but let's get one thing straight--I didn't like this movie all the way through.  I was trying to think of a name to register as, but all the ones that I liked were taken.  I thought of the last movie that I had viewed-Catch 22-and then thought that name would be taken too. It was then that I recalled the old woman's voice as she pronounced those words--Catcha 22, she said. I immediately tried it and it logged me in.  The movie, no doubt, was boring and tiresome, and, while I'm only ten years old, made no sense to me whatsoever. The only thing that kept me awake during this movie was the small bits of slow comedy and dramatic pornography, which were spread out over this long, vast, seemingly endless movie. As far as I'm concerned, it is humanly impossible to consciously watch this movie through more than one time and survive.  The movie was funny at first, and full of crude humor and naughty, dirty nudity. But then, quite suddenly and abruptly, all of that stopped, and it became one of those old World War II Soap Opera/Slow Comedy/Mellow Drama/XXX kind of films, you know--the ones you pick up from a pawn shop for two bucks.  It was a dangerous film not only politically, but physically. I'm quite certain that you could go into a deep coma watching that, and not come out for several years--when the movie finally ended.  Since I didn't like the film, I later decided that my name was symbolic, meaning--I want to catch a bullet in the head, a .22 caliber bullet, mind you (since I am indeed a big fan of Steve Martin's My Blue Heaven, in which they us .22's), while I am watching Catch 22.  "}{"Title":"A movie the Duke must have liked.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  The saddest thing about 'Catch-22', if I may say so under IMDb guidelines, is not that Mike Nichols, a master of dark comedy, as his later 'Carnal Knowledge' would prove, abandons satire in favour of deadening spectacle.  Or that he turns an astonishing all-star cast into jittering, unfunny puppets.  Or that he completely misses the tone of Heller's 'classic' (and, boy, does Nichols think it's a classic).  Or that the two modes he 's chosen to tell the story - ironic black comedy and subjective nightmare - cancel each other out.  Or that he thinks European cinema is automatically superior to American, so that he jettisons the lessons of Kubrick, Lester and Altman, in favour of ponderous, undigested globs of Antonioni and Fellini. No, the saddest thing about 'Catch-22' is that its heart is reactionary; that, unlike 'Dr. Strangelove' or 'M*A*S*H', Nichols pathologises his delusional hero, and not war, neutering any potential satire.  And, at the height of the Vietnam War, that was unforgivable. "}]