[{"Title":"You laugh for a while until it sinks in.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Werner Herzog made his madman mark with this, his second feature film. Inmates at some sort of institution take over for hilarious and anarchic results. You laugh for a while until it sinks in. The haunting tone, other world locations and sympathy with those on the edge of society set the scene for Herzog's later and better-known masterpieces AGUIRRE and MYSTERY OF KASPAR HAUSER. The German director doesn't exploit outcasts; he loves and defends them, showing that normal people are the ones with something to prove. He insists that it is not the actors who are small, but the world that has gotten out of shape. Filming was rough one actor was run over by the driver-less car in the film and another caught on fire. Herzog promised the actors that at the end of shooting he would jump into a spiny cactus to show his understanding. He still has some of the needles in his leg. But this won't appeal to a lot of the usual trash film hounds, as they really want the mainstream versions of edgy. "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorite films ever","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film isn't just depraved and misanthropic, it's depraved and misanthropic with heart.Despite it's grotesqueness, it depicts a fantasy of rebellion and transgression that I've loved for years. The urge to break free and destroy the confining objects and circumstances of our lives is within all of us. The potential joy of trashing and rendering inoperable our cars, the implements of our work, even our foodstuffs and houses lurks somewhere on a subconcious level, wether we are able to admit it to ourselves or not. Herzog has made an archetypal statement, very simply and unambiguously. The exhilaration of watching these laughing little people dismantle, bludgeon and set fire to their surroundings is immenseI find I have a weird empathy with the character Hombre, the small guy who happily follows the group and laughs while he watches all the destruction. He has a kind of humble nobility which is revealed at the beginning of the film when he refuses to talk to police. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Herzog's most telling film.The world he has created sees dwarfs confined in an un-named, oppressive system. When they finally revolt against the machine, they don't know what to do with themselves and ultimately resort to destroying the things around them (cars, trees, animals).Bizarre, beautiful, and horrifically engaging, this is a unique experience that demands your full attention.Give it a go (the ANCHOR BAY DVD even has audio commentary from Herzog!!) - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Herzog Dwarves a small miracle","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is hard going, true, but through the chaos and endless repetition can be glimpsed a kind of joy of existence. The dwarves are exaggerations of human behavior, and at the same time, human behavior distilled. Within the confines of the prison complex where the film plays, their actions become more and more outrageous, and through all this a kind of tenderness emerges in their very closeness and comeraderie. Herzog revels in pointing the mirror at his audience, making them take a closer look at themselves, and this film is as good as any example of his take on the human condition. "},{"Title":"Herzog's small triumph","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm almost ashamed to say it but...this film truly TERRIFIED me! Usually speaking, this is like one of the best compliments a movie can ever receive, but I'm afraid that in the case of Even Dwarfs Started Small this feeling is very misplaced. Werner Herzog's minor masterpiece is intended as an allegoric social portrait, hence I'm not very proud to admit that it haunted me all night long. As wrong and unsympathetic as it may come across, these little people look naturally eerie and their appearances made an impression on me that was even stronger than the mesmerizing story. Even Dwarfs Started Small is a revolutionary film, pretty much covering all the daily wars every human being wages, only the protagonists are all dwarfs. Since these people's position in society already are oppressed as it is, this film looks extra powerful and compelling. All the actors and actresses deliver amazing performances, even though none of them had any experience in cinema. Especially the 'main' character Hombre is a truly intriguing man. Other aspects that increase the depressing intensity of this film are the black and white cinematography, the extended sequences showing farm animals and &#150; most of all &#150; the raw, tribal music. This definitely was one of the toughest reviews I ever wrote, simply because this is such a multilateral classic and I regretfully can't get past my personal fear of small shapes... "},{"Title":"Herzog's most powerful imagery yet","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Werner Herzog's sophomore effort is probably his most bizarre to date. The whole cast is compromised of dwarfs who take over an institution and wreak havoc. This treat for Herzog fans is very entertaining.The film does have its problems though. The first half hour is hard to sit through but this is the type of film that gets better as it goes on. Also, I was expecting more of an ending. The ending, although funny, seems that it just does not fit and ended too abruptly.As I said in my title, I think this has Herozg's most powerful images. With the dwarfs wreaking havoc and celebrating with smiles on their while African tribe music is playing, the scenes are very bizarrely beautiful. The movie is very entertaining and very funny. Hombre has probably the best laugh I have ever heard in my life. He definitely brings real evil to the film. The cinematography is great (yeah, what else is new in a Herzog film?). The message of the film is also very profound.Although this is definitely not Herzog's best, it is one hell of a trip! "},{"Title":"Social Comment, and a Smile","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I guess that I will never stop reviewing this wonderful picture. I was able to find it in a kind of obscure video/bookstore, and has continuosly gone back to it. And everytime I watch it it grows, even though I already thought that it was a great movie the first time I saw it.So why am I so compelled by it? Probably because of its originality, and not least, its actors (especially Helmut Döring, the littlest that also has a little role in Jeder für sich und Gott gegen alle).If I rembember it right Leonard Maltin described the film as truly disturbing, and I guess that he ment that in a positive way, like in the films Man Bites Dog, Henry-Portrait of a Serial Killer or Clean, Shaven. You get disturbed, like when the mob throws chicken through their supervisors window, and you can clearly see how these chickens hurt themselves, break their wings and legs. But the movie, disturbing and in many scenes very funny, amusing, also includes a social comment (my opinion). Them small dwarfes rages agains the civilization that mocks them, locks them in, and decides to get even by treating animals bad, and by destroying all symbols of western civilization. Think of it, those of you who have seen this film, all they destroy is cars, typewriters, etc, and gross in food and wine. Although social comment wasn't Herzog's first though when making this film it, as in Stroszek, is there.All said, this is one of the best films I have said, by its scenes, music, dialogue, actors. Bizarre, disturbing, funny, wonderful. I find it great that I can see Herzogian style/form in new directors, as in Harmony Korine's Gummo (remember that scene where a dumb couple 'shouts' at eachother). In this scene, and many more, I can find an Herzog influence.Have a great time/ Ola Lundin  "},{"Title":"Dwarfs Gone Wild!","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Werner Herzog created a bizarre revolutionary world made up of dwarfs. Every actor in the film is a dwarf, not to mention angry and German too. They all decide to rebel against the system, but a revolution is tough when you can't even reach the door handle. One of their friends is held hostage for interrogation by a rich authority figure. It's dwarfs to the rescue! Watch in shock as dwarfs try to drive a car, look at porn, set fires, break things and even torture animals. The film even includes a brutal cock fight and the crucifixion of a monkey. Even Dwarfs Started Small may be to disturbing for some. To me, it was challenging but worth watching; it shows viewers that your never too small to fight the system! "},{"Title":"Imagine a sequel to FREAKS directed by Sam Fuller","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Werner Herzog's upsetting, black and white, documentary-like EVEN DWARFS STARTED SMALL concerns the rebellion of a handful of dwarves against the institution in which they are inmates.  No average-sized actors appear - just the buildings, furniture and accessories that have been constructed for (and seemingly abandoned by) them.  Herzog pulls a double whammy by getting his audience to identify with his performers - indeed, they are shown to express great sensitivity and pain - but doesn't cop out by suggesting that the dwarves will be happy now that they've smashed some windows.  A difficult film to watch - and certainly not for the easily-offended. "},{"Title":"has its moments, but generally is not top-shelf Herzog despite it's ambitions","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I actually admire what writer/director Werner Herzog was going for with Even Dwarfs Started Small even if I think he didn't quite execute it in a manner that involved me enough. It's got a great idea behind it- inmates at a mental institution, on one of the Canary Islands pre-tourism, create an anarchic uprising with practically no one else in sight, and the headmaster locks himself in with a retarded patient while the others go wild and crazy, albeit still staying in the confines of the grounds of the area. I also liked when Herzog went for an interesting route in the picture psychologically and in mood, which was to show how chaos and disarray, even if among little people, can actually become rather aimless and uncanny. There is no plot, it's just a series of interconnected segments that seem to be happening in real time, where they do things like ogle at naked girls in magazines, kill a pig randomly, give constant torture to a couple of blind dwarfs, circle around a constantly 360 degree spinning car, and with Herzog sometimes just as interested in the animals (chickens, a camel, the pig, a monkey) on the premises as he is with his whacked out little folk.But the problem arises then with the work that since it is plot less- even if it ends with the headmaster, talking to a branch outside, as a metaphor for human control and what is and what isn't a free will or spirit perhaps- there's the danger of becoming tedious with what goes on, and that's exactly the trap that I think Herzog falls into here. It's not that he is out blatantly to mock them (although, like with Stroszek, the tendency to laugh is hard to avoid at times, especially with its documentary-style anything-goes approach), but there isn't any grand metaphor I could really obtain from the material, at least from a first viewing, and Herzog seemed to be having too much fun getting the dwarfs to do both the mundane and whatever to get something consistently interesting. While he does have one character who ends up being quite memorable, the freaky-laughing, hilarious Hombre (all one-note, of course, but then again isn't everyone here), there's nothing to tie the parts together that are worth watching for to make it good enough for the whole. There's surrealism of course (the fate of the monkey and the car), and an image or two that strikes greatly (when the headmaster or whomever tries to get the attention of the one-passerby on the island), but it just didn't compel me or surprise me in ways that Herzog at his best can do.Not that I'm telling you to not see the film, as a fan I mean. The title alone should be a calling card to anyone who might have a bit of interest in the subject matter, and I'm sure a work like this has inspired a few avant-garde director's out there (I saw it as a possible fore-father for Korine's Gummo). Yet it's own lackadaisical use of narrative and Herzog's insistence on ambiguity and derangement, makes it a kind of schizophrenic work that makes it a fun yet flawed trip. "}{"Title":"Could have been much better","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I generally like Herzog a lot, but this is definitely not one of my favorite films of his. Yes, it has a lot of fabulous images and moments, but for me, the problem is that it doesn't work as a film very well. It's kinda poetic, kinda surreal, kinda nightmarish (Herzog has said that the film is a prolonged nightmare in his view), and kinda like a lengthy performance art piece, but in my view, the individual elements are not tied together as well as they should be. It does seem like he simply took a group of dwarfs out to the desert, gave them some rough improvisational boundaries, told them to go crazy, filmed it, and somewhat randomly edited it.In a very rough way, the film does have a plot. It begins with a group of dwarfs in something like a prison. Someone off-camera seems to ask one about a crime, and then most of the film is in flashback, giving us the story of how the dwarfs ended up in their situation at the beginning of the film. The backstory has the dwarfs rebelling at some kind of institution. At first it seems like maybe it was a mental home, but then an authority figure keeps referring to himself as an instructor, and there is talk at various points of a principal being away, so maybe it's supposed to be a school.The bulk of the film is just the dwarfs rebelling, by doing things like breaking manufactured objects, harassing a couple blind dwarfs, torturing animals, destroying plants and trees, burning stuff and having a food fight.As fun (in a dark, twisted way, of course) as a lot of this stuff is in isolation, and as entertaining as some of the dialogue and behavior of the dwarfs is--the laughing is particularly infectious, there's not a lot of structure to anything, including, on a meta level, to the film as an artwork. There are thematic and content resemblances to Tod Browning's film Freaks (1932), you can see how some of this stuff probably influenced David Lynch, and Herzog made slight allusions to films like The Wild One (1953), but Auch Zwerge haben klein angefangen is not as good as either the films that influenced it or the films that it influenced.There are themes explored, and interpretations abound because the film is so intentionally ambiguous. You can see the film as a critique from many different angles on rebellion, you can see it as a meditation on entropy, you can see it as a commentary on people inheriting a world they didn't make . . . you can see it as many things. While all that stuff is interesting to think about, having an intriguing theme isn't sufficient for having a good film, either.Still, Auch Zwerge haben klein angefangen is worth a watch for fans of weirdness because of its arresting images and content on a trees level, but I would hardly recommend it to anyone else, and even for us freaks, it's a pity that this couldn't have been a better movie. The potential was there. "},{"Title":"An absurd, disturbing work of pure cinematic expression","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The ultimate concern of Even Dwarfs Started Small (1970) is not the plot or the characters - or indeed, the obvious gimmick of the casting and presentation - but in the creation of a certain sense or atmosphere pertaining to the broader representation of madness and insanity. As a result, it can viewed as either a metaphor or a microcosm of society, with a cynical and satirical comment on the then contemporary ideas of a civilization with no rules and limitations - a forced utopia if you will - and the inevitable escalation of violence, corruption and contempt that could only ever thrive in such a characteristically free environment. Although these ideas and interpretations do lend a certain sense of context to the images and themes presented herein, the eventual intent of Even Dwarfs Started Small is to present a story on the most simple and visual of levels; creating an escalating sense of emotion that moves wildly from moments of humour to horror until, finally, reaching a fever-pitch level, wherein all the notions blur together into one.Herzog would probably reject any interpretation other than the literal one of dwarfs rebelling against authority, but then again, Herzog's word isn't intended to be taken as gospel. The natural contradictions of the set-up here, in which the fight of the characters to free themselves from what they see as a corrupt and abusive society, ultimately giving way to something that is even more oppressive, is an intelligent one; something that you could interpret on a political level, or in fact, as a wider-reaching comment about the position of the outsider within society. Likewise, the casting of the dwarfs' works on a number of other, more interesting levels, most obviously in the creation of a world that we must carefully re-adjust to and learn to experience from a completely different perspective. The buildings, cars, furniture, trees and animals remain the same as how we would experience them on a day-to-day basis, but thrown into this veritable mix we have characters that are literally dwarfed - overwhelmed even - by the world around them, creating a further rift that propels these notions of revolution and defiance.In a world in which even climbing onto a bed or reaching up to pull the door handle becomes a accomplishment as epic in scope as that of Herzog's ultimate personification of single-minded determination and intensity, Fitzcarraldo (1982), the plight of the dwarfs in this film takes on a greater meaning, as the film begins with something of a moral victory that simply cannot be sustained given the heightened sense of reality that the film exists in. We're never entirely sure as to what triggers the revolt, or why there is only one dwarf left in charge of the compound, barricaded in his office with one of the other dwarfs tied to a chair as a hostage, or indeed, what purposes this compound fulfilled in its previously active form. This persistent abstraction of the background details of the story forces us to focus more closely on the relationship between the larger group unit, and the slow spiral of dysfunction and destruction that escalates from one scene to the next. If you attempt to approach the film on any such level of story and character, you might possibly be disappointed or even offended by Herzog's stark presentation. Instead, the real point of the film is in the atmosphere that it creates, and in the feelings that it forms as we watch these enigmatic and often provocative images unfold.If you're familiar with Herzog and his work, you'll be able to appreciate this style from films such as Aguirre, Wrath of God (1972) or Heart of Glass (1976), with the continual juxtaposition between moments of abstracted realism and bizarre, fever-dream hallucinations that seem to exist within the story free of context. This continual contrast adds to the dreamlike, or indeed, nightmarish aspect of the film, which recalls elements of Todd Browning's difficult masterpiece Freaks (1932); and not simply on the more obvious, superficial level, but in the way in which the film gets darker and darker as it progresses towards a violent and memorable final. Though a brief description of some of the scenes and situations presented in the film might fail to shock an audience, viewers should be advised that the incredibly heightened sense of tension and the abstract surrealism created by the use of cinematography, editing, location and music lends the film a suffocating air in which the destruction of personal property, plant life and animals becomes hypnotic, frightening and entirely overwhelming.For me, it's one of Herzog's best and most fascinating works; filled with bold visual imagination, a potent message (and element of satirical intent), room for interpretation, and some incredibly disturbing and enigmatic imagery. More to the point however, the film remains an unrivalled visual experience; one that goes beyond the conventions of story, character and ideology and instead creates a cinema that is simply felt; clearly an absurd and disturbing work of pure cinematic expression. In many respects, I would consider it Herzog's most intense and perhaps even most disturbing film, and one of the most powerful films ever made; with the location, setting, theme, character and visual presentation creating something that is entirely affecting and entirely unforgettable. "},{"Title":"one of the most exceptional films of all time...","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film surely isn't for everyone, but whether you like it or not, it is one film that, for those who had seen it, will remember for a long time to come. To me, despite it being pretentious, confusing and intentionally weird, it represents a brave personal vision from a filmmaker which is seldom seen these days in our Hollywood dominated world. Go watch it with an open mind and prepare yourself for a truly exceptional cinematic experience.  "},{"Title":"Even Giants Trip and Fall...","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here's an honorable director going extremely bad with something painfully terrible, and it's the first time that I ever see something truly worrying from an outstanding director. Person in question is Werner Herzog (Aguirre, the Wrath of God and Stroszek). He was very young when he made it, one of his earliest experiences and it could be a good film if his head was in the game, by that I mean if he managed to mix surrealism with a concrete text, including his political criticisms and a bit of fantasy and allegory. Buñuel could do it perfectly. But this isn't Buñuel doing an allegedly political allegory on Nazism or Fascism disguised as a empty story involving revolted dwarfs. This is Herzog going completely nuts with something that leads to nothing. Even Dwarfs Started Small revolves a strange dwarf revolution that goes erratically bad when angry dwarfs take control of a little island controlled by one police officer (also a midget) who arrested one of the revolution leaders, leaving him tied to a chair. The latter doesn't worried, always laughing and never speaking with his captor while his friends are vandalizing in the streets, driving cars, hurting animals and placing a strange hierarchy between themselves. The riot drags on and on as the movie, without a single worthy dialog, scenes played on randomly and with a theme song (played like four or five times during the whole thing) working as a violation of our patience and senses, and no ways of being translated whatever that language was.It lacks in coherence time and time again. Where's the drive to make us going? Where's the ambition and the social commentary? If this was a comedy, I didn't laugh once. An horror film? Well, it was so horrific I couldn't believe in my eyes. Empty images that goes nowhere, they're just there because it can scripted, it can be directed, it can be filmed but it can't cause anything other than boredom, repulse, strangeness. Being bizarre for its own sake is useless (unless if you're creating a powerful imagery like Malle did Black Moon) and Herzog isn't a director of such ideals. At least that's what I thought. One of those movies you feel completely exhausted, emptied and imagining the worst of yourself (Why am I still watching this mess? Where are you going with this, Werner? Those kind if thoughts), Even Dwarfs... is simply not worthy of anyone's time. Wanna discover Werner, go everywhere else but here. The symbolic rating is a formality related with traces of originality, good scenes, or parts when I thought this could be saved and be a fine movie. But that song will haunt me for life. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Chicken Out","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Herzog is important to me. He seeks out situations that have recoil, he takes chances and makes honest choices. His being is broken, and that means the choices and the power of the situations affect me.But sometimes he works with a situation that doesn't have psychic danger. Sometimes he makes bad choices. Sometimes his brokenness is all we get.I can't say that this is a failed project. These things have their own autonomy and find a way that works. I can't say that I am offended or repelled either. It seems no less depraved than most of life. I'm just disappointed that things did not line up so that it could touch my soul.Herzog is not an accident; he is an engineered vessel. He made himself, makes himself. He works at this. In this case, he successfully created a environment. He already has established the balance he would keep between highly stylized abstractions and discovered raw truth. But his means for abstracting are not yet mature. His choices in what raw things he finds are wrong, wrong for him and us.I have to think of this as practice for Hearts of Glass, which is something of a masterpiece along these lines. A problem apart from all this, all this about him as an immature artist, there is another problem. Werner is German and carries a notion that the guilt of existence can be somehow formalized. This translates for most reviewers in this being an allegory of corrupt society I some form; the fears of the reviewer determine the allegory. That stuff gets in the way.There is a potentially remarkable scene. Since the midgets are of all size and mental carriage, there is a clear order, physically manifest. The two &#x97; let's say &#x97; weakest members of this society are forced into a bed to have sex. The mob cackles behind the door. Later, a larger wiser woman gives some wisdom to her inferior, the wife. She shows a cigar box full of dead bugs dressed in formal attire, wedding garments.I have a spider here with eight legs. I know spiders have six. I was going to knit it a sweater. This could have been devastating. This could have changed lives and sparked silent revolutions. A later Herzog would have made it work, found how to make it have power shooting toward us.Here, it is just part of a dull spectacle. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"A strange curiosity.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't even know where to start with this one. The story seems to be set in a world of little people, but everything (buildings, cars, furniture) seems to be created for regular-sized people. This pretty much sets the tone for the film. It takes place at one building, which is some sort of institution whose inmates have recently escaped. The President stays locked up in a room on the second floor, holding one of the inmates captive. Instead of fleeing the area, the inmates stay outside of the building and rebel until their cohort is freed. Their rebellion goes from organized to filled with rage and insanity, involving animal torture, dangerous play with vehicles, foodfights, and teasing the blind.The movie is ostensibly a commentary on both imprisonment and rebellion, but can it just as easily be taken as an exploitative Midgets Gone Wild? It's debatable. For some, watching this will be like experiencing a nightmare. I think this is one of the earliest films I've seen where little people are used to produce a surreal effect, something that has been done regularly in the works of David Lynch and critiqued in the amusing Living in Oblivion. It is easy to see how this movie has influenced the likes of Lynch, Harmony Korine, and even Nine Inch Nails (there is a monkey crucifixion very similar to the one in the Closer video.) The DVD commentary with Herzog isn't particularly informative, but is still fascinating because it is really an interview by Crispin Glover (whose recent What Is It? stars a cast of actors with Downs Syndrome.) "},{"Title":"We are the dwarves (well, duh...)","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Too many things to say about this movie  I couldn't watch it in one sitting, but I couldn't leave it be, I had to finish it.  If the evening news makes you laugh, maybe you should give this a look. Don't think this is some dwarfspoitation flick;  this story could have been filmed with standard actors and retained most of its meaning.  But creating this vision of dwarves in an oversized world makes the story timeless, makes the characters closer to universal.  The inmates rebel against a world they never made, but they don't want freedom; They just want to hit something back. When I watch CNN, that makes even more sense.  Bottom line, Herzog made his casting choice so we'd all be feelin' it, yo. BTW, someone suggested that the more accurate translation for the film title is Even Dwarves Had to Start Somewhere  Hope that helps it make sense. "},{"Title":"A work of visual artistry, for those who can stand animal cruelty","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A typically thought-provoking movie from German art-house director Werner Herzog. This is one of his earliest productions and it shows in the black and white photography and the single-location shooting (in Lanzarote, no less), but nonetheless it turns out to be just as well put together as the later, bigger movies in the director's resume.Like the 1938 western THE TERROR OF TINY TOWN before it, EVEN DWARFS STARTED SMALL is a film entirely cast with dwarf and midget actors. As with most Herzog movies, much of the fun comes from deciphering the hidden meanings; this one's an allegory about mankind's cruelty to those less than himself, destruction of the environment, and Herzog's overriding theory that the natural state of things is chaos. It has similarities to the two documentaries Herzog made about disability and much in common with the later STROSZEK too.It's a difficult film to define too much, but as a work of visual style it's certainly electrifying. Herzog captures memorable image after memorable image, and that haunting laugh by Helmut Doring stays in your memory long after. The only reason I can't rate this film higher is that I'm no fan of animal cruelty, and there's a lot of it here, so much that it becomes impossible to ignore towards the end. But that last scene is almost as memorably kooky as STROSZEK's. "},{"Title":"An oddity, strangely captivating","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was already the third time I watched Werner Herzog's midget movie (Even Dwarfs Started Small). And I still fail making sense about it or trying to under stand what Herzog wanted to tell us here. But maybe that's not even the point. Maybe there is no deeper message in here and it's really only a film to enjoy for its absurdity and uniqueness. I have to say I am a great fan of the filmmaker Herzog and I have seen most his works, including his very old short films. Then again, this one here is also a very early work, his second feature film and Herzog was still in his 20s when he wrote and directed it.This is a black-and-white film that runs for roughly 95 minutes and tells us about a group of dwarfs living together in their own community. No normal-sized people appear in this film. But some animals do, like in that absurd final scene with the laughing dwarf and the camel. Actually, these dwarfs are basically laughing for the entire film and it sounds like they were evil little gnomes, maybe because I (or people in general) have so little to do with disabled people like these in this movie. But there is no need for sympathy. The dwarfs are leading a good life and seem to be having fun for almost the entire screen time. Do not mistake this for a documentary though. All the people in here are actors, they are not really living in a community like this and there is also not a single word of narration by Herzog.I would not say this is among the director's best films, but there is something strangely captivating about it nonetheless. It's fascinating to watch these little men in their everyday life and how they deal with situations which we would not even consider a problem like when that one dwarf tries to climb the bed, bus is simply too small. I enjoyed watching this. It's a definite contender for Herzog's weirdest movie (and that is quite an honor given everything he has done) and I recommend giving it a look. Oh yeah and one of the absolute highlights is the music in here. Truly captivating tunes that exude a very special mentality and atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Little people can kick some a**!","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" AmazingThe honeymoon scene 20 min into it- hilarious.The food fight 40 min in- hilariousThe boys in Oakland can take a lesson or 2 from the dwarf ridding the whip*. At one point he had time to engage in a cock fight to the death and even crucify a monkey.To describe it with an analogy, this movie is like a drive across the country. Some really cool, beautiful, funny, mean, and annoying sections separated by vast sections of monotony. The big drawback its an hour and a half of listening to a couple laughing Randy from Christmas story*for all you squares out there, ridding the whip sometimes is refereed to when the driver of a car leaves the drivers seat while the car is in motion "}{"Title":"Bizarre, Twisted Allegory Totally Unlike Any Other Film","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you're thinking about watching this film for entertainment value in the conventional sense, you might think again. But like it or not, if you manage to sit through this film and concentrate on it's images, it is unlikely you will forget it. Even Dwarfs Started Small is a dark, lurid, nightmare of a movie, a disturbing vision of mankind run amok, not unlike much of what is happening in most of the world today, but related obliquely and allegorically. A palm tree is pulled down and burned, blind dwarfs wearing goggles and rubber tennis shoes battle with their oversize sight sticks, and one two foot midget giggles maniacally throughout the film, unceasingly, disturbingly.Like Lynch's Eraserhead, this is a distinctive vision unlike any other, supremely confident of its vision, and supremely memorable, regardless of your own feeling about Director Herzog's tweaking of sacred cows, of coherent narrative, of good taste; it isn't just Quentin Taratino being a bad boy making bloody images, it's a totally black vision of the end of civilized society--and all done by a filmmaker who was about twenty-four years old at the time. Remarkable! "},{"Title":"Do not watch this film if on prescribed medication!","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am currently going through the back catalogue of Werner Herzog and all that I have watched have been awesome, and this is no exception! So weird and bizarre, the story of a group of dwarfs, that have escaped from some kind of facility and are running amok! Their leader has been tied up by a member of staff, who is having a nervous breakdown. They let a car drive endlessly round in a circle whilst crucifying a monkey. The wonderful character of hombre, always struggling not to laugh whilst being put on top of a huge motorbike and burning pots of flowers! And how this film ever went unnoticed by animal protection groups us beyond me, hurling chickens through windows and pushing piglets around with big sticks.Essential viewing! "},{"Title":"Slaloming Through Life.","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In his audio commentary, writer/director Werner Herzog remarks that he slalomed his way through the making of the film, though all the dialog was written. The viewer had better know how to ski. This is to movies what Finnegans Wake is to literature.Near the beginning of this extremely strange black-and-white movie whose cast is made up entirely of dwarfs, we see a white chicken and a dead chicken. Okay. So far, so good. I know what a chicken is. My grandfather used to raise a few in the back yard.Then we see that the live chicken is scratching away at the horizontal carcass of the dead chicken and is pecking at it -- eating it -- although each peck seems to come away with nothing but a fluffy feather or two. Evidently, the live chicken is trying to get at the MEAT of the dead chicken. That's not so hot. For one thing, chickens aren't supposed to be carnivorous. For another, even if they WERE, this is cannibalism! But then the whole yard full of chickens that we get to see later don't act according to the conventions we usually attribute to chickens. That one white cannibal isn't deranged. It's perfectly normal in this chicken society. We know this because soon we see a similar chicken with a dead mouse, skittering and flapping around, pursued by half a dozen other chickens who want to steal that mouse and eat it.The human milieu isn't much different. Aside from being dwarfs, the people in the cast act in unpredictable ways that are weird and vaguely offensive to our own sensibilities. Or -- not offensive, but unsettling, like the kind of nightmare to which Herzog is constantly comparing the imagery on the screen. These are grown human beings, but what do they actually do? They collect dead insects, dress them up as bride and groom, and secrete them in a cigar box.I suspect that this is all a reflection of the way Werner Herzog feels in the real world. Everything is strange, out of proportion, and dreamlike in a less than pleasant way. He kind of hints at it in his commentary. His commentary, by the way, is perhaps the most reassuring thing about the film. What he describes is disjointed and very disturbing, but he describes it in a gentle voice with a British-influenced German accent that ought to belong to a patient and understanding psychoanalyst. People becomes peeble. And struggle turns into strockle. Herzog is a nonpareil. There is no other movie-maker even remotely like him.I prefer the two films of his that he himself doesn't think that much of -- Fitzcarraldo and Aguirre The Wrath of God. They, too, are weird, trust me, but I can more or less follow the logic behind the events we see on screen. But here, as in so many of his other films, he leaves me behind. I wind up feeling like a plodding pedestrian who has just been passed by a great, roaring motorcycle driven by Werner Herzog. This tawny cloud of dust is so thick, so blinding and clogging, that I can't tell whether it's magical or just plain dust. That's why I'm unable to give it a numerical score. "},{"Title":"certainly not for everyone!","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I showed this film a couple of times back in the glory days of campus film societies in the mid 70s. There were a number of memorable moments in that experience.It was pretty much a guarantee that fully 50% of the audience had bolted by the end of the first reel. The print from New Line was loaded onto 2 oversize reels so it was real easy to take note of this. Curiously enough, most people did not ask for their money back (all of a buck in those days) since the film group I was involved in did show a lot of art films. Either people felt that they had got the idea and/or they just saw it pointless to go further into it. I have not seen the film in a long time but I think some of the more disquieting things may not have even happened by the midpoint of the picture but oh well. Kinda like Eraserhead in that people bolt, but in that film it is the squab chicken dinner that usually started the exodus, and if you had made it past the beastly baby sequence you were liable to stay until the end. Besides Eraserhead had only a 20-30% bolt rate (mostly women) perhaps in testimony to the budding cult reputation David Lynch was building at the time (1978 or so)...As I recall at one showing one of the reels fell off the projector and the projectionist had to chase it down the aisle of a narrow rectangular room all while the film was running. Classic.While it formally wasn't really one of Herzog's most challenging films (not like watching a plane land over and over as in Fata Morgana) is certainly is the subject matter that really pushes most people to the limit. I agree with most reviewers here in that the anarchy indicates that freedom alone doesn't necessarily lead to liberation. I had forgotten some of the cruel animal things seen in the film - Herzog was known to push the limit but that would not fly so well these days no matter how much one could justify it in terms of artistic expression. Knowing that Crispin Glover is in on the Herzog oeuvre makes perfect sense. I think the ultimate point to be taken from the film is that once you cut people loose from any sort of societal moorings, it is hard to predict what or if there will be any new world order whatsoever. What is the point of being free if you can't drive a car, your own people are liable to exploit you, and you are far away from any relief from this environment? Might as well wreck everything. "},{"Title":"Even Herzog Started Small","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't quite know what to make of this film. I might have to watch it again to see if ideas coalesce. Herzog, if nothing else, makes you think while you watch the images move. His dramas are so stylized that you almost have to approach them from a tangent, stealthily, which is how he seems to view life.There's no main character to focus on here. Instead we focus on the society and how it functions. It seems that full-grown people are treated like Homeric Greeks treated the Gods indifferent observers, manipulators of fate. But the dwarfs play God, too. They seem indifferent to any life deemed less significant than their own. They destroy the nature surrounding them. They seize the devices of their Gods (the car, for example) but are left unable to find and appropriate any usefulness in them.I can't figure out why Herzog chose dwarfs (little people) as the subject of the film, other than to take what would have been a very different picture and give it a good dose of quirk. Since this, we've seen Living in Oblivion, In Bruges, and countless others point out the silliness of this conceit with some sharp self-referential wit. I hate to be critical of Werner Herzog, a man who (after watching his documentaries especially) obviously possesses a gentle, probing soul and a deep intelligence, but I just couldn't quite discern this.The best guess I have on the first viewing is a nihilistic view of God vs. man vs. beast. To some extent we are all three at any given point. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Werner Herzog's black and white 1970 film, Even Dwarfs Started Small (Auch Zwerge Haben Klein Angefangen) is one of those films that is beyond such grounded definitions as good and bad, and, like its American predecessor, Freaks, is simply one of the oddest films ever made. Bad critics have praised it for all the wrong reasons- such as being a statement on politics, the Vietnam War, the partition of Germany, against religion, and prudish ignorants have condemned it for similarly wrong reasons. Yet, few have ever watched it all the way through with unsparing eyes. It is a film that has a very sparse narrative structure, seeming improvisations, yet it is clearly not an early example of Postmodern preening, nor is it an amorphic surreal mess in the Warhol Factory mode. It is, however, like Freaks, neither as good nor bad as its greatest champions nor detractors claim it is. In fact, as one of the earliest films in the Herzog canon, made concurrently with the 'documentaries' Fata Morgana and The Flying Doctors Of East Africa, it far more resembles such low budget 1960s black and white horror masterpieces as Herk Harvey's Carnival Of Souls, Francis Ford Coppola's Dementia 13, and George Romero's Night Of The Living Dead, or even the low budget 1960s films of American maverick filmmaker Sam Fuller. Yet, it is both a horror film and a black comedy&#133;. Yet, the film, also written by Herzog, is not about rebellion, but weak anomy and enervation, for nothing is accomplished in the end, except mindless anarchism. The screenplay, such as it is, is virtually nonexistent, and, save for the soliloquies of the asylum boss, none of it matters, in terms of content. The film was shot on one of the Spanish Canary Islands, Lanzarote, which is a bleak volcanic wasteland, and mostly from the eye level of the dwarfs, which adds to the monstrous feel that the 'normal things' take on. That it only runs 96 minutes is a good choice, but if the film was only 70 or so minutes in length it would be even more effective. As it is, it as an oddball film that fits no categories, is beyond good and bad, yet also an early example of Herzog's continuing filmic war against the evil of nature- which Herzog sees as despairingly immanent. For the rest of us, the sights and sounds of the two sickest of the dwarfs- Pepe and Hombre- laughing maniacally until they both seem ready to drop dead, is one of the most bizarre and powerful images recorded on film, as well as one of the scariest. It may not mean a damned thing, but it sure packs a wallop. Would that every film could say even that much. "},{"Title":"In A Tiny Country, There Is A Tiny Town With No Rules","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I bought this movie before I watched it on impulse. It's about what I believe is an insane asylum completely populated by dwarfs who, lock up the guards and run amok. They light things on fire, they cannot properly operate large machinery, they cock fight, and demand freedom, and then run around some more. Rebellion has never looked so ridiculous as it does here. Amongst the small group of those who like Werner Herzog films there is an even smaller group who like this film. It's a very long, very tasteless joke, with a great punchline, but it's almost worth it just to watch the finally freed warden and voice of reason for the majority in the film, suddenly begin to argue with a tree, and win! "},{"Title":"Worth seeing once.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Werner Herzogs EVEN DWARVES STARTED SMALL could be described to the uniniated as TERROR OF TINY TOWN crossed with RIOT IN CELL BLOCK FOUR. In this film inmates at a prison farm (or perhaps its a mental institution, the film is unclear) revolt, hold the head of the institution captive in his villa, and go around creating havoc and mayhem around the grounds of the institution. The warden (or what ever he is supposed to be) is holding one of the inmates tied up in his office. Now this all sound fairly ordinary, except the cast consists entirely of midgets and dwarves!AUCH ZWERGE HABEN ANGEFANGEN (or EVEN DWARVES STARTED SMALL) is one those films that is hard to figure out. Some critics have said this film is about locking away societies freaks from the rest of the normal world, but that is hardly the case. In this films world everyone is apparently a midget or a dwarf, even though the sets are are to ordinary scale. The head of the institution is a midget. So is a woman from the outside who arrives briefly asking for directions.(She drives a normal sized car) All in all it sounds like a film that was dreamed up as some ones idea of a joke.This film is fun to watch, at least for the first quarter hour. After that the film starts to become rough going. The film really has no beginning and no real end. Its all middle. After awhile watching midgets commit endless acts of vandalism becomes tedious and boring. Half way through the film the inmates begin to commit acts of cruelty on animals, which makes the film rather unpleasant. The crucifixtion of a monkey on a cross is not my idea of good taste. This is one of those films that is unusual enough that I would recommend seeing it once, but only once at that. "},{"Title":"Deserves its cult status but not top shelf Herzog","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One thing is for sure, Even Dwarfs Started Small is a weirdo flick. It would've been strange enough if filmed with actors of normal height, but the casting of all midgets truly sets this one in the twilight zone. The film details how an insane asylum is overtaken by the inmates who continuously threaten the holed-up warden. The entire world is inhabited by midgets, yet makes no reference to this fact. Apparently its meant to be an allegory for control of power but I never really picked up on this. Its one of Herzog's more muddled pictures. Still, the consistent strangeness of the film makes it unlike any other. Past the cast, the soundtrack consists of the absolute worst mariachi imaginable, the sets are unbelievably minimalist, the characters never stop laughing, and the whole thing is filmed in a stark black and white reminiscent of Eraserhead.Again, this film is not completely entertaining. Outside of the muddled themes, it drags at moments. Many sequences are stretched out far longer than they should. Additionally, there's plenty of animal cruelty, and while I've managed to overlook that before, I know there is a lot of people who'd be (rightfully) offended. Still, there's absolutely nothing else out there like it. You have to admire Herzog for going through with this project. Coming right off his big art-house and critical success Signs of Life, he followed it up with his most inaccessible film. It was generally scorned upon release, and if it wasn't for the strength of his next major fictional feature Aguirre the Wrath of God, it could have ruined his career. Fortunately it didn't, because Herzog moved onto making much more deep masterpieces. Even Dwarfs Started Small remains a curiosity in his oeuvre, worth watching at least once because its a completely unique film. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Even Dwarfs Started Small","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even Dwarfs Started Small (1970) ** (out of 4) Extremely bizarre and surreal film that takes place in some sort of country resort where a bunch of dwarfs take over the asylum. Herzog has stated that this film wasn't meant to be an exploitation film and I believe him but at the same time the movie hit me that way at times. I know Herzog has an underlined meaning behind the film and he has said it was meant to be a nightmare but a few scenes really come off as exploitation. One for instance is a scene where one of the dwarfs is trying to get on the bed but it's too high. He follows this by having the dwarf try and get up on the bed by using the other side even though, needless to say, it's the same height. There are other strange scenes where the dwarfs really come off as mentally challenged and I really don't know what the director was going for here. There's also some strange moments where we see a dead pig, chickens eating mice and even a scene where one chicken is eating a dead one. What's all of this suppose to mean? I'm sure there's a meaning behind it but it was lost on me. From a technical view point the film is rather flawless as the camera-work is downright brilliant and Herzog's direction is strong throughout. I think the actors also deliver good performances. In the commentary track Herzog talks about the Tod Browning film Freaks and while these two films would make a great double feature I think the Browning film works better. "}{"Title":"Wonderful little movie...","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't disagree more with the negative comments about this film made by some of the other reviewers -- it's magnificent, confusing, hilarious, disturbing, human, alien, and above all brilliant, all at the same time. Watch this if you get the chance and are open-minded however if AMERICAN PIE or THE MATRIX are your favourite films of all time, start your Herzog education with AGUIRRE instead (actually, THE MATRIX is one of my favourite films but the point is valid I think). "},{"Title":"One of the strangest twisted movies ever!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I actually registered for IMDB because of this movie. This is a movie for people that are looking for something different--I mean really different. A cast of little people indulge in all sorts of gruesome and horrific acts. Note any who can't stand scenes of animal torture should steer clear. "},{"Title":"Strangest movie I've ever seen","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  <CONTAINS SPOILERS>The basic premise  A bunch of midgets take over the asylum they are at.  Do they try and escape?  No... they just wander around chasing chickens and torturing 2 blind midgets.  The most disconcerting thing to me was the African tribal soundtrack.  It's completely out of place with the action and the German dialogue.  The whole movie meanders to a finale where the main midget Hombre stands laughing at a camel defecating for 5 minutes until he starts to cough from laughing to much.More than half the people I saw this with deemed it the worst movie they ever saw.  I'm not sure I hated it, but I'm not sure I liked it either.  Being a fan of the midget movie genre, I give it 4 bonus points for the all midget cast. 6/10 (or 2/10 if you don't like midget movies). "},{"Title":"This is just too much","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This might actually be Werner Herzog's strongest statement. In fact, this film is just too much. It describes a weird society declining into total mayhem, and the characters go absolutely mad. Everything is both quite funny and extremely disturbing. It's almost like watching the ending of Herzog's Stroszek for an hour and a half.There seems to have been some maltreatment of animals (chicken in particular) in the making of the movie, which should be totally unnecessary.Every normal person should avoid this like the plague, while those who adore very strange movies should get it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Vile, senseless, and cruel","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have a rule about always watching films to the end, but this movie tested my resolve almost to the limit. While I found the portrayal of the dwarfs demeaning and the plot almost completely banal, the animal cruelty was unforgivable.I suppose once the criminal deeds are done we might as well have access to the thing, but god help the family that rents it thinking it's some kind of comedy.If this is the price the world had to pay for the breathtaking imaginativeness say of Aguirre, then I have to wonder if it was worth it.Lee De Cola. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Laxative","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although the average movie-goer will be bored and confused by this film, it has the same effect that Lynch's ERASERHEAD. The complete removal of meaning, disregard for plot and a fortune cookie script allow for a pure cinematic experience.If you enjoy Lynch, Greenaway, Quays...check it out.If you demand things to be spelled out...check out one of the new John Grisham movies starring today's most popular face.  "},{"Title":"Herzog!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like this film, although I dont know why. Like Homer Simpsons view of Twin Peaks Great..., I have know idea whats going on.This film is best described as being what David Lynch's dreams probably look like.Great film. ...But I have no idea whats going on.  "},{"Title":"Well, at least it was free","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I went and saw this movie at the student union, and i'm glad I didn't pay for it.  It had no plot, the subtitles didn't follow the German enough, and mainly it sounded like chipmunks on speed.  On the other hand, sometimes movies make you think even if they aren't all that good.  The violent destruction of everything around them made sense, and although most people found it very offensive, I was rather partial to the crucified monkey.  "},{"Title":"Werner's Checklist","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THINGS TO DO TODAY 1) Get a bunch of miscellaneous people together; 2) Take them somewhere, anywhere; 3) Tell them Don't worry about it; just do some stuff; 4) Film them doing it (preferably in black-and-white, for that noir-feel); 5) Get a lot of footage of landscapes, where nothing in particular happens; 6) Do some minor, pointless editing; 7) Release the results in a series of recognized art theaters; 9) Sit back and laugh over all the acclaim, as typified by Piercing insight into the human condition! Fantastic! Herzog at his best! I was moved at the (fill in appropriate Film Appreciation 101 jargon)!; 9) Accept an award; 10) Watch the bucks come rolling in.FOR TOMORROW Do it all over again.Come on, folks admit it to yourselves, if not to others. Don't you sometimes feel just a little bit conned by such drivel as Even Dwarfs Started Small? "},{"Title":"Teutonic Humour? I didn't laugh once!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While an admirer of the films of Werner Herzog, I found it difficult to believe that  the director of such magnificent films as Aguirre, Wrath Of God, KasparHauser, and Fitzcarraldo, could helm a film like Even Dwarfs Started Small. If watching a bunch of dwarfs in an asylum tormenting other dwarfs, makes you  laugh, then this is the film for you. "}]