[{"Title":"It's all about the dialogue","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"106 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Like most Americans, I have seen hundreds, maybe thousands of westerns in my life.  I don't care for them much, primarily because I usually can't fall for them.In movies, the desire to please as wide an audience as possible seems always to win out, effectively robbing most westerns of the motion picture's essential gambit; the suspension of disbelief.  It's very hard to lose oneself in a tale of the late 1800's when the female lead's eye-liner and coiff are pure 1950.  Or 1940, 1960, whatever.  In True Grit, very little of 1969 is allowed to intrude on this rather simple tale of justice and revenge.  This movie is anchored by two very strong themes, shared by all the actors, across most of the scenes.The first, is language.  The dialogue is an absolute delight.  Crack open anything by Mark Twain, Henry James or any other late 19th century author, and you will see that people really did speak differently 150 years ago. That the dialogue in 99% of westerns is straight from the time of their filming is a travesty, at best.Second, is innocence.  Not that of any one character however, but the innocence of the human race as a whole.  It is probably almost impossible for any of us now, in this day and age, to truly imagine what it must have been like to live back when.  But one thing's sure, people were much more naive.  There was no such thing as mass-communication, a good percentage of the population didn't read, and newspapers, the only organized form of news at the time, were hard pressed to report on anything more than a day's ride from town.This basic, shared innocence is achingly portrayed by Robert Duvall in two short sentences near the end of the movie when he's caught Mattie and he's attempting to threaten her.  Study those two lines, and you'll see that Lucky Ned Pepper, the worst villain in the story, really has no idea of what he could possibly do to a slip of a girl.  He's totally at a loss.  The unspeakable, modern-day atrocities we consume every day with our coffee and bagels are so far from contemplation by Duvall's character, that all he can do is assure her, I'll do what I have to. It's a priceless moment - frighteningly accurate commentary wrapped in two lines of simple dialogue, delivered with dead-on interpretation.The only other western I can think of at the moment that delivers with such viscerally historic accuracy is Unforgiven.MjM "},{"Title":"Beware The One-Eyed Duke","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"81 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Come see a fat old man sometime!John Wayne's parting comment in this film is directed as much at us the viewers as it is at the young woman his Rooster Cogburn character is addressing. In a way, Wayne throughout the film plays off the image he cemented in dozens of great and near-great westerns, with a nod that by 1969, he along with the western genre had fallen behind the times, that his shoot-first approach to law and order had worn thin with the critical establishment just as it does in Judge Parker's courtroom.In that way, playing a character of such dogged homicidal cussedness as the hard-drinking, one-eyed ex-Quantrill Raider Rooster Cogburn and giving him a teenaged girl seeking justice to play off so as to showcase his essential decency seems a clever means to win Wayne an Oscar, which he finally did here, a sentimental triumph over some more heralded performances. With such an attitude, you might think True Grit would come off a bit of a one-trick pony 37 years on. But it doesn't. In many ways, both the film and Wayne's performance come off better than ever.Helping matters a lot is the support Wayne receives from two women. As the heroine, Matty Ross, Kim Darby provides Wayne with a fantastic foil, doughty to the point of rudeness, forever finding fault in others but earning your good will through her simple faith in justice and loyalty to the memory of her slain father, for whom she wants Rooster's help avenging. As she is told by a horse dealer she banters with I admire your sand.The other is Marguerite Roberts, whose adaptation of Charles Portis' novel bristles with good humor and an ear for the period. If ever I meet one of you Texas waddies who ain't drunk water from a hoofprint, I think I'll... I'll shake their hand or buy 'em a Daniel Webster cee-gar, Rooster tells his braggart riding companion, a young Texas Ranger played by country singer and ex-Beach Boy Glen Campbell.Campbell may be a novice and a third wheel in the interplay between Wayne and Darby, but he acquits himself well and delivers a worthy performance in a cast stacked with talented actors like Robert Duvall, Jeremy Slate, and Strother Martin, not to mention Dennis Hopper, hiding the long hair he made famous in Easy Rider that same year. Some of these actors portray bad guys, but Roberts' script and director Henry Hathaway's languid pacing allow them to present some humanizing qualities that go a long way toward making True Grit more than your typical shoot-em-up oater.Even Jeff Corey, who plays a no-account named Chaney who shot Matty's father, has a funny scene when he tells Matty how to cock her pistol, then whines after she shoots him with it Everything happens to me!About the only fault I can find with the film is Elmer Bernstein's bombastic score, which employs overly ornate orchestration like kettledrums when Matty has her showdown with Chaney and is tuneless apart from the title song, which is Campbell's best moment here. Hathaway's direction is somewhat pedestrian but serves the script, and showcases some incredible autumnal vistas of tall birch and pine where Rooster and Matty search for Chaney, photographed by Lucien Ballard in a style akin to (but more dreamy than) his work on the same year's The Wild Bunch.1969 was the last great year for westerns, with this, The Wild Bunch, Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid, Support Your Local Sheriff and Once Upon A Time In the West, and its interesting how Ballard, Corey, and Strother Martin turned up in more than one of them. But good westerns never really go out of style, they just sit on the shelf awhile like an old Stetson waiting to be rediscovered. Nobody wore a Stetson better, or deserved an Oscar more, than John Wayne. True Grit does the double duty of showing why he was a star and further burnishing his luster. "},{"Title":"Pure Western Delight","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"74 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Surely one of the purest westerns ever made, a simple tale of a lawman tracking down an outlaw. This film is raised way above the norm in almost all respects The photography is superb, with the hills, mountains, valleys and forests being the real stars; the acting is first rate, with not a weak performance in sight from even the lowliest minor character; the direction is well paced as we ride along with the 3-person-posse through the landscape and experience the minor twists of the actual hunt, as well as the evolution of the relationships between the group. The episode in which they take over a cabin by a stream and then ambush the following villains is even better than the well known finale.Why this film hasn't had more votes and a higher rating in imdb is a complete mystery to me. I'm English, and I always thought the Americans really loved their westerns and John Wayne in particular. Can anyone explain please?   "},{"Title":"The Honor of a Lifetime","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"72 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Now personally there are John Wayne performances in terms of acting that I like better than True Grit. Among others Fort Apache, The Searchers, Red River, The Horse Soldiers, to name a few. And certain films like The Commancheros and McLintock and Big Jake I find to be more entertaining.What True Grit does is succeed on both levels, being both great entertainment and giving John Wayne the acting role of a lifetime in the person of Rooster Cogburn. Mattie Ross from Darnell and Yell County Arkansas personified by Kim Darby has come to Fort Smith seeking the killer of her father Jeff Corey. Turns out he's also killed a State Senator in Texas so Texas Ranger Glen Campbell informs her. Both of them team up with United States Marshal Rooster Cogburn who resides in Fort Smith with Chin Lee and my favorite movie cat, General Sterling Price.Corey is now in the outlaw band headed by Robert Duvall at large in the Indian Nation Territory that became Oklahoma. True Grit's plot is the trio's pursuit of Duvall, Corey and the rest of the gang.But oddly enough True Grit isn't really about plot. It's about the creation of a character. Like Margaret Mitchell who wrote Gone With the Wind with Clark Gable in mind for Rhett Butler, Charles Portis wrote the novel True Grit with only John Wayne in mind as Rooster Cogburn. It must have been one singular delight for Charles Portis to see the Duke flesh out Rooster Cogburn exactly as he conceived him.Tough old Rooster, likes an occasional drink, isn't above a little larceny, but has one stern moral code about real bad guys. Bring him in dead or alive and make sure you shoot first coming up against them. And he's got quite the colorful past as he relates tales of his younger days to Campbell and Darby on the trail.In other reviews I've said that John Wayne had one of the great faces for movie closeups. You can see a perfect example of that in that scene with John Fiedler who plays Darby's lawyer J. Noble Daggett. A man who rates high in the legal profession in that area having forced a railroad into bankruptcy. The camera is facing Fiedler as he's talking to Wayne about his visit with Darby who's life Wayne saved. Wayne's got about a third of his face to the camera. But even with that third, your eyes are focused on the Duke and his reactions and then as the camera slowly pans around to Wayne in full face his reaction shots are hysterical. You don't work with scene stealing character actors like Chill Wills, Walter Brennan, and Gabby Hayes for 30 years without learning something.John Wayne was up against some stiff competition in 1969 for the Best Actor Oscar. It was his second nomination, the first being for Sands of Iwo Jima. He was facing Richard Burton as Henry VIII in Anne of a Thousand Days and a couple of newcomers named Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight for Midnight Cowboy. He was certainly the sentimental favorite.If in no other place in our lives, sentiment does have its place in cinema. It was an honor well deserved, not just for one performance but for a lifetime of achievement in cinema being the player who put more people into movie seats than any other person ever. So many of the Duke's contemporaries like Edward G. Robinson, Errol Flynn, Tyrone Power were never even nominated for an Oscar much less win one.Because the Motion Picture Academy has deemed this John Wayne's grandest cinematic achievement, it's almost a command to support this fine western and the man who defined the western hero and is still defining it. "},{"Title":"The quintessential western","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"63 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  There isn't a false note in this film.  Charles Portis' book of the same name is practically adapted verbatim to the screen; this is the purest book to movie transfer I've yet seen, and this assures its success.John Wayne worked for 50 years to get to this role, and no one else could have played it.  He becomes Rooster Cogburn; it revitalized his career and made everyone finally take notice of his skills as an actor.  I love Wayne in anything, but this movie has a special place in my heart.Kim Darby is also a surprise.  She's more than capable of handling Wayne in each and every scene.  They made a very good team.  Glen Campbell is not as good as these two, but then he really isn't an actor.  He does have his moments, though, and acquits himself with aplomb as the Texas Ranger. Strother Martin is a real hoot as Stonehill, the horse trader; he's always a great asset to any film, and this must have been his 10th appearance in a Wayne movie.  Robert Duvall is very good and very harried as Lucky Ned Pepper.  He's not a wanton killer; he doesn't kill, or even hurt, Kim Darby. He's just a thief who wants to be left alone, and you can see by his worried expression that he knows Rooster won't ever let him go.  Dennis Hopper and Jeremy Slate have a small, very fine scene in the middle of the movie, where they are partners in crime who don't see things in the same way.A previous review talks about the low amount of votes on this film by people in the US.  I would chalk that up to the age group that saw this film and loved it.  Most of those people are not into computers yet, and probably don't know about the IMDB. Believe me, it's considered a classic, and rightfully so.This is a fine family film that everyone should see.  Rent it, buy it, or borrow it, but do watch it.  It will make anyone a John Wayne fan.  And be sure to read the book; I couldn't put it down. "},{"Title":"This movie made me love John Wayne.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  This movie came out when I was just a wee gal.  My grandfather was a big western fan, so I am sure I saw it at his house in between episodes of Gunsmoke.  I don't remember the first time I saw it, but I remember how I came to love John Wayne.  When he died in the late 70s I was crushed.  I still watch this movie at least once a year, (it is on TNT or some other Turner channel at least monthly).  Rooster Cogburn is, to me, the archetype of all Western heroes. He is the undeniably flawed, crochety old man that hides his tenderness behind a facade of toughness.  He roams all over the west in search of bad guys, and he drinks to fill the hole inside him that loneliness has created.  It is important to say that he is not a killer, or interested in revenge.  His whole being, his soul, rests on the cause of justice.  He is the bravest character ever created in a writer's imagination.  At the end, when he jumps his horse over the fence and tells Maddie to come and see an old fat man sometime, I cry.  Everytime. Despite his politics, and the fact that he was just an actor, to me John Wayne is the lone western hero that will remain in my heart for all my life.  "},{"Title":"More than Just a Fat Old Man","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"45 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit deals with one of the classic Western themes, indeed one of the classic themes in all literature- revenge. A teenage girl, Mattie Ross, is looking for someone who will help her track down Tom Chaney, the man who murdered her father. The man Mattie chooses is Rooster Cogburn, a US Marshal. Cogburn is elderly, fat, one-eyed and a heavy drinker, but Mattie chooses him because she has heard that he has true grit. The two of them set out into the Indian Territory in search of Chaney, accompanied by La Boeuf (shouldn't that be Le Boeuf?), a Texas ranger who wants to arrest him in connection with another murder.This is perhaps best remembered today as the film for which John Wayne won his only Oscar. Halliwell's Film Guide rather ungraciously refers to it as a sentimental Oscar, for daring to look old and fat, but there is more to Wayne's performance than that. The Academy, in fact, had tended to overlook Wayne, just as they overlooked the Western genre which provided him with most of his roles; well over a hundred films had only brought him two previous nominations. Cogburn, however, was one of his best roles. On the surface a hard-bitten, irascible old man, he has hidden depths to his character- not only the courage and determination implied by the phrase true grit, but also a sense of humour and a capacity for tenderness. Cogburn is a lonely man, divorced from his wife and alienated from his only son, and his only friends are a Chinese storekeeper (a rare acknowledgement from Hollywood that not every inhabitant of the West was either white or an Indian) and his cat. A close relationship, however, grows up between him and the orphaned Mattie, for whom he becomes a substitute father. In turn, she becomes the daughter he never had- or perhaps even a substitute son.Mattie is a complex character. There is much about her that is androgynous- her tomboy looks, her short hair, even her name, which can be short for Matthew as well as Matilda or Martha. She is brave and determined (there is a suggestion that the phrase true grit applies to her as well), but can also be a pain in the neck, especially to Cogburn. She is at times wise in the ways of the world and at others strangely innocent. She is part avenging angel, part bookish intellectual (shown by her rather formal language) and part vulnerable child. It is a role that called for an outstanding performance and got one from Kim Darby who was able to bring out all the various facets of Mattie's character. (This is the only film of hers that I have seen, but it seems strange on the strength of this that her subsequent cinema career has been so patchy). Unfortunately, Glenn Campbell, a singer with little previous acting experience, made a weak La Boeuf. It is probably as well that John Wayne did not get his way when he wanted Karen Carpenter, a singer with absolutely no previous acting experience, to play the role of Mattie instead of Darby. Great actors do not always make great casting directors.True Grit does not perhaps have the depth of meaning of some of the truly great Westerns, such as High Noon, Unforgiven or Wayne's last film, The Shootist, but it is a very good one. It is a fast-moving and exciting adventure, notable for some beautiful photography of mountainous landscapes (although it is ostensibly set in relatively flat Oklahoma, it was actually filmed in Colorado and California), for one of the great iconic moments of the Western (the scene where Cogburn gallops alone into battle, guns blazing, against four opponents) and for two excellent performances in the two main roles. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Western adventure on its own account...","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Henry Hathaway's True Grit can stand up very well as Western adventure on its own account&#151;the story of a young girl (Kim Darby) coolly hiring an old lawman (John Wayne) to seek out the murderer (Jeff Corey) of her father&#133; Texas Ranger Glen Campbell rides along in the hope of collecting reward money&#133; Suspense, action&#151;the film has more than its share&#151;and the practiced hand of Hathaway sees that justice is done in these terms&#133; But when this has faded, when perhaps even the engaging and forceful Kim Darby has extent in time, Wayne's portrait of that fat, mean, greedy, eye-patched, Whisky drinking and yet in some strange way lovable lawman will remain&#133; It will remain as a fine comedy performance, not as self-parody of his many Western roles, as has been rather ungraciously suggested...Marshal Rooster Cogburn is a kind of a tough U.S. Marshal with a cutting edge&#133; Without any doubt the West knew characters like him... John Ford would know exactly what Wayne was about in this role&#133; When he says in the declining moments of this picture 'Come and see a fat old man some time,' that's a standing invitation&#133; Audiences will want a peek at this portrait for some considerable time to come&#133; "},{"Title":"By God, he doesn't remind me of me!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" First on UK BBC1 on Christmas Day 1974 and shown again many times since has meant I never bothered taping this classic - now I've seen it umpteen times it still leaves me smiling. The relentlessly eccentric badinage between the 3 main characters and others should be enough to make anyone smile, even with a little violence and a few serious points raised along the way.A tough man on a tough hunt for a gang of toughs - it's John Wayne's film all the way, with this he passed into his last phase in the saddle with a continuous wink at the cowboy parody he had become and which no-one else will ever match. By now after 40 years he was an American legend, your giant avuncular instant-lawman starring in his next horse opera - True Grit would really be nothing special without him, with the fat old man it's a nice Western comedy. We in the audience knew he had Grit before he came on, Kim Darby was just too slow on the uptake. I never understood why the script was so uncharitable to the Texican horse-killing son of a bitch Campbell, he's belittled right up to the scenes in Mattie's family graveyard.Overall a shot in the arm (or leg!) if seen every few years - even in 1969 entertaining action films could still be made! "},{"Title":"Authentic","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"44 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I have a kind of synchronistic relationship with this movie. I had dinner in a Chinese restaurant in Washington, DC, called Chin's, and the next day sensed in the theater that the Chinese guy would be called Chin. A bit later I bought a worn paperback copy of the novel in Mrs. Cohen's bookstore in South Windsor, Connecticut, not expecting much. The dialogue in the movie was stilted. I figured the novel was just some exercise in style. But that was wrong. The novel is even better than the movie. Charles Portis has got Arkansas of circa 1890 down pat. I looked up in the DARE all those expressions that didn't immediately click with me -- blue john, that's a big story, barlow knife, dogfall, Christmas gift -- and they all work. Portis hit every nail on the head, and not only with respect to lexicon. The novel as a whole is beautifully done. Not to denigrate the movie, though. Kim Darby and the other players are good. John Wayne is excellent as a character actor. His performance here ranks up there with his Captain Brittles in She Wore a Yellow Ribbon. Why in God's name, after this, did he go back to his usual heroic roles in dismissable efforts like The Train Robbers. Every word he utters here is Rooster Cogburn, not John Wayne, except for one exchange on horseback about Quantrell. Hoarse, drunk, smelly, weighty -- he embodies the part. The cinematography is without equal. Sharp, smooth. A viewer almost smells the junipers and pinon pines of the Colorado mountains and feels the nightly chill in the air and whiffs the campfire smoke. A marvelously done novel turned into as good a movie as possible. At one point, with nothing much being made of it, Kim Darby says of alcohol, I would not put a thief in my mouth to steal my brains. Portis shouldn't get credit for that because it is a quote from Shakespeare.I won't identify the play. "}{"Title":"50 times","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I have grown up watching this movie, and must have seen it 50 times. This is my mother's favorite movie and most members of my family can recite this movie line for line. The quotes from this movie go into every day conversation among my aunts and uncles almost every time I see them. I've got some more horse trading to do or Baby Sister or we ain't got no lemonade neither have been heard a few times Every time I watch this it gets better, I have seen most of John Wayne's movies and this is by far the best. I've never read the book, I usually find books better than the actual movies, I wouldn't want to find out that the movie and book don't follow each other. Please, no one ever remake this movie, I can't imagine a better version! "},{"Title":"A definitive adventure!!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  What is a Western? The genre conjures up images of gun totting cowboys, reckless outlaws and fierce encounters in countryside saloons. True, this was the setting that prevailed during the 19th century American West.A few directors in the past have tried to present the West in a more refined way, giving importance to the settings and the characterization. Among them is Henry Hathaway's True Grit, an emotionally charged Western about a fearless; one-eyed Marshall named Rooster Cogburn.The film very stylishly brings to fore the Western countryside, from the scenario at a public hanging to the courtroom drama. In the latter we see some tense and heated exchange of words between the prosecuting lawyer and the Marshall.The intriguing plot unfolds itself very nicely on the silver screen. The story is simple. Tom Cheney, a cowboy, kills his employer. Maddie (Kim Darby), the headstrong daughter of the employer, vows to take revenge and get Cheney hanged for the murder of her father. For the mission she enlists the support of one Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne). Now this Rooster is the meanest Marshall in the entire territory. Having lost one of his eyes in the war, he is totally fearless in disposition, talks brazenly and has an unconventional sense of humor. Despite his hardened exterior, he is warm and benevolent at heart. This is evident in the conversations between him and Maddie.The third angle to the mission comes in the form of Sgt Lebeof (Glen Campbell), an enthusiastic Texas Ranger, who is after Cheney for his own motive of collecting ransom money. At first instance, Maddie has reservations about Lebeof. He comes across as an ill mannered, uncivilized guy to her. Convinced that Maddie will not make him a party to the pursuit of Cheney, Lebeof, secretively, unknowing from her, teams up with Rooster. He takes Rooster into confidence and through him manages an entry into the chase for Cheney. The character of Lebeof is an interesting study. He comes across as an inexperienced person who has a knack for saying something silly all the times. He is rebuked many times for such uttering by both Maddie and Rooster. Rooster had his own reasons for going after Cheney. It so happened that this Cheney was an accomplice of &#145;Lucky' Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall) and Rooster had some unfinished business with Ned. He recently had shot Ned in the lower lip during a confrontation but Ned had escaped. Now this chase provided Rooster with another shot at Ned. The chase is beautifully picturized. Especially the final confrontation between Ned's gang and Rooster. The action sequence in this scene must be seen to be believed.The reverberating and sweet music score by Elmer Bernstein forms an integral part of the plot. Glen Campbell has rendered the opening title song in his trademark voice. True Grit is a treat to watch for its believable depiction of the life and times of the West. Henry Hathaway, a specialist director of the crime, western and thriller genre has masterfully directed this flick. Re-uniting with Wayne after Sons of Katie Elder (1965), he has managed to extract the very best from his leading man. John Wayne has essayed the role of his lifetime. It is impossible to imagine anybody but him in the lead role as a tough, uncouth and drunken Marshall. Interestingly, Wayne won his only Oscar for this role in 1970.      "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I am from Fort Smith, the purported locale of this film.  This is my favorite movie of all time, but I can assure you that eastern Oklahoma looks nothing like the beautiful panoramas in this movie, too bad.  The last of and the greatest western ever filmed.  I cannot think of one after it that can match it.  The Old West may never have really lived but it sure died around the turn of the century and its life on the silver screen died along with John Wayne.  This movie was easily his pinnacle.  As for Glenn being so bad, well he is from Arkansas, God Bless'im and he was forced to play the role of a Texan... tough. "},{"Title":"True Grit is truly one of the best westerns ever made.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best Westerns ever made.  I think the script makes it so enjoyably watchable, over and over again.  I think that's probably how people talked back then.  There's plenty of low-key humor too.  You can tell that John Wayne and Glen Campbell enjoyed their roles but played them straight.  The characters are well-drawn and unique.  Even after 30 years I still remember the names of even minor characters, J. Noble Daggett, Tom Chaney and The Original Mexican.  Who could ever forget the showdown between Ned Pepper and Rooster Cogburn? Fill yer hand (with this movie) and see how good a Western can and should be!      "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Inner Directed Man","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadNot Wayne's best movie The Searchers but pretty close. My title refers to the great sociologist David Riesman who separated societies by the type of people it produced. Decadent cultures with declining birth rates, like ours, produce other directed people who seek consensus before making any decision. Wayne personifies the inner directed during the zenith of America before its decline; he carries all the norms and folkways of his culture within him. He is openly contemptuous of other's views. The stand alone Lone Wolf; that was the Icon that was John Wayne. Here he gives a great performance hunting down Ned Pepper and Tom Chaney for the whippersnapper Ross who proves to be almost as much of a challenge. My favorite scene in the movie is the interchange between Strother Martin and Darby; her business acumen, and wielding lawyer J. Noble Daggot as a weapon are hilarious. Watch his exasperation as she runs rings around him mentally taking him for quite a ride. Darby really steals the movie with her portrayal of Matty Ross. She is the perfect foil of Cogburn who resents her mothering but cannot but help admire her fire and independence. Wayne gives a great performance when many comic moments lightening the film. He has to hold up the bad acting Cambell who, though a good singer, was a terrible actor. Look for an early Robert Duvall as Ned Pepper and Dennis Hopper still as bad an actor even way back here. The photography is stunning, the dialog well written. Cogburn is idealized in his fighting abilities but not in his being a drunken reprobate with still a little light left in him. The ending is touching without being gooey her proffering him a burial plot after he saved her life. This was the greatness of the movie; see how when she gets her father's things, she holds them up next to her quietly and cries without a full symphony behind her. Back here, the writing evoked the emotions not maudlin music. The showdown between Rooster is silly but it was an iconic image. Look, give him a break; I love the people attacking this scene and yet giving Arnie a pass in Commando when he guns down a hundred guys. Yes, it is phony but it is pure realism compared to the modern action pictures of today. Wayne was what all men from my generation wanted to be. As mentioned, you could take him out in the middle of nowhere and he was as solidly moral as he was in a city. This was the inner directed man. He did not need to peruse a chat room to find out what the most popular beliefs were. Not a giant little boy, unemployed living off his girlfriend like we see today. This is was the time of men; men who protected and even died as Wayne did in The Cowboys. In the midst of the castration center that is current matriarchal America, what a joy to behold a real man; courage, strength and honor. A great movie it has great action, acting with lots of humor. Kim Darby and Strother Martin are both great in support. I had to take one star off for Glen Cambell who stinks it up here. Try to overlook him, no movie can be perfect. A Great Movie "},{"Title":"A Great Western that Deserved More Respect","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" In 1880, in Dardanelle, Yell County, the farmer Frank Ross (John Pickard) heads with his employee Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey) to Fort Smith to buy some ponies. However, he is murdered by Chaney that steals his money and flees to the Indian Territory. Frank's teenager daughter and book keeper of the family business Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) travels with one employee to bring the body of her father back home. Before meeting the undertaker, they see the hanging of three men sentenced by the tough Judge Parker (James Westerfield). The stubborn Mattie seeks out the sheriff that tells her that he does not have authority in the Indian Nation. She asks who the best Marshall is and the sheriff recommends Reuben J. Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne), an old big fellow with eye pad that has grit to bring criminals from the Indian Territory. Mattie hires the drunken Rooster and when they are ready to depart, the Texas Ranger La Boeuf (Glen Campbell) visits Rooster and tells that there is a huge reward for Tom Chaney in Texas for the murder of a senator. La Boeuf joins Rooster and Mattie and the unlikely trio begins their dangerous journey seeking out Tom Chaney in the Indian Territory.True Grit is a great western by Henry Hathaway with magnificent performances of Kim Darby, who deserved at least the nomination to the Oscar, and John Wayne, who won the Oscar of Best Actor in a Leading Role. This film of courage and perseverance is a great adventure, naive in the present days, and won the foregoing Oscar and had another six wins and five nominations in different awards and deserved more respect from Ethan and Joel Coen with their unnecessary remake. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Bravura Indômita (Untamed Bravery) "},{"Title":"Come see a fat old man sometime!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  He may have been 62 years old with only one lung when he made True Grit, but John Wayne fills the screen with energy. His portrayal of Rooster Cogburn deservedly won him an Oscar.Cogburn seems an unlikely Western hero he's old and fat, wears the wrong colour of hat and likes to pull a cork. Yet he's the marshall that Mattie Ross hires to bring her father's killer to justice. The fact that she insists on coming along to help him is perhaps the weakest aspect of the story  but the end result is so enjoyable that we can forgive this.Robert Duvall, as Lucky Ned Pepper, makes a great job of playing the leader of the outlaw band Rooster, Ross and Ranger have to confront.The action culminates in a scene that no other western has matched before or since.   "},{"Title":"Good western","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne finally won a Best Actor Oscar for playing Rooster Cogburn, an old and tired U.S. Marshal. He is hired by a fourteen year old girl, Mattie(Kim Darby) to track down Tom Chaney, her father's killer who is on the run with Ned Pepper(Robert Duvall) another notorious outlaw who has had previous run ins with the lawman. Though uninvited, Mattie buys a horse and follows Rooster and a Texas Marshal, La Boeuf(Glen Campbell) whose motive is a $1,500 reward for the capture of Chaney. The three plan to stay at a supposedly empty cabin, only to find two horse thieves resting and waiting for Pepper, who shows up the next day but escapes after a bloody gunfight killing two of the gang. More gun battles between the good guys and bad guys occur, in typical western fashion, and Mattie is bitten by a rattlesnake, causing Rooster big trouble in getting her to a doctor in time. I won't give away the ending,, but it is satisfactory. "},{"Title":"Wondrous and thoroughly competent western breathing life into a tale of revenge, whilst unafraid of going full bore into the souls and minds of the characters it depicts.","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The film begins on that of the homely, often perceived as 'safe', locale of a farm ranch in 1880's Arkansas; the Ross family are bidding farewell to their husband and father of the place in Frank, eventually seeing him roll on out of there with a lodger after the establishment it would be safer to take a train, rather than ride horseback, to where they're going. The lodger, of whom, takes minimal belongings for such a hike and whose reply to such an accusation is dry and understated, as if something were brewing in his mind and he were never going to return to here. Away from the more congregated goodbyes sits a young girl inside of an establishment, she shares an exchange with her father which is granted a more personalised and lower-key sense, during which she is established to be quite the one for having her own voice; rather sharp on the accounting side of things and takes a stance on an issue to do with the purchasing of ponies before stating such a standpoint in a concise manner.The young girl is a certain Mattie, played extraordinarily by Kim Darby; a character whose role it is to waltz into the male dominated patriarchy of the western genre and upset the balance as this young; seemingly frail, but ultimately female, presence putting her foot down. The crux of authenticity in Darby's quite stunning performance runs in tandem with that of her character's predicament; within the film, she is somebody whom must confront and often stand up to certain individuals of a hardened and established ilk, before often coming to have to dominate proceedings in their presence. This is something in lieu of Darby's own predicament, that of having to match up to that of a figure of John Wayne's stature in this, a Western, and have to match him within the frame as well as the universe of the film.In short, Henry Hathaway's bare boned 1969 western is a near faultless masterpiece; an exciting, unpredictable and more than substantial film balancing several acts at once as it breathlessly tells a tale that is difficult to find anything less than thoroughly absorbing. The film is directed with distinct aplomb; make no mistake, his film is unafraid to place children on the front-line and in the firing line of a west we very much sense is wild. It is a west that sees animals get caught up, and often killed, in the ensuing chaos; a west that sees an array of lowlifes all intermingling with one another and the elements, those of whose actions and motivations we can never take for granted and of which are told amidst a background of brutality lending a great air of ambiguity to proceedings as we wonder if anybody is entirely safe.The catalyst for proceedings is in the tragedy that is Frank's death; shot and killed by his accomplice lodger whilst trying to help him in the aftermath of a poker game. In reaction to this, Mattie journeys to the town in which he was killed so as to hire a Marshall to find the man and garner some justice; her witnessing of several other criminals guilty for similar crimes publicly hung allowing her exposure to what awaits such justice. That Marshall eventually turns out to be a certain Rooster Cogburn, John Wayne's Civil War veteran, who's living a life of rounding up disparate arrays of crooks and bandits from local territories and holding them in cells overnight so as to take courtroom lectures the following morning over, what we perceive to be from Cogburn's perspective, negligent intricacies over whom shot what first and in what order this-and-that happened. The manner in which Cogburn kicks an inmate towards the jail house in that lazed manner, as if he's done it so many times before that it's become too many times before, is prominent; a sense of the guy going through motions in rounding these guys up with little pleasure derived from the fact he has helped bring peace to those to whom it matters.Mattie and Cogburn eventually link up, his enthusiasm only truly omnipresent when she is able to show him hard cash; her smaller, sharper posture, more colourful display of attire and verbal eloquence in relatively stark contrast to that of his larger build, slurred tone, more erratic body movements and clothing dulled by months of dirt. Along for good measure is that of a Texan ranger named La Boeuf (Campbell), somebody who challenges Mattie's transgressions and whose stake for the same man she's after is a lot more on account he's guilty of killing a politician. Where the film is effectively Mattie's as a tale of revenge, the film does really well to encompass Cogburn's arc of going out to find a wanted man, like he always does, but this time identifying what he's doing and for whom he's doing it. Principally, the coming to learn; accept and acknowledge life, or justice, as something worth going out and fighting for or battling toward, in the action of searching for this man rather than merely treating it as a part of the daily grind, is prominent. The film keeps the interplay between the three of them tasty throughout, and we enjoy Mattie's ability to bring a sense of the controlled or of the informed to her surroundings as well as to those with whom she interacts, in what is a persistently captivating series of clashes Hathaway keeps moving and brooding with and affecting eye on numerous things. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but very good on the whole","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I do not think this is John Wayne's best movie or role, but I did like this movie, though I do not think it is perfect. While the film starts and ends very well, the film slackens in the pace in the middle. My other flaws are to do with casting. Glen Campbell is adequate in his role, but I was never engrossed by his character and he never quite make me believe in him. Worst though was Kim Darby, I am not going to go through a debate about whether she was too old for the role(I'll drop a hint, I think she was), but for me she is one of the blandest and most annoying leading ladies in a John Wayne movie.However, the film does look great. Handsomely shot with great scenery, True Grit is pleasing to the eye. Elmer Bernstein's score is rousing and very fitting, while the story is interesting, most of the characters are credible and the script flows well. Also True Grit is very well directed, and there is a glorious final shoot-out. Other than Campbell and Darby, the other acting is fine. While I would have not personally given the Oscar to this particular performance(I thought he was better in The Searchers, Red River and The Quiet Man) John Wayne is excellent here, and while he doesn't appear until quite later on Robert Duvall also makes a positive impression.All in all, a very good film but could have been better in my view. 7/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Fill Yore Hands You Sonofabitch!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit provided John Wayne with a long overdue Oscar for his performance as the crusty old whiskey swilling Marshal Rooster Cogburn. Many feel that this award was given more to honor Wayne's 40 plus years in the business than for this one performance. Maybe so, but this film still rates as one of his best.The story starts out with Frank Ross (John Pickard) being shot down in Fort Smith by hired man Tom Cheney (Jeff Corey). Ross' daughter Mattie (Kim Darby) comes to town seeking justice. To this end she engages a one-eyed boozing overweight marshal named Rooster Cogburn to go after Cheney. A Texas Ranger, La Boeuf (Glen Campbell), also seeking Cheney, throws in with the pair,After unsuccessfully trying to shake off the talkative and persistent Mattie, Cogburn and La Boeuf take her along on their quest. It seems that Cheney has been seen running with Little Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall) and his gang. Pepper captures Mattie when she stumbles across Cheney and tries to bring him in. This leads to the final showdown where.....Wayne is excellent as Cogburn, poking fun at his he-man image. Campbell, who as an actor, made a great singer, and Darby would appear in Norwood the following year. The film bombed and Campbell's film career virtually ended. Kim Darby is charming as the pesky Mattie and almost steals the picture. The direction by veteran Henry Hathaway is crisp and keeps the story moving. The scenery too is breath taking.Also in the cast are Jeremy Slate and Dennis Hopper in an all too brief appearance as two of Duvall's henchmen, Strother Martin in a hilarious sequence as the horse trader, trading with Mattie and James Westerfield as Hanging Judge Parker. Appearing briefly in don;t blink or you'll miss them roles are Wilford Brimley, Myron Healey, Hank Worden and Jay Silverheels. And not to forget Rooster's room mates Chen Lee (H.W. Gim) and General Sterling Price.One can't help but notice the similarity in the hanging party sequence between this film and Clint Eastwood's Hang 'em High (1968).Wayne would reprise his role in 1975's Rooster Cogburn with Katherine Hepburn. "},{"Title":"Wayne shines as  a drunken and two-fisted  U.S. Marshall who helps a teen girl  track down her dad's killer","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Stunning Western based on Charles Portis's novel and adapted by Marguerite Roberts about a hard-nosed , tough U.S. Marshal and a Texas Ranger who help an obstinate 14-years-old young woman track down her father's murderer in Indian territory ; being object a recent remake by Coen Brothers , Joel and Ethan with Jeff Bridges . Mattie Ross (Kim Darby , subsequently played by Hailee Steinfeld), a teenager from Yell County, Arkansas, is determined to revenge the killing of her daddy . Frank Ross was killed by his hired hand , Tom Cheney ( Jeff Corey , ulterior role by Josh Brolin), after attempting to dissuade an alcoholic Cheney from shooting a fellow card player who had cheated him . Cheney stole Ross's horse and fled the town . Enraged that no one bothered to pursue or convict Cheney, Mattie decides to take the investigation into her own hands . Leaving her mother and two younger siblings at home, Mattie journeys to Fort Smith where her dad was murdered . She identifies his body at the undertakers . She sells a string of ponies back to the reluctant seller (Strother Martin) and acquires three hundred and twenty dollars from the sale . After consulting the local sheriff (John Doucette) , she settles on the marshal described as the meanest  Rueben Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne's Academy Award-winning , posterior role by Jeff Bridges) , Mattie resolves to contact an U.S. marshal to pursue and catch Tom Cheney . And she attempts to hire him but is rebuffed . Mattie makes a second attempt after a court hearing at which Cogburn was questioned, but Cogburn turns her down again, doubting that she actually possesses amount of dollars she offered him as a reward for Cheney's capture . Renting a room at a Fort Smith boarding house, she meets a Texas Ranger , LaBouef ( Glen Campbell , posterior character performed by Matt Damon) and they along with Cogburn go to track down Cheney , Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall) and hoodlums .Gentle entertainment about a tough-minded , hard-bitten bounty hunter and a fearless bargainer , stubborn adolescent in the Old West starred by the master of the western , an over-the-hill John Wayne , he is magnificent expert in the art of conjuring stylish , here stars this atypical but amusing western with a lot of jokes , distinguished moments , comical attitudes but also violence and action . Wayne deservedly won his best actor Academy Award for this 1960 portrayal of the boozy Marshal . Likable Kim Darby as an obstinate teen is very good , she is extremely quick-witted and confident . The enjoyable story is enhanced for entertaining moments developed among main characters and especially on the relationship between John Wayne and Kim Darby . Impressive final scenes dealing with a spectacular showdown between Rooster Cogburn and chief baddie well played by Robert Duvall. The stellar cast is accompanied with familiar hearted features , some excellent secondary actors as Robert Duvall , Dennis Hooper , Strother Martin , Jeff Corey , Jeremy Slate , Dennis Hooper , among others . Splendid musical score by Elmer Berstein in his usual style as 'The Magnificent seven' , 'The Comancheros' and '4 sons of Katie Elder' . Coloful cinematography by Lucien Ballard , mostly filmed in Natural parks from Montrose, Colorado,Owl Creek Pass ,Ridgway, Colorado, Sherwin Summit, Inyo National Forest and Durango, Mexico . Followed by a sequel titled ¨Rooster Cogburn¨ with Wayne and Katherine Hepburn and a TV movie with Warren Oates and Lisa Pelikan .Well and professionally realized by Henry Hathaway with strong screen presence by John Wayne , both of whom collaborated in various Westerns , they included ¨Five Card Stud¨ , ¨North to Alaska¨ , ¨Rooster Cogburn¨ and ¨4 sons of Katie Elder¨ . Hathaway himself was only even nominated for an Oscar , but his movies themselves are testimony to his skills to heighten narrative tension and shoot action so exhilarating it made adrenalin run . Henry was a craftsman who had a long career from the 30s with successful films , and especially Westerns , as ¨Brigham Young¨ and ¨Raw Hide¨ . In his 60s Hathaway still got the vigour to make some fiery movies as ¨From Hell to Texas¨, ¨How the West was won¨, ¨Nevada Smith¨, and ¨Shoot out¨ . He was an expert on Western genre as he proved in ¨True grit , Five card stud , Nevada Smith , How the West was won , Rawhide , Brigham Young , Buffalo Stampede, Garden of evil¨ and ¨The sons of Katie Elder¨. Rating  Better than average , nice Western that will appeal to John Wayne fans. Action , interesting plot , top-notch performance and breathtaking last half hour make it fine screen amusement . It's still one of the Duke classics . "},{"Title":"John Wayne was always a great actor","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Proves what I say in the summary. For further proof, see THE SEARCHERS, RED RIVER, CAHILL and his splendid farewell movie THE SHOOTIST. I should add SANDS OF IWO JIMA. Although, I think there should have been a best actor and best actress award for this film, the latter going to Kim Darby. What a splendid play between the two! It has been rightly said that Portis' novel was about a teen-aged girl, the film is about John Wayne as Rooster Cogburn. That's how I saw the film, and I think it works extremely well. Good of Marguerite Roberts to have ended with Rooster riding off with a flourish over the snow. The sequel, ROOSTER COGBURN, was disappointing, though, in spite of Katherine Hepburn. The build up is effective, the father getting killed and the daughter making all necessary efforts to deal with the situation the family faces, before appointing - and riding off behind - the marshal. The adventure,when it comes, is absorbing, the violence coming in well-spaced out episodes. The humour is delicious, and the slowly-growing relationship between Rooster and Patty (?)is a pleasure to watch. Glen Campbell also puts in a creditable performance. What one particularly appreciates is the keeping out of any romantic involvement between him and Darby. "},{"Title":"The script is the real star of True Grit","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I read True Grit as a serial in the Saturday Evening Post, and anxiously awaited the delivery of each issue to find out what would happen next. When the movie was released, I went to it expecting disappointment, but was very pleasantly surprised. Kim Darby as Mattie Ross was particularly good, but the fact that the dialog in Charles Portis' novel was retained &#150; it is like nothing that I have heard in any other western &#150; and that is was so well delivered by the cast made this movie a real standout.Glen Campbell really surprised me as the Texas Ranger. This was the first time that I had seen him act, and I expected to have difficulty thinking of him as the character, and not as the singer whom I regularly saw on assorted television variety shows. I never did completely forget who he was (just as I could not look at Rooster Cogburn without thinking John Wayne) but it it not interfere with my enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Some men you just can't reach!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  The Duke is an institution alone and definitely cannot be reached. This is the one movie that I would give a Martian who flies from outer space and wants to know, who the hell is John Wayne!? Glen Campbell once said his acting was so bad it made the Duke look good.(Wayne won his first and only Oscar) In fact, Campbell's performance was quite good in his acting debut and I truly believe that if he had not been in this movie it wouldn't have been as successful and just another DUKE movie. At the time(1969), Glen Campbell was the hottest star in the world. A top 5 variety show & 6 albums in Billboards Hot 100...Did you hear me, I said 6(including #1,...Beatles #2)! The opening song on True Grit is the perfect door that opens to another time. 1969 to be exact! I remember going to the Tennessee Theatre with my Mom, step-father & some neighbors and how the movie gives me such a warm, safe feeling inside to this day of a time growing up as a kid in the south( AT THAT TIME ).Although the movie takes place post Civil War it still feels post summer of love...in Montana. Kim Darby is really the main character and gives a perfect performance as Madie Ross, but the man who puts the spice in Grit is the late, great Strother Martin! Although in the movie for a total of 10 minutes,classic Strother is what he is,the best damned character actor ever and never at a loss for words. The bargaining scenes with Darby could be entered in a short-story movie at a film festival! Never ceases to crack me up. Bottom line, the perfect Sunday in the Fall movie & from my experience 40 years of age & up appreciate this movie alot more, don't ask me why I'm 37. "},{"Title":"Darby Makes This Wayne Western Special","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne and Kim Darby make this simple story a fun two hours of entertainment. It probably was another case of Hollywood giving away Academy Awards (Wayne for best actor) for longevity in the business, if nothing else, because Wayne is fine but nothing exceptional here. This is the same role he played in Big Jake, The Searchers and a number of other films.But, he's fun to watch and listen to, as usual. The difference between this western and Wayne's others was Kim Darby, a fresh-faced strong-willed young woman who gives the story its unique angle. Even though Wayne is given the responsibility and chasing down the bad guys, it's really Darby doing it as young woman seeking the killer of her father.Darby doesn't come off, though, as some hardened woman. She's too cute for that, but she's feisty, doesn't take no for an answer and this role came along right at the beginnings of the feminist movement so it made her a popular figure at that time. Too bad she, or Hollywood, didn't capitalize more on her looks and talent. I don't know why she never made it as a film star because she certainly had the appeal in this movie.Anyway Wayne played what he played best a crotchety-but-likable old man who delivered a lot of interesting lines. He's always tough on the outside but with a soft spot deep inside.The oddball in here was singer Glen Campbell, playing a Texas Ranger and being the third person in the killer-hunting trio. He wasn't bad, but not being a professional actor, he wasn't totally convincing, either. I don't really understand that choice of putting him in this role.Check out the actors who have minor roles in here Jeremy Slate, Strother Martin, Robert Duvall, Dennis Hopper and more. Wow!One other question I had. How can this be rated G? I thought that meant nothing offensive was in the film, yet Wayne uses a number of damns, several bast--ds, and one memorable son of a bit-h! And it's rated G? Huh? Anyway, it's a very entertaining western that I always enjoy watching. As in most westerns, you'll see some great scenery too which makes having this in widescreen DVD a good choice. "},{"Title":"One of John Wayne's Finest Performance,","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit is a good movie with a very well developed storyline with a good cast and terrific character development.I read the book which is why I wanted to watch this movie,and as I was reading the book all I could picture while reading Rooster Cogburn's dialogue was John Wayne,it really was perfect casting and it's without a doubt one of his finest performances,an Academy Award dosen't lie.Other than John Wayne however,the cast is my biggest issue with the film,none of the other actors come across as even slightly inspired,I really didn't think the actor that played LaBeouf suited the character one bit,but the worst casting decision was without a doubt Kim Darby,she put no life in to Mattie Ross,she just said her lines,mostly in a very irritating manner,also Mattie comes across as a strong independent character in the book,and she did absolutely nothing to convey that personality in this film,he was like a robot and is the Mai reason why I give this movie a seven and not an eight.I would recommend the remake over this without a doubt,I don't think Jeff Bridges is as good as John Wayne was as Cogburn but still does a great job and every other actor is a huge improvement over the actors in this movie (Hailee Steinfeld,Matt Damon,Josh Brolin,etc.).Despite a mostly very mediocre cast,True Grit is still a very enjoyable movie with a solid performance from Wayne and a well written turn from a book to a film. After her fathers death,Mattie Ross gets two men to join her to seek revenge against the man who killed him,Tom Chaney. "},{"Title":"Saw both new and old","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" They are the same film...despite what other people say, don't believe them...the plot, the storyline, heck even dialog is the same in certain scenes. The ending is barely different.However, what sets this film apart is the old-fashion feel. It really is a John Wayne action/western...like alllll the other John Wayne action/westerns. If you liked one, you'll like this one. I don't know what other films this was up against but I pity the other actors because there's nothing spectacular about him in this that differs from his other performances so I don't know why he won an Oscar.Honestly, I saw it hoping to like it more than the new film, but the acting in these old films is a lot of actors just waiting for their lines and not really reacting too believable (for instance, when Duvall makes fun of Wayne the camera cuts to Wayne who pauses looking bored before doing an over-the-top whhaaat? facial expression). However, if you read my review of that one, you'll see I didn't care for it all that much either...Definitely not the quintessential western as one reviewer posted...it's a good story but I won't ever recommend it. "},{"Title":"A great vehicle for The Duke.","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne shines here, in his Oscar-winning portrayal of a cantankerous, tough, hard- drinking, one-eyed federal marshal named Rooster Cogburn. Headstrong young Mattie Ross (an appealing Kim Darby) approaches him for help find Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey), the no- good type who shot and killed her father, and bring Chaney back to face the hangman. Mattie requires Roosters' services because this killing is no longer a matter for the police as Chaney is now hiding in Indian territory, riding with the bandit Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall) and his gang. Mattie insists on tagging along with Rooster every step of the way, and also along for the ride is a stubborn Texas Ranger, La Boeuf (singer Glen Campbell).The characters are surely a very compelling bunch, with Wayne dominating the screen in his inimitable style. Although they didn't really get along behind the camera, he and Darby work pretty well together on screen. Campbells' part comes across as not that likable to start, but he does endear himself more to the viewer as the story progresses. Based on the novel by Charles Portis, with a screenplay by Marguerite Roberts, the film is extremely well directed by Henry Hathaway, and gets a lot of juice from the sparks set by the two main characters. In addition, it's very effective in the realistic, even handed way that it treats the villainous Pepper. Duvall is superb in this low key performance where you won't see any moustache twirling.The always very reliable director of photography Lucien Ballard makes the film look just gorgeous, and Elmer Bernstein composed a wonderful score.There's an absolutely delightful line-up of talent in supporting and character roles Jeremy Slate, Dennis Hopper, Strother Martin (his scenes with Darby are very amusing), Ron Soble, John Fiedler, James Westerfield, John Doucette, Myron Healey, James McEachin, Jay Silverheels, and Hank Worden.Ultimately, this is charming and poignant and Wayne makes the most out of the material, with Cogburn emerging as one of the most colourful parts of his career.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"I will not put a thief in my mouth to steal my brains.","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" A young woman (Kim Darby) hires a one-eyed drunken marshal named Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne) to track down her father's killer. A cocky Texas ranger (Glen Campbell) tags along to collect a reward. One of John Wayne's signature roles and his only Oscar winner. He's great in this but he certainly had many other performances he deserved an Oscar for more. The rest of the cast is good. Robert Duvall is a fine villain. Kim Darby is an acquired taste and one I was not particularly fond of the first time I watched this. She's grown on me over the years. Glen Campbell is a little wooden. Elvis Presley almost played this part. It would have been interesting to see him and Duke together in a movie. The script is excellent and the direction solid. Followed by sequel Rooster Cogburn with Katharine Hepburn. The recent Coen brothers' remake is not bad but doesn't improve on this film in any way. So do yourself a favor and stick with the original. "}{"Title":"a very nice western, by  the characters, soundtrack and scenery","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" An old one-eyed sheriff (Wayne) is hired by a courageous and stubborn young girl to catch the murderer of her father.Directed by Henry Hathaway western specialist, Wayne perfectly fulfills its role, managing at various points, suffered a tear to start viewer.The deserved an Oscar for this great actor, came from the hand of this exciting and humorous western, where John Wayne staged a sort of Torrente in the Wild West, A drunken man with a bad temper and bad reputation.A John Wayne won the Oscar for best actor, which dropped the phrase If I had known I would have put the patch 35 years earlier, was an honorary Oscar, makes a good performance but I think it surpasses it in The Seachers. Supporting actors are well known, especially those two that were not very popular then, Robert Duvall and Dennis Hopper, Glen Campbell is also a country singer well recognized, then there are always present in the genre such as Jeff Corey, Strother Martin and the brief appearance of the ubiquitous Hank Worden. "},{"Title":"Where would I find this Rooster?","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" When John Wayne read the Charles Portis novel, he liked the story so much he wanted to buy the film rights. Trouble is, producer Hal Wallis liked it too, and offered more money for it. Wayne called Wallis to vent, but after he settled down, Wallis told him that he had Wayne in mind for the lead role and offered him the part. Wayne accepted on the spot, and that's how he wound up in the role that would earn him an Oscar for the only time in his career. One could argue that the award had more to do with the Duke's entire film career, but that wouldn't have been the first or last time for Hollywood.I've seen more of John Wayne's pre-1950 films than those that came after, including all of his pictures for Lone Star in the mid-Thirites. It's really striking to compare the youthful, lanky, handsome Wayne before he hit the big time in Stagecoach, with the grizzled old character he portrays here in probably his most noteworthy role. Rooster Cogburn is about as colorful as they come, and even though Wayne initially refused to wear the eye-patch for the role, director Hathaway won that argument. With the success of the picture and his Oscar win, Wayne would eventually admit that he should have taken up wearing an eye-patch thirty five years earlier.What's curious to me is the casting of Wayne's co-stars. Glen Campbell was his personal choice for the role of the Texas Ranger La Boeuf. Not really a sidekick in the manner of Dean Martin or Ricky Nelson (Rio Bravo), presumably Campbell could have brought a hit theme song to the picture, but I really wasn't impressed with that number, and he didn't get to do any others.A number of actresses were considered for the part of Mattie, including Mia Farrow, Tuesday Weld and Karen Carpenter. Putting Kim Darby opposite Wayne doesn't seem to be a logical choice, but I'm not sure if someone else would have contrasted with Cogburn the way Darby's Mattie did. I guess you'd have to say she did a good job to elicit one's strong opinion of her character. Love her or hate her, there's probably no in-between once the story gets going.If you haven't seen the picture in a while, or not at all, the appearance of actors like Robert Duvall, Dennis Hopper and Strother Martin are a real treat. Some of them don't stick around as long as you'd like, but that's the way it goes sometimes. I got a kick out of Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey) when confronted by Mattie, giving her shooting lessons right before she unloads on him! That was priceless.I have to give Encore Westerns some credit here for programming this picture last night, just as the the Jeff Bridges remake of True Grit hits theaters this week. I'm a Coen Brothers fan, so I'm looking forward to their twisted take on this Western classic. Of course, there's only one John Wayne, so give the old fat man his due here. Or the good looking young cowboy of the 1930's, whichever you prefer. "},{"Title":"Chemistry Made The Movie","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Indeed, without the chemistry there would be no True Grit. The title wasn't just about the grit of one man. But of all three of them. They play off of each other well enough that any part of the movie that would appear 'stilted' with 3 different actors works for these 3. As to the comments previous regarding this movie, I can agree that it was not the Duke's Best but it certainly was Oscar worthy. Kim Darby should have received one for her performance in this movie. The comedic talent of John Wayne was not tapped soon enough. Too bad he didn't get this movie about 10 years sooner. Maybe 20 sooner. Glen Campbell was believable as an actor and THAT surprised me. Now to assume that any one in the west was naive, you really have to know nothing about the 'old' west. Since this movie takes place after the Civil War,(Note reason for loss of eye) after The Gold Rush,(obvious since its after the War) there is the known history of the telegraph, which provided information to those newspapers. to think that Ned Pepper had no idea what to do to a girl is kind of silly, when again this was The West and there were things that were done to people and had done to them that were savage in their intensity. At this point in our history of the west, there were schools even if basics only were taught. Oh yes people could read. Admittedly, Mattie's naivete about how to catch her father's killer is clear. But not her money shrewdness. Or her horse dealing. Her character was believable as well. "},{"Title":"Something to Crow About","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Former outlaw John Wayne (as Rooster Cogburn) is one tough U.S. Marshall. He is, however, one-eyed, overweight, old, and (probably) alcoholic. That doesn't matter to Kim Darby (as Mattie Ross), because Mr. Wayne has &#x85;grit, true grit. So, Ms. Darby gives him $25.00 to catch the man who murdered her father. To catch the killer, Wayne teams up with Glen Campbell (as La Boeuf), a Texas Ranger who is also interested in capturing elusive Jeff Corey (as Tom Chaney). The men are reluctantly saddled with young Darby; and, the three set out on an increasingly dangerous hunt&#x85; True Grit features one of the best later decades Wayne characterizations, showing how well the actor could handle a good role, when one was provided. Another reason for the film's success is the contrast of Wayne with plucky Darby, who serves as both business partner and thematic nemesis. Wayne knew his box office power was kept high with generation gap casts; and, Grit is further enhanced by Mr. Campbell, the then hot young country singer. Even better, in hindsight, are gun-swingers Robert Duvall and Dennis Hopper. Marguerite Roberts' screenplay and Lucien Ballard's cinematography are first class. You've got to see Darby horse-trading with Strother Martin. And, Wayne's meeting with his Four Horsemen is classic. ******** True Grit (6/11/69) Henry Hathaway ~ John Wayne, Kim Darby, Glen Campbell, Robert Duvall "},{"Title":"One of the best westerns","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I am a BIG fan of John Wayne. I first watched this movie because he was in it. But since I have seen this movie I have also become a fan of Glen Campbell's. I have seen True Grit so many times that I know the lines by heart. I have this movie on both VHS and DVD. "},{"Title":"The Duke at his best","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  An older Duke, bet not a lesser Duke.  Don't be fooled by this movie being made in the latter stages of Wayne's career.  This performance is one of Wayne's best.  He's tough, strong, and hilarious all in one.Spoiler--plot summaryThe movie centers around Mattie Ross.  She is played by Kim Darby.  I don't know what I really think of her performance.  In some ways, I like it, but it seems way over the top for the most part.  Her father gets shot and she goes to a nearby town to enlist aid in tracking down the killer  Rooster Cogburn!  One of the greatest characters in Western movie history.  They team up with a Texas Marshall named LeBouef.  Okay, kill me but I thought the Marshall, Glen Campbell, was really cool in his performance.  He's pretentious, quick-witted, and funny.They eventually find the assassin, and John Wayne shows that he's still got the old Duke grit.  He puts the reins in his teeth, shouts FILL YOUR HAND YOU SONOFABITCH, and charges the 4 gunslingers, reins in mouth, gun in each hand.  The outcome is never in doubt.After beating the bad guys and saving the girl, Wayne returns to the town.  Darby remarks you're too old and fat to jump horses.  Wayne, in a classic display, responds Well, come see a fat old man sometime!  Next, with a yaa, he jumps the gate and rides off into the sunset.Again, one of Wayne's best performances ever in a very good movie.  A definitive Wayne must-see.  The Duke will live forever in beautiful pictures such as this one.  10/10. "},{"Title":"perfect role for John Wayne","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" No non-sense Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) is determined to find justice against Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey) who killed her father. Tom was their employee brought along to buy Texas ponies at Fort Smith. Tom escaped to the Indian territories with bandits Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall), Moon (Dennis Hopper) and Quincy (Jeremy Slate). It's a federal matter for the Marshals. Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne) is drunk, toughest Marshal around. Mattie hires him for $100. Texas Ranger La Boeuf (Glen Campbell) is also after Chaney for a $500 reward for killing a State Senator if he's brought back to Texas alive. The family is also offering $1500 for Chaney dead or alive. It's a reluctant unlikely posse with Mattie determined to have justice there, La Boeuf needing him alive in Texas, and Rooster who tends to kill his targets.John Wayne is perfect for the role of the old drunken tough guy. In fact, it might be too obvious. Kim Darby fits her role very well although she's older than the character. She isn't a leading lady actress and that works in her favor in this role. It's actually fine if John Wayne hated her because it works on screen. On the other hand, Glen Campbell is a poor choice and fails to bring life to La Boeuf. "},{"Title":"A True Classic...","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Oh look, it's a John Wayne film. That means there's a 90% probability it's a Western. And so it has proved. This however, is no cookie cutter horse and saloon saga. Nope, this is seen as one of the 'classics', the kind of other genre movies tip their hat to. Heck, it won him an Oscar, and even the Coen brothers remade it in 2011. So, how does it hold up?Very well, thank you for asking. Mr Wayne is his usual laconic charming self, not tolerating any crud and always with a tale to tell about his colourful past. He's joined by a trigger-happy lawman, and a headstrong young girl who's a pain to everyone around her. Together, they hunt for the man who blew her father away... Oh, the fun they have! The character dynamic is at the heart of this movie's success, and having three completely disparate personalities interacting so well makes for great viewing. Aside from the final confrontation, actual gunfighting is kept to a minimum... but when you've got a trio with as much chemistry as this, who cares? Often duplicated, never equaled. 8/10 "},{"Title":"True Grit (1969)","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" (8.5/10) One of John Wayne's best Westerns, True Grit has so much going for it that its a shame that it is often only remembered for John Wayne getting his long awaited Oscar. The scenes are great and memorable, and outside of a flat performance from Kim Darby, the cast is outstanding and features small parts from big time players Dennis Hopper, John Fieldler, Strother Martin and Robert Duvall. Was really impressed by Hathaway's direction and overall pace of the movie which made for great storytelling. Stuck close to Charles Portis' tale, doing a magnificent job of bringing the classic novel to life. Only glaring negatives are Darby and Campbell. "},{"Title":"It's A Rat Writ, Writ For A Rat","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" In Arkansas in the 1880's, Mattie Ross is a teenage girl whose father is murdered by a crooked hired hand. Determined to exact justice, she hires ageing alcoholic US Marshal Rooster Cogburn, and they head into Indian Territory to find the killer.This is a very famous and beloved western, probably because it was The Duke's last great hurrah in his trademark grumpy cowboy role and he finally won an Oscar for it. He's very good, mixing a lot of humour and idiosyncrasy into the part, and the story works well because the three heroes are so disparate and oddball. Mattie is an unusual protagonist - with her boyish hair and extreme tenacity she's an admirably unstereotyped heroine but is also frequently petty and annoying. Country legend Campbell (who performs the opening title song) has the more conventional part and his laid-back Texas Ranger is regularly a welcome relief. Hopper (who made Easy Rider at the same time, can you believe) and Duvall are both interesting in minor outlaw roles. It's a good movie, but it doesn't really appeal to me for some reason - I guess I just don't really empathise with either Rooster or Mattie, and the story is very simple, although it has its share of exciting moments. What I like best is Elmer Bernstein's big brash score, which, like so much of his work, lifts the imagery up and carries me away, the music somehow transplanting the viewer into the film's landscape. The photography by old pro Lucien Ballard is very beautiful, although it was shot in California and Colorado with the Rockies in the background, and not in Arkansas and Oklahoma where the action is very specifically set. Based on a novel by Charles Portis, this was a smash hit on release and a major boost for Wayne's career. Followed by a 1975 sequel, Rooster Cogburn, and remade by the Coen Brothers in 2010, although perhaps more interesting is the 1970 movie Norwood, based on another Portis book, and also starring Campbell and Darby. "}{"Title":"True Grit (2010) Vs. True Grit (1969)","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I watched these two films consecutively, Coen brothers' remake first, Henry Hathaway's original came second. Overall, Coen brother's remake outshines the original in almost every aspect (which should not be too proud of thanks to the evolution of technology and mankind in these 40 years), its bleak locale disturbs more than the yellow-hued original version in guarantee a sense of grueling western lifestyle, particularly by several supplemental sketches such as the bear man and the hanging corpse. The resurrection of western genre has tumbled through a long and bumpy way, sometimes it seems to be a pipe dream because we all admit time is a ruthless bitch, but in the hands of Coen brothers, the clicking steps are by far the firmest one to satisfy our nostalgia for that era (who could forget NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN?).It's hard to believe that TRUE GRIT actually is my first John Wayne's film if my memory doesn't fail me (which partially testifies that Western film usually is not my cup of tea), also I discovered it got Wayne an Oscar winning for Best Actor, which honestly speaking, is far from academy's normal criterion, the performance is particularly unexceptional, to me it's rather a tribute to his entire career, which is a stock and unfair trickery using by the academy (Paul Newman for example), Jeff Bridge's interpretation also doesn't take my breath away as well, mainly because his weird accent does bug me a lot. The original version is more or less an eulogy towards Wayne's iconic heroism image, his absolute priority in the film never shivers, and releases a much more amiable stance all the way till the end, and in the remake, Bridge's Rooster is excelled by the audacious poise of Mattie (an awe-stricken 14-some Hailee Steinfield), whom I insist putting in the leading actress category (in both versions). Mattie's precocity indeed shows off two divergent impressions in two films, the original one is slightly obnoxious and naive in order to cast a comparison to elect a more morally agreeable image for Rooster, while the latest one maintains a tug-of-war between Mattie and Rooster, demonstrating a contemporary ethos of our generation.LaBoeuf is a character devoid of any further exploitation in both versions. A rookie Glenn Campbell in the old version serves merely as an eye-candy (the weakest link amongst the trinity); in Coen's version it adds some intermitted gusto to the lone pair by taking several French leaves, both times he acts the role as the savior, but ended in different ways. The plots are almost identical, apart from LaBoeuf's denouement, another major modification is the ending, Mattie sacrificed one arm to pay the price of her own willfulness in the remake, which I must applaud for its intrepidity (although I should not be too much surprised because of its under Coen brothers' name tag), the true grit not only sprouting in their films, also within themselves. As for John Wayne's version, hardly a masterpiece, but still a solid one to catch my breath within its lengthy duration, one fringe benefit is that it successfully arouses my curiosity of his other noteworthy films! "},{"Title":"Leisurely Western","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" A teen-aged girl hires a US Marshall to track down the man who killed her father. The pacing is leisurely, with much talk, which would be fine if the dialog was more interesting than it is. Good cinematography and score help. Wayne has made some of the greatest Westerns and turned in perhaps his finest performance in The Searchers, but he finally nabbed an Oscar for this somewhat hammy performance. Fortunately for Campbell, he had his singing career to fall back on because he was no actor. The acting honors here go to Darby, who's wonderful as the determined young heroine. The most notable Westerns of 1969 are The Wild Bunch, Butch Cassidy, and this, and Martin appears in all three. "},{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I just read in the trivia that Elvis Presley was offerd the part of la boef, now that would have been something, unfortunately Tom Parker wanted Elvis to have top billing, man are you kidding?!!!!!!!! Elvis wouldn't have cared about being billed second to John Wayne, he would have been estatic, plum beside himself, Elvis would have considerd it an honor to be in a movie with John Wayne, everybody would have raised up and took notice if these two would have done the movie together, I FIRMLY believe it not only would have made Elvis even bigger but would have renewd his interest in making movies again, I know Elvis would have done a MUCH better job than what Glen Cambell did, it would have been far better for Elvis than Charro, man! to think True Grit; starring John Wayne, Elvis Presley WOW! "},{"Title":"One of the last great traditional Hollywood westerns","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit is primarily remembered today as the movie for which John Wayne finally won an Oscar, thirty years after his star-making performance in John Ford's Stagecoach. Playing U.S. Marshal Rooster Cogburn, Wayne beat out a virtual who's who of fellow leading men Peter O'Toole, Richard Burton, Dustin Hoffman & Jon Voight. While the award may have been more for Wayne's body of work than for this particular role, it shows how much of an icon he was (and still is) in American cinema.The story is surprisingly traditional for a time when western movies had taken a decided turn towards revisionism (case in point, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, The Wild Bunch & Once Upon a Time in the West were all released in 1969 as well). Following her father's murder, young Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) seeks a man of 'true grit' to bring the murderer to justice. She finds her man in the form of 'The Duke', portraying drunken but deadly U.S. Marshal Rooster Cogburn. These two become a trio when they're joined by Texas Ranger La Boeuf (Glen Campbell). Together they set out on the trail of the killer, each with different motivations that sometimes put them at odds with one another.John Wayne's performance is indeed a good one, though probably not the best of his career. The Searchers is a popular critical choice and I consider The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance to be another strong contender. Regardless, Rooster Cogburn is an iconic character that is unlikely to have been nearly as memorable in another actor's hands. Kim Darby also received some attention for her role, in which she held her own with 'The Duke' (and every other male in the picture, for that matter). Glen Campbell was also a surprisingly effective addition to the group, despite his relative inexperience as an actor. Finally, the distinguished supporting cast deserves mention as well, particularly Strother Martin, Robert Duvall & Dennis Hopper.Long-time director Henry Hathaway contributed a workmanlike effort that took full advantage of the picturesque Colorado locations. The Elmer Bernstein score is lively, though not as iconic as his work on The Magnificent Seven. All in all, the movie has top-notch production values that enforce the feel of classic westerns from Hollywood's golden age.One slight eccentricity of the film is the distinctive language that originated in Charles Portis's well-regarded source novel. While not as overt as in the 2010 Coen brothers' version, the dialogue may seem a little stilted at times. However, I think that the actors generally do a good job of making the material sound natural, unlike in the more recent version.Ultimately, the legacy of True Grit goes beyond John Wayne's Oscar win. The movie is a finely tuned western with a well matched trio of leads bolstered by a talented supporting cast and quality production values. Even in 1969, the movie probably seemed to be somewhat of a throwback; now, with the passage of more than 40 years, the movie can be seen for what it really is timeless. "},{"Title":"Truly A John Wayne Western Classic","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit is an adaptation of Charles Portis' 1968 novel of the same title.John Wayne stars as U.S. Marshal Rooster Cogbur,a character based on deputy U.S. marshal Heck Thomas, who brought in some of the toughest outlaws in the West. The supporting cast includes Glen Campbell, Kim Darby, Robert Duvall, Dennis Hopper and Strother Martin.U.S. Marshal Rooster Cogburn was hired by 14-year-old Mattie Ross to find Tom Chaney, who killed her father despite being old considering he has true grit as she believes. Also going to the Indian territory in search of Chaney is Texas Ranger La Boeuf, who wants to collect the reward placed on the fugitive's head for his earlier crimes. Complicating matters are Chaney's scurrilous cronies Ned Pepper, Quincy and Moon, who are on a mission to kill Mattie. While the conclusion may not be a surprise,at least the viewers gets entertained by how the Rooster overpower all his enemies.This is definitely an engaging Western as John Wayne provides the best performance of his film career as he gives Rooster a larger- than- life character that one will always remember.It was also enjoyable from beginning to end as we cheer for Rooster to protect Mattie and for her to get justice for the murder of her father.It will always be one of the top Westerns films in movie history. "},{"Title":"one of the last of the traditional westerns","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" They dead? Well I wouldn't wanna bury em' if they weren't!Very enjoyable western with one of John Wayne's best performances no doubt, and an excellent and charming performance from Kim Darby.The story concerns a teenage girl named Maddie Lee (Kim Darby) and her search for justice for the murder of her father by Tom Chaney. She hires a wisecracking, tough, alcoholic marshal by the name of Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne), and they're joined by a Texan, LaBoeuf (Glen Campbell), also after Tom Chaney for the murder of a senator, and so they set out across acres of beautiful forest and plains to find him.The photography is beautiful to say the least, and John Wayne gives a great, very warm, humorous performance as Rooster Cogburn, clearly enjoying the role. Kim Darby is also very funny and very likable as a smart, prim-and-proper girl with shrewd business sense and strong resolve, at first aggravating Cogburn and La Boeuf among others at Fort Smith, and then befriending them on the adventure. Robert Duvall is also good as ruthless outlaw Ned Pepper.Released the same year as The Wild Bunch, this film couldn't be more different, and despite some strong violence uncharacteristic of the traditional western, it is without a doubt a traditional, maybe one of the last.A very fun film, recommended. "},{"Title":"Finally","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne is cult. His characters (mostly in Westerns) were upstanding men, that fought the good fight. They might have been hard on the outside, but they always had a soft spot inside. The hard on the outside is also true when applied to the Oscar statue. John Wayne received one, although he played in countless movies/westerns. And the one he received it for, is this little gem.His character is really well defined and his conversations with other characters (the girl mainly) are just awesome. I haven't read the book, but the story flows really nicely and you can see why the academy finally broke and gave John W. his long deserved Academy Award. Great acting, great visuals, the movie is really done nicely. It might have some pacing problems, but overall if you like Westerns, you will like this too. "},{"Title":"True Grit (1969)","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" With all the tales of actors colliding, it's no surprise that this is an awkwardly acted and uncomfortable film. Wayne won an Oscar, certainly quantity over quality, for his role as Rooster Cogburn. A man never as gruff or hardass as his reputation denotes. Singer Glen Campbell is an awkward Texas Ranger with a stilted performance, which only lends itself to the creepy, wanting to kiss little girls and spank them side of his character. Kim Darby is precocious and irritating,completely sidelining the strength her character tries to convey. There are also awkward parts of dialogue. This is a town where you're always standing next to someone who can explain each character and their motivations. Despite all this, there is a good story at its core, and the journey is certainly worth the experience. A Coen brothers remake is just around the corner, and this is a film that could certainly use one. "},{"Title":"True Grit versus True Grit","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The only way to describe the real True Grit with John Wayne is that it was everything a movie could want, a believable plot and not a lot of garbage and distractions inserted to help you like the movie. While I enjoy Jeff Bridges, he IS NO JOHN WAYNE! His version of True Grit was admirably done but I suppose there is no real way to measure up to the original, is there? While watching both and keeping an open mind, I still come away as forever a fan of John Wayne's version. Some of the scenes in Jeff Bridges version were over the top, like watching a Rob Zombie movie. John Wayne's screen presence was enough to sell the character of Rooster Cogburn and he didn't need all of the extra graphic language and gore to show that he was one tough son of a b****! Just my opinion...................... "},{"Title":"Still entertaining after all these years!... You can't beat a good tale...","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film quite a few times over the years; it always reminds me of dull damp Sunday afternoons because that's when it always seemed to be on. I also remember the picture quality was never great on TV back then, but now, re-vamped and digitised, it looks great. But more of my thoughts later, here's a brief summary first (summary haters please unsaddle the horses and corral them while I write the next paragraph).After her father, Frank, is shot dead, teenager Mattie Ross decides to seek revenge on the man that perpetrated this evil act. To this end she employs U.S. Marshall 'Rooster' Cogburn to help her find him in Indian Territory where, they believe, he has joined the outlaw Ned Pepper's gang. The man in question, Tom Chaney, is also wanted by a Texas Ranger called La Boeuf, or 'LeBeef', as he prefers. The three of them set off, after a bit of an argument about whether Mattie should be allowed to go with them, and soon find a couple of vagabonds called Emmett Quincy and Moon. Having been shot, Moon spills the beans that Ned Pepper is coming to their location soon for fresh horses. More deaths ensue, but Pepper gets away with the unlikely trio in hot pursuit. I know there may be one or two out there that aren't familiar with the tale, so I'll stop there.I had forgotten just how long this film is, at just over two hours it's a lot of western, but pretty enjoyable nonetheless. Most of the exteriors were shot in Colorado and California and I must say it makes for a pretty spectacular backdrop for this story. For the most part the performances were excellent, particularly (of course) John Wayne as Marshall Reuben J. 'Rooster' Cogburn and Kim Darby as Mattie Ross. Also worthy of note were; Jeremy Slate as Emmett Quincy, Robert Duvall as Ned Pepper and Dennis Hopper as Moon. Not quite so good, performance wise, was Glen Campbell as La Boeuf (he latterly decided to stick to singing&#x85; good move).It's probably the best film I've seen starring John Wayne, but I'm sure I'll be corrected on that point by someone. I thought it was a very well made film with some spectacular scenery. The only thing that grated slightly was the soundtrack; to me it seems a bit too dominant in the mix in places which I found a little distracting. Over all, I like this film, not only because it's become a classic over the years, but also because it's a good story done well, and you can't go too far wrong when you start with a good yarn&#x85; Recommended.My score 7.8/10 "}{"Title":"It's about the Duke's image really you know.","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" When her father is shot and killed, Mattie Ross is outraged and thirsting for revenge. Seeking out Rooster Cogburn based on his gritty reputation, and aided by Texas Ranger LaBoeuf, they head off to find the killer.It's not bold or foolish to say that John Wayne has not only been in better films, he's also given better performances than his Oscar winning turn here in True Grit. However, few of his fans, or anyone who had watched his career closely, were complaining that the big man collected the pinnacle of acting awards. True Grit is a highly entertaining picture that when all is said and done, is as much about Wayne's image as it is a revenge character piece. Suffering with ill health in the twilight of his career, Wayne delivers a warm and humble performance as Cogburn. Eye patch over one eye, Rooster Cogburn is a rapscallion that is impossible to dislike, and that comes down to Wayne and his mannered performance.True Grit is boosted by the sparky performance of Kim Darby as Mattie Ross, with the chemistry between herself and Wayne warm and honest, and this gives the film its emotional core, with both characters needing each other without even knowing it. It almost wasn't to be for Darby tho, Mia Farrow was the preferred choice for Mattie, but Farrow unwisely took advice from a mischievous Robert Mitchum and turned down the part, something she is quoted as saying she regretted for the rest of her career. Faring not so well, tho, is Glen Cambell as LaBoeuf, guilty of trying too hard, he just becomes hard to take seriously, even in the jovial moments. Robert Duvall lands bad guy duties but doesn't quite get to grips with it, and the rest of the cast are merely making up the numbers. Thankfully director Henry Hathaway shoots it just about right, he, along with his excellent cinematographer Lucien Ballard, are framing Wayne and all his iconic being in one loving movie. What could have been a standard hunt the villain picture turns out to be quite a character driven treat. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Paul Hornung was in this movie","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I really enjoy your website.I was watching a True Grit DVD the other night and noticed an individual in an early courtroom sequence that I thought was Paul Hornung, the famous football player from Green Bay. He had a small speaking part in the picture.I checked your data base and couldn't find any reference to him in it.I did a Google search for a picture of Paul and believe it's the same actor, so I thought that you might want to add him to either your actors section or your trivia section, if you agree.Again thanks for a great website !!!! Dan Perrine "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable western","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so good.  I loved the way Rooster Cogburn talked.  He was an older man at the time of this movie, but he could still whoop some butt if he wanted.  This movie kind of reminded me of The Searchers in a way. Because they were searching for Ned Pepper and his gang of thugs...and all in some beautiful scenary. "},{"Title":"John Wayne's Crowning Achievement.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  A young Kim Darby enlists the help of one-eyed drunk U.S. marshal (John Wayne in his Oscar-winning role) and a Texas Ranger (Glen Campbell) to help her track down her father's killer in this uneven and sometimes dry-as-dirt western. The film is little more than a showcase for Wayne who finally found a part that everyone loved him in. He rounded up enough support and sympathy votes in 1969 to steal the Oscar away from more deserving competition (most notably Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight who effectively canceled each other out for their performances in Midnight Cowboy). A sophomoric screenplay is saved by above-average direction from the usually dependable Henry Hathaway. This was the last old-time western Hollywood produced as a new breed was born with The Wild Bunch during the same year True Grit was released. Basically a showcase for John Wayne, True Grit is remembered as the film that finally got him his Oscar. Watch for Robert Duvall and Dennis Hopper in prevalent roles here as well. John Wayne's die-hard fans will love this, others may leave disappointed. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Classic John Wayne western.","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Set in Arkansas and surrounding states, but beautifully filmed mostly in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. My dad was a big John Wayne fan, they had the same birthday, year and day, but dad died in 1964 so he never was able to see this one. I don't remember why, but I had never seen it either, until now. I enjoyed the DVD of the fairly new Collector's Edition, and the picture and sound are quite nice.This original and the 2010 remake are the same basic story. They start with the death of a ranch owner and family man at the hands of a drunk ranch hand, who steals two California gold pieces and the horse. With the law giving the case a low priority, the dead man's teenage daughter takes it upon herself to bring the outlaw to justice. Kim Darby, who was already past 20, is 14-yr-old Mattie Ross. Darby was a small person and in the role she certainly looks like a teenager. She goes to the nearest town, and ends up finding a US Marshall to take the case, she will pay him cash upfront and the remainder when the job is finished.She hires John Wayne as Rooster Cogburn. Wayne is a western icon, and of course just perfect for the role, a man who seems to prefer killing outlaws as easier than bringing them in for trial. He loves his whiskey, sometimes over-imbibes, but usually functions well enough to prevail over his enemies. Glen Campbell is the Texas Ranger La Boeuf (la beef). A young Robert Duvall is outlaw gang leader Ned Pepper, and a young Dennis Hopper is petty outlaw Moon. The movie shines because of the interaction between Rooster Cogburn and Mattie Ross. The balance is always just right, with Mattie always getting the upper hand. By way of comparison, the original is a better, more entertaining movie than the Coen Brothers recent remake. "},{"Title":"An instant classic","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Classics come in all shapes and sizes. Some movies only become classics in the passage of time while others are classics instantaneously and True Grit is surely one of the those. We knew we were in good company back in 1969 from the moment Glen Campbell started singing that great title song over the credits and nothing that followed disappointed. As entertainments go, True Grit is close to perfect. It has a marvelous script by Marguerite Roberts working from great source material, (the novel by Charles Portis), a great score by Elmer Bernstein at his most expansive, wonderful location photography by Lucien Ballard and a superb performance by Kim Darby as Mattie Ross, the girl out to avenge her father's murder.Best of all it had John Wayne as Rooster Cogburn, the one-eyed Marshall Mattie hires to track down her father's killers. It wasn't Wayne's best performance but it was a great character part that finally convinced the Academy and dissenters generally that maybe he could act after all. It was certainly iconic and has become something of a legend. Against the competition he didn't deserve the Oscar but only the most curmudgeonly would have denied him the glittering prize. There was a sequel, Rooster Cogburn, which amounted to a virtual remake crossed with The African Queen down to the casting of Katharine Hepburn in the Kim Darby role and while enjoyable enough it certainly was no classic. True Grit, on the other hand, was the genuine article. "},{"Title":"great dialogue","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  This movie has rightfully entered the pantheon of classic Hollywood westerns and there seems to be very little to add to the mountain of praise already heaped upon it. But one thing puzzles me about the previous comments. More than one viewer disparages the dialogue as being phony or stilted. I think it's one of the best elements of the movie.  People were more formal and their speech more considered than today.  Just look at some of the letters written by Civil War soldiers; even those written by the functionally illiterate could be quite eloquent. I think the dialogue in True Grit, whether authentic or not, sounds authentic and that sets it apart from most movie westerns. I have always found it a great joy just to listen to this movie. "},{"Title":"If you didnt see this movie in the theater you gotta get the DVD!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Most people have not seen this movie in its original uncut widescreen format. Anything cut up for network television already has 2 strikes against it. 1 is the loss of what the cutters deem as 'expendable' scenes, to add commercial time, and, 2. the picture is 'formatted' to fit your screen..in other words, a third of each end of the movie is cropped off to square it up. If you can see this in widescreen, you will be able to see why it was as popular as it was in its time, and still just as enduring today.Duke deserved 2 or 3 other oscars that he was overlooked for, but better late then never. The panoramic vistas, the soundtrack, and of course, what other movie can you see a drunk John Wayne fall off his horse and blame it on the horse? I crack up every time I see that scene. Nobody spun a lever gun like the Duke..... "},{"Title":"True Hero","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I won't repeat the plot; others have already done that. But the scene in the valley, with Rooster on one end and Ned et al on the other, is the greatest, most heroic scene I can think of in western films.  The fact that it was foreshadowed earlier, and dismissed as a drunkard's boastfulness, makes it that much more appealing.  I'll wear the tape out replaying that scene over and over. "},{"Title":"The Duke's best","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  John Wayne shows what he has best in this film, acting.  It is well worth to watch this movie just to see the Duke and his incredible (and Oscar winning) performance as Rooster Cogburn, a lawman (and mean one at that) who is out to track a person down.  True, the novel might be better (or so I've read), but with Wayne at the helm, it makes this film a great western/drama that will be remembered as one of the great westerns of American film. A- "}{"Title":"Who had true grit?","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite westerns.  Of course, we all admired and loved John Wayne--both for his screen presence and as a person and American.  However, in True Grit the truly admirable character is Mattie Ross, as portrayed by Kim Darby.  Rooster Cogburn was a tough old bird and as brave as they come, but Mattie displayed the essence of the title of the movie--true grit.  This movie also established Glen Campbell as a non-actor.  "},{"Title":"John Wayne classic still majorly entertains","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Why do the critics all love the movie? Well, I've known characters in my life like the Duke in True Grit, as well as the Glen Campbell and Kim Darby types. Back in the 1960s, the population was so divided about the war and about what America stood for, I think too many movie critics saw way more significance in the film than it warrants. It's simply a really good Western, probably one of the best. Why is the movie so much fun? It's more fun to watch it now than 39 years ago because it's not burdened by so many expectations or so much analysis. When I watched it in '69, ......For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2008 "},{"Title":"Never get tired or too old for John Wayne","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie at least 50 times and I never get tired of it...but then I never get tired of any of the Duke's movie....even the one's he made in his early career.....Recently we watched this movie again and I did not realize until then that Glen Campbell's character dies!!!! Every time we watch it we see something new and different that we didn't catch before....Wish someone would make a movie about John Wayne....what a classic he was !!!He only got better with age.....you have to count the movies he made in his final years as classics.The Shootist is my husbands favorite movie while mine is The Quiet Man.His family must be very proud of him and his legacy. They certainly don't make movies like his any more.I want to encourage everyone to check out this movie. It is quite entertaining and you can't help but be caught up in the moment....it is easy to identify with this crusty elderly lawman. He might even remind you of one of your relatives.I don't know what Kim Darby does now, but I hope she knows that she helped make a movie that most of us will never forget.If you read this Kim, thanks for the memory.And to you Glen Campbell....thanks for the memory and the music.Here's to every lawman that has TRUE GRIT!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best!!!!!!!","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie more times than I can tell ya.Being a big fan of the Duke,I consider this one of his top performances.I remember going with my family to see this movie at the drive -in, in Lexington,N.C.I'm really not sure what year it was but,considering it was made in '69,and I was born in '59 I could not have been any bigger than a CORN NUBBIN'.No matter what I may be watching on T.V. if I'm flipping the remote and come across TRUE GRIT the remote gets laid down!One thing though,I read on the profile of this film that Karen Carpenter was considered by the Duke to play the part of Mattie,makes me wonder how that would have turned out.I am not a real big fan of Kim Darby,but I'm sure she was a better actress than Karen Carpenter.As Carpenter was a better singer.Of course with Carpenter in the film then maybe there would have been a duet with Glen Cambell,ha ha. "},{"Title":"john wayne's finest","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  true grit is without a doubt the finest in the duke's extensive resume. this was his only oscar, and well deserved at that. the scene when marshal cogburn (wayne) rides out into the field, him on one end, the four villains on the other, it defines hero. very few times in cinema has bravery been displayed in such an excellent manner. filled with excellent acting, superb filming, exciting battle sequeneces, and great comedy relief, true grit not only defines classic western, it pushes it to a higher level. "},{"Title":"Duke's most spirited performance,but Darby steals the show.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne,it can be said,played the same type of character many times over.In fact,we were basically seeing John Wayne on screen every time, he was just given a different name for character's sake,but we never minded really,did we?With True Grit,we see a different John Wayne,one with more spirit than we had ever seen before or after.He was Rooster Cogburn,the liquor swilling bounty hunter,with the eye patch.With all of his bad points,we couldn't help but like him.Surpassing John Wayne was no doubt a difficult task,but in my opinion,young Kim Darby pulled it off with flying colors.I'm not sure whether she was even nominated for an Oscar here,but she sure was worthy of consideration.The story is a solid one,Henry Hathaway's direction superb,and the cinematography is among the best I've ever seen in a western.The supporting cast,which includes Hollywood heavyweights such as Strother Martin,Dennis Hopper, and Robert Duvall,does their job superbly.The only possible exception is Glen Campbell,who never quite seemed comfortable in front of the camera.This is probably why we have seen him in very little else since. It's a good thing he had his music career to fall back on.Despite this, you have an overall great film in True Grit.So watch it,and Come see a fat old man sometime!. "},{"Title":"Slow working rattle snake venom","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" This original adaptation of the novel by Charles Portis sees an aging John Wayne in a film whose plot is just a re-mash of the most traditional bounty hunting films, but that film is saved by the presence of the daughter of the killed man looking for the murderer of her father. The presence of the girl gives the film some originality, otherwise all the tricks have already been used and even overused, like the rattlesnake, the pit, &#x96; it is true without a pendulum &#x96; the river to cross on horseback, and many others.John Wayne being older is no longer as adventurous as before and he kind of cuts a fatherly image in a genre where the father is not the hero. You might even be surprised by one or two twists in the standard fabric of the Western and we are spared the Indians in Indian territory.Apart from that the Far West after the Civil War was a no law's land but with plenty of men trying to make a living from action and violence, either to express their deep frustration with society or to repress that kind of expression. The sheriff or the marshal was in no way better than the criminals he was running after and getting dead or alive. I hope the recent remake has brought some new light to the genre, especially since we have lived Clint Eastwood through and through and the age of spaghetti westerns.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Pretty good, with some excellent dialogue","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I have seen the 1969 version of True Grit, after I saw the Coens' 2010 version. This stands on it's own pretty good, the highlight being John Wayne, BUT Kim Darby also surprised me. You can definitely see the way Hailee Steinfield in the newer version portrayed her with some of the same spark yet gave off a different vibe. The film has a simple plot, and it's effective, but the film (just like the 2010 version) is also effective because of it's excellent fast-paced, snappy dialogue and the entire cast. This is definitely worth a watch even if you have seen the other version, and it's definitely a very well-made western. Did I mention that the cinematography is amazing? "},{"Title":"I Hate John Wayne&#x85;but","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I never like John Wayne as a kid and never much liked westerns. This movie didn't turn me around but let's say that it made me stop and change my mind for 128 minutes. I saw it on TV in Spain a couple years go (Valor del Ley is the Spanish title) and I was struck by the majestic beauty of the locations. I also went back and reread the fantastic book upon which the film is based and from which comes every great word of dialogue.The book is narrated in the no-nonsense, straightforward fashion you would expect from a good journalist, as Portis was before he gave it up to write fiction full-time. He has a great ear for dialogue and he obviously researched the speech of the era as there are many phrases and words that are now out of use or just impossible to invent. Folks just plain spoke different back then, something Portis was keen on having us hear. Take this little exchangeI don't believe you have fifty dollars, baby sister, but if you are hungry I will give you supper and we will talk it over and make medicine. How does that suit you?I said it suited me right down to the ground.I just don't think you could make up a line like right down to the ground. That Portis was a newspaper reporter shows in his attention to details like this small one (but all details, big and small, are important, of course). I suppose that I take more notice to Portis' ventures in language because I am up to my own eyebrows learning Spanish and I subconsciously am translating everything I hear and read into castellano, as it is called here, mostly. And evidently Portis was a bigger fan of the Duke than I because he wrote the character of Rooster Cogburn with him in mind. The author also had a fair ear for humor of which the novel and both movies abound.I found myself one pretty spring day in Las Vegas, New Mexico, in need of a road stake and I robbed one of them little high-interest banks there. Thought I was doing a good service. You can't rob a thief, can you? I never robbed no citizens. I never taken a man's watch. It is all stealing, said I.That was the position they taken in New Mexico.At least both sets of film makers have enough wisdom to recognize the wisdom in the book.The original movie certainly isn't perfect, not by a long shot. But any criticism of it would be like criticizing the way people talked back in the 1880's. Films are different today, mostly better in my opinion. There are some problems in the 1969 version with some of the side characters and bad acting. The musical score is sometimes bombastic and annoying. The first five minutes which recount the murder of Mattie's father are tiresome and have been wisely excluded in the Coen brothers' remake. More than anything the 1969 movie is absolutely gorgeous from start to finish. The old movie has a better and more satisfying ending than the new one which follows the book more closely. The old movie is pure Hollywood, not always a pejorative, especially in this case.You're too old and too fat to be jumping horses. Well come and see a fat old man sometime. "},{"Title":"Cogburn Had It.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne won a best actor Academy award for his amusing performance as veteran, no-nonsense(but often drunken) U.S. Marshall Rooster Cogburn, who is enlisted by determined tomboy Mattie Ross(played by Kim Darby) to locate the scoundrel(played by Jeff Corey) who murdered her father. She believes that Cogburn has true grit, and wants to avenge her father, no matter the cost. Helping them is Texas Ranger La Beouf(played by Glenn Campbell) who also wants the same man, wanted for other crimes. They track him across state lines and locate him in the gang of Ned Pepper(played by Robert Duvall) who won't give him up, leading to a horseback showdown... John Wayne is well supported here by Darby and Duvall, even if the plot is familiar and rambling, film is still entertaining. "}{"Title":"Kim Darby Is The True Star","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" You don't have to be a John Wayne fan to enjoy this movie, though he turns in a good performance as Rooster Cogburn. The real star is Kim Darby, the young woman who hires him to go after the killer of her father, who has fled into Indian Territory and is therefore under US Marshall jurisdiction. Joining them is a Texas Ranger hired to bring back the killer, who has committed a killing is Texas as well. As might be imagined, this is a source of conflict between them.The story is arguably conventional for a Western, but it works because it is not too straightforward, and even Darby, stubborn and dominant personality that she is, has times where she is helpless and must rely on the others for help. While the Ranger is arguably foolish, Cogburn can be stupid too, especially when he's on the drink. And everyone's plans don't go as expected, especially when they find other criminals whom Cogburn is after, and who all have a caper of their own planned.For its era, this movie is a dissenter. The villains are not glamorized tough guys; some might be sentimental, but most aren't. Cogburn isn't entirely good either; he tries to break his promise to send funds to one villain's minister brother, but Darby fights to make him keep to it. Recommended. "},{"Title":"True Grit (1969)","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit is about a young girl (Mattie) out for the revenge for her father's death. She teams up with a one-eyed bounty hunter (John Wayne) and a Texas lawman too help hunt him down. Mattie wants to bring the man, called Chaney, back to town so he can be tried and hung, but the Texas lawman plans to bring him back to Texas so he can be tried for the shooting of a senator. Nevertheless Chaney ends up getting shot by bounty hunter. Compared to the film released in 2010 the 1969 version is terrible. The acting done by Kim Darby is terrible! She is very hard to take seriously throughout the whole movie, which is sad because I think this movie could have been very good. I give this film a 5 out of 10 because I think this film is really bad, but I think John Wayne does a god job with what he had to work with. "},{"Title":"A great film but now what I expected - 74%","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I was once told by a work colleague that he would never listen to any opinion I had about any film until I had seen The Good, The Bad And The Ugly. Sure enough, there are precious few westerns popping up on my list of films because whenever they're shown on TV these days, it's when I'm sleeping off a night shift or ploughing my way through my wife's list of chores. But utilising the power of my Sky+ box (and I'm sorry if I keep going on about it), I can rectify this oversight. Sadly, this was the only decent offering available but I watched it anyway, especially after my wife expressed interest in the recent and critically lauded Coen Brothers remake.When her father is gunned down in cold blood by an employee by the name of Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey), teenage tomboy Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) takes it upon herself to avenge him. Taking her father's gun, she seeks out heavy-drinking, one-eyed marshal Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne) and eventually persuades him to go after Chaney. But the task will not be as easy as she supposes - Chaney has fled deep into Indian territory and is working in cahoots with local hoodlum Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall) while a young Texan Ranger by the name of La Boeuf (country singer Glen Campbell) is also determined to bring Chaney in alive for a separate murder charge.I always thought that this was a proper western - endless gun battles, prolonged death scenes, hundreds of 'injuns' holding up wagons and lots of horse riding - but True Grit is something else. It's a classic drama set in a western setting, as if it's playing down the usual genre stereotypes. Wayne, finally grabbing an Oscar in this movie, is hopelessly watchable as Cogburn and generates real tension between himself and Darby, no doubt assisted by their lousy off-screen relationship. Campbell does OK but Wayne simply outshines him and pretty much everyone else. The story works by keeping things simple but it still feels like an epic picture, assisted by sweeping vistas of the Old West landscape and a rousing soundtrack that make you wanna saddle up and ride off yourself.It's refreshing to see the genuine article for once, rather than modern interpretations like Open Range and the recent 310 To Yuma but the original True Grit remains a quality picture, undimmed by the ravages of time that affect so many older movies. It's exciting and feels very different to how I imagined it would, which only makes better in my opinion. It's a little hammy at times and Darby can get a little irritating at times but True Grit is a film I'd be happy to watch again. Or if my wife has her say in things, the remake. "},{"Title":"The legendary western for the legendary western actor  was just okay for me","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I do enjoy westerns, but my top westerns always involve the legendary Clint Eastwood. I must admit I have not seen a lot of John Wayne films but of course after the 2010 remake of True Grit I thought it only right to watch the classic original that won Wayne his only Oscar. I always suspected that Wayne got this Oscar because he was nearing the end of his career and not on the true merits of the film and having now seen it I know this to be true. Don't get me wrong the film is good but it doesn't set any standards for Westerns, in fact I think in some ways it lacks some of the important ingredients that makes a great western. There aren't a lot of characters or shoot outs or dusty towns, its really all about the chase and one girls 'True Grit.' Perhaps because I loved the new film so much I had trouble appreciating the original. There is no doubt that the Coen Brothers took a page right from the original recreating some of the scenes perfectly but I think they took the flaws and improved on them.I know John Wayne is a legend so it might be wrong for me to downplay that but I just didn't find him that interesting. His character Rooster Cogburn is a rough and rugged U.S. Marshall. Wayne does rugged well but I didn't feel like there was much depth to Cogburn like there could have been so much more. Singing legend Glen Campbell plays Texas Ranger La Boeuf. Again I have to give some comparisons to the remake because I felt like Campbell was barely existent in this film like his role although considering 'supporting' was almost a third string character. There is little chemistry between him and Wayne and his purpose in the film is severely underplayed. Kim Darby steals the show as the head strong tom boy Mattie Ross. She is terrific and gives a first class performance outshining both legends Wayne and Campbell not unlike her predecessor in the remake. Robert Duvall appears in a small role as Ned Pepper and does a good job with a very small role.There is no doubt that director Henry Hathaway is a skilled and seasoned director with dozens of films to his name. He has done westerns before and I think he was determined to tell a great story about revenge because that is the driving force behind True Grit. Unfortunately in telling this story of revenge the key ingredients that makes a great western got left behind and outside of Mattie Ross the characters don't get much depth. What is left is a movie that entertains but doesn't stick with you or make any great impression. I know that its considered a classic but is it a classic on its merit as an entertaining film or the legend that is John Wayne? For this film it was just run of the mill for me. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Uneven, but moving","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Solid body-count in this tale. Kicking off with the sad death of 45 year old family man Frank Ross, 1835-1880, shot down by his ungrateful hired hand, a dope sometimes called Chaney, and not counting the three men hanged in public, I make it about ten killed by the end. But I may have missed one or two. A trio made up of John Wayne, Glen Campbell and Frank's daughter Mattie Ross set off together in search of the dastardly Chaney, for a variety of different reasons.No point in re-telling the story, which can be read elsewhere. This is, however, definitely an interesting movie, which has improved with age. Mattie, driven by a desire for retribution and revenge, is beautifully played by Kim Darby (actually Derby), who is supposed to be 14 (she was actually 21), but might just have passed for 16. Wayne is great in his hammy role, and Campbell is not brilliant, but adequate for the slightly dorky part he plays. The gunmen of Arkansas did not greatly respect Texans, it would seem. Check out Fort Smith on Wikipedia. The 2009 DVD runs for 123 minutes, and there are signs of cutting, but the narrative is full of incident. The time flies by. It's all entertaining, and there are several hidden sub-texts.Some of the incidents are strange, not to say bizarre. One of the weirdest is when little Mattie, facing the scoundrel Chaney, is instructed by him in how to cock her enormous pistol, all the while she is aiming it straight at him. This is hardly normal behaviour for a targeted fugitive. Some perceptive reviewers have pointed out the essential innocence (read simple-mindedness) of all these characters, good and bad. The bad guys didn't seem to be the smartest set of villains. There is a loony cockadoodler who is definitely off his roosting perch, but said to be a good shot. In fact, the whole account is somewhat sprawling and bumbling. Is it a comedy? Or a tragedy? Ebert says he doesn't think Cogburn's ride into the valley of death can possibly be serious. Earlier, there's a bit of schtick with a turkey, which provides an opportunity for one of the bad guys to pick up a knife and stab his handcuffed buddy, Hopper, to death for squealing. There's very little gore, and all the deaths are quite nice, clean and tidy.My real reason for writing a comment here is to complain about the existence of the new version. I'm not going to watch it, but it's obviously inferior to this original one, especially since the scene where the Rooster shoots the Rat has been removed. This is an absolutely crucial passage, summing up the entire movie. What on earth is the point of re-shooting this story? What's next on the Hollywood agenda? A re-make of Casablanca? Citizen Kane? Cat Ballou? Has tinseltown gone mad? "},{"Title":"This first filmed version of True Grit can still entertain thanks to John Wayne's Oscar-winning performance","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" On Labor Day back in 1979, the year John Wayne died, I watched this movie for the first time on ABC and found myself enjoying it. But while I've managed to see some scenes of this movie again over the years, it's only now with the whole thing uploaded on YouTube that I've seen the thing in its entirety once more. Actually, I'm not sure I've seen it in its entirety then since I was close to 12 at the time and not everything in the movie refreshed my memory. Let me just say that I enjoyed it a little more now especially with the Duke himself bringing his own legendary charm that helped him get the Oscar that seemed a long time coming to him considering all those other better performances of his that never even got nominated. Yeah, Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman were better that year in Midnight Cowboy but still. Oh, and while Glen Campbell wasn't much of an actor, he was adequately okay with what he does here. And though I know that Mattie Ross is supposed to be 14 and Kim Darby was in her early '20s at the time, she was pretty good here. Then there are some wonderful supporting turns by the likes of Strother Martin, John Fiedler, Jeff Corey, and especially Dennis Hopper and-as Ned Pepper-Robert Duvall. Also compelling were the score by Elmer Bernstein and the direction by veteran Henry Hathaway. In summary, this first filmed version of Charles Portis' novel was quite enjoyable from beginning to end. So having now seen this again, I'm anxious to see the current version that's now starring Jeff Bridges and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen. So if you're reading this from clicking my username, watch this space above for my review of the latter soon... "},{"Title":"True Grit A Classic Western","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Considering my past condemnation of the remake factory that is modern Hollywood and my fondness for the brothers Coen, their as-yet-unreleased-here reworking of Henry Hathaway's True Grit posed something of a moral dilemma. The least I could do, I reasoned, was to track down the original before I allowed myself the indulgence of the remake.Her father murdered in cold blood by Tom Chaney, the man he had been employing as a farmhand, 14 year old Maddie Ross sets out to avenge him by any means necessary. Recruiting tatterdemalion drunkard Marshall Rooster Cogburn to assist her in this, she sets out to hunt down Chaney, now riding with a band led by Cogburn's old foe Ned Pepper.Introducing us quickly to Maddie's role as familial accountant and apple of her father's eye, True Grit wastes no time in getting to the murder which sets the cogs of its narrative in full motion. As Maddie goes to fetch back her father's body and settle the business he originally set out to conduct, we begin to see on display her assured dignity; her ferocious independence. Kim Darby embodies all of these characteristics and innumerably more in her performance, her ability to stand toe to toe with the great John Wayne himself worthy of commendation eternal. One of the early highlights of the film, and a scene used as promotional material for its remake, is one in which Maddie bargains with a horse-trader to sell back the horses her father bought from him. The strong stoicism of her character is resplendent in its glory, and displayed no better elsewhere than here. Wayne too is superb in his sole Oscar-winning role as the drunkard Marshall, slowly won over from his gruff exterior by the charms of the equally emotionally aloof Maddie. Wayne's Cogburn is, though the source of some effective humour, a tragic character, his (often literal) falls from grace more engendering of a pathetic breed of pity than riotous laughs. The two are a surprisingly effective pairing, their distinctive relationship creating a perplexing but engaging dynamic we don't quite fully understand the precise nuances of. As interesting is the relationship between Maddie and Texan Ranger La Boeuf, her frequent dismissal of him among the comedic highlights of the film. In La Boeuf is the film's motivational subtext most evident, his purely fiscal reasons for joining the hunt expressly stated as opposed to the more subtly hinted vengefulness of Cogburn's rationale, further indicative of the darker, less friendly elements of his character. Duvall, in a relatively early film role as Wayne's apparent nemesis, is fittingly sinister. The film takes a surprisingly long time to get the action going, choosing instead&#x97;and wisely so&#x97;to build the relationships between its central trio and further ingratiate the young heroine to us. The ending takes a different route to what I would have expected, losing some of the gravitas I might have accorded it, but still remaining dignified and in-key with the film as a whole.Wayne joked upon the Oscar stage that he'd have donned an eye patch 35 years previously if he'd known it'd earn him an Academy Award, and one wonders how it took so long, but his performance is particularly strong here. As strong, perhaps even stronger, is Kim Darby, her performance precisely what the role, relationship, and film demanded. A classic western, True Grit brings quality to bear on all fronts. I dare say there's little the brothers Coen can do to qualify reworking this. "},{"Title":"The strong, the weak, and the problematic.","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The strong points of his film 1. John Wayne (obviously) creating an aging, burnt out rogue turned lawman. Often remarked as John Wayne playing (or parodying) himself, but this is hardly true - in fact, Rooster Cogburn is one of the four or so moments in Wayne's career when he completely loses himself in the character he plays. He plays no false note here, none that isn't purely and clearly Rooster Cogburn.2. The story here is tight (sprawling only because the manhunt in the wild demands it), neatly constructed, and, with the occasional Hollywood touches, very faithful to the novel by Charles Portis - if one must criticize the dialog, one should start by criticizing Portis' book, because the dialog is almost entirely his. Portis' theme, the coming of age of a one-track prudish farm-girl in a world of outrageous and violent men of the Old West remains largely intact, and remains fascinating.3. Supporting cast strong performances throughout, especially by Strother Martin as a harried horse-trader and Robert Duvall as the wily outlaw Ned Pepper.4. Memorable scenes If a film should be judged by how much one remembers of it - with pleasure, True Grit scores high. Every other scene sticks with one for some reason or other - the horse-haggling scene, the court-room scene, Mattie's visits to Rooster in the Chinaman's shop - one just goes on and on remembering these scenes, and many others.Weak points 1. Glen Campbell; hoping to play the same trick Hawks did by hiring Rick Nelson and Dean Martin for Rio Bravo Hathaway cast a young inexperienced singer to play the role of a tough Texas Ranger, and of course it doesn't work. Fortunately, although he sings the title track, the film itself is never paused to allow him an encore. Still, although I don't really find Campbell's performance all that annoying. He's a walking piece of wood, no doubt, but an amiable one, and he gets the job done.2. Similarly, the music on the soundtrack doesn't really fit the material; it tries hard - too hard - to be dramatic, but this film requires a quietly folksy touch, not crescendos. Not surprising, with the exception of the final shoot-out - which would survive most any musical background, the best moments of the film have little or no musical comment.3. Editing although competent, it is rather perfunctory, as if the editors aren't quite clear on what they're supposed to do with the material. There a a couple major editing flubs, such as in the final scene between Mattie and Chaney that are a bit irritating.The problematic - aspects of the film that leave one undecided or even a bit queasy 1. The cinematography although Lucien Ballard could not fail to do beautiful landscapes, his work here is overall a bit flat in composition and definition. One needs to compare his work here with what he accomplished the same year in Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch to see what I mean. Peckinpah was, at his best, a director who knew exactly what he wanted to see on the screen, and Ballard gives it to him. Hathaway comes from an older tradition that let the cameraman shoot the scene once the director had properly set it up. This leaves Ballard trying to shoot a 'traditional Western,' but True Grit is not a 'traditional Western,' despite Wayne's presence. 2. Kim Darby - although remarking Darby as having a limited range as an actress is being rather generous, the fact is in this film she is quite well cast - she is out of her element, but so is Mattie Ross. She is rather plain for an actress, and she certainly looks barely out of her teens , and acts it too. She finds it rather easy to project the necessary innocence (and indolence) of her prudish, determined character, but she does have one major weakness, a tendency to excitability that appears more anxious than determined.3. The direction A director's chore is to find some way to turn a story into a vision, and Hathaway just isn't up to that here. The story, the theme, most of the performances, the well-photographed landscape, all fill in when Hathawy's direction lapses, but the fact remains that driving the film is the script and Hathaway as director at best stays out of its way, rather than contributing to it.Overall, one of the best stories brought to the screen, admirably fleshed out by Wayne and supporting cast. Weaknesses and problems are easily forgiven and forgotten as the narrative pulls us along to a satisfying bravura conclusion. "},{"Title":"John Wayne riding off into the snowy sunset","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The late 1960s were a strange time for westerns. Men were landing on the moon and one of the most innovative movies of the period was about space travel. The success of westerns in the modern-obsessed 50s and 60s has always been curious but by the late 1960s it was clear whatever borrowed time they had been living on was finally coming to a close. And indeed, the 1970s and 80s were decades where the most famous western would be a farce of the genre, and with few quality westerns were made in those years, none of them box office smashes, the feeling that the traditional Hollywood western was past its prime was clearly a justified concern in 1969.It is therefore not surprising that True Grit is a very Hollywood attempt to do a few things differently with the genre. A strong-willed female lead, Mattie Ross played by Kim Darby, is a fun departure from many westerns populated by weak women. Of course, the film will ever be interlocked with the story of its larger-than-life star John Wayne. I will cast my lot with those who praise his work in this movie. His Rooster Cogburn is clichéd but for me in a fun way, and at least he has some flaws, unlike some Wayne characters. John Wayne's acting is very much in his usual style, so your opinion on Wayne will almost certainly influence your opinion on this movie.The story is fun, if not particularly innovative or emotionally moving. I for one found the acting to be a highlight of the film, although I freely admit just about every character is dangerously close to being one cliché or another.True Grit is really just a good traditionally Hollywood western with some nods to the sensibilities of the late 1960s. I personally like it just about as much as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, which was made at the same time with the same concerns. However, I think your opinion on this film will probably boil down to whether or not you find John Wayne fun and amusing or annoying and overbearing. "},{"Title":"The Duke's finest hour?","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Of his great and storied career, the only performance John Wayne was ever rewarded for is that as Rooster Cogburn in True Grit, a tough, no-nonsense old marshal who has seen more than his fair share of evil and does his job simply for the sake of capturing bad guys and seeing they're brought to justice. True, it is a very fine performance but what really stands out amongst this film is the tone it takes with its characters and the story. Much of the film is photographed in high-key lighting amidst a sun-bathed landscape depicting the American West as an idealized place of opportunity that is sometimes occupied by evil doers.The film, while memorable for Wayne's authoritative performance, really is the story of Mattie Ross, the young girl whose father is killed and hires Cogburn to hunt down the man who murdered him. Kim Darby is the young girl and she plays her role as a very sweet, tender yet strong-willed woman who has more than her fair share of knowledge about how to deal in this masculine-dominated world. Other supporting roles assist as well such as Glen Campbell's superficial La Boeuf, and Robert Duvall's unsympathetic Ned Pepper.All the elements come together here to create a slow-starting but very entertaining Western. It may not reach all-time greatness like Sergio Leone's Dollars Trilogy or John Ford's Stagecoach, but it is not only a tribute to the Old West but also the icon of Westerns, John Wayne. Clearly, this film loves and respects both. "}{"Title":"Oscar Winning Wayne Performance Bolsters A Good Western","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne won his one and only Best Actor Oscar in the Henry Hathaway frontier western True Grit for playing a drunken, profane, one-eyed, U.S. Deputy Marshal. Marshal Reuben 'Rooster' J. Cogburn helps a 14-year old girl avenge the murder of her father. Earlier, Wayne received a nomination for Best Actor in a lead role as the implacable Sergeant John M. Stryker, in the Allan Dwan W.W. II combat actioneer Sands of Iwo Jima (1949) in 1950. Wayne had played his role as hard-as-nails Marine sergeant without a trace of subtlety, just as he had played virtually every role until he became Reuben J. Cogburn. Wayne proved himself a delightfully first-rate ham, poking fun at his traditionally straightforward image as a status quo authority figure. Reportedly, the Duke said he would have hammed it up long before had he known the positive reception that he received for what was essentially a comic performance. Interestingly enough, Wayne may have received the Oscar simply because the Academy of Motion Pictures likes to award Oscar to actors for playing drunkards. The charisma between the 61-year old actor and 21-year old Kim Darby as a 14-year old girl who craves to kill the ne'er-do-well that murdered her father is palatable. Basically, Darby's Mattie Ross serves as the straight man of sorts in her friendship with the cantankerous Rooster.Wayne's clever caricature of his iconic image and the screen relationship with Darby provides True Grit with its heart and soul. Country music crooner Glen Campbell delivers what can only be charitably described as an abominable performance as a Texas Ranger whose abundant mane of hair upstages his lack of expression. We are fortunate that Campbell doesn't butcher his dialogue any worse than he does. Meanwhile, producer Hal B. Wallis and Hathaway surround their leads with a seasoned ensemble of character actors, among them Jeff Corey, John Doucette, Jeremy Slate, Dennis Hopper, James Westerfield, and Hank Worden. Five Card Stud scenarist Marguerite Roberts adapted Charles Portis' novel, which Wayne had read, and supplies some amusing dialogue. The scene when Rooster shoots the rat is a classic allegory about law and order in the old West. Despite the G-rating--General Audiences--that True Grit obtained, this Hathaway film contains at least three curse words. The rugged Colorado scenery is breathing-taking, and lenser Lucien Ballard's cinematography qualifies as an asset. Altogether, True Grit ranks as a good western, but it is far from being a classic. Indeed, Wayne blows everybody off the screen except Kim Darby, but True Grit lacks a central, solid villain. Jeff Corey is slimy enough, but he never overshadows Wayne. The movie seems a little one-sided without a chief villain. Robert Duval is good as 'Lucky' Ned Pepper, but he doesn't have enough screen time, despite being Rooster's nemesis.True Grit opens with Frank Ross (John Pickard of The Lone Ranger) bidding his family goodbye before he sets off for Fort Smith to buy some Texas Mustang ponies from C0lonel Stonehill. Frank tells his son Little Frank farewell first and later receives $150 from his bookkeeping daughter, Mattie (Kim Darby of The Restless Ones), who doesn't cotton to her father's idea about deer hunting with Texas ponies. Moreover, Mattie is not pleased because her father is taking their hired hand, Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey of Brute Force), with him to Fort Smith. Mattie has a low opinion of Chaney because her father took the penniless scoundrel in and gave him a roof over his head. Mattie's mother disagrees about the roof over Chaney's head. She comments that the ramshackle tool shed has a south wall that you can throw a cat through. Hathaway does not dawdle with True Grit. The next scene finds Frank Ross pulling a reluctant Chaney from a card game where the latter has lost money. Chaney is convinced that cardsharps swindled him. Ultimately, he shoots Frank Ross in cold blood on the main street and then not only steals Ross' money but also appropriates his horse. The next scene finds Mattie and her hired man, Yarnell Poindexter (Ken Renard of Exorcist II The Heretic), at the train depot in Fort Smith. Mattie asks for the whereabouts of the funeral parlor. She finds the funeral parlor locked up and the owner, R. Ryan (Hank Worden of Sing, Cowboy, Sing ), has gone to the hanging. Mattie and Yarnell join a crowd to watch three men hang.Not long afterward, Mattie learns about Marshall Cogburn. The local sheriff (John Doucette) assures her that Rooster is both a pitiless man and double-tough. Mattie confronts him in the courthouse after a trial and thinks that Rooster has enough 'true grit' to help her find her father's murderer. Rooster offers to take her into Indian territory after Chaney if she will pay him $100. Eventually, a Texas Ranger, La Boeuf (Glen Campbell of Norwood), rides along with them. La Boeuf doesn't believe that Mattie should accompany them, but Cogburn overcomes La Boeuf's objections. Rooster wants to catch Lucky Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall of Joe Kidd) and they know Chaney is traveling with Ned. Quite by accident, Mattie stumbles onto the villainous Chaney, and Ned takes her hostage so they can run off Rooster. Later, Rooster confronts Ned and his gunmen in a clearing. Charging them on horseback, Rooster rides with the reins clenched in his teeth while he blasts away at Ned and company with his six-gun in one fist and his carbine in the other. This represents an entirely different type of showdown from anything else Wayne did during his career. The next memorable scene occurs when Mattie confronts Chaney and fires her father's Civil War pistol. The recoil propels Mattie backwards involuntarily into a craggy pit with rattlesnakes.True Grit benefits from Henry Hathaway's muscular, straightforward direction and Elmer Bernstein's rambunctious orchestral score, with a number of familiar character actors fleshing out each scene. Of course, Glen Campbell dies and Mattie barely survives a snake bite. "},{"Title":"My entry experience to the films of Wayne...and I have have to say I enjoy it!","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I know I should have been exposed to the films of of John Wayne a long time before this (as I am typing I am 24) but for some reason or another I haven't been. But I gotta say...I really liked this movie, I know I could nitpick about tiny little things, but the heart of the story was between Rooster and Mattie, and it was a good one, I believed in the characters. I knew Rooster had a good heart even though it was almost an outlaw himself. And another thing...it's good to see a good old fashioned movie, with almost no special effects (ok probably none) and a great script, and great acting, like I said I could nitpick...but we'll leave that to the message board ) "},{"Title":"Kim Darby & Glen Campbell - badly cast","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The character of Mattie Ross played by Kim Darby is horrendous. Kim looks way too old / too tall to be a teenager, and too old to be wearing a shorter skirt (for the time period). Her hair is too short and the clothes she wears seem so wrong. It's unbelievable that a female teenager would be so forward for the time period. I can't understand why Kim Darby was cast in the role. She ruins the movie. The wardrobe department gets zero stars for how they dressed her.Glen Campbell better suited to singing than acting. The starting song before the movie also doesn't fit the movie either.All in all these two characters/actors were so wrong/didn't work. Made the movie a pain to watch.John Wayne was fine, but in my mind, not worthy of an Oscar for this movie. "},{"Title":"A classic !!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  The 'Duke' at his best (apart from 'The Shootist', 'El Dorado''The Sons of Katie Elder'.... etc etc)He sums up what Westerns are all about, a film that I can watch time and time again, and still enjoy as much if not more than the last time. "},{"Title":"It's all thanks to the Duke.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"    John Wayne has always been one of my favorite actors and of all the movies I've seen in which he played, he was always right on.  I think that he IS the best cowboy that ever played in movies and no one will ever come even close as to being as good a cowboy as he was.  Personally, I think his best movie was The searchers.  But in True grit, he simply outdid himself in his role and it's entirely understandable that he won the Oscar for best actor in 1969 for this role.  He was as brave and courageous as ever and he also delivered many laughs for the viewers.  Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) is seeking her father's murderer and when she learns his name, which is Emmett Quincy, she decides to go see an aging lawman called Reuben J. Rooster Cogburn (the Duke) and asks him to help her track down the killer.  But he only works if the prices are high enough.  So Mattie pays him a certain sum with which he is satisfied.  But then a young man named La Boeuf (Glen Campbell) decides to pay Rooster so that he may go with him and naturally, Rooster accepts.  So Mattie has to seek her father's killer with Rooster and La Boeuf.  But when Rooster learns that Emmett Quincy is working for Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall), he knows it isn't going to be easy to kill Quincy.  Now I won't say more about the movie to keep myself from spoiling any scenes of the movie.  As for the performances and the directing, well, as I already said, the Duke is great.  Glen Campbell isn't bad at all in the role of La Boeuf and Robert Duvall is as great as in any other of his movies.  The only sour touch, in my opinion, comes from Kim Darby, who seems to have concentrated too much on the annoying aspect of her character instead of all the aspects of her character.  So all in all, it's pretty good but don't start watching this movie that it's one of the Duke's classics because it isn't.  It only contains the Duke's academy award-winning performance which he totally deserved.  In other words, you should see it just to see just how good John Wayne was when he was at his best. "},{"Title":"Get off your horse, and go for your gun.","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I am a huge fan of John Wayne, but only in Westerns, because Hollywood created the wild west as we know it, because the real west was not like the Hollywood stereo type, but we know that, don't we. Don't we ?, but wait for it, originally I did not like John Wayne's True Grit. I don't know why.However, I have just seen the 2010 remake with Jeff Bridges, and what a terrible let down it was, I have written a Review.Now Im going to see original True Grit again and splendour as John Wayne gets on his horse and goes for his gun, because nobody played in a Western like John Wayne. Marion Michael Morrison was born to be Hollywood's only true Cowboy, with guts, manliness and integrity, in every movie he was in, not always a cowboy, but mostly a cowboy.You knew where you stood with John Wayne, and you knew what to expect.Jeff Bridges in True Grit has made me appreciate John Wayne's version, now I cant wait to see it again, and young Kim Darby, as she tries to get Rooster Cockburn to help her track down the bad guys. "},{"Title":"A mildly embarrassing demonstration of squandered potential.","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I've enjoyed John Wayne films most of my life, and consider a number of them to be among the very finest films ever made. This silly thing is not one of them. Considering the overwhelming degree of squandered potential demonstrated through this production, it is, quite frankly an embarrassment.Such potential includes -a large, varied, and relatively talented cast, fronted by the incomparable presence of a true American icon, -distinctive and colorful characters, -and a rich, almost epic storyline in the true vein of traditional Western cinema........ALL SQUANDERED HERE.I give my review a few stars due to some very beautiful and engaging cinematography work. What keeps me from giving it any more, in a nutshell, are-awkward and sometimes infantile dialogue, mostly poorly delivered, -a mess of wooden performances, peppered with moments of overacting, poor timing, and just going through the motions annoyance, all wrapped up in a circus of incomprehensibly shallow presentation of characters.I know this movie carries with it a great deal of sentimental allegiance, but unfortunately, on its own merits, it is an allegiance that this production just has not earned. "},{"Title":"Great Western","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne won his only Oscar with this movie, and although his performance is excellent in is really no better than most of his others. He was simply given the ideal part for his age, temperament, and long-term screen persona.Glenn Cambell takes the unlikely role of a competitive bounty-hunter on the same trail of 'Lucky Ned Pepper' played with complete plausibility by Robert Duvall. There are many other great character roles and each is played with an almost tongue-in-cheek humour that is very engaging. Because this is practically a comedy-western albeit of a sophisticated nature. Revellations are interesting. We are intrigued by opinions of Marshall Rooster Cogburn long before we see him, as the young girl Maddy courts the opinions of others. He's the meanest, not many people have benefited from meeting him, He likes to pull a cork, and so on. Maddy also has an almost-mythical unseen familiar in the form a 'Lawyer Daggett', with whom she threatens transgressors 'almost like drawing a gun'. Towards the end we finally meet this individual in the paradoxically unthreatening form of a short, mildly-spoken man. This movie contains all of the old 'traditional' western elements; a resolute lawman, a gang of baddies, a grudge, a chase, and a shoot-out. But each character is explored with sufficient depth as to make them both entirely believable as well as individuals we can care for. And nothing is more important in a story. We have the girl who is seeking justice for her betrayed and murdered father. There is the young Texan hoping to gain money and status. The Marshall is just doing his job with ruthless efficiency; he has neither friend nor family, but an ex-wife and estranged son. It's a sad story told with pathos and candour. He was, it seems, also himself once an outlaw now a poacher turned game-keeper. We even get to spend time with the fugitives, and hear their side of the story.Filming and location is amongst the best in any western, with America's great outdoors used to splendid and dramatic effect. We are never in doubt that it really is a Big Country.But another stand-out element is the script. At first, it is spoken so naturally by the players that one almost 'takes it for granted'. And yet it contains some of the most ironic and witty dialogue and repartee ever heard in any movie. Line after line trips off the screen with such a natural disclosure as to almost make them a throwaway. And yet they really are good. Sarcasm, caustic criticism, insults and threats, scolding and praise, are conveyed in an interesting period-dialogue that demonstrates a great deal of thought in their creation. Morover, they each suit and reaffirm their speaker's character to a tee.This is a very thoughtful movie, beautifully filmed and edited, extremely well acted and written with the subtlety of a costume drama. There's a thread discussing the 'best lines' and it's only when reading this that one really begins to realise how good the script is. Almost every line is interesting. There are not many movies about which that can be said. It certainly rewards the careful listener, and withstands repeat viewing. It's not without flaws, but the good parts are so good as to be more than adequate compensation.Still very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Kim Darby","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie again for the first time since 1969. What I had recalled as a very mannered performance by Kim Darby turned out to be a revelation on second viewing -- there is real warmth behind the maturity and determination she wears like armor in a man's world. Think of her first scene, bidding her father goodbye, and her last scene, at that snowy grave where she offers Rooster a final resting place by her. Kim Darby might have been the ideal choice to play Joan of Arc. "},{"Title":"A very good western","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  One of John Wayne's best efforts and he won an Academy Award to prove it. Exciting western with beautiful scenery and professional cast. Recommended for all ages. "}{"Title":"The Beginning of Oscars as a Lifetime Achievement Award","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I recently saw the Coen Brothers remake of True Grit and as a fan of older movies, I rented the original. Wow, that is a hard movie to watch. Not because of the story, which is great. But John Wayne's acting is horrendous. I've seen community theater students with more skills. There is no way his Oscar could have been anything more than We know you've been in the business for awhile. And you're sick... So, here you go. Anyone who makes the claim that Jeff Bridges is no John Wayne is surely paying Mr. Bridges a compliment. Bridges is a complete actor who plays many characters convincingly - something an actor should be able to do. I realize to many, saying John Wayne is wooden and flat is blasphemy, but I think they are nostalgic for the time period, not honestly judging someone's skill.There are times in this movie where it seems as if he forgot his lines, then stumbles through. But the directly used the take anyway. Likely because there were no better ones. There is a quote in the trivia section that says John Wayne complained that the actress playing Mattie was terrible. He needed to look no further than a mirror to find a far worse actor. It is beyond me how he managed to bamboozle the public into thinking he was not only a great actor, but an American hero; despite the fact that he actively avoided service during WW II, while men like Gene Autry, Lee Marvin, Charles Bronson and Mel Brooks went off to war. Instead he elected to play pretend hero on screen.I went into True Grit with an open mind. I have enjoyed other John Wayne films and thought the filmmaking overall was great. But the lead performance is crucial. This was not up to par with the remake and certainly not Oscar worthy. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" What is all this talk about a remake of True Grit? I do not have anything personally against Jeff Bridges, but is not John Wayne. Is Tinsel Town so intellectually void they have to remake other movies? I have had the misfortune of seeing some of these remakes and the originals were much better. Of course, I am rendering a personal opinion here, so for those of you who want to indict me for whatever reason, back off! Frankly, I am not going to waste my money attending any remake of True Grit. For those who desire to, be my guest. I realize there are still a lot of John Wayne adversaries out there, who despised him for various and sundry reasons....however I do not recall Paul Newman, and his fellow travelers walking on water either! Apparently we need a fresh supply of writers who can actually come up with something new instead of rehashing films that should be left alone! "},{"Title":"True Grit, Truly a darn good movie, the best of John Wayne","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" When i was about 14 my best friends mom took us to see True Grit, I was a western fan & a big John Wayne fan anyway, but this was my favorite Wayne film. The cast was all superb, Stother Martin as the horse trader is a must see, but a western movie without him during this era was second class. Glen Cambell sounds like he is reading his lines sometimes, but I even enjoyed him & would not consider another to replace him. Kim Darby was great in this movie & I don't think she ever came close to being as good in anything else. Rooster Cogburn,Wayne, is the US marshal who is tracking killers in the Oklahoma territory & they really git the era language & everything right this time. It was a big budget film & it shows the costumes & western outfits & scenery are all done with class. If you have never seen the movie then u must see it, western movie fan or not, you will be amazed, trust me. I have the movie, but every time it is on the TV I will watch it again & again. I have noticed that people in this western are witty & like to make clever dialog, but this would be true in the 1800's as they had little to entertain themselves with. This movie starts with a killing, then a hanging, & is filled with non-stop action the rest of the way through, there are just no dull moments to it. I cannot say enough of good about it. I loved it & recommend it as wholesome family entertainment to be enjoyed by all. Thank you "},{"Title":"10 better one's for the Academy Award","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  True Grit is now famous as the movie that finally got John Wayne the Academy Award, but i could surely name 10 movies, where the Duke would have deserved it more, from the Searchers , She wore a yellow Ribbon, Sands of Iwo Jima, The Quiet Man, ..well you name it. Anyway it's great to watch him taking on his own image as the rough, tough one-eyed Jack with a drinking problem and a belly. Enjoy it in its own right, don't expect the classic sometimes made of it. "},{"Title":"Glen Campbell is wonderful in this movie","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  This is the best film I have ever seen. Glen Campbell is wonderful in this movie. Because of this movie I have become a big Glen Campbell fan. The book True Grit is also wonderful. The book has Kim Darby's picture on the back cover. Inside the front cover is a picture of Kim Darby, and one of John Wayne and Kim Darby. On the inside of the back cover of the book is a picture of John Wayne, and one of John Wayne, Kim Darby, and Glen Campbell. I love this movie. It is just entertaining. I have seen it over thirty times. Robert Duvall is wonderful as Lucky Ned Pepper.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe John Wayne won for this!","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" One of the worst movies I ever saw of any genre. Surprising, given the amount of talent in it. Now, that doesn't include every cast member, you understand. The actors, even the good ones, speak as if they are recording an audio book. I am aware that in the 1880's folks used different terms and expressions, but they weren't this wooden. Speaking of wooden, totem poles move smoother than many of these actors. Kim Darby is bad on both counts, in particular. As for John Wayne, he did deserve an Oscar, not for this, but for The Shootist, his last film. In that, he basically played what he was, a tough, aging, tired man who was dying. He was brilliant. I enjoyed many of Wayne's films;he was what he was and was expected to be. But, not 'True Grit'. "},{"Title":"Memorable film; memorable performance by Wayne","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" There's a lot to love about this film. Yes, love. And there aren't many actors I can say that about...even though other Westerns are more favorites for me.Let's start with John Wayne's performance. I think he deserved the Oscar...and not just as a nod to his career, but for this film in and of itself. It isn't just that Wayne was getting old, it was that here he wasn't playing typical Wayne. More than most of his films, here he played a character...and the performance is simply iconic.The next best thing about the film is the scenery and photography. Most of it was filmed in western Colorado, and the photography does the scenery justice. The one exception is the scene in the aspen trees fairly early in the film; the camera wasn't level, and I found it quite distracting.And then there's the music. Another bold and brilliant score by Elmer Bernstein.Kim Darby's darned good here. Rooster had grit, but Mattie had spunk. Those qualities work together well, even if -- as it is said -- she and Wayne didn't like each other much.So what's not to like? The performance by Glen Campbell. Don't get me wrong, as a singer, I liked Glen Campbell. But as an actor -- PU! John Wayne made almost a dozen films after this one (and I did enjoy the sequel with Katherine Hepburn), but when I think of John Wayne riding off into the sunset...this is the film that comes to mind. "},{"Title":"From the artist of radman_art","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0065126/ 1969 This movie is the culmination of John Wayne's entire carrier and in my opinion is his way of saying goodbye to us all right down to when he jumps that rail with his trade mark beautiful long legs horses; of which I have painted many times over. I have also painted the background in this movie including my four foot by 3 foot acrylic on wood the fall painting http//radmanart2ndhome.blogspot.com/ Every minute of every moment of the 1969 movie; True Grit make, me want to cry; it is so perfectly done. Every human being in this live deserves revenge on someone; this is much apart of this life as we shall all live. Whether or not you have a mental disorder and think you can take that revenge yourself is a rare if non existent fact. Hopefully you see the reason that revenge is best rot by the law, or God himself.I hold no quarter in proclaiming; if I should name a real life movie character; that is my real life hero; it was John Wayne. In the move True Grit; I also name that person to be Glen Campbell a great hero as well. Please do your homework and check out John Wayne's library of movies to prove my point and like listening to Marylyn Masons first 3 CD's and saying he is no good, you better wake up. Compared to John Wayne you must be ignorant or just plane stupid, to say John Wayne is not a real life hero of the silver screen. See the movie The Searches http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0049730/?ref_=nm_flmg_act_44 to bring what I said right to your heart. I let this movie speak for itself. Now to go give the remake a very bad review something I have never done. http//www.imdb.com/title/tt1403865/ "},{"Title":"Freshness, wit and majesty","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Just watched it on TV for about the eighth time. The film is a masterpiece. Just as was the novel on which it is based, written in the language of the story's historical context in a quite extraordinary way. John Wayne's and Kim Darby's performances are faultless, and the Texas Ranger is not bad either. And what about the music by Elmer Bernstein? Just looked him up to find - not surprisingly - that he was a pupil of Aaron Copland. What had struck me before were the unexpected echoes of Bartok, which fit with the action quite brilliantly.I don't know whether the film stock has been re-jigged in some way since the film was first made, or whether I now have a better television, but the quality comes up lovely. When the modern remake by the Coen brothers came out it got a lot of praise for greater authentic atmosphere and truth to the novel. Not by me. Give me a hero who doesn't mumble, for starters. And the compressed ending of the 1969 film is better than the long-winded one of the novel. The new film has its merits, certainly, but it does not replace the Wayne/Darby mini-epic. "},{"Title":"large impression on viewers","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- True Grit, 1969. Rooster Cogburn is an extraordinary US marshal in the early west. He is hired by a young girl to kill a man that murdered her beloved father and stole the family fortune. She insists to accompany the marshal on his manhunt and Cogburn isn't happy about this. A Texas Ranger who tags along to cash in the bounty reward make this unusual threesome on the trail.*Special Stars- John Wayne, Kim Darby, Glenn Campbell, Robert Duvall.*Theme- Ethical lawmen will set things right.*Trivia/location/goofs- Oscar winner for John Wayne's role. Filmed in New Mexico and in the mountains of Colorado. The town where this film was shot around in Colorado has a yearly 'True Grit; festival to commemorate the film's production there and John Waynes career.*Emotion- A memorable film for those of us that saw it in the film theaters. The film supplies the western silliness and fun heroic themes that make a large impression on viewers. This film is great and well worth your time to see it. "}{"Title":"A gritty story in a lousy package","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The content of the film lives up to the title by depicting relatively graphic hangings, dismemberments, and shootings. The gore does not rise to the level of the near-contemporaneous The Wild Bunch, of course, but it does surpass most previous westerns not of the spaghetti variety. Unfortunately, not all aspects of the production are as serious, complex, and gritty as the story. The biggest misstep is the soundtrack, which is cartoonishly upbeat and sounds like belongs in a 1950s live-action Disney film. Other weak points include the dull directing and editing, which give the movie the look of an afternoon matinée or TV show. A script as dense and clever as this deserved a better package, and it got it when Joel and Ethan Coen remade the movie in 2010. They also improved the ending, which here is messy and lacks punch. As John Wayne characters go, Rooster Cogburn is no Ethan Edwards (The Searchers), but he's at least as good as Tom Doniphon (The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence). Wayne's Oscar for the role was justified on its merits, not just as a belated recognition of The Duke's previous work, though Dustin Hoffman would have cause to feel aggrieved. "},{"Title":"Great Family Movie Classic.","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" the original 'True grit' has always been one of my favorite family westerns. perfect for kids and adults alike. aside from a little violence and minor amount of profanity, it has very little in it to offend anyone except maybe the most hardcore of prudes. i've always felt that 'True Grit' along with John Wayne's outstanding 'The Cowboys', were two of the best family westerns ever produced for film, not to mention good movies in general. 'The Cowboys' in particular, should almost be a rite of passage for young boys.i know a lot about family films. don't believe it? then just check some of my other reviews online. a lot of those are kids and family. don't know. just grew up that way reading a lot of standard children's classics and fairy tales. i never grew tired of them i guess. i must be young at heart or something.i've also pointed out to people all through my life, that really good family films outside of the Disney monopoly, are often hard to find. there are those, Jim Henson, 'Yellow Submarine', 'Little Nemo in Slumberland', 'Animal Farm', to name a few, that are just as good as any Disney product and offer an alternative to the Mickey Mouse think tank. 'True Grit' is one of those.a lot of people in the past always thought it strange when i've cited John Wayne's 'True Grit' and 'The Cowboys' as great family films. i guess they were taken aback by the Duke's toughness and, especially in the case of the Cowboys', the suggestion of too much violence. maybe so, but whoever said that kid's movies should be dull and tepid. a little injection of reality can't hurt a genre that is often rooted in fantasy and unreality. and there is more coming of age philosophy in these westerns than a lot of facile family fare.'True grit' might not be as great a western as say 'Rio Bravo' or 'The searchers', it's not even as good, maybe, as a contemporary western like Walter Hill's 'Long Riders', but it's a much better film and a deserving classic than a lot of critics usually regard it to be.Johnn Wayne is a great actor with a lot of presence and rugged toughness. instead of his usual tough guy ambiguity, his performance here is very tender and gun-loaded with lots of charm. not to mention suitably tough enough for the role. i have also always felt that Kim Darby was a very underrated and under-appreciated as an actress. i've loved a few films that Darby starred in, most notably Coppolla's wonderful sci fi mystery 'The people', and the ever scary and frightening 'Don't Be Afraid of The Dark'. two extremely memorable but underrated film classics.'True Grit' is underrated as a film western and long unidentified as a family classic. every kid should see it with their parents.one footnote here; DO NOT WATCH THIS ON AMC EVER. i was stupid enough to watch this on AMC and not only were the commercials terrible (like every five minutes), but they also butchered the film to fit the time slot. this is the last time i watch a movie on broadcast. i made the same mistake the other night with BET (another offender with commercials and editing hack jobs). it's not worth it. next time i watch a movie it'll be on NetFlix or a subscription channel. in this day and age when it is easy enough to see films uncut and in their entirety, i can't understand why anyone would still present movies this way. "},{"Title":"Wayne's World","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The man's politics aside, you've still gotta love him. Very true.For decades, John Wayne was the absolute definition of a Hollywood star, especially when it came to Westerns. Whether working for John Ford, Howard Hawks, Henry Hathaway, and later Burt Kennedy and Andrew McLaglen, he defined what it was like to be in the saddle. STAGECOACH; RED RIVER; RIO BRAVO; THE SEARCHERS; THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE, and dozens of others, defined the man they called The Duke. And towards the twilight of his career, he came up with one of his most memorable roles, as Rooster Cogubrn, in Hathaway's 1969 old-school western TRUE GRIT.Loosely spoofing the iconic image he had built up over the previous thirty years, Wayne's Rooster Cogburn is an aging, hard-drinking, paunchy marshal who gets hired on by a teenage girl named Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) to find an ex-employee (Jeff Corey) who shot and killed her father. Together, with a very green Texas ranger (Glen Campbell), they not only go after Corey (who after all is Darby's to kill), but come across Corey's gang, led by Lucky Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall, in a great villain role, where he goads the Duke into a fight with the line I call that bold talk for a one-eyed fat man!). In the meantime, despite all the behind-the-scenes infighting (Wayne being thoroughly unimpressed by Darby and nearly getting into it with Duvall), Darby, Wayne, and Campbell build up something resembling camaraderie. All of this, and fabulous on-location shooting in Colorado, central California, and some done near Durango, Mexico (where the Duke owned a little bit of land for years), courtesy of Lucien Ballard, plus an Elmer Bernstein score featuring Campbell's title song.One can argue whether or not Wayne's performance was really all that Oscar worthy, given the competition in '69 that included Richard Burton, Jon Voight, and Dustin Hoffman; after all, the man had survived one lung being removed only five years before, and sentimentality may have been involved. And one could make the case for THE SEARCHERS, or even Ford's non-western 1952 classic THE QUIET MAN, as being more representative of Wayne as an actor. But as square and set in his ways as he was, there's no doubt that Wayne gave it his all for his old director friend Hathaway. Darby and Campbell, despite showing their inexperience, do good enough in their respective roles alongside the Duke; and besides Duvall's villainous role, there is a delicious irony in seeing Dennis Hopper here as well (at the same time TRUE GRIT came out, he and Peter Fonda were rocking down the American highway in EASY RIDER, the complete antithesis of the super-patriotism that Wayne's career embodied). And one can't help but make mention of the persnickety horse trader Colonel G. Stonehill portrayed by the always memorable and legendary character actor Strother Martin.Coming out in the same year that radically different westerns like THE WILD BUNCH, ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST, and BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID appeared on the scene, TRUE GRIT was defiantly old-fashioned (and probably seems even more so today, as the Coen Brothers' reworking is getting accolades). Still, as a vehicle for an actor who embodied so much of America and the West for so long, despite his politics (or because of them), there's a reason why it has lasted, and that is John Wayne himself. "},{"Title":"I Think John Wayne Earned His Oscar","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" A drunken, hard-nosed U.S. Marshal (John Wayne) and a Texas Ranger (Glen Campbell) help a stubborn young woman (Kim Darby) track down her father's murderer in Indian territory.This is the film that earned John Wayne's only Oscar. Some say it was a sentimental choice and in recognition for his long career. He himself did not think he earned it. But, personally, of the John Wayne I have seen, this is my favorite and I have no qualms about his getting an award.I also loved seeing Dennis Hopper in an early role, despite it being pretty small.The film has plenty of humor -- is it intentional? The script is well-written, and the writer deserves plenty of credit (though how much is the book and how much the screen play I do not know).Elvis Presley was considered for the role of La Boeuf, the Texas Ranger. However, his manager Colonel Tom Parker insisted that Presley should receive top billing, so the part was given to Glen Campbell instead. I am glad it did not have Elvis -- that would have seemed hammy.Mattie Ross could have been Mia Farrow, Sally Field or Kim Carpenter. Instead, we get Kim Darby, who is at times annoying and far too androgynous to be liked. Could be the worst casting choice in a long, long time... with all due respect to Darby, who does alright. "},{"Title":"Each version of True Grit has something to offer","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The new _True Grit_ is entertaining, and borrows much from the previous film. Jeff Bridges does an outstanding job, playing the role of Rooster Cogburn with somewhat less grandstanding than John Wayne. Hailee Steinfeld is very believable as Mattie Ross - but not quite as pretty as Kim Darby, which I'm sure was the filmmaker's intent. Matt Damon is excellent as always - and provides the only real comic relief in the film. The Coen Bros seem to be in a groove to make realistic films devoid of their trademark weirdness (_No Country For Old Men_, _A Serious Man_).In a few ways, the original film is better. The first film, hands-down, wins for better shooting locations. The beauty of the San Juans is unmatched by the new film. The original film had better color with strong saturations of reds, blues, and greens - while this film offers a very muted color pallet. In the original, the handling of the snake pit scene was done better - with more tension - and with very believable rattlesnakes (not the CGI snakes we have here.)Finally, I wonder if the Coen's considered using the real Kim Darby in the final scene - where the older Mattie Ross searches in vain for Rooster at the Wild West Show? It seems like that might have been a real treat for the audience at the end of the film. Perhaps the directors discarded this idea, fearing a Kim Darby cameo would be viewed as a cheap gimmick? Or maybe Darby was not available. Who knows? "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable, light, and fun","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  If you want to challenge your mind, get an emotional workout, or see something groundbreaking, True Grit is not what you're looking for. This is a very entertaining, quite funny, scenic, movie.  Its dialog is quickly paced and clever but at the same time comes off as stilted, unnatural, and formal.  It suffers from a bad case of 1970's inauthentic western sets  -- kind of like John Wayne is a guest star on the set of Little House on the Prairie.  And the girl's hair is right out of a 1969 yearbook.  However, I loved this movie.  Loved it.  It's just the right thing for a rainy day. John Wayne must have been a great sport to have played the part.  I don't know how many times people call him fat during the movie.  "},{"Title":"Duke In Hazard","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I haven't seen the recent remake of True Grit - or, for that matter virtually any of the recent spate of remakes - but they did screen this on television a couple of days ago and having watched that screening I'd hazard a guess it could hardly be equalled, let alone eclipsed. You have, of course, to take Duke as you find him, he's the last person who would claim to be an actor but he is definitely a 'presence' and not just by virtue of his build. This was a time when Hollywood was allocating roles that once went to reliable 'character' actors to pop stars and this time around it's the turn of Glen Campbell who contributes little more than a pretty face to the proceedings but his ineptness is cancelled out by Kim Darby who makes a great, if slightly unorthodox co-star for the Duke. Journeyman director Henry Hathaway has his eye on the ball throughout and throws in some fine autumnal scenery and in general a good time is had by all. "},{"Title":"A fine western","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" When Mattie Ross's father is murdered by a man he had taken in she isn't one to wait until is killer gets himself caught; she hires Deputy Rooster Cogburn, a man known for shooting first and asking questions later who also knows his way around the Indian Territories where the killer is holed up with a bunch of out laws. He isn't keen on taking the job and is even less keen on letting young Mattie accompany him but she is the sort of girl who can persuade any man to do what she wants. On their journey into the Territories they are accompanied by La Boeuf, a Texas Ranger who is after the same man for the murder of a Texas state senator. Along the way they must deal with river crossings, bandits and in the most frightening scene a pit containing deadly rattlesnakes.Kim Darby is excellent in the role of Mattie, her character is a real force of nature and she plays her in a way that makes the viewer believe she could do what she does and keep her composure in the most daunting situations. John Wayne was also great in the role of Rooster for which he won an Oscar, the third star, Glen Campbell, did a decent enough job as La Boeuf although he is less memorable than Darby and Wayne. The rest of the cast that included Robert Duvall and Denis Hopper in smaller roles also performed well. While there is plenty of gripping action including several shoot-outs and the aforementioned snake pit what really gripped me was the cracking dialogue. This really is a fine film that stands repeated viewings and can probably be enjoyed by all but younger children as there is little in the way of offensive language and the violence isn't particularly bloody. "},{"Title":"A lot of death (much over looked)","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" This was the first film I can remember where one of the good guys actually died. I watched it again on TV quite recently, and was still struck by it.Good film for death, actually. The father dies very early on, (which is a twist and a half) and the way the camera lingers on the process of men being hanged sets a dark tone at odds with the conventional John Wayne movie and the light hearted ballsiness of Mattie Ross. Makes it a much more varied and interesting movie, and it's a shame the pretty pretty landscapes never reflect this.Rooster Cogburn, Wayne's hard bitten marshal is a gruff and hard bitten character of the old school, with charisma all Waynes own. He's a wonderful character quite at odds with the jocular gunslinger in the Howard Hawks films. You can see that for once he's enjoying this slightly varied role. And really, he should have worn an eye patch in all his films!Mattie Ross can be annoying rather than lovable, but its a good character that's never ridiculed or talked down to. And you've got to admire the courage of having a 14 year old girl as the main character in a Western (that being, according to my sister, the genre least watched by 14 year old girls). Appealing to that audience failed spectacularly in Attack of the Clones, but works rather well here, particularly when put alongside the megalinth of machismo that is John WayneAfter an entertaining few hours of banter and action, and in particular after a rousing gun battle where John Wayne took on the baddies single handed, La Boeuf fell to the ground and didn't get up again.I can distinctly remember thinking - he's going to get up again. Any second now. I was used to films where that happened, like Antz or the Jungle Book.But he didn't. Even today, it's a bit surprising. "},{"Title":"True Grit","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" While I have never particularly been a fan of John Wayne, there is no doubt that his performance in True Grit is, perhaps, as good as it gets. To be fair, Wayne was the product of old Hollywood, therefore making him a victim of bad scripts, low budgets, inaccurate facts, etc. Fortunately, Wayne hit his stride at precisely the right moment in time when he was cast as Rooster Cogburn in True Grit. 1969 was definitely a sort-of breakthrough year in Hollywood. The year can be seen as almost a dividing line between old and new. If True Grit had been made even ten years sooner, it would have no doubt been relegated to the genre of old Hollywood. Indeed, use of the singular obscenity in the movie shocked and delighted theater-goers of the time. As much because of the year, as the actor who uttered the line. Fantastic motion picture. The best of John Wayne. And, by the way, the Shakespeare play is Othello. No big secret. "}{"Title":"It's a western alright","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I can't help it, but when I see a character played by John Wayne I always keep seeing John Wayne. That is not necessarily a bad thing; I keep seeing Julia Roberts in her performances, but some of her versions do the job quite good. I have to say, after his performance in 'The Searchers' I think this is his best. Maybe not Oscar-worthy, although he did win, but good enough.Here he is a marshal who teams up with the girl who hired him and a Texas ranger (Glen Campbell) to find Tom Chaney, a man who killed the girl's father and a Senator. The girl, named Mattie Ross (Kim Darby), insists on coming along on the road which leads us to many pretty sights. The story itself is western in its purest form, with the law against the outlaw and a woman to keep things interesting.'True Grit' is beautifully shot and it does almost everything right on other aspects, puts in some minor surprises at the right times, is well acted (Robert Duvall and Dennis Hopper also turn up), but for some reason I thought of it as just another western. Maybe by now, which could be considered 1969 as well, we have seen too many of these classic westerns. I love most of them starring Wayne, from 'Stagecoach' to 'The Searchers' and from 'Red River' to 'El Dorado', but most of the time they are directed by John Ford or Howard Hawks. (I could go on with 'Fort Apache', 'Rio Bravo', 'The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance' and even 'Rio Lobo'.) Director Henry Hathaway's contributions to The Duke's oeuvre are nice, 'True Grit' being the best, but for me it ends there. "},{"Title":"Glen Campbell was pretty bad, alright","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Wayne had more than a little say- so in the movie casting, he knew he had a great part and wanted the movie to go as well as it could, don't know if he was instrumental in the casting of Glen Campbell but kind of doubt it, he was known to have issues with Hathaway and the producers on more than one role. He probably argued for Duvall and Martin and some of the others but the backing money made the decisions on using Campbell and Kim Darby who were both hot commodities about that time. One interesting note, Bing Russell, Kurt's daddy, was strongly considered for the La Boeuf role and probably supported by Duke who had known him and liked his ability, I think he had been in a movie with Duke's son Patrick earlier. Hathaway probably had more of a say- so in the casting and believed that the story line was just a little weak and that Wayne had a strong- enough role to warrant merit but that Campbell and Darby would result in a bigger box- office draw. Remember that Hawkses' Rio Bravo was (and still is, for that matter) one of the biggest box- office draws of all time and perhaps the biggest western grosser despite the worst acting job ever, using Ricky Nelson, who played Ozzie's son with six- guns, wisecracks and all. Dean Martin's portrayal of a reformed drunk lawman was one of the best of that movie, in some ways he actually played himself. True Grit drags more than a little during the first half hour of the movie but really picks up towards the end. "},{"Title":"Only John Wayne could make a drunken, murderous, and thieving deputy U.S. marshal so likable.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  No one but John Wayne could have played 'Rooster' Cogburn, a drunken, murderous, and thieving deputy U.S. marshal and made him so thoroughly likable.It's a Duke thing. If you've never seen a John Wayne film, DON'T make this your first. 'True Grit' is a later film that requires some familiarity with the star's earlier work for the full appreciation. Much like Clint Eastwood's 'Unforgiven,' 'True Grit' allows the long time fan to enjoy an older, more seasoned version of the western archetype of countless other pictures. 'The Searchers' or 'The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance' should be considered pre-requisites.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Westerns.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I've loved this movie since it first came out. I've seen it multiple times and never get tired of it. Almost all the elements in it are perfect. John Wayne was never better and the supporting cast is excellent. Topnotch direction and music all combine to make it superior. However the film has one major flaw. Glen Campbell as LeBouef is a big mistake.  His delivery of lines is very stilted. I don't blame Mr. Campbell. He was a very popular singer at the time and the production company probably thought he would help bring in bigger audiences. Big mistake.Other than that this is a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"John Wayne as a young woman's restive employee","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Though much depends on Kim Darby's spunk (standing up to John Wayne and to a horse trader played by Strother Martin, never betraying her values or her determination to hunt down her father's killer), John Wayne is really very good as the aging superhero. I don't begrudge him his Oscar for playing Rooster Cogburn (after Howard Hawks gave the showy drunk roles in Rio Bravo, El Dorado and Rio Lobo to others, requiring Waynt to hold them up). The film has an interesting villain in Robert Duvall and is also very scenic (without looking in the least like Oklahoma--it was obviously filmed much farther north. It is stunningly photographed by the great Lucien Ballard (Will Penny, The Wild Bunch and other Peckinpagh films and von Sternberg's The Devil Is a Woman) with an Elmer Bernstein score (though not one of his best).I found the scenes in which Darby baits the boarding house matron almost as good as those with the horse trader. Glen Campbell is not bad, and entertaining when he is ragging Cogburn about the Civil War bushwhackers. Most of what happens after he falls off his horse feels false, though his Texas ranger/bounty hunter is far from being the most interesting character in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Much better westerns out there","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit has been deemed one of the quintessential westerns that any fan of the genre or John Wayne should see. I honestly don't see what all the hubub is about. I'll try to keep the bashing to a minimum and say that I just didn't like this movie all that much, yet I am a fan of westerns and have seen my fair share of them. True Grit is about a fourteen year old girl named Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) who employs the hardboiled and drunken Marshall Rooster Cogburn, played by John Wayne in his only Oscar winning performance, to hunt down the killer of her father, Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey). They get the help of a Texas ranger named La Boeuf (Glenn Campbell) who has been chasing Chaney for nearly four months. What ensues is your typical adventure movie that is more focused on character than actual plot. I normally wouldn't have a problem with this, except John Wayne is the only interesting character of the bunch. I truly didn't feel anything for the other characters and Kim Darby annoyed the ever loving crap out of me. If you enjoy the obnoxious, spoiled, and rude brat character, you'll love True Grit.From a plot standpoint, True Grit has little going for it. The first hour and a half of the movie is basically just an annoying little kid demanding she get her way whenever she wants. At first I was amazed by how serious all the characters took such a little brat, but I came to realize that they only appeased her to shut her up. So really what I thought was ridiculous ended being a good choice between the lesser of two evils. True Grit is supposed to be a character study of sorts and the only place I really see this is John Wayne's character, Rooster Cogburn. He goes through a wholehearted character change through working with a girl who seems to point out all his flaws and doesn't back down because thats what she does. He begins the movie likable because of his hard-nosed and sarcastic attitude, displaying the traits of a grumpy old man who didn't care what other people thought about him, which is what John Wayne had become at this point (he was 63 when this was released and would pass away 10 years later). By the end of the film he learns a lot about himself, but still retains his all American likability. And, to me, that was the extent of the characterization, and there was only a sub-par story to back it up.All this being said, True Grit has its aspects that are great for entertainment value. It was shot in some very beautiful landscape out in Colorado, and the direction showcases this nicely. It is also an overall fun film. John Wayne displays a lot of great humor in his sarcastic western tone that he had perfected like no other. The character of Reuben J. 'Rooster' Cogburn is a fun character that is easy to enjoy on screen, especially when he's portrayed by one of the most beloved men in cinema history. That being said, I almost feel like Wayne's Oscar win was only to make up for all the times he was robbed of the Oscar in the past, because I can think of plenty of other films where he deserved the win more than True Grit (Stagecoach, The Searchers, and The Cowboys to name a few). Still, it would have been criminal for John Wayne to not win an Oscar in his lifetime, so better True Grit than nothing at all.True Grit's other Oscar nomination was for original score, and deservedly so. As per most classic westerns, True Grit has a fantastic score that heightens every moment of the film at least some. Overall this film isn't great. There are many other westerns I would recommend before watching this one, but I didn't hate it. I strongly disliked certain parts *ahemKimDarbyahem* but it definitely has its moments. John Wayne is fun and lovable as always, but again, there are many other John Wayne films I would recommend before this one. And yet as mediocre as I thought this film was, the legendary Coen Brothers have a remake coming out December 25th, and I absolutely cannot wait. From the trailers it looks to be a very different take on the film, and I predict that it will surpass the original. Living in Texas, I should probably cut the blasphemy short right here. Go see some other westerns before you see True Grit. "},{"Title":"She reminds me of me.","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit is directed by Henry Hathaway, is based on the novel by Charles Portis, has a screenplay by Marguerite Roberts and stars John Wayne, Kim Darby, Glen Campbell, Dennis Hopper, Jeff Corey and Robert Duvall.Mattie Ross(Kim Darby)wants justice for her murdered father. Mattie hires the tough, one eyed US Marshall Rooster Cogburn(John Wayne)to find Tom Chaney(Jeff Corey)her fathers killer. Cogburn agrees to help her and together with a Texas ranger called LaBeouf(Glenn Campbell)who want's to catch the killer as well, sets out to hunt him down.The pair don't count on Mattie deciding to come along with them too. Together this mismatched trio form a close bond as they track down Chaney.Jeff Corey is intense as Chaney. Robert Duvall is chilling as the ruthless Ned Pepper the leader of a gang that Chaney has joined, Ned came up against Rooster once before and has a scar to prove it. Darby is excellent as the girl with the heart of a lion desperate to bring her fathers killer to justice. Glen Campbell is miscast as LaBeouf but he doesn't give a bad performance. A young Dennis Hooper is memorable in a small role as a man who may know where Chaney and Pepper are hiding.The standout performance of the film is given by John Wayne, he is excellent as the drunken, tough Cogburn who finds himself coming to really care for Mattie and admiring her courage. Wayne won the Best Actor Oscar for his performance here and it was well deserved.This is a thrilling and poignant film filled with superb performances. The Coen Brothers remade this film in 2010 starring Jeff Bridges as Rooster, that's not a bad film either. "},{"Title":"Lifetime achievement award","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne won the Academy Award for his portrayal of US Marshall Rooster Cogburn. This is not Wayne's best work (see The Searchers for that), nor is this the most compelling film he was ever in, but it is a step up from most of the rest of what Wayne was involved in during the 60's (with The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance as a notable exception). It therefore gave the Academy an opportunity to reward Wayne for his body of work. The story here is quite simple -- a teenage girl named Mattie Ross (Kim Darby) sees her father murdered by a hired hand. She sets off to find the man who can bring the murderer to justice, not knowing that the man she seeks, Rooster Cogburn, is a sot. It develops that a Texas Ranger named LaBoeuf (Glen Campbell) is seeking the same man for the murder of a Texas politician. The trio sets off into the Indian Territory of Oklahoma in pursuit of the killer, who Cogburn believes has probably cast his lot with an outlaw he has been chasing for some time named Lucky Ned Pepper (Robert Duval). Through twists and turns, the outlaws are killed, justice is served and the loner Cogburn finds a true admirer in Mattie Ross. Wayne's performance is vintage Wayne, though the character is not nearly so complex, and therefore not as compelling, as Ethan Edwards in The Searchers or J.B. Books in The Shootist. This movie is not Wayne's best, but it is entertaining for the composite character he plays and for the subtle recognitions that age is catching up with him. This film leads nicely into The Cowboys and The Shootist in which Wayne plays characters coming to grips with a changing way of life, and mortality. For that reason alone, True Grit, The Cowboys and The Shootist are much better Wayne films than anything else he was in after The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and together make a fitting closing bow from the ultimate screen cowboy. "},{"Title":"True Grit Sound Byte","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I'm looking for a sound byte of Robert Duvall's one eyed old fat man the Duke's fill your hands confrontation. I would love to be able to have it as an effect. This is one of my favorite Duke movies. My boss told me he gets excited whenever he hears this speech, he says his daughters think that he is really strange because of his excitement. I know how corny it sounds but the Duke helped me make a couple of decisions in my life. Because of two of his other movies, I ended up in the military at a time it wasn't cool to do so. I enlisted in the army in 1970 after seeing the Green Berets and reenlisted a couple of years later after seeing Sands of Iwo Jima. When he died in '79, it hurt like losing a family member. Anyone's help would be great. "},{"Title":"Come see a fat old man one day","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Well a very entertaining western,a good script and a usefull director and a an interesting storyline,but hell no one watches this movie for that,we watch because hollywood finally rewarded its biggest star and box office king for years with a much deserved oscar. In all honesty its not in the Dukes top 10 movies tho it contains a classic scene where Rooster takes on the bad guys full on,its one of my favourite scenes in any movie.The movie keeps you watching and has a witty dialoguemI wonder why Kim Darby never made it asd an actress,the ending where Duke jumps the fence is the stuff of legends,and John Wayne is a legend.Duke you were a hero then and your a hero today as long as dvd exists there will be millions watching you.8/10 "}{"Title":"Best Actor - John Wayne","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Having appeared in westerns since 'The Big Trail' in 1932, John Wayne finally got recognised by Hollywood as the cowboy actor in 'True Grit'. His track record of appearing in John Ford's 'Stagecoach', 'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon', 'The Horse Soldiers', 'How the West was Won' and Michael Curtiz's last film, 'The Commancheroes' did not go unnoticed. Even at the age of 61, John Wayne was still churning out the westerns, showing that his acting career was still successfully up until his dying day. Guest appearances by Robert Duvall and Dennis Hopper. "},{"Title":"Great John Wayne Classic","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I can really understand why John Wayne, (Marshall Roaster Coghorn) won an Academy Award for his role in this great picture with great photography of the beautiful country of California. Glen Campbell, (La Boeuf) gave a great supporting role as a Texas bounty hunter looking for a man named Ned Pepper, (Robert Duvall). There is also a very young girl named Mattie Ross, (Kim Darby) who finds Marshall Coghorn and hires him to capture the killer of her father and she is a very determined gal who will travel with Coghorn, Boeuf in order to capture these killers and crooks. Dennis Hooper (Moon) gave a great supporting role. This truly is one of John Wayne's great films and I am so glad he finally won an Oscar for his many years of making very entertaining films. "},{"Title":"Cock-a-doodle-doooooo!!!","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I do believe that this is one of John Wayne's best performances. The character of Rooster Cogburn is one that should be taken seriously at times but can be laughed at also. He is a character that one wouldn't mind seeing more of. Tough, brutal, and sleeps with a cat. Kim Darby played the role of an annoying girl and she did a good job. She annoyed me at times. I understand why the texacan was whipping her with a switch. My only regret was that we didn't get to see more of Ned Peppers Gang. They were a colorful group. So colorful, that I sort of hated to see them get killed off so soon. Robert Duvall didn't seem like such a bad guy. The chicken-imitating outlaw was a nice touch. The last scene was the way we want to remember John Wayne. Not afraid of anything. Stare danger in the eye and play chicken with the enemies. I just wish that show-down scene would have lasted a little longer. Cock-a-doodle-dooo!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good but not Dukes Best Movie by a long shot","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Lets make no mistake, True Grit was a good movie but it is far from John Wayne's best. Stagecoach, Red River , Quiet Man, Searchers, In Harm's Way and the Cowboys are far and above better than True Grit. I think the Oscar voters must have felt bad for passing Duke over in all these great movies he made and made up for it with True grit (like cher in Mask). True Grit has great things, writing, story and the drunken 'Rooster' Cogburn and the outlaw Ned Pepper played by Robert Duvall. True Grit also has some terrible things, the acting of Kim Darby and Glen Campbell are horrible, some of the worst ever in movies, TG would have been a lot better with different actors playing the parts. 7 out of 10 starsI call that bold talk for a one eyed fat man.   Fill your hands you son of a bitch!!  "},{"Title":"A good example of Wayne acting skills","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  The older,fatter John Wayne suddenly became a better actor than he already was.He knew his stud value was deteriorating so he instinctively concentrated on skils he already had and explored them further.In the process,the older,fatter John Wayne of the late 1960's to 1970's was even better than the middle aged one.As he grew older from his 1930's movies on,he slowly relied less and less on his imposing physical presence and more into acting prowess up to a point where it was even ok to portray himself as characters with a lot of flaws and weaknesses yet still be an alpha male.This movie was not all that good but this indeed was one of the classic older John Wayne performances.See it to see that Wayne performance and nothing much else.In that sense,it truly delivers.I have never seen a senior citizen more macho than John Wayne.This guy was one of a kind and I only wish he was a little more liberal in his politics.Oh well,nobody is perfect.Not even Elvis. "},{"Title":"Everything happens to me, and now I'm shot by a  . . . ","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  . . . child, Tom Chaney (a.k.a., Theron Chelmsford) laments, to no one in particular, in one of this movie's funnier scenes. TRUE GRIT has a lot more action than THE REVENANT, though not quite as much as THE HATEFUL EIGHT, this past year's leading Westerns. While TRUE GRIT is a revenge tale like the former flick, the percentage of its characters who croak before the final curtain drops is less than what was the case in the latter film. Robert Duvall looks about as bald and elderly here in the mid-1900s as he has in the movies that he's made in this century. Glen Campbell may sing the title song for TRUE GRIT, but his acting chops as Le Boeuf pale in comparison to Ricky Nelson, Dean Martin, Fabian, and all the other stunt-cast singers co-starring in the Westerns turned out around this time by the Batjac Bunch. Dennis Hopper fingers a few chords from Quentin Tarantino's songbook during his TRUE GRIT cameo, but it is Kim Darby as Mattie Ross who truly pulls this story off, with her Little Miss Firecracker blend of foolhardy waif and feisty spitfire. If the Army Rangers were allowed to recruit and train chicks like her in 1969--as they can today--the Vietnam outcome may have been different. "},{"Title":"Archaic hero","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Six people a year are killed by Rooster Cogburn. He tortures his prisoners for information and enjoys it. Nowadays, we see these traits in characters such as Aldo Raine (Inglourious Basterds). Stupid and sadistic he is not move by his heroism but by his own perversion. Interestingly, in accordance with the interests of the State, this places them on the side of the good guys.John Wayne victims are men who have already been judged by facts. There is not any doubt about its guilt. They committed a crime and cease to be human, if they ever were. Wayne expresses this dehumanization of the other and his role as executor. In one of the best scenes, he sees a rat in his Chinese friend's pantry Mr. Rat, I have a written here that says you are to stop eating Chen Lee's cornmeal forthwith. (to Mattie) See? He doesn't pay any attention to me. (shoots the rat) You can't serve papers on a rat, baby sister. You either kill him or let him be. "},{"Title":"The Adventure of a Lifetime","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit is a movie that has continually entertained me since its 1969 release. Marguerite Roberts' screenplay is filled with delightfully delicious dialogue as she drew heavily on Charles Portis' remarkably fine novel. The tone is one of dramatic authenticity with a dark sense of absurdity at situation and character, particularly Mattie's intractable world view. It is the adventure of a lifetime.I have always been drawn to the the drama, the action and the morality, sometimes ambiguous, in western stories. Western fans play the game of measuring up. We would stand up to Ryker. We would not refuse Will Kane's request for help. We would know a skunk when we saw one. In True Grit, it wasn't the tall man in the hat to whom I had to measure myself, it was a girl. It was 14 year old Mattie Ross, played by Kim Darby, seeking vengeance for the killing of her father. It was Mattie Ross standing up to a world of adults who wanted to brush her aside. It was Mattie dealing with her sorrow and pain, yet determined to have her voice heard. It was the world around her that would have to measure up to Mattie.The viewers go on a journey with the spunky girl as she deals with the frustrations of bureaucracy and the societal expectations of children. Mattie knows she is capable and she knows what she must do. Her journey leads her to Rooster Cogburn, a marshal of skill and dubious reputation. A Texas Ranger played by Glen Campbell becomes part of the team which is an uneasy alliance. Musician Campbell does well enough considering it is a tyro effort, but how I wish an experienced actor had been cast in the role. I always pictured Doug McClure.True Grit is filled with interesting characters and interesting character actors which gives the film its depth. Jeff Corey (Little Big Man) is the murderer Tom Chaney. Hank Worden (The Searchers) is a sympathetic undertaker. Edith Atwater (The Body Snatcher) is a pretentious boarding house landlady. Alfred Ryder (T-Men) a bombastic defence attorney. Western & noir veteran John Doucette is a business-like sheriff.Strother Martin (Cool Hand Luke) is Colonel Stonehill, a horse trader whose scenes with Kim Darby are one of the highlights of the movie. Jeremy Slate (The Sons of Katie Elder) and Dennis Hopper (Hoosiers) are two unfortunate criminals who cross paths with Rooster. Robert Duvall (The Godfather) is the determined outlaw 'Lucky' Ned Pepper.John Wayne is Rooster Cogburn, the tough Marshal whom Mattie feels will get the job done for her, but is she ready for the realities in store? How will the violence and hardships to come shape her character? Is it Mattie's determination and her vulnerabilities that will shape her destiny and her relationships? The novel presents the events as a memory, the story of an adventure. The movie's viewpoint is from the young girl that is Mattie Ross. We are swept up in her journey of discovery and her adventure with the force of nature that is Rooster Cogburn.John Wayne carried a legacy of classic western portrayals of close to 40 years when he played the character of Rooster. The marshal was a man who hadn't just seen much, he had done much. However, his world was turning fast. His previous autonomous ways were becoming accountable to courts and now to a youngster, and not just any youngster, a young lady. A young lady with as keen a sense of self as his own. Their clash of wills would lead to understanding, respect and affection that neither would experience again.Henry Hathaway directed True Grit on location in Colorado instead of the novel's actual setting of Arkansas. The scenery is magnificent and was breathtakingly captured by award winning cinematographer Lucien Ballard, making it another character in the story. Elmer Bernstein's score is one of his rousing variety and pushes all the right buttons.When I think of great female performances of the 1960s it is not the Academy Award winners or the glamour queens of the era that come to mind. It is Kim Darby's valiant, heartbreaking and inspiring Mattie Ross. "},{"Title":"A great film underrated with faint praise","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne won the only Academy Award of his extraordinary career for this movie, and the conventional wisdom is that he didn't really deserve it; it was more of a lifetime achievement award. Unfortunately, this widely-held belief leads people to devalue the film itself. Well, I don't know what was in the minds of the members of the Academy when they gave Wayne the Oscar, but I do know he deserved it. True Grit is his finest film, and Rooster Cogburn is the character he'll always be identified with. This is the archetypal role of an archetypal American. Also it's a fine script and an engaging story, and the support from Robert Duvall as Ned Pepper, Jeff Corey as Tom Cheney, and Kim Darby as Mattie Ross is all you could want (yes, I know Darby is annoying in the part, but she's supposed to be&#133;Mattie is an annoying character). Also, short but excellent appearances by Strother Martin (a wonderful actor who is, himself, grossly underrated) as the corrupt and crotchety Col. Stonehill and John Fiedler as Lawyer J. Noble Daggett are priceless. The exchanges between Darby and Martin over some shady horse-trading shine with Mattie's spoiled-brat intransigence and crackle with Stonehill's dry wit and frustration; they are among the funniest and best-written in Western history. Many consider Glen Campbell miscast as the bumbling Texas Ranger LeBoeuf, but I say if you want to cast a bumbler, you can't do much better than someone who doesn't know how to act. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Fill your hands, you son of a bitch.","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne won his Oscar for playing a drunken Marshall in this film with Kim Darby and Glen Campbell.What really characterizes the movie for me is the dialog. Kim Darby, who went on to play some 60 more roles, none of which I have seen, was considered a promising newcomer for this film. Marguerite Roberts, in one of her last writing assignments, really wrote some excellent words for Darby. It made the movie really enjoyable and immensely funny.Another newcomer in the film, Delight, Arkansas' own (Rhinestone Cowboy, Wichita Lineman) Glen Campbell also put in a good performance as a Texas ranger helping Wayne catch a double murderer - triple, if you count the dog.True Grit also starred Robert Duvall, Dennis Hopper, and one of the most fascinating men in Hollywood, Jeff Corey. "}{"Title":"John Wayne was the master......","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I had wanted to see 'True Grit' for many years, ever since my elderly grandmother had commented on it as a great film back in the 80's after she had viewed it on TV.  She was right, and it was worth the wait.  This film is as pure as it gets in terms of showcasing John Wayne's acting talent. He also has a great spunky young supporting actress (Kim Darby)who he plays off of flawlessly.  The one disappointment is that in watching the film I attempted to find the actor Wilford Brimley (he appeared uncredited here in his first film)unsuccessfully. He must have been an extra in the background of a scene.  Also, it got off to a slow start, but one could argue that the time was well spent here building on character development.  I'm not a big fan of the western genre, but all in all this movie is enjoyable and just plain fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Slow moving but entertaining","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Slow moving western adventure succeeds despite the glacial pace.  Characters are well drawn, but don't have enough obstacles along the way to sustain interest.  The film probably could have been cut 30 minutes.  Beautiful Technicolor scenery is somewhat lost on the small screen (widescreen DVD). Glen Campbell makes a good film debut but seems mis-cast as a French ranger. As the second bill, he should have been given the more against-type bad guy role that Duvall had.  Excellent, multi- dimensional performance by Kim Darby who holds her own in scenes with film veteran Wayne. The real bad guys aren't bad enough to suit me.  I never felt that there was much conflict in the story.  The stronger thread is the story of a young woman having to grow up quickly in a hostile world. Why was this film rated M in 1969?  The very brief hanging scene?  It would probably pass as a G today.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable John Wayne Fare","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  A great western and a deserving oscar for Mr Wayne who is at his best. Glen Campbell did well although he's a little too pretty boy and reknown for singing rather than acting and it shows in his lack of moments but its ok.Kim Darby however is the one beef I have with this movie,she is so irritatingly wooden as an actress that every scene she is in you want to tell her to quit stalling and actually start acting instead of pout out her lines,she stinks as an actress and never did anything worth noting in her movie career. Besides her everyone else does good and John Wayne kicks butt.....  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Scenery, Awful Dialog","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Obviously Hollywood thought they were running out of time to honor the Duke. We've all seen him better. Kim Darby did a great job in a challenging role but Glen Campbell's effort is painful to watch.  He recites lines like the kid in the fifth grade play who has a reading problem and stage fright. You gotta like the cinematography but the writing of the screenplay leaves many otherwise talented actors sounding stilted.  Did Campbell bring that many people to the theatre?  Think of all the actors of the late 60s who could have elevated the role of LeBoeuf.... True Grit leaves the glass half full.  Wayne, Darby and the visual presentation soar.  Campbell and the script sink. "},{"Title":"Very good--and in many ways the remake is VERY, VERY similar","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" This is the story of a young lady (Mattie) who is bent on seeing justice for her murdered father. So, despite her age, she hires a drunk Marshall (Rooster Cogburn) to find the criminal and bring him to justice.I saw this movie when I was five. Then, I saw it about 10 years later. Now, over 30 years later, I barely remember the film. So, when I went to see the Coen Brothers' recent remake, I really could not compare the two versions of True Grit. I loved the Coen version and heard what made it so great was that t was so much closed to the original story. Imagine my surprise, then when I saw that the original film was, in many places, practically the same film! So, if you like one you are bound to like the other! However, the films are not exactly alike and each has advantages over the others. So, in an unusual move, I'll list the pluses of each. For the first film, the 1969 version, I think it is better because 1. The story is original not a remake. It took a lot of work to bring Charles Portis' novel to the screen and Marguerite Roberts did a fine job. In fact, her screenplay was so good that many times the Coens took her exact lines and used them in the remake.2. John Wayne was good. His version of Rooster Cogburn was a lot more like John Wayne than anything else, but he was bigger than life and fun to watch.3. The film took a risk by killing off Glen Campbell at the end instead of sparing his character (like the remake). You might like this. As I did NOT like Campbell's performance at all, this was a serious plus for me! With the remake (2010), I liked it because 1. It really got the look of the west right. It was much more historically accurate--with more muted colors, guns that were accurate to the time in the film and the costumes were more correct. Now, more correct meant more subdued in color and a lot less glamorous.2. The main character, Mattie Ross, was MUCH better. 13 year-old Hailee Steinfeld was great and nearly the age of the character (a year younger). The original Mattie was too old and a bit whiny--almost like a cute little girl pitching a cute fit periodically. Steinfeld was stronger and more believable.3. Matt Damon was a much better actor than Glen Campbell. I have no idea why, but starting in the late 1950s, John Wayne's westerns often featured pop singers in supporting roles--such as Fabian, Frankie Avalon and Ricky Nelson. While they weren't bad, they were not particularly good in most cases.4. The film looked better. The winter scenes and starkness of the location shoot really stood out and looked great.The bottom line is that both films were very good. If I had to pick one as the best, I'd say it's the new one--but not by much and I am not sure that the new one is THAT much of an improvement to merit the remake. The new one is a bit more graphic, though for a G-rated film the original is awfully adult (with cursing and some somewhat graphic scenes of violence). "},{"Title":"Puts New One To Shame","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Although the 2010 remake try's to get there , the fact that they made the remake should tell you all you need to know about this film. Today's film makers have very few original ideas that are of interest, having to steal , beg or borrow from the past in order to produce anything of salable value. We are fortunate that filmmaker's have such a treasure trove of history to work with otherwise we would have what,just look at some of what passes for film these days and you will see. This film is the quintessential western and remains to this day a one of a kind that one should view before the 2010 remake. With the source material in this movie one wonders why the studios have to hire writers at all and also if the studio had just re-released this to the big screen if it would have done as well? "},{"Title":"a virtually impeccable Western effectively blending humor with the classic, more quotidian elements of the genre","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Now don't you go tell me that the climactic scene in True Grit, with John Wayne - a gray-haired veteran with a patch over one eye - holding a pistol in one hand, a rifle in the other, and charging down then-newcomer Robert Duvall and three other baddies, firing shot-after-shot with them is anything but an iconic moment in the history of the cinema.True Grit was the one and only time that John Wayne won an Academy Award for Best Actor. Previously, he had been nominated a few times, once for his performance in The Sands of Iwo Jima and he should have made the nomination list seven years later for The Shootist, but this was the one and only time Wayne was accommodated for his acting. For that reason, True Grit is one of the Duke's most popular movies. But I think to tie its popularity only to this post-release award is a little unfair. True Grit receives my highest rating of four out of four (ten out of ten) an award I seldom shell out not merely because it feature John Wayne in an Oscar-winning performance, but because the entire as a whole is one of the gems of the genre. It's a virtually impeccable Western.The movie is adapted from a novel by Charles Portis about a young woman whose father is murdered by an outlaw, who then joins a robber's gang and flees into the Indian Nations. Young and arrogant Mattie Ross, played with strong conviction by Kim Darby, recruits a one-eyed, alcoholic marshal named Rooster Cogburn (played by, guess who?) and a fame-seeking Texas Ranger (Glen Campbell) to hunt down the outlaws and achieve her revenge. The three make an uneasy team, but as they fact danger and dodge bullets as well as rattlesnakes, they grow on each other a little more.The screenplay is the strongest element of True Grit. John Wayne called it one of the best scripts he'd ever read and it's one of the best he's ever brought to life. I don't know how much it derives from the book, which I have not read, but the screenplay by Marguerite Roberts effectively characterizes every cast member into a well-rounded human being. It's also packed with highly memorable dialogue such as Looking back is a bad habit and A gun that's unloaded and cocked ain't good for nothing. The performances by the cast are very strong. John Wayne shells out one of his best performances (he won the Oscar, after all) as the hard-nosed marshal with a drinking problem, but a good heart. Wayne was perfectly cast for the role. He'd played all sorts of tough guys before True Grit and combined assets of them all into one character. The screenplay gave him the motivations, but Wayne brought out the performance. Glen Campbell, though inexperienced as an actor, gives a commendable performance as the Texas Ranger. Robert Duvall is icy and solid as the mail robber with a grudge against Wayne. Jeff Corey is terrific as the cowardly outlaw and Kim Darby magnificently takes dialogue that might otherwise make her irksome to the audience and wields it with brilliance to make it so that she only has that effect on the other characters.True Grit is a classic of the genre. It has fantastic performances especially by Wayne and Darby, a fantastic music score by Elmer Bernstein, riveting bursts of action, iconic moments such as the climactic showdown, an effective blend of all of this with humor, and marvelous timing. I've seen True Grit at least ten times over the years and I haven't tired of it yet. It's not that there's something new to see each time, but just that you can't wear out such a compelling, solid Western. "},{"Title":"My favorite John Wayne movie","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" As a child of the 1960's it seemed that most television dramas were Westerns, and most movies starred John Wayne. A new John Wayne movie would be anticipated about as much as a pair of used shoes from the Goodwill by a kid my age. I was too young to find him sexy and had seen cowboys and indians on at least a weekly basis for years. My large family tells me I was born during Bonanza. I'm not sure which was the bigger highlight of that Sunday for my brothers and sisters! I remember watching this movie when it came out and really enjoying it in a way that I hadn't enjoyed a John Wayne Western in the past. Looking back, I think it was because of Kim Darby's performance as the plucky Mattie. Now as a woman closer to the age of Rooster Cogburn, I find his performance to be down to earth and heroic. The showdown gunfight scene of the one eyed fat man with his reins in his mouth, guns a-blazing makes my heart leap out of my chest. John Wayne IS Rooster Cogburn, and Rooster Cogburn is cut from the cloth of American Hero. "},{"Title":"John Wayne is a riot!","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Who is John Wayne? People ask when I start talking about the great actor, and I simply answer A true cowboy and an 'American Icon'. How else could you explain such a tall standing, rule abiding 'dude'? He paved a path for Americans in their time of need and showed them the way to be true patriots and God fearing men.This film portrays one of the happier sides of John Wayne, who usually spent most of his weekends with John Ford drinking happily in Mexico. He plays a drunken marshal clearly in search of something better, which John Wayne's Character does not find until this film's sequel. He plays Reuben J. Cogburn, a marshal whose only goal is to gain money and whiskey. Somewhere, though, in the back of his mind he wants something more, but he has lost all that he thinks he can have. Then Linda Darnell comes, whose character can soon start to annoy you, which would be my only complaint about the film. She comes seeking to avenge her father's death by one of their workers the man with the black powder burn on his face, who gets into a brawl at a saloon during a game of cards and wants to win all the money he had lost back again. Linda Darnell's character's father wants the drunken man to get out of the game and when out in the street trying to help the drunk is shot down and robbed by him. So John Wayne's and Linda Darnell's characters come to meet. Soon the story turns into a great epic western that should be enjoyable (except for Linda Darnell's annoying character). John Wayne plays a kind of uncle character to Linda Darnell, and Linda Darnell just an annoying girl trying to be a boy. Also in the movie is Glen Campbell who plays a Texas Ranger, pretty boy who is also seeking the man with the powder burn. All these characters make for a great film, which garnered John Wayne an Oscar, which was his first and only one. There may have been better films John Wayne was in, but this one he definitely played his best character in. So check it out, although it might not be a movie for you just because of its style, but on the other hand it might be, but I don't know you so all I can say is check the film out. -Duke "},{"Title":"Everything happens to me, and now I'm shot by a child!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" The quote I used for my summary--Everything happens to me, and now I'm shot by a child!--is voiced about one hour and 38 minutes into this movie by Texan Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey), after he is gut-shot by the oldest daughter of the employer he killed, Mattie Ross (Kim Darby). Darby is rail-thin in this movie, truly bringing to mind a child (though she was 22 when TRUE GRIT was released). Today's media no doubt would label her anorectic. Twelve minutes into the story, Mattie had told the sheriff I won't rest until Tom Chaney is barking in hell. A stubborn, hard-talking waif with a bulldog's monomania to track down Chaney, Mattie seems unaware that Chaney was drunk when he killed her dad in a fashion that today's juries would label manslaughter, at worst. Unfortunately, Chaney drove the last nail in his coffin when he robbed the body of the young hellion's rancher dad, Frank Ross (John Pickard). Chaney's are notorious for spelling and pronouncing their surname by at least 11 different combinations. Which leads one to wonder if TRUE GRIT did not foreshadow a real-life incident that could be summarized by the quote, Everything happens to me, and now I've shot gramps! Yup, not far from Tom Chaney's fatal mishap, his 21st century name-sake, U.S. vice-president Dick Cheney, gunned down Harry Whittington, 78, at Kenedy County's Armstrong Ranch February 11, 2006. Fortunately for THIS Cheney, Whittington was a campaign contributor, and survived due to Cheney's shotgun being loaded with birdshot (unlike poor old uncle Tom's). "}{"Title":"Long overdue, and well deserved","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  Long overdue, and well deserved for one of America's greatest film stars. There are several that he made that might be considered better, but there are none that were not worth watching.  One of my all time favorite movies of the Duke's has to be The Shootist.  A very fitting story line, an aging gunfighter, dying of cancer. "},{"Title":"story driven John Wayne western","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" it took me forever to get around to watching this movie.but i'm glad i did.it's not a typical action packed western.this one is more about the story and the characters.it's a good story,it takes its time,so you get a feel of what's going on without feeling rushed.you get to know the characters a bit.the three main characters are an odd bunch to be teamed up together,but it works.i liked the ending.it doesn't hit you over the head with a sledgehammer,but ties things up neatly.the only complaint i have is that at first,Kim Darby,who played Mattie Ross,grated on me with her odd speech patterns and mannerisms.but she soon became endearing.overall,for me True Grit is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to Kim Darby?","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I liked Kim Darby in this film but I don't recall seeing her in anything else. What else has she done? There are so many smaller roles that add interest to the film. The horse trader, the boarding house dinner scene, the hanging and the hymn singing before. Lots of color.   "},{"Title":"Stinking crap","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  I love westerns and like john wayne, and he was really good in this film. But i just could not get over the HORRENDUS acting by the girl and the texas ranger. I honestly have never seen worse acting in a major film. she was most definitaly the most annoying character ive ever seen put to film.Some things were ok, but all overshadowed by the acting.  "},{"Title":"Potential left untapped in an otherwise pleasant timewaster.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit is a peculiar case of a western, perched as it is between the more traditional, heroic mythmaking of the 60's and the revolutionized iconography, intense violence and nihilism of the early 70's. Indeed, that it came out the same year as Sam Peckinpah's THE WILD BUNCH, that patriarchic western of stylized violence, serves to underline many of the things wrong with True Grit. Not unsurprisingly for a John Wayne vehicle, for a movie starring the man who went out of his way to make RIO BRAVO as an answer to the political implications behind Gary Cooper throwing down his tin star at the end of HIGH NOON, True Grit is very much a traditional western at its heart except for a number of violent quirks applied externally in an effort to bring the whole thing up to date for the disillusioned audiences of the late 60's.John Wayne, playing the grizzly, no-nonsense but also pretty lousy and prone to drunkenness, US marshal Rooster Cogburn, sports an eye-piece that makes for a more menacing presence. The henchman played by Dennis Hopper in a cameo gets a particularly brutal knife treatment. The gang of half-crazed cut-throats led by Robert Duvall feels like something taken from a spaghetti western. Yet at its core, True Grit is the story of a strong-willed young girl coming to terms with the world around her, a coming-of-age sort of plot that takes her from the protective nest of her father's farm all the way to a deep hole in the mountains next to the skeleton of a dead man and a deadly anaconda.The story is mostly interesting and given the characters (a grizzly US marshall prone to shooting people and drink, a bounty-hunting Texas Ranger and a stubborn young girl with enough guts to ride along with 'em in pursuit of her father's killer) and setting (the dangerous Indian Territory) there's much potential that is sadly left untapped herein. John Wayne's Oscar-winning performance is okay, let's face it Wayne was never a particularly good actor and his Oscar win was sentimental more than anything else, but director Henry Hathway clearly fails to rise to the occasion. His direction is bland and unimaginative, cut and paste, master shots and close-ups then move on to the next scene. An approach that probably served him right in the rigid studio system he grew up in, but in the time and age of Sergio Leone and Sam Peckinpah, Hathaway's direction is sorely beneath the ambitions of the movie. Overall, True Grit is a good enough diversion, a pleasant timewaster for a Sunday evening, but nowhere near the formidable western classic it has been championed by some as. "},{"Title":"My NAme is Gerald Marshall","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Okay for starters my name is not Ian Edmonds it's actually Gerald Marshall,and i would like to say that this movie has no dark humour at all and that it annoy's me very much,it's not even going along with the book not like the remake which was GeraldTacular, The red-neck cracker John Wayne is so predictable the way he walks,talks,breaths,sleeps,eats and most of all how he acts he's not even the face of Western's.New paragraph which means im going to tell you who the face of western's are, and i will tell you right now and know you are counting down the seconds aren't you. Okay you wanted it by popular demand so im going to give it to all of my fans(millions)it's Jared Paadalecki and Jensen Ackles didn't you see that Supernatural Episode which was Frontierland. "},{"Title":"A Few Thoughts On True Grit","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" After a lifetime of great performances (The Searchers immediately comes to mind.), it seems almost a cheat that the AMPAS finally gave John Wayne an Oscar for a a role that is basically a spoof of himself. It was an amusing performance though, and Wayne really seems to be enjoying himself immensely.Glenn Campbell gets criticized often for his terrible performance, but I thought he was okay when playing off more experienced actors. However, when interacting with Kim Darby, the the collective inexperience of the two make for some terribly wooden exchanges and his character wasn't likable enough.It's interesting that in the same year Dennis Hopper directed and starred in Easy Rider, the biggest counterculture hit ever made, he's also here in what was probably the year's biggest establishment pick, with the actor who was the antithesis of the counterculture! Incidentally, Hopper's partner in the film, Jeremy Slate, also rode a hog the same year in the bike flick Hell's Angels '69.Overall, this is an entertaining picture, though the girl was definitely annoying and without enough scenes to soften the character up. The direction by Henry Hathaway and the performance by Robert Duvall were great too. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Certain segments of this film are gripping but other bits just drag, and the execution is rather uneven, especially in its tone. At times it is dramatic, but at other times it is somewhat comic. The biggest problem that I would hold against the film though is Kim Darby. Her dominating, tomboyish character is irritating to have on screen. Sure, if one's father had been killed, one would be annoyed as she is, however she is shown as just angry and demanding - and she is not presented as very likable. John Wayne won the Best Actor Oscar for his supporting performance here, and he has does have a few good moments, but the best aspect of the production is Elmer Bernstein's original music score, even if perhaps not his title song. Other than Kim Darby, this is not too bad viewing, but I would not strongly recommend it either. "},{"Title":"True Grit is Anything But **1/2","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Please. If anyone believes that the late John Wayne deserved a best actor Oscar for this picture, you also believe in the tooth fairy. Wayne was competing that year with Jon Voight and the fabulous Dustin Hoffman in Midnight Cowboy. Peter O'Toole was sensational in the remake of Goodbye, Mr. Chips, and Richard Burton's Anne of the Thousand Days, wasn't bad either.The real acting here was by Kim Darby as Matty. As a teenager way beyond her years, she etched an unforgettable character.As far as I'm concerned, Wayne as Rooster Cogburn was typical here as he was in the other westerns he played in.Glen Campbell, country western singer, did well in the part of the 3rd person pursuing the thieves.This is basically a tale of how young Matty wins over the heart of the tough minded Cogburn. Besides that, this is a very ordinary film. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I've just finished watching it and heartbreaking is the only word that exists in my mind at the moment, and not for the reasons you might expect. Apart from the performance by Hailee Steinfeld at Mattie this is, in every respect, inferior to the original film. Jeff Bridges is a great actor but he comes nowhere near the performance of John Wayne in the original. This can be best summed up by saying that Wayne's character was the right side of pathetic whereas Bridges is constantly the wrong side. Cogburn is a drunk but he has to have redeeming qualities for us to care about him. Bridges portrayal is that of a drunk beyond our sympathy. He only comes good in the closing scenes and by then I just didn't care. In contrast Wayne's Cogburn was ever cantankerous but you always knew he would come through as the heroic figure.Just what is the point of remaking a film virtually scene by scene whilst making the main character less sympathetic? The Coen brother marquee is a sacred cow of modern film making but the cow is wearing no clothes! Kim Darby was the perfect Mattie for the era in which the original film was made. Wayne, for all his flaws, was the perfect Cogburn. This remake is unnecessary and in all respects inferior to the original. Finally, the omission of General Sterling Price as a key character was unforgivable! "}{"Title":"True Grit","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I had heard and remembered the character name somewhere, and I always wondered if the lead male star had ever had an Oscar winning role, so I was really looking forward to seeing both. Basically in the wild west of California, the father of Mattie Ross (BAFTA nominated Kim Darby) is killed by Tom Chaney (Jeff Corey), she is determined to avenge the death, find Chaney and bring him to justice (have him hanged). She recruits tough, old, drunken, one-eyed (lost in war) U.S. Marshall Reuben J. 'Rooster' Cogburn (Oscar and Golden Globe winning John Wayne), because he has a good reputation, and people say he has grit, and they are accompanied by Texas Ranger La Boeuf (Golden Globe nominated Glen Campbell). Along the way they have some chats with crooks who may know where to find him, including Moon (young Dennis Hopper), and they have their get-to-know-eachother chats, before they eventually find Chaney, and the rest of his gang lead by Ned Pepper (Robert Duvall). The concluding scenes with the many shooting is quite gripping, and there are some good scenes of Cogburn showing his true worth. Also starring Jeremy Slate as Emmett Quincy, Alfred Ryder as Mr. Goudy (Defense attorney), Strother Martin as Colonel G. Stonehill, Ron Soble as Capt. Boots Finch, John Fiedler as Lawyer Daggett, James Westerfield as Judge Parker and John Doucette as Sheriff. This is definitely a must-see western and Wayne film. It was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song for True Grit. John Wayne was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 13 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, and Rooster Cogburn was number 36 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains. Very good! "},{"Title":"Not best... but great!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  To be frank, i don't think this movie is best of Mr.Wayne... (please, don't kill me, dear fans! -). I like, no, i LOVE John Wayne very much, I really his big fan too, but all of us can to name many films when he acting same nice. As Rooster Cogburn he plaing better in 'Rooster Cogburn', i'm sure.And the best actor in the 'True Grit' is Kim Darby, i think - she's wonderfull! However, it's movie nice for really Wayne's fans and who like westerns. It's great film, and i'll buy it in DVD (have in vhs already). -) "},{"Title":"Underrated character-driven Western","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  The plot creaks, and Glen Campbell is wooden enough to stop the film whenever he's on screen.  But this is John Wayne's baby, a character-driven Western where he let himself look as old and achy as he must have felt after years in the saddle.  But by giving Kim Darby such a juicy role, almost equal in strength to his own, the Duke gave his boozy Marshall Cogburn a solid protagonist. And that gives the film several unexpected emotional payoffs.   "},{"Title":"Over-rated, sub par cowboy flick","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" This is not a good movie. The screen adaptation is cartoonish and the acting performances laughable. In many people's view, the Oscar John Wayne won for Best Actor was awarded out of sympathy for his long career and box-office successes.Glenn Campbell as La Boeuf proved he truly could not act and Kim Darby is, as always, forgettable.I am a fan of John Wayne as an actor. But if you are seeking to watch a good John Wayne movie, this isn't it. Instead try Stagecoach, The Searchers, or The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance. If you want to watch a movie version of the novel, try the latest release of True Grit with Jeff Bridges. It is a much much superior movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining Westerns ever","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I grew up in the 50s and 60s, accustomed to westerns as part of the lingua franca of cinema and TV. And, throughout my childhood, John Wayne was the top box office draw in the world.In most of his movies he simply played The Duke, and True Grit is by far the best film in which he played that tried and tested character.It has a particularly strong story, and is populated by a cast of characters who are drawn in rather more detail than was customarily the case in Wayne's films. Visually it is a treat - the scenery is magnificent. It has one of cinema's iconic moments in the showdown between Cogburn and Ned Pepper's gang, not to mention several of the most quotable lines in the history of westerns. It has a fabulous score from Elmer Bernstein. It has a script which is full of, yes, grit.And, most of all, it has John Wayne, relishing the opportunity to play his signature character written gloriously richly as never before or later.An enormously enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Nothing Oscar-worthy here.","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Out of all John Wayne's performances, THIS was the one? I don't think so!! He was his usual reliable, charismatic self, but I'm really not seeing how this role was any kind of big standout.The story as a whole was mildly entertaining for me at best. Kim Darby's character wore thin on me real quick, which is too bad because she's all over the picture. 128 long minutes with a snooty tomboy kid. Dennis Hopper and Robert Duvall help some of those minutes go by easier.Without the Duke's contribution, I would have probably given this 4 out of 10 instead of 6. But if you want to see John Wayne REALLY act, try The Searchers, The Man Who Shot Liberty Vallance or The Longest Day. "},{"Title":"One of the most boring movies i have ever seen","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" This movie was so boring and i felt like it dragged on for it's 2 hour run time and the only somewhat good thing about the film was john Wayne's performance as Rooster Cogburn. The acting was not very good by the actors and actress in the film especially who ever played Mattie Ross was not very convincing and she looked like a man when she was supposed to be a girl. The actress for Mattie Ross was devoid of all her emotion while playing Mattie Ross and i didn't really care for her character because the actress did not play Mattie very well. This film might of been in it's time period but i did not like it what so ever. John Wayne's performance was the only highlight in one of the boringest films i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Iconic Film Thanks to Wayne","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" True Grit (1969) *** (out of 4) U.S. Marshall Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne) is hired by a rough-nosed girl (Kim Darby) to track down the man who murdered her father. The two set out with a Texas Ranger (Glen Campbell) to find the guilty party as well as bring down another man (Robert Duvall) that the Marshall has been seeking. It seems when people discuss TRUE GRIT today there's always some sort of heated debate over Wayne winning the Best Actor Oscar over Dustin Hoffman in MIDNIGHT COWBOY. I think it's fair to say that Wayne was given the award not only for this performance but also for his career work but I find it hard to say anything too bad about him winning because there's no question that he's excellent here and this role would turn out to be rather iconic. The tough-as-nails Cogburn and his famous patch is without question one of the images people remember when they think of Wayne so the actor deserved any and all credit he did receive. The film itself is rather a mixed bag because the story itself really isn't anything we haven't seen before and I'd say it's probably one of the most simple stories out there. The biggest difference is that the brat kid gets to come along for the ride and thankfully Darby is good enough in her part where she adds to the entertainment. Her and Wayne are about as different as they come but the two made for a fun odd couple and make the 128-minute running time go by smoothly. I think the film takes way too long to get going as the build-up takes forever but once the journey start things get a lot more entertaining. With the less than stellar story it certainly doesn't hurt to have such a terrific cast. Wayne and Darby are perfect together but we also get strong supporting bits by Duvall, Strother Martin, Donald Cook, Jeremy Slate and even Dennis Hopper in a small bit. Seeing the likes of Duvall and Hopper might not have meant as much back in 1969 but it certainly adds a lot when viewing the film today consider where both men would go in their careers. Campbell seems to have opinions split but I've always found him decent here if nothing overly special. The screenplay contains a lot of stuff we've seen before but there are many good moments including much of the banter between the three and there's a sequence towards the end in a snake pit that really adds some nice tension. TRUE GRIT has become legendary over the past forty-years and I think it's easy to see why with Wayne and the Cogburn character. The film itself is flawed but the cast is simply too great not to have a good time. "},{"Title":"I ain't dead yet, you bushwhacker!","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Henry Hathaway directs True Grit, a 1969 western starring John Wayne. The plot? A young girl sets out to avenge the murder of her father. Seeking help she hires Rooster Cogburn (played by Wayne of course), a hard-drinking Federal Marshal who prides himself on his ruthlessness. Though Grit was perched between the more traditional westerns of the 1940s and 50s and the more violent neo-westerns of the late 60s and early 70s, it's ultimately a very traditional western. Hathaway inserts some foul language and a number of violent quirks for jaded, Vietnam era audiences, but ultimately his film salivates over outlaw justice. Frontier fascism is its raison d'etre.Of course Wayne is fine in his role. Always rambling on about his wife and his battles with alcoholism, Rooster does earn our sympathy. We can't help it. Wayne's a likable guy, in a crazy uncle sort of way. His Rooster may not be as touching as his dying gunslinger in the underrated The Shooting, but it comes close. On the flip-side, we must content with Wayne's politics. He's always been reactionary and racist, both on screen and off, and here he uses every opportunity to lay down some good ole right-wing sermonising; tough love, tough laws, public executions and a little frontier justice. Audiences lambasted Wayne for similar preaching in The Green Berets a year earlier, but here, distanced by various western tropes, no one seemed to mind. Indeed, they gave him an Oscar for it. Released at the height of the Vietnam war, True Grit's shoot first ask questions later tale should have seemed highly crass, but everyone lapped it up and Nixon himself labelled the film his favourite of the year; popularism, idiocy, vengeance and violence seem to go hand in hand.Still, the film offers various next generation method actors (Robert Duvall, Dennis Hopper etc) the chance of mingling with such old school, traditionally theatrical heroes as John Wayne, a rare treat for film fans. But is it a coincidence that they're all cast as bad guys?7/10 &#x96; See Kirk Douglas' Lonely Are The Brave, released seven years earlier. See too Altman's Buffalo Bill. The Coen Brothers have recently released an equally stupid remake of True Grit, though now without the pathos of Wayne and filled with much irony and quirky dialogue. One's preference is likely to be dependent on which of the True Grit films one first sees.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I liked this flick a lot although I am usually not into western movies, and I am definitely not a John Wayne fan because he, in my opinion, conveys in most of the movies the message that it is OK to shoot people and that it is OK when people take justice into their own hands. If you just look at the scene where John Wayne takes the stand and confesses that he killed 20 people or so ever since he became a Marshall and then see throughout the movie how the viewer is still manipulated into liking him, I get an inkling that tells me what's wrong with America. I really believe that a lot of people in America still have this couldn't care less attitude towards the law and that they like to cut off the middleman and sort things out themselves. I'd be stupid to make John Wayne responsible for this attitude, but the movie True Grit is certainly a movie that supports this view and it can be considered a part of the discourse in which self-justice is backed by most of the American people. I believe that a lot of western movies, or Hollywood in general, don't know how big an impact they have on the behavior not only of the American people but people all over the world. When John Wayne can kill people and still be considered a guy of True Grit, when Rambo kills Afghans and Russians and is honored because he did it for the country, when Arnold Schwarzenegger kills Arab terrorists in TRUE LIES and still is considered to be the hero of this film, well, what does that tell you? I guess it tells us that there is always two sides when it comes to killing people! When the so called good people do it, it's not only OK, it is great and necessary, and when the so called bad people do it, it's a shameful and cowardly act! How does that compute? "}{"Title":"bad just bad go burn in well you know","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" this movie was complete crap and didn't tie into anything at least the new version has some taste in this movie she didn't even lose her arm i could have been really easy but i do like how it expanded on it like it set you up for what was gonna happen later in the movie it wasn't one of john Wayne better movie it was one of his most boring movies of his and I've only seen like 5 of them but all but this movie were good i didn't like this movie at all when lebeef got hit by a little rock weighing maybe 1 pound he died but in the new one he got hit bye a 15 pound and got up and felt fine so yeah I've got problems with this movie i do not like it it can go to h e double hockey stick i don't like it at all it can burn "},{"Title":"Good entertainment, but it's not essential John Wayne.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" It's said that John Wayne was dissatisfied with Kim Darby as his co-star in 'True Grit', and, having seen this film a couple of times, I can't say I'm surprised. Darby is a competent actress if nothing more, though she cannot be blamed for the irritating and bothersome teenager she was asked to portray here. The real problem is the script - Darby's character Mattie Ross is actually the central role in the film, and as such is likely to put off anyone ostensibly watching 'True Grit' to see John Wayne in action.Whilst I don't know what Wayne made of Glen Campbell's contribution, it's probably fair to say he wasn't rushing to work with him again. Campbell, simply in the film to plug his accompanying theme song, is painfully unconvincing as a meddling Texas Ranger sidekick to Wayne's cantankerous Rooster Cogburn character. One wonders what this film might have been like had Robert Duvall been cast in Campbell's role rather than the rather two-dimensional and under-used villain that he actually plays.Of course, Wayne himself won an Oscar for his performance in 'True Grit', which was probably awarded for his body of work rather than for this film particularly. He hams it up a little here (encouraged by the script it must be said) and lacks a lot of the menace of his earlier movies, although the film is not meant to be taken entirely seriously. That said, the film's best moments all involve Wayne the all-too-infrequent gunfighting scenes, his amusing relationship with a Chinese shop owner and cat, plus some of his gentler exchanges with Darby. There is no doubting the man's unmatched presence in a lead role, but it is not fair to compare his performance here to any of his true greats.I can imagine that many who saw this film in 1969 would have been thinking that John Wayne had pretty much had it. He simply didn't look like he could out-shoot younger men anymore. Whilst Wayne did recapture his grace and high-level performance a few years later with a final hurrah in 'The Shootist', there's no doubt that 'True Grit' shows both an actor and a man in decline.There is nothing fundamentally wrong with 'True Grit'. John Wayne fires guns, Glen Campbell spouts some clichés and Kim Darby utters every jolly old-fashioned saying under the sun. Plus there is high-grade villainous support from Duvall and Dennis Hopper, with some good photography and incredibly brave horses thrown in. It's fun as Westerns go and it's not meant to be a rival in earnest to classics like 'The Searchers' or 'The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance'. It achieves it's aim as a fun Western appealing to the masses. But it is let down by a poor script and hammed-up performances, and as such is not vital to the John Wayne collection in my book. "},{"Title":"Wayne's bulldozing self-assurance lifts the movie out of the ordinary...","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" John Wayne's Best Actor Oscar win for role as Marshall Reuben J. Cogburn (a.k.a. Rooster), the centerpiece of the old-fashioned western True Grit, was seen as a sentimental pick by the Academy in 1970, and--when viewed today--that decision still seems like sentiment. Though the movie is spirited and fairly enjoyable, and the Duke does some fun over-playing, it's hardly extraordinary on any account. Based on the novel by Charles Portis, the crusty Marshall is hired by a feisty juvenile girl to track down the band of killers responsible for her father's death. As Mattie Ross, Kim Darby's impertinent manner and impatient, bossy voice are fun qualities at first, but there's too much of her; the film starts running thin on story with a stiff 45 minutes to go on the clock, and the actress wears out her welcome (we also get too much of Glen Campbell and Jeff Corey). Director Henry Hathaway gives the picture a brisk pace, but it's awfully heavy on the corn. Wayne reprised his role for the 1975 sequel, Rooster Cogburn. Warren Oates also played the role in a later TV series. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Grit doesn't hold up.","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" I first viewed this movie when I was a boy around ten years old. Back then, I was as mesmerized by the big budget flick as anybody, and spent a good deal of time in love with the fictional Mattie Ross. My folks even bought me the official sound track that following Christmas, which I listened to over and over again.I should have left it at that.I viewed the picture again just recently on TCM a week ago, after nearly forty years, and it left me flat. The movie simply doesn't hold up as the great classic it was expected to be back yon.John Wayne and Robert Duvall pretty much hump the whole load, along with a great supporting performance by Dennis Hopper, and that's about it. Kim Darby's sickeningly sweet character Mattie supplies plenty of drag to the aerodynamics with over the top simpering judgments and over educated speech. In fact, there's a few lines in the movie she delivers that make no sense at all, or are totally out of sync with the emotional development and continuity. And her character isn't alone. At several other points in this movie, there is scattered dialog between other characters that left me with a feeling of, 'huh? what did he say?' Glenn Campbell does OK as an actor, but would have done better had he been allowed to pick more than a few tunes on the guitar as a distraction.I have a feeling this may have something to do with the fact that True Grit was filmed during the height and madness of the Viet Nam conflict, and perhaps Hollywood might have been a little confused as to just what characters in a big budget western were supposed to sound like. Who knows? So long, Rooster. It was fun while it lasted. "},{"Title":"Lol at Wayne's Oscar!","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":" Seriously, they gave John Wayne an Oscar for this? His performance was so over the top and hammy, it is truly one of the worst performances I have ever seen. Clearly the new young stars must have hoped that he would retire along with the old studio system and westerns in general. Although he kept making films in the first half of the 1970s, they were all crap and he was way past his best. Glen Campbell gives one of the most wooden performances ever, was he only cast to make Wayne look better? Kim Darby was annoying from the very beginning and far too old to play a 14-year-old. I mean, she had already had her first child for God's sake! The film is slow and boring, it's 45 minutes before they even leave to go on the mission. Robert Duvall is good as the villain but doesn't appear until the end. Wayne's Oscar should have gone to Dustin Hoffman for Midnight Cowboy, an infinitely better movie which has stood the test of time, unlike this dated crap. "},{"Title":"Unnatural","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Western, Drama","Review":"  The dialog is very unnatural and distracting. Glen Campbell sounds like he's in an amateur play. I've always wondered why this film is so highly regarded.  "}]